CSR REPORT 2015 CSR CSRREPORT REPORT2015 2015 Report Report onon Corporate Social Corporate Social Responsibility Responsibility Activities Activities United Nations Global Compact Continuously contributing The United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary policy initiative through which businesses and organizations enlist their participation in the establishment of a globally to fulfilling lifestyles recognized practical framework under which every business and organization commits to the vision of sustainable development by implementing responsible, creative leadas a mainstay of ership initiatives and acting as a responsible member of society. Toppan participates in the United Nations Global Compact, supports the 10 principles of the Global information and culture Compact in the four areas of human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption, and implements these principles in its own corporate activities. All of us within the Toppan Group Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and will recognize the issues facing society and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. work with stakeholders to find solutions. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and CONTENTS Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Group Business Outline  2 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach Executive Message  4 to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental CSR Index  6 responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environToppan’s CSR  8 mentally friendly technologies. Special Report 1: H  elping to Mitigate Global Warming Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its through Business Activities  10 forms, including extortion and bribery. Special Report 2: F  ostering Human Resources Committed to Solving Social Issues  14 CSR Report 2015 CSR Activity Digest 2014  18 Toppan considers stakeholders’ interests and reports its corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities in line with the seven core subjects set under ISO 26000, a globally Initiatives at Toppan and recognized standard on social responsibility. the Seven Core Subjects under ISO 26000  20 IP  eriod Covered: This report mainly covers activities in Organizational Governance  21 fiscal 2014 (from April 2014 to March 2015), though information on prior and later years is also included in parts. Human Rights  24 IS  cope and Boundary: Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (“the Company”) and Group entities consolidated for accounting Labor Practices  26 purposes. The information on personnel principally applies to personnel within Toppan Printing Co., Ltd., the parent Fair Operating Practices  30 company. The environmental performance data covers Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. and 17 domestic manufacturing Consumer Issues  34 subsidiaries. I Publication Dates (English version) Community Involvement and Development  38 Previous report: October 2014 The Environment  40 Current report: November 2015 Next report: November 2016 (planned) Toppan’s Environmental Activities  40 I Related Information CSR information: http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/csr.html Environmental Management Activities  40 *Including CSR Report 2015: Detailed Data IR information: http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/ir.html Toppan’s Environmental Burden and Environmental Impact  42 I Guidelines This report was edited according to the Environmental Eco-protection Activities  42 Reporting Guidelines (fiscal year 2012 version) issued by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan. The report also Eco-creativity Activities  46 presents information in line with General Standard DiscloEnvironmental Communication Activities  46 sures required by the G4 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. I Contact Information CSR Promotion Department, Public Relations Division Independent Assurance  48 Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (Tokyo, Japan) Email: csr@toppan.co.jp Independent Assurance Report  49 1 Group Business Outline Group Profile Corporate Profile The Toppan Group comprises Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (“the Company”) Corporate name Number of employees and 175 related companies (151 subsidiaries and 24 affiliates) engaged in Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (nonconsolidated) manifold businesses in three fields: Information & Communication, Living Head office 8,900 (as of the end of March 2015) Environment, and Material Solutions. 1, Kanda Izumi-cho, Chiyoda-ku, Number of employees Detailed information on related companies can be found in the financial Tokyo 101-0024, Japan (consolidated) statements posted on the Toppan website at: Phone +81-3-3835-5111 48,999 (as of the end of March 2015) http://www.toppan.co.jp/ir/material/report.html (in Japanese) Established Capital (nonconsolidated) 1900 104.9 billion yen President & Representative Director Shingo Kaneko Net Sales Operating Income Net Income (billion yen) Q Consolidated Q Nonconsolidated (billion yen) Q Consolidated Q Nonconsolidated (billion yen) Q Consolidated Q Nonconsolidated 2,000 60 32 1,556.4 1,510.4 1,502.3 1,532.0 1,526.9 45 45.0 24 22.8 1,500 40.8 20.6 19.2 35.7 18.5 30 31.5 32.0 16 15.1 1,000 12.1 11.1 895.5 849.2 819.9 815.7 781.5 15 8 6.6 7.7 6.8 3.0 500 4.4 0 0 0.5 0 –7.1 –8 –3.2 –15 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (fiscal year) (fiscal year) (fiscal year) Total Assets & Return on Assets (ROA) Net Assets & Return on Equity (ROE) R&D Expenses (billion yen) (%) (billion yen) (%) (billion yen) 2,500 4.0 1,250 8.0 25 23.4 1,082.8 21.4 2,000 1,994.6 3.0 20.6 19.8 1,000 6.0 20 19.0 888.4 913.1 1,694.3 1,712.3 864.0 866.2 1,586.8 1,633.0 1,500 2.0 750 4.0 15 1.2 1.2 1.2 2.5 2.7 2.7 1,000 0.7 1.0 500 1.6 2.0 10 0.2 0.4 500 0 250 0 5 0 –1.0 0 –2.0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (fiscal year) (fiscal year) (fiscal year) Net Sales by Business Field Net Sales by Region (billion yen) (billion yen) Material Solutions Asia, excluding Other regions 335.2 (22%) Japan 63.5 (4%) 200.5 (13%) Information & Living Environment Communication 274.2 (18%) 917.4 (60%) Japan 1,262.7 (83%) 2 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 Business Fields Information & Communication Providing solutions to enhance the value of information and deliver it effectively to customers who require smooth communication. Secure Business Marketing Content Business Living Environment Material Solutions Providing a wide range of products and services to create living enviUsing printing technologies to develop products related to displays, ronments that offer comfort and peace of mind. semiconductors, functional products, energy, and more. Display Related Semiconductor Related Functional Product & Energy Interior Décor Materials Packaging Related Business Fields Covered in this Report From fiscal 2015, the Toppan Group Business Fields in Fiscal 2014 (Covered in this Report) reorganized its business fields into Information & Communication Living Environment Material Solutions Information & Communication, Living & Industry (Packaging, Interior I Secure Business I Packaging I Display Related Décor Materials, Functional Product I Marketing I Semiconductor Related & Energy Related), and Electronics I Content Business I Interior Décor Materials (Display Related, Semiconductor I Functional Product and Related). Energy Related For consistency in presenting activities performed in fiscal 2014, the information presented in this report Business Fields from Fiscal 2015 is arranged according to the former business fields: Information & ComInformation & Communication Living & Industry Electronics munication, Living Environment, and I Secure Business I Packaging I Display Related Material Solutions. I Marketing I Interior Décor Materials I Semiconductor Related I Content Business I Functional Product & Energy Related TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 3 Executive Message Contributing to Fulfilling Lifestyles The world economy gradually recovered in fiscal 2014 with support from the self-sustaining recovery of the U.S. economy. Sluggish economic trends in Russia and other resource-rich countries in the second half of the year portended an economic slowdown in Europe, a region with close economic ties with Russia. The outlook for the world economy grew more uncertain as a consequence. The Japanese government’s economic policy spurred moderate recovery at home, as reflected mainly in improved corporate earnings. Overall, however, Japan was beset with the same economic uncertainties facing the rest of the world, chiefly with ongoing increases in raw material prices and weak consumer spending after the consumption tax hike. The maturing trend of paper-based printing businesses continued to constrain the market in the printing industry, while the expected growth of digital sectors such as online advertising fueled optimism. We responded in fiscal 2014 by aggressively pursuing initiatives to take on our three management challenges: advancing our Group-wide structural reform, creating new businesses and new markets, and accelerating global business expansion. Net sales fell slightly, but our management efforts brought year-on-year increases in operating income, ordinary income, and net income. To Create Business Opportunities for Faster Growth Paradigm shifts are transforming the business environment in which the Toppan Group operates. I think of them as “three revolutions:” 1) the energy revolution, the shift from fossil resources to renewable energy; 2) the packaging revolution, the replacement of glass bottles and metal cans with new types of packaging across the globe; and 3) the information revolution, the switch from paper-based media to digital media such as the Internet and smartphones. All three of these revolutions compel us to move in new directions and innovate in critical ways. The transitions are often challenging, but they bring huge opportunities at the same time. We will move full speed ahead in our work to drive the evolution of our printing technologies, tap new fields, and 4 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 propose comprehensive solutions for social issues of many temperature will increase by 4.8 degrees Celsius (°C) by kinds to create businesses that accelerate growth. 2100 if governments and corporations stick with the current approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. In fiscal 2010 the Toppan Group set its medium-andTo Be a Company that Grows Steadily with long-term target for fiscal 2020 of reducing CO2 emissions Society by 11% compared to the fiscal 2008 level. In fiscal 2013 the Group surpassed this target by achieving a 16% reducTOPPAN VISION 21 is positioned as the foundation for all tion from fiscal 2008. In December 2014 the Group of our corporate activities. This vision consists of a Corporesponded by raising the target to a 20% reduction of CO2 rate Structure (the Corporate Philosophy, Corporate Creed, emissions compared with fiscal 2008 and pressing on with and Conduct Guidelines defining the values and standards its emission reduction initiatives. We will also continue offerwe should respect) and Business Fields based on the Coring client companies our eco-friendly packaging and inforporate Structure. If we are to truly realize TOPPAN VISION mation solutions to support them in their efforts to reduce 21, I am convinced that we will have to accomplish the CO2 emissions. three management challenges and fulfill our social responI believe that social issues can be solved most effectively sibility as a corporation committed to solving social issues by developing human resources committed to solving them. and driving our growth in step with all of society. We have developed a training program to foster a new genThe United Nations Global Compact is an invaluable eration of leaders who embrace the responsibility to address guideline for us as we undertake our journey towards this social issues of the day and take the initiative to search for end. Toppan has been participating in the United Nations solutions. The trainees in this program visit Minamisoma City, Global Compact and supporting the 10 principles of the Fukushima Prefecture to gain firsthand experience of social Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment, and challenges the city faces and deliberate ways to help solve anti-corruption since September 2006. I will continue espousthose challenges by leveraging Toppan’s resources. I expect ing the United Nations Global Compact and shaping our the trainees who participate in this program to one day corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities accordingly. create new businesses by developing solutions to social The Toppan Group incorporated the International Organissues of the day. ization for Standardization (ISO) 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility (international standard for organizations) into its CSR management practices in fiscal 2011. We have been With Our Stakeholders pushing forward with CSR activities by piecing together a clear picture of the social issues we should help solve and At Toppan we would like to continue disclosing information the social responsibilities we should fulfill. The ISO 26000 through this CSR report, one of our most valuable tools for standard condenses various social issues to address. Workcommunicating with our stakeholders. I am therefore eager ing towards solving these issues will bring us closer to impleto hear your candid opinions about this report. menting the United Nations Global Compact. We will keep up our work towards the creation of fulfilling lifestyles in a sustainable society. We rely on your ongoing support and guidance. Towards a Sustainable Society August 2015 Shingo Kaneko Among the social issues Toppan must help solve, those President & Representative Director related to the environment are of particular urgency and Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. importance. The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) predicts that the global average TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 5 CSR Index Employee Data Number of Employees Number of Employees by Business Field Q Consolidated Q Nonconsolidated (consolidated) 50,000 48,197 47,872 48,878 48,751 48,999 Material Solutions Company-wide 8,702 positions 1,142 40,000 30,000 20,000 10,000 8,633 8,508 8,587 8,604 8,900 Information & 0 Living Environment Communication 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 9,607 29,548 (fiscal year) Note: The number of employees is the number of employees working in the Group. The number of non-regular employees for fiscal 2014 stood at 7,053 on a consolidated basis (the average number of employees throughout the fiscal year, including part-time workers but excluding dispatched staff). Number of Female Managerial and Percentage of Employees with Disabilities Supervisory Staff (nonconsolidated) in the Total Workforce 2.1% 251 Number of Employees Taking Childcare Number of Trainees Who Participated in Anzen Dojo, Leave (nonconsolidated) a Training Facility for Occupational Health and Safety 15,279 *Cumulative total from fiscal 2010 (the first year) to fiscal 2014, including 387 trainees outside Toppan 136 (including 3 male employees) 6 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 Social and Environmental Data Number of Partner Companies that Participated in Number of Visitors for “Pleasant Form for Everyone Briefing Sessions on the Group’s CSR Procurement —Universal Design Exhibition 2015 from Japan” Guidelines 2,047 *Cumulative total from fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2014 7,427 Number of Tightly Secured Areas Designated Achievement Rate for the CO2 Emission for the Handling of Personal Information Reduction Target Emissions target Actual emissions 593 620 67 kilotons kilotons areas 104.3% achieved Sales of Environment-related Businesses Number of Countries Where Toppan Has Supported Initiatives to Provide Literacy Education through the Toppan Charity Concert series 3 countries *Cumulative total from fiscal 2007 to fiscal 2014 278.9 billion yen Thailand Bangladesh Cambodia TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 7 Toppan’s CSR Toppan’s Ideal “Corporate Structure” In another phase of dialogue, the Group listened to the opinions of experts when selecting upcoming important TOPPAN VISION 21 sets forth the basic concept and directopics based on the principles of “materiality.” tion for the ongoing growth of the Toppan Group in harmony with society and the global environment. The vision consists nSelecting Material Topics of a “Corporate Structure” and a set of “Business Fields.” In fiscal 2014 Toppan selected a number of topics expected Toppan believes that endeavors to realize the Corporate to become more material from here on. By assessing Structure will support the sustainable development of the CSR-relevant topics according to two criteria, the “influence Group and society as a whole. on stakeholder assessments and decisions” and “Toppan’s economic, environmental, and social impacts,” the Group nCorporate Structure identified the following as topics expected to become more The Corporate Structure is made up of three elements: material: human rights, human resource development Toppan’s Corporate Philosophy, the Corporate Creed, and and diversity, the environment, promoting social responsithe Conduct Guidelines. bility in the value chain, and privacy (personal information The Corporate Philosophy specifies ideals and the most protection). important values and concepts for the Group. The CorpoThe Toppan Group will advance measures relevant to the rate Creed expresses the standards to be kept foremost identified topics and review the material topics as necessary. in mind when performing business operations. The Conduct Guidelines set out the basic concepts and behavioral norms for Toppan employees both as businesspeople and as members of society. Selection Steps Classifying detailed issues and identifying relevant topics CSR Activities Toppan classified detailed social issues featured in the ISO 26000 and G4 GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and Corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities are promiidentified the topics considered relevant to the Group. nent among Toppan’s many endeavors to realize the ideal Corporate Structure the Group envisions. The United Nations Global Compact is an invaluable guideline for the Group as it undertakes CSR activities. Toppan also keeps Prioritizing topics close track of ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility, an international standard for organizations. ISO 26000 Toppan prioritized topics after assessing each for its encourages organizations to address its seven core sub“influence on stakeholder assessments and decisions” and jects—organizational governance, human rights, labour connections with “Toppan’s economic, environmental, and social impacts.” practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and developI Assessment points for the “influence on stakeholder ment—and emphasizes stakeholder engagement. assessments and decisions” • Issues raised during stakeholder dialogues • Criteria for socially responsible investing (SRI) nDialogues with Stakeholders • Approaches by benchmark companies Toppan has identified categories of stakeholders who are I Assessment points for “Toppan’s economic, either vital for its business operations or potentially environmental, and social impacts” impacted by them: customers (client companies, consum• Relevance to the management challenges ers), business partners, communities, shareholders/inves• Relevance to the Corporate Structure tors, and employees. • Progress of Toppan’s CSR activities Stakeholder opinions learned in the course of daily operations are reflected in the Group’s CSR initiatives. Toppan has also been taking part in the Global Compact Network Japan. In fiscal 2014 the Company entered dialogues with Opinions from outside Toppan experts and NGOs within the network to discuss various Toppan engaged outside experts in dialogues and listened topics pertaining to human rights, the supply chain, and to their opinions on Toppan’s selection of material topics. other related areas. 8 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 Toppan’s Ideal “Corporate Structure” Corporate Philosophy Corporate Creed Conduct Guidelines Each of us shall To build our customers’ trust through Chapter 1: Basic Principles sincerity, enthusiasm, and creativity in 1. Respecting basic human rights reciprocate our customers’ all our corporate endeavors. 2. H  aving high ethical standards and continued trust, acting as a responsible member of society create dedicated products by To strive for total innovation from 3. C  omplying with laws and harnessing our vibrant knowledge a global perspective by conducting company rules and conducting marketing and technological fair business operations and technology, development rich in originality. 4. A  voiding all links with antisocial and contribute to a fulfilling lifestyle as groups 5. S  triving to improve quality a mainstay of information and culture. To conduct fair and open business and providing creations operations while acknowledging our that contribute to customer satisfaction social responsibilities and aspiring for 6. R  ecognizing the importance of Established in June 2000 harmony with our global environment. information related to business and managing it appropriately To create a positive working 7. P  roactively undertaking conservation of the global environment by maximizing our environment individual talents and strengths 8. E  mbracing change and taking on as a team. new challenges 9. B  uilding trust from society through social contribution TOPPAN VISION 21 To enhance our corporate http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/corporateinfo/ activities and appropriate vision/corp_image/rinen.html standing and promote the continual disclosure of information development of the Toppan Group 10. B  ringing together individual through the exploration of new strengths to fully exploit the integrated strength of the group possibilities. Established in June 2000; revised in November 2010 See page 33 for Chapter 2: Specific Conduct Established in June 2000 Guidelines. Topics Expected to Become More Material Topics Expected to Become More Material I Human rights I Promoting social I Human resource responsibility in the development and value chain diversity I Privacy (personal Influence on I The environment information protection) stakeholder assessments Topics Judged to be Fundamentally and decisions Material for Toppan as a Company I Labour practices I Community involvement I Fair operating practices and development I Consumer issues Toppan’s economic, environmental, and social impacts TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 9 Special Report 1 Helping to Mitigate Global Warming through Business Activities The advance of global warming creates various risks, including rising sea levels, damage to ecosystems, decreased food production, and climate extremes such as heat waves, heavy rainfalls, and floods. Toppan works to reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, cited as a principal cause of global warming, by considering the environment in its corporate activities and diffusing environmentally friendly products and services. Global Warming, an Urgent Issue for the Whole World The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Global Average Surface Temperature Change Change (IPCC) released its Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) from 1950 to 2100 in a series of installments from September 2013 to October (°C) 6.0 2014. AR5 concludes that the “warming of the climate *The shading shows the measure system is unequivocal.” Without policies for reducing of uncertainty for each scenario. greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, the report predicts that 4.0 scenario RCP8.5 the average global temperature will increase by up to 4.8 degrees Celsius (°C) by 2100. modeled 2.0 historical In April 2015 the Japanese government announced a evolution prediction plan targeting a 26% reduction of GHG emissions by 2030, compared to the 2013 level. Towards the end of 2015, 0.0 delegates from around the world will convene at COP21 scenario RCP2.6 (the 21st Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) –2.0 1950 2000 2050 2100 (year) with the aim of reaching a new legally binding, universal Created based on Figure SPM.7 (a) from the IPCC AR5 WG1 report agreement on the global climate. Representative Concentration Pathway (RCP) Scenarios I Representative concentration scenarios for GHGs. 2100 is likely to increase by 2.6°C to 4.8°C over the I Four scenarios: RCP2.6, RCP4.5, RCP6.0, and RCP8.5. 1986-2005 average. In RCPs with smaller numbers, more aggressive measI Scenario RCP2.6 assumes that the most extensive ures are taken to mitigate temperature increase. mitigation measures possible are adopted. The proI Scenario RCP8.5 is a business-as-usual approach spective global mean temperature is unlikely to where only the current climate policies are adopted. increase by more than 2°C. The global mean surface temperature from 2081 to Foundation for Toppan’s Initiatives to Help Mitigate Global Warming In 1992 Toppan promulgated Toppan’s Declaration on the to realize a sustainable society.” Global Environment, a basic philosophy for environmental Toppan refers to its activities to minimize environmental conservation activities. In 2009 the Group revised the decburden associated with corporate operations as “Eco-prolaration into The Toppan Group Declaration on the Global tection Activities.” The Group enacted its Bylaw on Global Environment, stating: “as responsible members of internaWarming Mitigation to augment energy-saving and other tional society, we who work within the Toppan Group strive efforts to mitigate global warming. 10 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 Reducing CO2 Emissions Associated with Business Activities Among all types of environmental impact associated with the business activities of the Toppan Group, the most significant impact is on global warming. The Group has set high goals and takes steps to minimize CO2 emissions associated with its operations. Establishing a New Target for CO2 Emissions Since fiscal 2010 the Toppan Group had implemented seven years earlier than the deadline set. measures to attain its medium-and-long-term environmenIn December 2014 the Group therefore set a new goal tal target of reducing CO2 emissions by 11% by fiscal 2020, of reducing CO2 emissions by 20% compared with fiscal compared to the fiscal 2008 level. The Group exceeded 2008. Toppan will continue improving productivity and this target by recording CO2 emissions of 632 kilotons, a introducing more energy-saving facilities to achieve this 16% reduction from the fiscal 2008 level, in fiscal 2013, higher goal. CO2 Emissions: Results and Target Values Previous medium-and-long-term target for fiscal 2020 New medium-and-long-term Reduce by 11% compared to the target for fiscal 2020 fiscal 2008 level Reduce by 20% compared with fiscal 2008 Results in Results in fiscal 2008 fiscal 2013 Target for fiscal 2020 751 kilotons 632 kilotons Target 600 achieved! kilotons Main Measures for Reducing CO2 Emissions Solar panels capable of generating apCogeneration system introduced in Switching from mercury-vapor lamps Toppan employees planting trees at prox.150 kW of electricity installed on Gunma Central Plant following its and fluorescent lights to LED lights. Umi-no-Mori sea forest in Tokyo to the roofs of Fukaya Plant and Toppan launch into full-fledged operation in All of the fluorescent lights used at assist a social project to reduce CO2 Technical Research Institute May 2015 the head office have been replaced by emissions LED lights. Toppan’s Efforts Highly Rated by CDP CDP*1, a not-for-profit organization operated jointly by global institutional investors, requests information on environmental strategies and data on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from selected companies subject to FTSE*2 indices. After analyzing and assessing their responses, CDP discloses the results to global investors. Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. was selected as a company subject to the CDP Japan 500 program and won the top ranking (“A”) for its efforts to reduce GHG emissions and mitigate CDP Japan 500 Climate climate change risk. Toppan is also listed in the CDP Climate Performance Leadership Index Change Report 2014 (left) (CPLI). and CPLI logo (above) *1 C DP: An international not-for-profit organization headquartered in London. CDP operates a global disclosure system through which companies and cities measure, report, manage, and share vital environmental information. *2 FTSE: A global leader in financial indexing owned by the London Stock Exchange Group. FTSE creates and manages indices of equities, bonds, and other financial instruments. Investors from around the world use the various indices provided by FTSE. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 11 Promoting Widespread Use of Products and Services that Help to Reduce CO2 Emissions Toppan develops an array of products, services, and systems designed to help reduce CO2 emissions throughout all of society. Packaging Initiatives I Biomass-based Plastic IM  echanically Recycled PET Film I Packaging Made from Lumber “BIOAXX” Series A mechanically recycled PET film is a film Harvested from Forest-thinning Biomass-based plastic made from of recycled resin fabricated from used Operations plant-derived raw materials is drawPET bottles by cleaning and crushing, Appropriate thinning promotes a ing attention for two environmental melting at high temperature, decomsounder forest cycle and conditions advantages: low carbon emissions pression, filtration, and other treatments. forests to better absorb CO2. The and zero dependence on oil. Since This film is composed of more recycled Toppan Group manufactures paper1991, Toppan has been developing resin than almost any other recycled based products such as Cartocan and packaging materials using bioPET film ever made: 80%. Safety-wise, Eco Flat Cup using domestic lumber, mass-based plastics and commerit satisfies performance levels required including lumber harvested from cializing sundry products such as for use in food packaging. forest-thinning operations. paper cups and laminated packagMechanically recycled PET film The Group also manufactures paper ing material using biomass-based can also be further processed into products for client companies using polyethylene films. aluminum-deposition, transparent lumber harvested from thinning operahigh-barrier, and other films. tions in “company forests,” forests conserved and maintained by the clients CO2 emissions from CO2 emissions reduced by themselves. Products produced from incineration reduced by about 24% company forests serve as living proof about 40%* 1 compared with conventional petroleum-based PET films*2 of the eco-conscious approaches of client companies. *2 CO2 emissions associated with conven*1 S  pecifically, laminated packaging materials tional petroleum-based PET films are quanfor refill bags with a polyethylene ratio of tified based on the standard database of 75% by weight and a biomass ratio of 40%. the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry (JEMAI) CFP Communication Program. CO2 emissions associated with mechanically recycled PET films are quantified based on primary data. Packaging Initiatives at Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. works with the Seven-Eleven Foundation to proConserving the Collecting used mote its Seven & i Forest conservation project. Seven & i Holdings markets Seven & i Forest PET bottles from stores Seven Premium private brand drinks, soups, and other products packaged in paper-based containers partly composed of timber harvested from thinning operations in the Seven & i Forest. Packaging Woodchip Recycling Seven & i Holdings also uses PET films mechanically recycled from used PET utilizing producers companies Mechanically timber bottles collected from its stores to produce refill pouches for body wash. harvested recycled Toppan has devised an across-supply-chain cooperation scheme for packPET film from Toppan packaging thinning Paper Film aging production and supports Seven & i Holdings in its work to develop Devising packaging operations manufacturers production schemes manufacturers eco-friendly private brand products. For Seven Premium product packaging To consumers I Providing eco-friendly products I Packaging products in ways that showcase the eco-friendly approaches of the client companies who market them 12 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 Initiatives in the Information & Communication Field (Energy Solutions) Efforts by households to reduce CO2 emissions are no less ment of a System to Reward CO2-Reduction Points Using essential than efforts by governments and businesses. HEMS Data. In the latter two projects, Toppan created a To lower CO2 emissions effectively, every household system to quantify home-based efforts to reduce CO2 emisneeds to use energy wisely and avoid wasteful consumpsions and convert them into points. This system is now tion. Governments and electricity providers can encourage integrated into the Manual for Evaluating CO2 Reduction smart energy consumption in households by taking three Activities Using HEMS Data. steps in combination: monitoring electricity and other Once the electric power market for ordinary households energy usage by households, quantifying household efforts is liberalized in April 2016, this manual is likely to become to reduce energy consumption and the actual reductions a useful resource for electricity-related businesses that plan achieved, and granting incentives accordingly. to introduce points, coupons, or similar services to reward These steps have been difficult so far, as energy conthe energy-saving efforts of households. sumption is influenced by multiple factors such as lifestyle, Toppan also participated in two initiatives organized by family structure, and housing performance. the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) of The Energy Information Creative Value System (VIENES) Japan: the Kitakyushu Smart Community Creation Project is a next-generation recommendation system developed and the Large-scale HEMS Information Infrastructure by Toppan using its information processing and marketing Development Project. Toppan’s new marketing approach know-how. VIENES predicts electricity usage and everyday in the energy market tailors communications to consumer activities based on household electricity-consumption logs attributes and behavior by linking household electricity-conand provides timely information that incentivizes consumsumption logs with individuals’ purchasing behavior and ers to use energy in better and more efficient ways. profile data. Toppan has already deployed VIENES in three initiatives Toppan will continue to contribute to the reduction of sponsored by the Ministry of the Environment (MOE) of CO2 emissions by visualizing electricity consumption and Japan: the Project to Verify Home-eco Diagnosis (UCHI creating schemes that benefit both consumers and elecEKO SHINDAN) held in fiscal 2011, the Research to tricity-related businesses. Enhance the Benefits of Using HEMS, and the EstablishScheme for Low-carbon Lifestyles Electricity-related businesses Toppan (electric power company, Consumer homebuilders, etc.) VIENES I Manual provision Data analysis I Report for each household I Information on CO2 I Granting points Recommendation reduction activities I Message delivery I Other services I Other services Report creation Email generation Point calculation I Electricity data I Household profiles Electricity data OFF (family structure, etc.) Report printing Email delivery Personal information management Accomplishments of Toppan Projects Projects Overseen by MOE Projects Overseen by METI Project to Verify, Measure & Survey the Effects of Home-eco Diagnosis Fiscal 2011 (KATEI EKO SHINDAN) (aka, Project to Verify Home-eco Diagnosis [UCHI EKO SHINDAN]) Fiscal 2012 Research to Enhance the Benefits of Using HEMS Kitakyushu Smart Community Creation Project Fiscal 2013 Establishment of a System to Reward CO2-Reduction Points Using Fiscal 2014 HEMS Data Creation and publication of a Manual for Evaluating CO2 Reduction Fiscal 2015 Large-scale HEMS Information Infrastructure Development Project Activities Using HEMS Data TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 13 Special Report 2 Fostering Human Resources Committed to Solving Social Issues The Toppan Group strives to be a company respected and valued by society by imbuing its employees with a sense of responsibility to address social issues of the day and take the initiative to search for solutions. Training in a region seriously affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake of March 2011 is one of many Toppan programs geared to this objective. Facing up to the reality of the Great East Japan Earthquake on the coast of Odaka Ward, Minamisoma City To Solve Social Issues have shown their support for this training program and provided considerable assistance. The Toppan Group aims to be a company respected and valued by society by tackling social issues in the course of Two-day Training in Minamisoma City, daily operations. In keeping with this vision, the Group Fukushima Prefecture develops businesses that can both solve social issues and create economic benefits. In human resource development, Eighteen trainees from Group companies across Japan the Group provides training programs designed to imbue take part in each course of the “Advance” program. Before employees with a sense of social responsibility and a drive beginning, the trainees are asked to study the status of to address social issues of the day and take the initiative reconstruction and other current conditions in the area. to search for solutions. The two-day training consists of lectures, site visits, group In “Advance—Shaping the Future,” a training program work, group presentations, and an overnight stay at a farm launched in 2014, participants visit Minamisoma City, minshuku (Japanese-style inn). ­Fukushima Prefecture to gain firsthand experience of the social challenges the city faces and to find ways to solve I Lectures and Site Visits those challenges by leveraging the resources of the Toppan The lectures are given by local officials, city council memGroup. If these trainees are to be cultivated as leaders of bers, people running businesses, and other members of tomorrow, they must be given opportunities that will enhance the community engaged in reconstruction. The talks cover their commitment to problem-solving and strengthen their not only the impacts of the Great East Japan Earthquake initiative to think and act on their own. Local counterparts on Minamisoma City, but also renewable energy, future 14 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 Local citizens presenting their thoughts and explaining reconstruction efforts A bicycle parking lot left just as it was the day the earthquake hit. The scene seems to be frozen in time. (Visit to Odaka Ward) community development, and the speakers’ thoughts on I Stay at a Farm Minshuku Inn reconstruction. Between lectures the trainees are taken The overnight minshuku stay is an especially valuable on site visits to give them further firsthand experience of activity in the program. The whole group meets with local the city today. They visit the Fukushima coastline and the residents to hear first-hand accounts of matters such as Minamisoma Solar Agripark (➞P.17), a solar-powered farm the reputational damage to local produce while sharing a with an important role in developing human resources for dinner prepared with local ingredients. reconstruction. The Initiative to Take Continuous Action I Group Work and Presentations The trainees hold repeated group discussions to delve more At the end of the two days the trainees carefully reflect on deeply into the issues raised during the lectures and site visits. their training and share their future goals for action. Every The Toppan Group companies where the trainees work trainee pushes further ahead at his or her own initiative to are involved in wide-ranging businesses such as printing, achieve the goals he or she sets. publishing, childcare, electronic publishing, mapping inforThe Toppan Group will continue organizing this type of mation, and travel services. The trainees brainstorm diverse training and maintain its commitment to social issues by ideas on business solutions for the challenges faced by fostering a new generation of leaders who take the initiative Minamisoma City by bringing together the strengths of their to find solutions. respective companies. The trainees present business plans in teams and then discuss and refine them. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 15 Trainees further their learning through presentations and Q&A sessions Discussion running late into the night at the farm minshuku, the accommodation for the trainees Feedback from Trainees I’ve actually interacted with people working on new I was greatly influenced by the positive words and energy approaches. I learned first-hand how they created value of the people committed to reconstruction. They and developed their businesses. The experience was convinced me that our company should also be able to direct, not some theory explained in a book. contribute. I contemplated what we could do and contribute with People are dedicating their lives to rebuild their commuour corporate resources under a particular set of cirnity in the face of great odds. Their lectures were earnest cumstances. I’m certain that this experience will have a and a privilege to hear. I came to reconsider what tangible impact on my career going forward. I myself should do and what my approach should be. I used to build a wall between the challenges we face The lecturers presented energetic, outstanding accounts as a society or community and the projects we work on of how they were reconstructing Minamisoma City from in the company. In the training I learned how services different standpoints. By hearing and discussing their we devise as a company can be repurposed to at least efforts, I witnessed the power of constructive, positive partly fix real-world problems. As part of a large organthinking while absorbing a great deal of practical inforization, I began to hold myself responsible for proposing mation about the current status of Minamisoma City. ideas and solving social issues at my own initiative. I also came to see how others expect the same from me. 16 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 Minamisoma Solar Agripark: A Field for Training Minamisoma Solar Agripark consists of a solar power struction. The public and private sectors have thereplant and solar-powered vegetable plants. The park fore been working together to establish this Minamiis also designed as a training ground, complete with soma Solar Agripark. a work experience zone for visitors and a facility for The park has been a place for interaction between lectures and workshops called the Center House. The many generations since its opening in April 2013. A energy and vegetables produced in the agripark earn thousand elementary and junior high school students revenue, while visitors of all ages come to the park to come to the park every year for “experiential learning” learn. classes in their standard school curricula, as well as Selected as an eco-future city after the Great East high school students, college students, and adults. Japan Earthquake, Minamisoma City searched for As a place for people to gather, the park also serves concrete plans to realize the eco-future city concept. as a networking venue for civil servants and businessAt the same time, entrepreneurs wanted to foster local people working to reconstruct the community. youth active throughout the lengthy process of reconFacilities and Experience at Programs for Fostering Human Minamisoma Solar Agripark Resources to Reconstruct Fukushima I The “experiential learning” program is part of the “integrated study” curricula for elementary and junior high schools to foster the ability of children to think, present, and act on their own initiative. I The Weekend Open School for elementary and junior high school students teaches communication, monozukuri (the Japanese spirit of craftsmanship in manufacturing), and other skills and know-how children rely on to shape their own actions. I T he Weekend Open School for high school students trains Orientation in an “experiential Explanation of solar panel inspection “Fukushima-style entrepreneurs” through the planning and imlearning” program plementation of projects that help solve social issues. I Children will admire the “Fukushima-style entrepreneurs” and take steps to become entrepreneurs themselves. This “chain of admiration” will drive the reconstruction of Fukushima and engender civic pride in the locals. Vegetable plant behind children Center House Minamisoma Solar Agripark website Open School for high school First project launched with high http://minamisoma-solaragripark.com/english/ students school students: Fukushima Taberu (eating) Newsletter from High School Students Chain of admiration Positive impact on children’s growth as social entrepreneurs with civic pride Elementary and junior high school students High school students College students Project implementation (incorporation) Fukushima-style entrepreneurs Experiential Weekend Open Weekend Open learning (weekday) School School Internship Project planning Youth of Fukushima will contribute to reconstruction The experience of by starting up projects starting up on their own a social project Motivation for children who challenge themselves to become “Fukushima-style entrepreneurs” Chain of admiration TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 17 CSR Activity Digest 2014 Results in Fiscal 2014 and Future Measures in Line with the Seven Core Subjects under ISO 26000 Seven Core Action Points and Issues Main Measures in Fiscal 2014 Subjects Targets for Fiscal 2014 Developing CSR management based on ISO • Implement e-learning-based, Company-wide basic education on CSR management 26000 at more Group companies • Organize various BCM drills Organizational governance Facilitating business continuity management • Install task force functions across the Group (BCM) activities • Develop education programs on BCM and business continuity plans (BCPs) and have more employees engage in BCM and BCPs Heightening awareness of the importance of • Continue organizing various training sessions to nurture businesspeople guided by respecting basic human rights the concept of respect for people Providing an open environment and informa• Promote the hiring of human resources suited to careers in a global business tion for recruitment environment (including international students learning in Japan) • Promote positive action to appoint more female employees to higher positions, Proactively appointing female employees to leverage female talent, and create working environments where employees can strike higher positions a balance between working and raising children Human rights Working for equal opportunity in individual • Use the Challenging Job System proactively to appoint at least 20% of employee career development and helping employees applicants to the departments or divisions where they would like to work pursue their own career paths Supporting second careers for retired • Promote systems to support second careers for retired employees and offer working ­employees options well suited to the motivation of more experienced employees Promoting the employment of persons with • Diligently facilitate the hiring of persons with disabilities by sharing information with disabilities local job-placement offices across Japan • Facilitate appropriate supervision of working hours using the working management system Supporting work-life balance 1) • Implement measures based on labor-management discussions on ways to Issue 2: Shortening total working hours encourage employees to take leave, including the creation of more accommodating Conditions of work and workplace environments social protection Supporting work-life balance 2) • Continue holding the Hagukumi (nurturing) Seminar and Hagukumi Art Salon;  reating a working environment where employees can C organize these activities in more areas in Japan strike a balance between working and raising children • Launch Hagukumi Circle, a network of employees balancing work and childcare • Increase opportunities for opinion exchanges between labor and management, including division tripartite conferences, business councils at individual divisions, and Issue 3: Creating a better working environment labor-management committees for the creation of a working environment amenable Social dialogue through partnerships between labor and to enhanced job satisfaction management • Continue holding and gingering up recreational events jointly organized by labor and management • Promote safety activities across operational sites based on the analysis of workplace safety awareness surveys • Establish Anzen Dojo safety training facilities in the Kyushu and Kansai areas and Ensuring occupational health and safety and begin receiving visitors to the new facilities from corporations outside the Company reinforcing countermeasures against fires Labour • Complete the switch from cleansing agents previously used at offset printing practices workplaces to new agents not restricted under the Ordinance on Prevention of Organic Solvent Poisoning (“Organic Solvent Ordinance”) in Japan • Organize startup drills for alternate functions of the Company-wide task force in Issue 4: Kansai, Japan Reinforcing countermeasures against Health and safety at disasters • Continue organizing first response drills in Akihabara; hold assembling drills for the work task force crew • Improve the medical check-up ratio by intensively encouraging insured employees and their dependents to come in for regular medical check-ups and check-ups for Promoting healthcare and health the prevention of lifestyle-related diseases, respectively ­enhancement • Cooperate with the Toppan Group Health Insurance Union to formulate and implement a Data Health Plan • Continue operating the Art Salon Arranging measures for mental healthcare • Quantitatively ascertain the status of mental health in the workforce Issue 5: • Upgrade learning support programs via various channels such as the Toppan Human development Developing and fostering human assets* Business School; expand learning opportunities and enrich learning content and training in the *Toppan values its employees as precious “human assets.” • Dispatch employees outside the Company to strengthen the fosterage of human workplace assets with skills and motivations advantageous in a global business environment The environment See page 40 • Reinforce measures to prevent improper conduct by enhancing the activities of the Heightening awareness of laws, regulations, Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders and the Conduct Guidelines • Implement the Conduct Guidelines in overseas Group companies Fair operating Issue 3: Complying with transaction-related laws and • Ensure proper subcontract transactions and build proper relationships with business practices Fair competition regulations partners Issue 4: Promoting • Apply the Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines to business partners working social responsibility in Promoting CSR initiatives in the supply chain the value chain with Toppan Group companies • Prepare a manual for applying failure mode and effective analysis (FMEA, a step-by-step approach for analyzing possible points of malfunction or failure) to product development and manufacturing processes and provide guidance on FMEA in general; establish standards for Issue 2: applying risk assessment procedures and help operational sites use the standards Protecting consumers’ Ensuring consumer safety through the strict health and safety prevention of quality-related accidents • Renew the Quality Assurance Guidelines for Food Packaging; establish a set of guidelines for food defense and carry out audits based on the established guidelines • Establish auditing standards for primary food filling/packing plants; help the plants use the standards during their internal audits Consumer issues Issue 3: • Apply for carbon footprint of products (CFP) registration for 6 products Sustainable Evaluating environmental impact consumption • Organize CFP education for employees in sales departments • Comply with the various modifications to the laws, regulations, and standards related Issue 5: Establishing an information security manageto personal information Consumer data ment structure towards the complete • Organize education for all employees on the proper handling of personal information protection and privacy elimination of information-related accidents and confidential information and carry out internal audits for all departments across Japan • Hold the 8th series of Toppan Charity Concerts Community involvement and Arranging social contribution programs to • Consider new social contribution programs to support literacy and other educational development help solve social issues initiatives 18 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 Self Results in Fiscal 2014 Action Points, Targets, and Main Measures for Fiscal 2015 Evaluation • Deepened the understanding of ISO 26000 in the workforce through e-learning-based, A • Introduce and disseminate a CSR award system to energize CSR activities Company-wide basic education for Toppan and Group company employees • Organized BCM simulations, BCM drills to start up and operate task forces, and • Help the head office and Company divisions institute BCM activities (by various other BCM drills at main sites throughout Japan reviewing and developing BCM procedures, systems, etc.) • Revised the Basic Plan for Countermeasures against Earthquake Disasters in July; A • Organize various BCM drills (BCM simulations, BCM drills to start up and organized simulations for the operation of task forces across the Group in September operate task forces, and other drills) and October • Implement measures to secure the stable supply chain required for effective BCM • Arranged e-learning-based BCM training programs from September to October • Organized education focused on respect for people via training for Conduct Guidelines • Heighten employee awareness about diversity by supporting sports for physically Promotion Leaders, basic Group-wide training on CSR (for 20,739 employees at the A and intellectually challenged persons Company and Group companies), and other relevant training programs • Hired 40 people with attributes for global business (overseas learning experience, foreign nationality, etc.), including 9 non-Japanese recruits to work in sales, adminisA • Provide an open environment for recruitment and hire diverse human resources tration, and technical job categories • Promote positive action to appoint more female employees to higher positions, • Attained a 6.0% ratio of females among managerial and supervisory staff leverage female talent, and create working environments where employees can strike a A (as of April 1, 2015) balance between working and raising children; take steps in the workplace to enhance employee understanding about a healthy balance between work and parenting • Appointed 239 employee applicants (18.2% of all applicants) to the departments or • Use the Challenging Job System proactively and analyze the details of the career A divisions where they wished to work (as of April 2015) development plans applied to the system to aid effective career development • Reviewed benefits and took other steps to improve the treatment of experienced • Promote systems to support second careers for retired employees and offer A employees within the Company working options to maintain the motivation of more experienced employees • Attained a 2.10% ratio of employees with disabilities in the total workforce • Diligently facilitate the hiring of persons with disabilities by sharing information (as of June 1, 2015) with local public job-placement offices across Japan A • Appointed employees with disabilities to sections that had not previously hired • Arrange internship programs to offer work-experience opportunities for students employees with disabilities and developed new job positions for them enrolled in special schools to support the disabled • Shorten and appropriately supervise working hours by reviewing how individuals • Have managers supervise subordinates’ working hours with greater precision by work, adopting working systems suited to the requirements of each job, applying checking and approving their tasks without delays A the working management system, and taking other relevant measures • Introduced a third day of leave for family celebrations for employees at the head office; • Deliberate measures to encourage employees to take leave based on labor-manheld briefing sessions for managers to encourage employees to take leave agement discussions and the actual working conditions at each operational site • Held the Hagukumi Seminar in January 2015 (with 102 participants) and Hagukumi Art • Carry out measures to encourage male employees to take childcare leave Salon in 2 sites in Japan A • Enrich measures to help employees balance their work and nursing care at • Operated the Hagukumi Circle in 2 sites in Japan home • Held various meetings such as the division tripartite conferences, labor-management committees for the creation of a working environment amenable to enhanced job satis• Continue increasing Company-wide and division-based opportunities for faction, and a labor-management meeting of the Safety and Health Committee with an deliberations and opinion-exchanges between labor and management on work expanded membership inclusive of delegates from labor and management from environment policies, including labor-management committees for the creation manufacturing subsidiaries A of a working environment amenable to enhanced job satisfaction • Was forced to cancel the actual event due to rain but established a partnership to hold • Have labor and management jointly organize a large-scale, Company-wide the TOPPAN SPORTS FESTIVAL, another Company-wide sports event jointly organized recreational event (to be held at an indoor facility in September) by labor and management • Improved safety awareness among employees by upgrading the safety of machines and equipment and organizing rankand job-based safety education; reduced the • Promote safety activities via a 2nd survey on workplace safety awareness number of occupational accidents by 23% compared to fiscal 2010 • Introduce a new danger simulator; use the Anzen Dojo facilities established in • Began receiving visitors from corporations and organizations outside the Company to B the Kyushu and Kansai areas; launch a 2nd dojo facility tour in Japan let them experience the dojo facilities at the Kawaguchi Plant in Saitama Prefecture (305 visitors from 33 companies) • Comply with the new Japanese government ordinance for risk assessments on chemical substances, starting from June 1, 2016 • Completed the switch from cleansing agents for oil-based ink for offset printing to new agents not restricted under the Organic Solvent Ordinance of Japan • Organized drills for alternate functions of the Company-wide task force in the Kansai area • Organized a comprehensive disaster-preparedness drill in Akihabara on March 11, • Organize coordination drills linking operational sites across Japan 2015 (drill for custodians to call in status reports on their buildings, emergency A • Share information about stockpiled emergency supplies and management communication drill using the safety confirmation system, distribution of stockpiled ledgers for supplies at operational sites in Japan; establish a rule requiring the supplies, drill on cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and the use of automated regular maintenance of emergency supplies external defibrillators [AEDs]) • Attained a 98.0% ratio of medical check-ups for the prevention of lifestyle-related • Improve the percentage of insured employees and their dependents who diseases for insured employees and a 62.0% ratio for the dependents of employees undergo check-ups for the prevention of lifestyle-related diseases • Administered a treatment program for 23 diabetic employees to prevent the advance A • Carry out the Data Health Plan formulated by the Toppan Group Health of the disease in a model project set up under the Data Health Plan formulated by the Insurance Union Toppan Group Health Insurance Union • Operated the Art Salon at 19 regional sites across Japan (2 more sites than in fiscal 2013) • Arrange mental healthcare measures for employees on overseas assignments • Mandated managers at operational sites across Japan to report mental illness at their A • Review regular mental health check-ups in accordance with the revised Industrial workplaces at the National General Affairs Department GM Meeting Safety and Health Act of Japan •A  rranged a firsthand training program in Minamisoma City, Fukushima Prefecture to encourage • Enrich diversity promotion programs to create new value employees to stay informed about social issues and take the initiative to address them A • Continue fostering human assets with skills and motivations advantageous in a • Dispatched employees to the International Institute for Management Development global business environment with a view to boosting the Company’s strengths in (IMD) in Switzerland; deployed more employees overseas under the trainee system on global businesses a cumulative total basis • Held 80 training sessions for 1,161 Leaders from Toppan and Group companies • Reinforce measures to prevent improper conduct by upgrading the training • Educated employees on the prohibition of bribery and kickbacks in dealings with B programs for the Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders foreign public officials at the training sessions for the Conduct Guidelines Promotion • Implement the Conduct Guidelines in overseas Group companies Leaders • Held training sessions on compliance with the Subcontract Law of Japan for 1,558 • Continue organizing training on compliance with the Subcontract Law of Japan employees mainly in production control departments at Group companies A for Toppan and Group company employees and continue interviews to check • Interviewed employees at 26 sites in Japan to confirm their observance of the law how subcontract transactions are being handled • Held briefing sessions on the second version of Toppan Group CSR Procurement • Conclude basic sale and purchase agreements with business partners Guidelines; sent out questionnaires to 2,047 business partners working with Toppan’s A stipulating the observance of the Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines planning, procurement, and production control departments • Provided guidance on FMEA procedures to 3 departments in the Living Environment field • Apply FMEA to businesses in the Electronics field as an initial step in Toppan’s • Established a set of Guidelines for Food Defense Ver. 1; assessed conformance to the approach to mitigating quality-related risks guidelines at drink production and filling/packing plants and provided guidance A • Revise the checklist for accreditation audits for primary food filling/packing plants accordingly • Conduct audits on food defense measures at primary food filling/packing plants • Established standards for accreditation audits for primary food filling/packing plants; and provide guidance for improvement carried out accreditation audits for 5 plants • Gained CFP registration for 14 products (8 Group products and 6 products outside the • Develop and use a calculator for CFP quantification Group) S • Organize CFP training courses and seminars for employees in sales departments • Held CFP training sessions for employees in sales departments in May; fostered 3 to target increased CFP orders employees for engagement in CFP quantification • Complied with the revisions to the METI* guidelines for the Act on the Protection of • Support and follow up a plan to improve the security level of tightly secured Personal Information of Japan *Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry areas designated for the handling of personal information • Held training sessions on awareness of invisible security threats for all employees A • Organize education for all employees on the proper handling of personal across Japan (361 sessions) information and confidential information and carry out internal audits for all • Surveyed information security practices for 12,852 employees using PCs departments across Japan • Held the concerts for two days as scheduled and donated 2.19 million yen to the Asia-Pacific Cultural Centre for UNESCO B • Hold the 9th series of Toppan Charity Concerts • Was presented with a proposal for a new social contribution project from an NGO but was unable to realize the project because of budgetary considerations Evaluation criteria: S, Results achieved far surpass the targets; A, Targets achieved; B, Activities fully carried out, but targets unachieved; C, Activities insufficient TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 19 Initiatives at Toppan and the Seven Core Subjects under ISO 26000 Seven Core Subjects Issues For Details Pages Organizational Organizational governance I Corporate Governance P. 21− I CSR Initiatives governance I Risk Management Structure I Business Continuity Management Human rights Issue 1: Due diligence I Respecting Basic Human Rights P. 24− Issue 2: Human rights risk situations I Collective Labor Agreement Issue 3: Avoidance of complicity I Working for Equal Opportunity and Eliminating Discrimination Issue 4: Resolving grievances Issue 5: Discrimination and vulnerable groups Issue 6: Civil and political rights Issue 7: Economic, social and cultural rights Issue 8: Fundamental principles and rights at work Labour practices Issue 1: Employment and employment relationships I Basic Approach Regarding Human Assets P. 26− Issue 2: Conditions of work and social protection I Labor-Management Partnership Issue 3: Social dialogue I Supporting Work-Life Balance Issue 4: Health and safety at work I Occupational Health and Safety Issue 5: H  uman development and training in the I Measures for Mental Healthcare workplace I Developing and Fostering Human Assets The environment Issue 1: Prevention of pollution I Toppan’s Environmental Activities P. 40− Issue 2: Sustainable resource use I Environmental Management Activities Issue 3: Climate change mitigation and adaptation I Toppan’s Environmental Burden and Environmental Impact Issue 4: P  rotection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats I Eco-protection Activities I Eco-creativity Activities I Environmental Communication Activities Fair operating Issue 1: Anti-corruption I Disseminating the Conduct Guidelines P. 30− Issue 2: Responsible political involvement I Toppan Group Helpline practices Issue 3: Fair competition I Compliance Education Issue 4: P  romoting social responsibility in the value I Promoting CSR Procurement chain Issue 5: Respect for property rights Consumer issues Issue 1: F  air marketing, factual and unbiased informaI Assuring Product Safety and Quality P. 34− tion and fair contractual practices I Protecting Consumers by Safeguarding Issue 2: Protecting consumers’ health and safety their Personal Information Issue 3: Sustainable consumption I Universal Design Initiatives Issue 4: C  onsumer service, support, and complaint I Contributing to Sustainable Consumption and dispute resolution Issue 5: Consumer data protection and privacy Issue 6: Access to essential services Issue 7: Education and awareness Community Issue 1: Community involvement I Community Involvement and Development P. 38− Issue 2: Education and culture I Cooperating with International Communities involvement and to Address Social Issue Issue 3: Employment creation and skills development development Issue 4: Technology development and access Issue 5: Wealth and income creation Issue 6: Health Issue 7: Social investment 20 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 Organizational Governance  oppan has strengthened its governance structure through the establishment of a Management Audit Office, T Points Compliance Department, and Ecology Center under the purview of a Board of Corporate Auditors according to the Companies Act of Japan. Toppan implements governance aimed at maximizing the corporate value of the entire Group under the Related Company Administration Regulations. Corporate Governance Corporate governance provides the foundation for addressing n Corporate Auditors, Board of Corporate Auditors, and  Audit Firm As of the end of March 2015, Toppan has five corporate audithe seven core subjects under ISO 26000. tors, including three external auditors, of whom two are indeToppan has strengthened its governance structure through pendent officers. Along with their own board meetings, the the establishment of a Management Audit Office, Compliance corporate auditors attend meetings of the Board of Directors Department, and Ecology Center under the purview of a Board and Management Committee and important meetings on risk of Corporate Auditors according to the Companies Act of management. They systematically carry out audits for operJapan. Toppan implements governance aimed at maximizing ational sites and Group companies in close cooperation with the corporate value of the entire Group under the Related Comthe audit firm and internal audit-related departments of the pany Administration Regulations prescribed for the advanceCompany. Through these tasks, they audit and advise the ment of fair management for the Group. Company from a preventive perspective to ensure the legality of the operations of the directors and departments and smooth n Directors, Board of Directors, and Various Meetings and appropriate corporate management in line with company Toppan  has 26 directors, including two outside directors, on policies and regulations. They also regularly convene a board its board (as of the end of March 2015). Board meetings are of corporate auditors from related companies to improve the held monthly and whenever a pressing matter requires action effectiveness of the audits by corporate auditors across the or deliberation. Especially important matters are deliberated Group. beforehand by the Management Committee, a body made Toppan has had KPMG AZSA LLC verify the propriety of the up of directors selected by the President & Representative Company’s accounts through audits to enhance the reliability Director. The goal is to lay weight on managerial efficiency in and transparency of the Company’s financial information. business decision-making. Organizational Governance Corporate Governance Structure Meeting of Shareholders Appointing or dismissing Appointing or dismissing Appointing or dismissing Board of Directors Auditing Auditing Supervising Selecting or dismissing Special Committee (for Advising and counseling defending against takeover bids) Crisis Management Committee President & Representative Director Management Committee Responds to Considers issues prior to emergencies Board of Directors’ meetings Board of Corporate Auditors Auditing Directors in Charge Auditing Investigates and audits the legality and Management Audit Office Audit Firm Business Divisions Observing appropriateness of operational activities and Promotes, monitors, and verifies the strict guiding Reporting Group Companies observance of business-related laws and Compliance Department regulations and the establishment of Corporate Auditors Office Independently check, evaluate, ethical business practices and make improvements under the direction of departments Coordinates, supervises, and verifies Ecology Center responsible for laws and Toppan’s environmental activities regulations Guiding Instructing Assisting National Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisors Other organizations for control Chief Information Safety and Health Committee Security Manager National Eco-protection Committee TPM National Conference Working together TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 21 n Strengthening Audit Functions Risk Management Structure The Management Audit Office is a body established independently from the business divisions of the Company. Working Toppan manages risk comprehensively to avoid risk and minfrom legal and rational viewpoints, the office conducts fair and imize the losses incurred when an event at risk of occurring objective audits on the administrative and operational systems actually occurs. and practical status of the Company’s management activities. The Rules on Risk Management have been established The office provides feedback to the relevant departments on to address matters regarding risk avoidance and the minimiproblems, proposes measures for improvement, and reports zation of loss when a potentially damaging event occurs. In the audit results to the President & Representative Director, accordance with these rules, the Company has set up a risk directors in charge of relevant departments, and corporate management structure under which the responsibilities for risk auditors. The office carried out 31 management and operation management are allotted to specific divisions in the head office audits in fiscal 2014. It also conducted maintenance and operbased on the types of risk involved. Under this structure, the ational evaluations of internal controls over financial reporting directors in charge of each relevant division are responsible for all business divisions and main subsidiaries. for taking measures to prevent, avoid, and correct each type The Compliance Department in the Legal Affairs Division of risk. spearheads the Company’s initiatives to ensure the strict Toppan reviews risks to be managed once a year and examobservance of laws and regulations and to firmly establish ines countermeasures to be taken in line with the rules. The ethical business practices. The department facilitates the Company also holds a regular Risk Management Liaison Meetcomplete awareness of the Conduct Guidelines, organizes ing for the persons in charge of risk management in the head employee education on compliance with applicable laws, and office divisions in order to share information on a continuous implements internal audits on information security (➞PP. 30, basis and respond to risk practically. 34). The Ecology Center in the Manufacturing Management Business Continuity Management Organizational Governance Division supervises environmental activities, conducts internal audits at operational sites, and monitors the progress of improvements (➞P. 40). To prepare for the possible occurrence of a wide-scale disaster, Toppan institutes business continuity management (BCM) n Remuneration to Directors and Corporate Auditors activities under the Basic Plan for Countermeasures against In fiscal 2014, the total annual remuneration to directors was Earthquake Disasters. These activities aim to minimize damage 1,140 million yen and the total annual remuneration to corto the Group and maintain a steady supply of products and porate auditors was 115 million yen. Please refer to the secservices to customers. tion on corporate governance, etc. in the securities report To enhance Group-wide competence for business continu(in Japanese) for details on the method used to determine ity, Toppan repeats various BCM drills such as operation drills remunerations and remuneration-related information. for the task forces to be established during a wide-scale disaster. Toppan also holds training sessions for new employees CSR Initiatives (306 participants in fiscal 2014) and arranges e-learning-based, Group-wide basic education courses (22,060 participants in n Promotion Mechanism fiscal 2014) to disseminate BCM awareness throughout the Under the President & Representative Director and the Direcworkforce of the whole Group. tor in charge of CSR, the divisions of the head office work in The lessons learned from the Great East Japan Earthquake collaboration with each other to promote CSR activities. disaster have left Toppan with a solid understanding of the staEach division confirms the materiality of its action points in ble supply chain required for effective BCM. In fiscal 2014 the line with the seven core subjects set under ISO 26000. The Group expanded the boundary of companies subject to BCM divisions devise action plans and carry out measures based assessments from material suppliers to cover subcontractors on shared information about the issues they are addressing and service providers. This expanded coverage represents and the progress they are making. The head office divisions an advance in the Group’s BCM cooperation with business also coordinate and share information with Group companies partners. to advance Group-wide CSR initiatives. The Toppan Group seeks to coexist with communities as Every year Toppan organizes training sessions on CSR mana social benefactor through ongoing BCM activities. agement for new employees (306 participants in fiscal 2014) and e-learning-based basic education programs for employees at the Company and main Group companies (20,739 participants in fiscal 2014). 22 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 CSR Promotion Structure Risk to Be Managed and the Relevant Head Office Divisions in Charge President & Representative Director Risk to Be Managed Accidents involving products Accidents or complaints related to products or product liability (Manufacturing Management Div.) Director in charge of CSR Accidents related to main computer systems (ICT Management Div.) Occupational accidents, traffic accidents, or other accidents involving CSR promotion departments employees (Personnel & Labor Relations Div.) Administration Incidents related to notes or accounts receivable (Finance & Accounting Div.) Public Relations Division Accidents or disasters related Legal problems with orders received (Legal Affairs Div.) to company operations Leakage of personal information, internal confidential information, etc. (Legal Affairs Div.) Secretary Office Accidents or disasters related to fires or explosions (Manufacturing Management Div.) Corporate Planning Illegal activities related to the storage of solvents, management of Division dangerous chemicals, etc. (Manufacturing Management Div.) Damage to the company’s internal computer system due to cyber Personnel & Labor terrorism, illegal access or use of company information, leakage of Relations Division Defamation, slander, or other personal information, internal information, etc. (ICT Management Div.) criminal damages Acts of violence against the company (threats, kidnapping, robbery) Legal Affairs Division (Personnel & Labor Relations Div.) Unreasonable demands from antisocial organizations, transactions Relationships with antisocial conducted between business partners and antisocial organizations Finance & Accounting organizations (Legal Affairs Div.) Division Material losses or personal accidents suffered by customers or the Natural disasters company due to earthquakes, wind or water damage, lightning, etc. Manufacturing (Personnel & Labor Relations Div.) Management Division Risk in business management Shareholder derivative lawsuits, hostile takeovers (Legal Affairs Div.) Business Development Unlawful activities related to Violations of the Subcontract Law of Japan, illegal transactions with & Research Division external contracts business partners (Manufacturing Management Div.) Organizational Governance Infringements of intellectual Infringements of patents, trademarks, or copyrights (Legal Affairs Div.) property rights Violations of environmental laws or standards, illegal disposal of indusEnvironmental problems trial waste (Manufacturing Management Div.) Product accidents, environmental problems, fires or natural disasters, Risk in overseas business damage to human or physical resources caused by international activities conflicts or terrorism, etc. (Corporate Planning Div.) Task-force operation drill (Sagamihara Plant) BCM textbooks for Group-wide education Comprehensive disaster-preparedness drill (in Japanese) (Akihabara) Countermeasures against Disasters The Toppan Group takes comprehensive disaster-preparedness measures across all of its operational sites under the Basic Plan for Countermeasures against Disasters. The basic plan specifies what Toppan employees must do: 1) to take safety-first actions based on the concept of respect for people; 2) to fulfill social responsibilities by maintaining steady supplies of products and services society calls for most; 3) to cooperate with governments and communities to minimize damage and provide aid for affected people. All Group sites conduct disaster drills and employee firefighting training sessions. They also operate their own communication systems and organize communication drills to promptly confirm the safety of employees and their families when disasters strike. The head office site in Akihabara and other main Group sites organize regular comprehensive disaster-preparedness drills to reconfirm the actions to be taken during actual wide-scale disasters: the initial damage assessment and safety confirmation, the evacuation procedures, the employees’ journeys back home from the workplace on foot, and the distribution of stockpiled supplies. Toppan Group sites also continue stockpiling water, food, and emergency supplies to support local communities and commuters who have no means to return to their homes. The regular repetition of these drills will keep Toppan employees on alert and provide them with the know-how necessary for dealing with emergency situations quickly and properly. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 23 Human Rights B  ased on the concept of respect for people, Toppan is committed to respecting basic human rights inside and Points outside the Group. Toppan participates in global policy initiatives such as the United Nations Global Compact and engages in dialogues on human rights. Toppan continued offering a greater range of positions for intellectually disabled employees in fiscal 2014. Respecting Basic Human Rights their competence to its full potential. In fiscal 2013 Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. became one of the “Diversity Management Toppan operates business under the foundational concept of Selection 100,” a group of companies selected by the Ministry respect for people. The Conduct Guidelines, which set out of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan for their outstanding behavioral norms for Toppan personnel, call for respecting efforts to promote diversity. basic human rights (respecting personal qualities and individuality; prohibiting discrimination and harassment; prohibiting n Positive Action child labor and forced labor; and so on [➞P. 33]). Based on The Toppan promotes positive action to bring out the full potential Toppan Group Declaration on the Global Environment and the of individual employees and assign them to more diverse posiBasic Policy on Biodiversity, Toppan promotes environmental tions regardless of gender. The Company continues to create conservation initiatives to avoid negative impacts on the lives positive working environments and appoint female employees of people living near its operational sites (➞P. 40). to managerial positions based on their skills and motivation. The Group has been carrying out education on human rights in rank-based training for employees to prevent issues from arising. To disseminate initiatives for respecting human rights throughout the entire supply chain, Toppan sets forth an article n In-house Staff Recruitment / Self-determination on the  Career Path / Second Careers Toppan has established the Challenging Job System, a self-dion respecting basic human rights in the Toppan Group CSR rected program to encourage employees to report their work Procurement Guidelines and asks business partners to comply experience, official qualifications, medium-to-long-term career with this article (➞P. 32). development plans, and the departments and divisions to Toppan has also set up dual hotlines through which employees which they would like to be transferred. The combined effects and business partners can promptly report inappropriate actions. of the Challenging Job System and an in-house staff recruitment system nourish a problem-solving, can-do mindset to Collective Labor Agreement facilitate the placement of the right person in the right position Human Rights across the Company. For retired employees in their second The Toppan Printing Labour Union and the Company’s mancareers in company life, Toppan offers working options well agement have concluded a collective labor agreement in order suited to their knowledge, experience, skills, and motivation. to stabilize labor-management relations, maintain and improve Seventy-two of 86 employees who retired in fiscal 2014 were working conditions, and secure the corporate concord. The reemployed and now remain with the Company. agreement sets forth a fundamental policy between labor and management, the rules governing union activities and n Employment of Persons with Disabilities labor-management negotiations, and employment conditions Toppan promotes the hiring of persons with disabilities in colsuch as wages and working hours. laboration with a special subsidiary, Tokyo Metropolitan GovAs a fundamental policy between labor and management, ernment (T.M.G.) Prepress Toppan Co., Ltd. The Company Article 1 of the collective labor agreement, the General Princioffers a greater range of positions for intellectually disabled ples, stipulates that the Company and union shall contribute employees, including positions in document digitalization and to society through business operations and collectively work various other clerical jobs. for the benefit of the Company and long-term stability of the employees’ livelihood. Labor and management both uphold n Providing an Open Environment for Recruitment this policy as a common goal. Article 2 of the agreement clearly Toppan hires diverse persons of both genders and of many states that the union has all the rights established by law, nationalities, ages, and levels of physical and mental ability specifying that the Company shall respect the union’s rights through three recruitment channels: the regular hiring of new to organize and collectively bargain and act. graduates from universities and high schools, mid-career hiring The Toppan Printing Labour Union is run by members from of experienced personnel, and hiring of persons with disabilities. 10 Toppan Group companies. The union and the Company The Company offers employment opportunities for recruits to have concluded an agreement to impose a uniform set of choose in accordance with their own aspirations and vocational liability-related clauses (rules governing union activities and aptitudes through a host of job-specific screenings in Japan and labor-management negotiations) on all 10 Group companies. recruitment of global personnel all over the world. Toppan takes part in forums around the world to make contact with more Working for Equal Opportunity and human resources suited to careers in a global business environEliminating Discrimination ment. In fiscal 2014 the Company ran open application-based internship programs for 162 students in the summer and busiToppan pursues diversity management to innovate and create ness-proposal planning sessions in the winter. value by engaging diverse human resources and nurturing 24 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 Initiatives for Respecting Basic Human Rights Participating in the United Nations Global Compact Toppan participates in the global policy initiative and respects basic human rights in a proactive manner. Respect for people A universal concept highly valued by Toppan Establishing and disseminating Working for equal opportunity Organizing training the Conduct Guidelines and eliminating discrimination and education ( see PP. 30, 33) Toppan specifies respect for basic Toppan respects personal Toppan carries out education on human rights in the Conduct qualities and individuality, and hires human rights in rank-based training. Guidelines—its listing of behavioral and treats employees without norms for employees—and disseminates discrimination of any kind. this principle across the Group. Promoting CSR procurement Operating hotlines Contributing to society ( P. 32) ( PP. 30, 32) ( P. 38) Toppan cites respect for basic Toppan operates dual hotlines Toppan supports people’s livelihood human rights as a guiding principle in through which both employees and through educational cooperation and its CSR procurement guidelines and business partners can report the donation and supply of money asks business partners to comply inappropriate actions. and goods throughout the world, with the guidelines. especially in developing countries. Human Rights In fiscal 2014 Toppan participated in working groups on human rights education and due diligence for human rights organized by the Global Compact Network Japan. The Company gathered information and held opinion exchanges with other members on respect for basic human rights. Female Managerial and Number of Recruits Supervisory Staff Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 ■ Female supervisory staff Male 80 69 88 (as of April) Regular Sales, ■ Female managerial staff 251 recruitment of administration, etc. Female 39 42 50 250 233 new university graduates and Male 70 94 102 post-graduates Technical 200 197 Female 30 33 40 176 Regular recruitment of new Male 4 1 5 150 192 graduates from high schools and 181 colleges of technology Female 14 11 21 150 100 133 Total number of regular recruits 237 250 306 (percent female) (35.0%) (34.4%) (36.3%) 50 Male 18 19 — Mid-career recruitment of 47 52 59 experienced personnel Female 11 10 — 43 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 (year) Employment of Persons with Toppan Becomes One of the Diversity Management Selection 100 Disabilities In fiscal 2013 Toppan became one of the “Diversity Management Selection 100,” a group of com2013 2014 2015 panies selected by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan. The ministry aims to Employees 221 247 247 broaden the foundations of human resource diversity by selecting and recognizing the companies of the Diversity Management Percentage Selection 100 for their track records in innovation through the of total 2.13% 2.09% 2.10% engagement of diverse human resources. Toppan’s efforts to workforce* promote diversity have been extensive. The ministry gave high *The percentage is calculated based on the marks to the Company’s initiatives to harness the unique capatotal number of regular employees (as of June bilities and perspectives of women employees, especially in the 1) as a denominator. The total number was areas of product and service development. presented in the Disabled Persons Employment Report in accordance with Article 8 of the Law for Employment Promotion, etc. of the Disabled of Japan. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 25 Labor Practices  oppan understands how deeply it depends on its human assets and provides various supports to enable employees T Points to work vigorously and earnestly with strong motivation. Toppan’s labor union and management engage in dialogues at business councils and various committees. Toppan is creating a working environment where employees can achieve better work-life balance. Basic Approach Regarding Human Assets Labor and management at each operational site have been discussing approaches to create more accommodating workToppan values its employees as precious “human assets” and place environments that encourage employees to take leave. understands how deeply it depends on them. From this perThe measures they have devised and implemented are tailored spective, the Company supports the motivated, vigorous, and to the actual working conditions at their sites. earnest work of the Toppan workforce. The Company keenly understands the importance of the motivation to take on new n Efforts to Foster the Next Generation challenges, the drive to work vigorously with a healthy body Toppan has striven to create a working environment in which and mind, and an earnest commitment to follow through on employees can achieve better work-life balance. It does so tasks to completion. When employees are vigorous, earnest, by providing systems for childcare and nursing care leave, and have strong motivation, Toppan is convinced that their reduced working hours, higher family allowances for dependtrue abilities come through in full force. ents, and employee benefits of other forms. Under the rehiring system introduced in 2006 for employees who resign from Labor-Management Partnership the Company to deliver and bring up children, 20 resigning employees have registered for future rehiring and three employAs partners with shared ideals, Toppan’s labor union and ees have been rehired, as of April 2015. management have trust in each other and respect for each Toppan has also made improvements for its childcare leave other’s positions. Together they have been working on various system. The Company has extended the period of childcare issues on an equal footing. Business councils are convened leave up to the first March 31 after the employee’s child as Company-wide and operational site forums to discuss reaches the age of 12 months, a point in time beyond the wide-ranging managerial issues. Several special committees requirements of the applicable law in Japan. This change eases are also convened to deliberate pertinent issues of the day. difficulties parents face in Japan, where entry to daycare services is often impossible midway through the year. Meanwhile, Labor Practices Standing committees meet to discuss longstanding issues such as working hour reductions, wages, and health and the eligibility period for reduced working hours for employees safety. Individual labor-management committees meet when with childcare responsibilities is set to continue up to the end necessary to discuss specially designated subjects such as of the child’s third year of elementary school (again surpassing the creation of a working environment amenable to enhanced legal requirements in Japan), even in households where the job satisfaction. employee’s spouse has time to devote to childcare. Child In October 2014 labor and management introduced a new healthcare leave was extended in fiscal 2014 to enable employpersonnel system in creative departments to better reward ees to take leave up to the end of the child’s third year of employees with higher expertise. elementary school. Among the 10 days of leave a year, five Toppan has adopted a union shop system. In principle, days can be taken as paid leave. From fiscal 2015 the Comall non-managerial employees belong to the labor union as pany has started paying a full salary for the first five days of members. childcare leave taken, in order to encourage male employees to use the childcare leave system. Supporting Work-Life Balance In addition, Toppan has been gradually enhancing the “Hagukumi (nurturing) Program” since fiscal 2012. This pron Efforts to Shorten Working Hours gram supports the well being of employee parents by providToppan has been instituting measures to shorten working ing therapeutic activities for parents on childcare leave, activhours as a means of achieving better work-life balance and ities to share the know-how necessary for maintaining good maintaining employee health. balance between working and raising children, and activities Senior management, managers, and employees jointly to give employees in various positions opportunities to learn undertake various initiatives to improve operating effectiveness about and consider the importance of work-family balance. by reviewing the ways individuals work and the ways management administrates; to equalize overtime hours by adjusting operations within departments; and to introduce new working systems such as flextime and irregular working schedules. At the ongoing business councils and labor-management committees, labor and management exchange opinions and deliberate measures to further shorten overtime working-hours and comply with the revised Labor Standards Act of Japan. They also analyze the actual overtime practices and review the use of the newly introduced working systems. 26 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 Number of Personnel (as of March 31) Management Total Average Average Sum Total Part-time Dispatched Directors Supervisors Class Employees Tenure Age Employees Workers Staff Male 25 1,769 1,790 7,417 15.0 41.8 Fiscal 2012 8,587 708 75 Female 0 41 133 1,170 9.6 33.3 Male 26 1,822 1,779 7,395 15.3 42.2 Fiscal 2013 8,604 705 71 Female 0 47 148 1,209 9.9 33.6 Male 26 1,933 1,826 7,586 15.1 42.6 Fiscal 2014 8,900 681 112 Female 0 52 180 1,314 9.8 34.0 Reasons for Leaving*1 Annual Paid Leave Used Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Personal reasons 180 (53) 188 (52) 204 (48)*2 Average paid 8.1 8.0 8.3 leave used (days) Retirement 69 ( 2) 88 ( 1) 86 ( 5) Average ratio* 3 41.9% 41.7% 43.3% Requested by the 0 ( 0) 0 ( 0) 0 ( 0) company *3 Average ratio = average paid leave used / average paid leave granted Other 83 ( 4) 90 ( 3) 83 ( 0) Employees Taking Maternity or Childcare Leave Total 332 (59) 366 (56) 373 (53) Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Turnover rate 3.7% 4.1% 4.1% Employees taking 68 76 81 *1 The number of female employees who left the company is shown in maternity leave ­parentheses. Employees taking 114 (3) 124 (4) 136 (3) *2 Thirty-six men and two women took advantage of Toppan’s support system childcare leave*4 for employees pursuing second careers. *4 T  he number of male employees who took childcare leave is shown in Labor Practices parentheses. Average Annual Salary Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Average Annual 6,414,340 yen 6,711,582 yen 6,647,468 yen Salary Main Leave Systems Hagukumi (nurturing) Program and Family Benefits Hagukumi Program I Stock leave I Childcare leave I Rehiring of employees who leave the Company to deliver Hagukumi Art Salon Hagukumi Seminar Hagukumi Circle and bring up children (from fiscal 2012) (from fiscal 2013) (from fiscal 2014) I Nursing care leave I Leave for child I To strengthen bonds between To learn and enhance underTo build a network of working healthcare parents and children standing about good balance parent employees who wish to I To stimulate interaction between work and parenting discuss their concerns about I Volunteer leave among employees currently throughout the workplace work and parenting and share I Staggered work-hours on childcare leave tips on work-family balance I Dependent family I To cope with anxieties about allowance returning to work I Partial subsidization of babysitter expenses I Other systems Detailed info on main leave systems is shown in the CSR Report 2015: Detailed Data posted on the Toppan website at: http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/csr/csrreport.html. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 27 Occupational Health and Safety Developing and Fostering Human Assets Back in 2010, Toppan formulated a Basic Policy on Health and n Concept of Human Asset Development and Fosterage Safety based on a “safety first” theme. Since then the Company Mindful of how deeply it depends on employees, Toppan fosters has upgraded the intrinsic safety of machines and equipment, human assets with ambition and integrity. Toppan would like to organized legal and regulatory compliance training mainly for contribute to society as a corporation blessed with human assets foremen at operational sites, and undertaken various initiatives with excellent communication skills and heightened awareness such as safety promotion and risk assessment activities led by and sensibilities. The Company has set up a human asset develsafety promotion leaders. Through these efforts, the number opment platform called the Toppan University. This in-house of occupational accidents has been gradually reduced overall. virtual university supports life-long learning, skill improvement, However, the number of falls and collisions involving older and career enhancement while striving to foster top leaders. employees has increased in the last few years. Toppan has responded by renovating workshop conditions to better n Various Education Systems accommodate older employees and studying a fall-prevention Along with rank-based and department-based training, the project in the workplace advocated by the Ministry of Health, head office organizes selective training courses planned out Labour and Welfare of Japan. The Company has also been to foster leaders of tomorrow. For new employees, Toppan offering new training programs to encourage older employees regards the first three years after recruitment as a development to be aware of their own physical conditions, along with other period. To help new employees acquire necessary skills, Topsensory-based safety training sessions. Efforts are also underpan organizes Company-wide training and on-the-job training way to comply with a new government ordinance in Japan (OJT) with assistance from the immediate superiors of new that will mandate companies to conduct risk assessments on employees. chemical substances, starting from June 1, 2016. Meanwhile, the Toppan Business School (group training) Labor Practices A growing number of persons outside of the Company are and the Challenge School (correspondence learning courses) submitting applications to visit and experience the Anzen Dojo, offer self-development training for employees. A cumulative Toppan’s safety training facility. Toppan will continue opening total of 9,771 people trained in these schools in fiscal 2014. the dojo to trainees from outside the Company. Employees also have ready access to basic, Company-wide education via the e-learning system. A cumulative total of Measures for Mental Healthcare 107,245 people took part in e-learning programs in fiscal 2014. Labor and management implement various measures to mainn Fostering Human Assets for Global Business tain the health of the employees, a keystone for all of Toppan’s Toppan has been operating a trainee system to provide employcorporate activities. Several rules have been included in the ees with practical training in day-to-day business activities employment regulations to enable employees to more readily overseas since fiscal 2011. Fifty-three employees have been return from mental healthcare leave. These rules define a clear deployed as trainees under the system, as of the end of fiscal set of criteria for deciding when an employee should return 2014. Six of them worked as Japan Overseas Cooperation Volto work, measures to prevent the recurrence of leave, and unteers for the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). programs to support employees once they return to work. The selective training on globalization launched in fiscal 2010 Rank-based training is offered to prevent mental illness or has supported a cumulative total of 521 candidates for overseas to promptly detect and treat mental illness if it develops. The assignments so far. Nine employees in the advanced-learning Company also opens counseling rooms, distributes handcourse for the selective training have attended short-term open books to managerial and supervisory staff, concludes advisory programs at International Institute for Management Developagreements with mental healthcare specialists, and undertakes ment (IMD) in Lausanne, Switzerland, one of the world’s topvarious other measures. In fiscal 2014 the Company began ranked business schools, since fiscal 2012. reviewing regular mental health check-ups and establishing a new structure based on the stress check system introduced n Strengthening the Environment to Develop Human Assets under the revised Industrial Safety and Health Act of Japan. Toppan has established training centers in Kawaguchi, Saitama Toppan and a Group company called Institute of the Prefecture and Yugawara, Kanagawa Prefecture to nurture ­Formative Art Co., Ltd. jointly operate Art Salon, a workshop individuals who will shape Toppan’s future. These centers are to refresh employee minds and bodies through the creative venues for various training sessions and interaction between work of painting. Art Salon sessions are held all around Japan. Toppan personnel. The Company runs an intranet to help Toppan and the institute also hold the Summer Holiday Art employees enhance their abilities and skills online. Employees Salon for Parents and Children, an art-making workshop for visit the intranet to read posts on human asset development employees and their families. programs and review the records on their own training. 28 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 Occupational Health and Safety Overview of the Mental Healthcare System 2012 2013 2014 Steps to Prevent Primary Secondary Medical Recurrence: Deaths from Prevention: Prevention: Treatment: Support for returning occupational 0 0 0 Proactive measures Early detection Early recovery employees (fresh starts) accidents Frequency rate*1 0.05 0.20 0.05 Regular mental health check-ups, Contracts with mental healthcare specialists including stress checks Severity rate*2 0.000 0.002 0.000 *1 N umber of occupational accidents requiring Mental health Cooperation with medical and counseling institutions outside Toppan employee leave, per million cumulative actutraining I In rank-based Guidance and information about • A clear set of criteria al working hours (reflects the frequency of for deciding when training consultants outside Toppan occupational accidents) an employee on I Incorporation (contracted with the Toppan Group leave should return *2 Number of workdays lost as a consequence into optional Health Insurance Union) • Rules for preventing of occupational accidents, per thousand (group) the recurrence of cumulative actual working hours (reflects the training mental healthcare leave severity of occupational accidents) Programs to support employees returning from mental healthcare leave Counseling rooms Art Salon, an art session for employees Appointment and Steps to allay deployment of a anxiety after person to take resignation Financial assistance charge of mental from the Toppan Group health enhancement Fraternal Benefit Society at every operational and similar sources for fixed periods after site resignation Labor Practices Anzen Dojo Systematic Human Asset Development Programs “Conduct of High Value” Based on the Corporate Philosophy and Corporate Creed Earning the trust of Strengthening business Fulfilling corporate Strengthening Improving customers foundations social responsibility organization corporate value “Abilities and Skills” for “Conduct of High Value” Knowledge and Ability to identify and Ability to Techniques and Skills in communication information skills formulate tasks accomplish tasks know-how and fostering subordinates Rank-based Training Department-based Training I New division manager training I New employee Company-wide I Program to strengthen sales I Training for new supervisors in I New department manager training departments technology departments training I Early career planning I Training for new managers in I Individual department-based I New manager training I OJT brother/sister training technology and manufacturing training (purchasing, secretary, I New supervisor training departments personnel & labor relations, I Training for employees in technology & research, etc.) production control departments Basic Company-wide Education (e-learning) Globalization Training Training by Divisions Toppan Business School I Basic education on TOPPAN I MBA abroad training I Training in each division or I Group training VISION 21 I Study abroad program for workplace I e-learning I Basic education on CSR engineers I Dispatching human assets I Basic education on the I IT training in India Selective Training outside the Company environment I Short-term overseas study I Executive business school Challenge School I Education on profit maximization I Selective training on global I Training to nurture in business business industry-leading talent I Basic education on globalization I Trainee system I Program to develop human assets who can create new businesses and markets I Advance—Shaping the Future Operated together with Toppan Mind Wellness Co., Ltd., an education consultation company within the Group entrusted with training projects inside and outside the Company. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 29 Fair Operating Practices T  oppan organized training on compliance with the Subcontract Law of Japan. Points Toppan educated employees and audited operations to prevent improper export and import transactions. Toppan has been monitoring the supply chain to ensure that paper suppliers legally obtain the lumber they use as a raw material for paper production. Disseminating the Conduct Guidelines Toppan Group Helpline In June of the year 2000, the centennial of Toppan Printing When an employee discovers a legal violation or improper Co., Ltd., Toppan established the Conduct Guidelines, a set conduct somewhere in the Toppan Group, he or she is to of normal standards of behavior based on the Corporate Phireport it to his/her superior for deliberation, in principle. If the losophy and legal compliance (➞P. 33). In November 2010, employee’s superior fails to resolve the problem, the employee Toppan completely revised the Conduct Guidelines as a set is encouraged to call the Toppan Group Helpline, the Group’s of common principles that all Group companies around the internal reporting system. The helpline is kept open for use by world are required to observe for the assurance of total Groupall Group employees, including dispatched staff and part-time wide compliance. workers. In fiscal 2014 the helpline was used in one case of power n Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leader System harassment. This case was thoroughly investigated and propToppan operates a Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leader erly handled, and necessary countermeasures were taken to system. In this system, every Group site assigns a Conduct prevent recurrence. Guidelines Promotion Supervisor (the “Supervisor”) and Leaders (the “Leaders”) for disseminating the Conduct Guidelines Compliance Education and ensuring full guideline compliance. Supervisors and Leaders implement ongoing activities directly connected with their n Training for Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders daily business operations. Seven hundred and seventy-six As in previous years, Toppan held group training for Conduct Leaders were deployed across the Group in fiscal 2014, includGuidelines Promotion Leaders in fiscal 2014. The training was ing 64 women (8.2% of the Leaders). A cumulative total of scheduled in two phases. In the first, 598 Leaders were trained 6,827 employees have worked as Leaders since the system in 42 sessions across Japan from May to August 2014. In the Fair Operating Practices was launched in 2004. Toppan will continue with measures to second, 563 Leaders were trained in 38 sessions from Novemdeploy many more Leaders and to resolutely foster and assign ber 2014 to March 2015. more female Leaders. Toppan devises ways to enhance the effectiveness of training at the sessions through activities such as group discusn Dissemination Activities by the Conduct Guidelines Promotion  Leaders The Leaders formulate action plans tailored to the details of sions using case methods describing actual incidents and accidents. business operations and conditions, staff compositions, and other individual factors at the workplaces where they serve. The Leaders organize Conduct Guideline read-throughs, faciln Education on Compliance with Transaction-related Laws  and Regulations Toppan regularly organizes transaction-related training and itate discussion using concrete cases, and implement other checks and audits how business transactions are being hanactivities to enhance compliance awareness among their coldled in Japan. Both measures are key to preventing improper leagues. export and import transactions and ensuring compliance with At the Meeting of Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervithe Subcontract Law. In fiscal 2014 a total of 108 employees sors held each October, Supervisors from operational sites participated in group sessions focused on export controls throughout Japan report their activities and discuss and share under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act; 1,558 outstanding cases and measures. employees were trained on compliance with the Subcontract Law; and as many as 7,491 employees took a course on n Tools to Promote the Conduct Guidelines export controls via the e-learning system. Toppan gives every employee a Conduct Guidelines Casebook, a Q&A style casebook describing actual situations that can n Briefing on Compliance arise in daily work. The Company uses the casebook for rankToppan was not involved in any serious accidents or violations based education and the Leaders use it to disseminate the of laws or regulations in the course of business in fiscal 2014. guidelines at their workplaces. Toppan also posts regular Conduct Guideline Notifications on topics relevant to the guidelines in order to heighten employee awareness and call attention to compliance-related issues. The notifications posted in fiscal 2014 covered topics such as quasi-legal drugs, unlawful conduct, the leakage of personal information, and the unauthorized removal of confidential information from the workplace. 30 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 Structure to Promote the Conduct Guidelines President & Representative Director Director in charge of Conduct Guidelines Promotion Compliance Department, Legal Affairs Division Business divisions Head office divisions Division heads Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisor Senior General Manager Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisors of Legal Affairs Division Person in charge of management: Business Strategy Department GM Person in charge of education: General Affairs Department GM Conduct Guidelines Conduct Guidelines Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders Promotion Leaders Promotion Leaders Conduct Guidelines in sales and planning in administrative in manufacturing Promotion Leaders departments departments departments Supervisors from Supervisors from Supervisors or educational Supervisors from each department each department leaders from each department each department Fair Operating Practices Employees Employees Toppan Group Helpline Communicator When the problem remains unresolved Any Group employee Reporting and consultation Reporting on Superior progress and results, follow-up communication Internal reporting (emails or sealed documents sent Conduct Guidelines Casebook (in Japanese) in the name of the employee) Approach to Intellectual Property Receiver Protection and management of intellectual property is a crucial issue President & Representative Director for Toppan, a group of companies operating in the three fields of Inforor Senior Corporate Auditor mation & Communication, Living Environment, and Material Solutions. Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. The Group devotes strict attention to measures to prevent the infringement of copyrights, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights Instructions Reporting of third parties while obtaining patents for its own technologies and business models. Apart from in-house special training, Toppan also holds regular training sessions for employees within the Group and from business partners. Department responsible for Participants in these sessions acquire basic knowledge of laws on intelinvestigation and countermeasures lectual property rights by reviewing case histories in design work and other operations involving intellectual property issues within the Group. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 31 Promoting CSR Procurement n Verifying the Legality of Lumber as Paper Material Toppan promotes the sustainable use of forest resources by The Toppan Group implements CSR initiatives in cooperation monitoring paper suppliers (business partners) to ensure that and collaboration with business partners throughout the entire the lumber they use for paper production is legally obtained. supply chain. The Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines Toppan surveyed 34 sites of 29 business partners around the are a set of principles the Group observes to drive this world in fiscal 2014 and confirmed that all of the procured endeavor. These guidelines consist of the Basic Procurement lumber was obtained legally. Toppan provided the results from Policy, a conceptual framework to be closely observed by these surveys to the Forest Program, an initiative to collect every Toppan employee involved in procurement operations, information on corporate practices concerning the sustainable and the CSR Procurement Standards, a set of requirements use of forests and timber products conducted by CDP, an to be satisfied by every business partner. In January 2014 the organization through which companies can disclose their enviGroup revised them into guidelines stipulating human rights, ronmental information to global investors. labor, the environment, and anti-corruption, the four issues globally emphasized in CSR initiatives. By fiscal 2014 Toppan n Promoting Compliance in Procurement Departments had held briefing sessions with questionnaires for 2,047 busiThe Toppan Group regularly checks whether its procurement ness partners. departments operate properly in accordance with the Basic Turning to the environment, the Toppan Group promotes Procurement Policy in their transactions with business partCSR procurement in line with specific standards such as the ners. The Group asked 17 business partners to fill out quesStandards for the Management of Chemical Components of tionnaires in fiscal 2014 and used the results to improve comRaw Materials and the Paper Procurement Guidelines for the pliance in procurement operations. The Group has also set up Sustainable Use of Forest Resources. the Supplier Hotline, a portal for receiving reports from business partners, on its website. Fair Operating Practices *http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/corporateinfo/our_suggestion/supplier_ hotline.html Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines Basic Procurement Policy I We fairly and impartially offer opportunities to all business partners and I We pursue QCD (Quality, Cost, Delivery) in order to meet the needs of the potential business partners. market. I We comply with domestic and overseas laws and regulations and conduct I We work to foster mutual cooperation and build relationships of trust with fair business transactions based on corporate ethics. business partners. I We strictly control the information obtained through procurement activities. I We promote CSR initiatives throughout the entire supply chain. IW  e work to conserve the environment and reduce impact on the environment. CSR Procurement Standards 1. Basic Procurement Standards 2) Labor 1) Maintenance and improvement of quality (1) Prohibition of forced labor 2) Appropriate pricing (2) Prohibition of child labor 3) Stable supply (3) Non-discrimination 4) Product safety (4) Prohibition of harassment 5) Management of information (5) Respect for workers’ rights 6) Compliance with laws and social norms (6) Ensuring occupational health and safety 7) Fair business activities (7) The payment of appropriate wages 8) Protection of and respect for intellectual property rights (8) Management of appropriate working hours 9) Protection of people reporting improper conduct (9) Consideration for job security and fulfillment of the obligations of an 10) Disclosure of information employer 2. Procurement Standards Concerning Human Rights, Labor, the 3) The Environment Environment, and Anti-Corruption Business partners should comply with local environment-related laws and 1) Human Rights regulations and work to prevent pollution of the atmosphere, water, and Business partners should respect the human rights of all people related soil. They should also continuously measure and assess the use and to their business activities. They should also ensure that their activities discharge of resources and work to reduce impacts on the environment. do not infringe human rights directly or indirectly. 4) Anti-Corruption Business partners should prohibit and prevent conduct such as bribery, corruption, inappropriate provision or receipt of profits, extortion, and misappropriation. 32 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 Conduct Guidelines, Chapter 2 (see “Chapter 1: Basic Principles of the Conduct Guidelines” on page 9.) Chapter 2: Specific Conduct Guidelines Basic Principle 1: Respecting basic human rights Basic Principle 4: Avoiding all links with antisocial groups 1. Recognizing the diverse values of individuals and respecting personal 1. Prohibition of any dealings with antisocial groups qualities and individuality 2. Prohibition of involvement in antisocial activities 2. Prohibition of discrimination of any kind 3. Prohibition of provision of unjust benefits 3. Prohibition of sexual and power harassment Basic Principle 5: S  triving to improve quality and providing creations Basic Principle 2: H  aving high ethical standards and acting as that contribute to customer satisfaction a responsible member of society 1. Making our best efforts for the customer and building a relationship of trust In the conduct of business 2. Striving to improve quality in every process 1. Acting with pride as a member of the Toppan Group 3. Fully ensuring the safety and security of products and services 2. Prohibition of tacit approval of illegal conduct and rule violations 4. Prohibition of the infringement of the intellectual property rights of others 3. Respect for foreign cultures and customs Basic Principle 6: R  ecognizing the importance of information related In our private lives to business and managing it appropriately 4. Prohibition of conduct that causes distress to other people 1. Protecting information regarding customers 5. Prohibition of drink-driving 2. Protecting the company’s confidential information 6. Prohibition of the possession and use of illegal drugs 3. Appropriate handling of personal information 7. Prohibition of gambling 4. Striving for the appropriate management of information and records Basic Principle 3: C  omplying with laws and company rules and Basic Principle 7: P roactively undertaking conservation of the global conducting fair business operations environment Legal compliance 1. Striving to reduce the environmental burden of business activities 1. Prohibition of collusion and cartels 2. Promoting businesses with consideration for the environment 2. Prohibition of improper conduct in dealings with business partner companies Basic Principle 8: Embracing change and taking on new challenges 3. Prohibition of improper conduct against competitors 1. Making proposals that embrace change to customers 4. Prohibition of false transactions Fair Operating Practices 2. Advancing technical development that meets the needs of customers 5. Respecting business partners’ standpoints and building appropriate rela3. Having an awareness of problems and striving to improve the status quo tionships with customers 4. Striving to enhance one’s knowledge, skills and techniques 6. Prohibition of bribery and inappropriate entertainment practices 5. Securing and using intellectual property 7. Prohibition of illegal political contributions or donations 8. Prohibition of insider trading Basic Principle 9: B  uilding trust from society through social contribution 9. Prohibition of illicit import and export transactions activities and appropriate disclosure of information 10. Prohibition of child labor and forced labor 1. Proactively participating in the company’s activities to contribute to society 11. Compliance with international rules and local laws in overseas business and local communities Compliance with company rules 2. Contributing to the development and passing on of skills and culture 12. Maintaining discipline and order in the workplace 3. Disclosing information appropriately and enhancing the transparency of 13. Prohibition of other work without the company’s permission business activities 14. Prohibition of conduct that causes a conflict of interests with the company Basic Principle 10: B  ringing together individual strengths to fully 15. Prohibition of receipt or provision for personal gain or rebate exploit the integrated strength of the group 16. Appropriate management of assets entrusted to the company by customers 1. Striving to create a lively and vibrant workplace 17. Appropriate management and use of company assets 2. Striving to create a safe and clean workplace 18. Prohibition of prejudicial treatment of persons that have reported problems 3. Taking pride in the Toppan Brand and striving to cultivate it via the appropriate procedure 4. Group companies working together to maximize integrated strength 19. Fulfilling duties with integrity 20. Reporting promptly and appropriately Established in June 2000 Revised in November 2010 Toppan Group Basic Policy on Information Security As a group of companies operating in the information communication industry, each of us at the Toppan Group carries out Group-wide information security management in the recognition that the management of information necessary for business is a significant managerial challenge for us as a means to reciprocate our customers’ trust and promote the ongoing growth of the Toppan Group. 1. W  e manage information necessary for our business appropriately in obser4. W e are deeply aware of the risks to the information assets we handle, such vance of our in-house rules, the law, and the principles of social order. as illegal access, loss, damage, falsification/manipulation, and leakage of 2. We collect information for appropriate purposes using appropriate methods. information, and take necessary and reasonable safety measures against 3. We safely manage the information entrusted to us by customers in order these risks. We deal with and rectify any problems that occur promptly and to reciprocate our customers’ trust. in an appropriate manner. 5. We establish, operate, maintain, and continuously improve information security management systems. Established on April 1, 2001 Revised on August 1, 2011 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 33 Consumer Issues  oppan continues to bolster food defense. T Points The exhibition of Toppan’s universal design initiatives welcomed 7,427 visitors on a cumulative basis. Toppan launched a service combining CFP disclosure with carbon offsets. Assuring Product Safety and Quality Protecting Consumers by Safeguarding their Personal Information Quality assurance for products at Toppan is a concern for every department, not only the departments directly responsible for The Toppan Group protects the rights and interests of conproduction. The departments involved in marketing, R&D, plansumers by conducting thorough qualification audits based on ning, design, sales, and shipment all contribute to quality. This stringent security criteria to prevent the improper internal use is why Toppan describes quality assurance in production as a of personal information in its tightly secured areas. The Group total activity (“total quality assurance”) and strives to improve works to acquire information security management system product quality and manage product safety. (ISMS) certifications in order to propose business plans that will enable client companies to use personal data in safer and n Product Safety securer ways. Toppan has established a Basic Stance on Product Safety Management and Basic Guidelines on Product Safety Mann Monitoring the Handling of Personal Information agement to secure the safety management of the products The Toppan Group has built an operational structure using a it manufactures. Every Toppan site continues improving its software monitoring system to detect every action that may quality management system (ISO 9001) to bolster product entail the release of personal information in tightly secured safety management. One hundred and thirty-five employees areas (sending mail, writing to storage media, printing out, took part in training sessions for internal auditors in fiscal 2014. changing filenames, etc.). Monitoring supervisors confirm whether these actions are properly executed and report the n Certified Approval System for the Production of Food Packaging  Food packaging requires exacting quality assurance for safety results to the head office each month. The Group also prevents internal misconduct by monitoring the comings and goings of employees through entryways and Consumer Issues and sanitation. Toppan has adopted a certified approval sysexits, by controlling employee access rights and belongings, tem to ensure that the operational sites of Toppan and partner and by managing computer interfacing or read/write operations companies can manufacture containers and packages only using smartphones or other storage media and devices. after undergoing audits with checklists in conformance with the Quality Assurance Guidelines for Food Packaging. ­Toppan n Protecting Personal Information against Cyber Attacks audited packaging operations for 13 sites inside and outside Japan has seen a rising incidence of password list attacks the Company in fiscal 2014. targeting network services and distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks, simultaneous connection requests via multiple n Reinforcing Food Defense personal computers. The Toppan Group has intensified steps to ensure food safety Two specialized organizations are in place at Toppan to by preventing contamination of food during packaging proenhance ICT security measures and provide updates on softduction processes. In recent years the Group has also been ware vulnerability and other security information throughout reinforcing food defense by eliminating hazards that can be the Group: TOPPAN-CERT (computer emergency response deliberately exploited to contaminate food products using team) and the anti-virus task force. toxins or other harmful substances. The Group continues to tighten its food defense regime by refining incoming secun Completing Internal Training rity checks, installing more security cameras to monitor food Self-justifying excuses—like “No one will know,” “No big deal,” processing operations, deepening communication between “Just a little,” or “It couldn’t be helped”—can often signal a management and employees, strengthening food defense looming danger of misconduct. Toppan reminds all of its training, and taking other relevant measures. employees to be vigilant whenever they find themselves having thoughts like these. n Controlling Chemical Substances in Products Employees receiving internal compliance training learn The Toppan Group intensively promotes product safety manabout the employment regulations and the unfortunate outagement in all production processes from raw material procurecomes of actual cases of internal misconduct documented in ment to product shipment by controlling various chemical subJapan. In addition to providing knowledge, Toppan prevents stances whose use is prohibited or restricted. While adhering to internal misconduct by arranging face-to-face group training green procurement standards prescribed by client companies, to heighten employee awareness on security dangers. the Group has established its own set of Green Procurement Standards attuned to the features of products manufactured at plants across the business fields. The Group controls chemical substances in products throughout the entire supply chain. 34 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 Basic Stance on Product Number of Domestic Sites with Tightly Secured Areas Safety Management Designated for the Handling of Personal Information We promote product safety (as of March 31, 2015) management throughout the Group by securing safety and Hokkaido (3 areas) improving the quality of our products Kansai (15 areas) based on the Basic Principles of Conduct Guidelines and the principles of corporate social Chugoku & Shikoku (1 area) Tohoku (4 areas) responsibility as a protector of user safety and health. Kyushu (3 areas) Kanto (39 areas) Audits for the Food Filling/ Packing Businesses Chubu (2 areas) Audit Points • Agreement with client companies • Quality assurance system • Management of equipment and inspection devices • Management of safety and sanitation • Steps to prevent the admixture of different products Tightly Secured Areas at Toppan Group Companies with ISO/IEC 27001 • Steps to prevent the admixture of Certification (as of March 31, 2015) foreign substances • Steps to prevent the outflow of defective products I Team 1, IT Service Department, ICT Solution Center, Information & Communication Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd.; TOPICA Creation Team, Engineering Department, ICT InfrastrucConsumer Issues • Steps to prevent contamination • Traceability ture Technology Center, ICT Management Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. • Food defense I Information & Communication Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd.; ICT Infrastructure Tech• Education and training nology Center, ICT Management Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd.; Toppan Communication • Maintenance of systems and Products Co., Ltd.; Toppan Joho Kako Co., Ltd. frameworks I Kyushu, Chugoku & Shikoku Team and ISMS Promotion Committee, Information Security Operational Sites Audited Management, Nishinihon Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Food filling/packing businesses I Higashinihon Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. • 5 sites run by manufacturing subsidiaries I Takino Plant, Toppan Communication Products Co., Ltd.; Takino Manufacturing Department, • 8 sites run by production business Toppan Joho Kako Co., Ltd.; Production Technology Team, Technology, Kansai Information partners & Communication Subdivision, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Protecting Personal Information against Cyber Attacks TOPPAN-CERT Anti-virus Task Force I Investigate and take action when an I Expedite the creation of an environment incident occurs Information that is both virus-resistant and rigorously I Collect and analyze external information exchange protected by virus shields (vulnerability information, security trends, I Responding to virus-related incidents etc.) and report to related departments Coordination and issues with anti-virus software across the Group I Exchange information and coordinate with computer security incident response teams outside the Group Monitor and protect computer systems using two specialized organizations to defend against cyber attacks and other security threats Cyber attacks Viruses Toppan Group ICT Environment Systems for client Internal systems Plants companies TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 35 Universal Design Initiatives Contributing to Sustainable Consumption Universal design (UD) is one of the primary corporate social Toppan markets environmentally friendly products and serresponsibilities for Toppan, a group of companies that strive to vices designed to contribute to sustainable consumption. By realize fulfilling lifestyles enunciated in the Corporate Philosoparticipating in a framework to communicate environmental phy. The Group has been designing and producing attractive, information to consumers, the Group strives to make sustaineasy-to-use packaging and communication tools for as many able lifestyles popular through the enrichment of environmenpeople as possible. tal information in society and heightened awareness among In keeping with the Toppan Declaration on Universal Design consumers. and Toppan’s Seven Principles on Universal Design, the Group promotes UD initiatives that assign greater weight to sensory n Popularizing Carbon Offsetting Using CFP Data values and customization while also emphasizing functions The carbon footprint of products (CFP) is a method to quantify such as understandability and usability. CO2-equivalent greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions associated http://www.toppan.co.jp/ud/ (in Japanese) with a product or service throughout its entire life cycle, from raw-material procurement to disposal and recycling. The CFPs n Examples of UD Initiatives are expressed as single numbers anyone can understand. Over the period from March 3 to May 24, 2015, a cumulative Carbon offsetting is a method to partially or completely total of 7,427 visitors came to see “Pleasant Form for Every“offset” difficult-to-reduce GHG emissions with equivalent one—Universal Design Exhibition 2015 from Japan,” an exhicredits—GHG-emission reduction values and/or GHG absorpbition held at the P&P Gallery of the Printing Museum, Tokyo tion values—earned elsewhere. in the Toppan Koishikawa Building. The idea was to introduce In fiscal 2009 Toppan participated in a CFP pilot program works of universal design (UD) created for people of every kind. operated by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Consumer Issues Toppan explored problem-solving methods from UD perspecJapan. Since then Toppan has operated a system to swiftly tives to address social challenges facing Japan such as widedisclose highly reliable CFP data for the printed materials proscale disaster preparedness; the unprecedented declines in duced by the Group. Toppan was one of the first private-sector birthrates and “super-aging” of populations; and the internacompanies in Japan to acquire the CFP system certification tionalization of Japan and ubiquitous barrier-free designs in under the CFP Communication Program, a Japanese CFP ­Japanese cities as Tokyo approaches 2020. scheme undertaken by the Japan Environmental Management A “look, touch, and feel” approach was taken in the planning Association for Industry (JEMAI). This certification allows for the various display spaces set up. Visitors to the “Everyday Toppan to reduce the time and costs required for CFP proceHeadaches” space could directly experience various incondures. A Toppan-made calendar, meanwhile, became Japan’s veniences that non-universal designs cause in everyday life. first calendar to acquire Carbon Offset certification using CFP Some of the “headaches” introduced were visual in nature. data, in fiscal 2013. These achievements have enriched the Others were caused by language, lateral orientation (left-verGroup’s CFP initiatives for its printed materials. sus-right), or the sizing of design elements. The “Pleasant In fiscal 2014 Toppan launched a one-stop service for cliForms for Everyone” space introduced five categories of UD ent companies covering the stages from CFP quantification products and services developed by various companies and to carbon offsetting. This service provides a simple procedure organizations: “Anyone Can Use,” “Worry Free,” “Choice to enable client companies to label CFP data on their printed Built-in,” “Matched to Me,” and “Any Time or Situation.” The materials in less time and at lower cost and to offset GHG emis“Pleasant Forms to Come” space encouraged visitors to think sions associated with the entire life cycle of printed materials. about UD in Japan’s near future by showcasing UD technolToppan will encourage client companies to use this serogies expected to satisfy emerging needs of tomorrow. vice as a means of disseminating environmental information to society at large. 36 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 Toppan’s Seven Principles on Universal Design 1. Design products and services that are more responsive to people with 6. P rovide products at a reasonable price and in the amounts required different physical abilities and perceptions. by society. 2. Facilitate communication using multiple channels for communication, 7. Engage in design that appeals to the senses with consideration for including visual, aural, and tactile channels. comfort, enjoyment, and beauty. 3. Make products easier to use by making them easier to understand. 4. Make products that are easier to move, easier to approach, and require less strength (remove the physical burdens). 5. Design products that are safe to use procedurally, functionally, structurally, materially, and environmentally. Established in 2001 Revised in April 2010 Pleasant Form for Everyone—Universal Design Exhibition 2015 from Japan Framework for CFP and Carbon Offsetting Consumer Issues Carbon Footprint of Products (CFP) Quantify CO2-equivalent greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions throughout the entire life cycle ( ) of a product and label the CFP data on printed materials brochures shop brochure collection Toppan box Raw material Use and Disposal and procurement Production Distribution maintenance recycling Carbon Offsetting Partially or completely “offsetting” difficult-to-reduce GHG emissions with equivalent credits (GHG-emission reduction values and/or GHG absorption values) earned elsewhere. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 37 Community Involvement and Development  Toppan production site under construction in Georgia, U.S.A. received an Economic Development Award. A Points Toppan Group domestic and overseas sites have been engaging in diverse community contribution activities. Toppan held the 8th Toppan Charity Concert series to help enhance literacy in developing countries. Community Contribution and Involvement Employees at an operational site in Itabashi City, Tokyo join fire-response squads that take part in year-round local events, The Toppan Group has supported the communities in which special patrols in festival seasons and year-end and new-year it operates by addressing local issues and contributing to periods, fireand disaster-preparedness education for their sustainable local development. Its domestic and overseas community, fire-fighting equipment inspections, an annual firesites have engaged in contribution activities forged through pump operation competition for firefighters, and so on. dialogues with neighboring communities. Their dialogue is sustained through manifold activities, including involvement n Initiatives at Overseas Sites in organizations that bring together the opinions of community In fiscal 2014 a Toppan production site under construction in members. Georgia, U.S.A. received the Economic Development Award from a community development conference in Atlanta in recn Dialogues with Communities ognition of its contributions to the local economy. Each year Toppan sites participate in the activities of local resident this award is conferred on exemplary individuals, companies, associations and other community organizations. The sites and organizations whose projects support regional goals and have shaped business activities and community contribution initiatives from a broad perspective. activities by referring to the opinions sounded out from their A Toppan site in Shanghai dispatched personnel to lecture communities. Meetings and conferences are also held at the on design and management in economics and business sites to inform neighborhoods of production operations and administration classes at local high schools. Another site in environmental initiatives, to answer questions from community Shanghai continuously supports the development of local vilmembers, and to elicit opinions. lages by procuring materials preferentially from suppliers in the In fiscal 2014 an operational site in Kawaguchi City, Saitama villages, employing local persons, supplying goods to the vilPrefecture invited 47 visitors from neighboring communities lages, and contributing to the community in other ways. Community Involvement and Development into its premises. Visitors met with Toppan personnel to hear reports on the environmental efforts and products manufacCooperating with International tured at the plant in an enriching exchange. Communities to Address Social Issues n F  ostering Future Generations and Contributing to Education Many operational sites at the Toppan Group organize programs Toppan announced its participation in the United Nations Global Compact in September 2006 and pledged support for its principles. Convinced anew that cooperative solutions to to foster the children and young people who one day will be global issues are vital for its community contribution activities, sustaining society and communities. Japanese sites arrange the Company launched the Toppan Charity Concert series in plant tours, work experience, internships, and other similar the next year, fiscal 2007. This series aims to support global activities. initiatives to raise literacy rates in developing countries. LiterAn operational site in Niiza City, Saitama Prefecture worked acy is the ability to read, write, and calculate with proficiency with local high schools to organize an elective class on busisufficient to function well in daily life. ness administration for third-year students. Personnel from The first two of the eight Millennium Development Goals the site apprised visiting students of leadership at Toppan (MDGs) seek to eradicate extreme poverty and hunger and workplaces and introduced the site’s environmental efforts in achieve universal primary education. To realize the MDGs, a product manufacturing. Another operational site in Kashiwa set of common goals of the international community, Toppan City, Chiba Prefecture held plant tours and arranged work regards literacy as an essential skill enabling people in develexperience for elementary and middle school students and oping countries to stand on their own feet. The annual concert other community members. series is a fundraising mechanism to support literacy. Toppan held the 8th Toppan Charity Concert series in fiscal n  ooperating with Communities for Cultural C Development and Fireand Disaster-preparedness Toppan engages in proactive disaster-preparedness activities 2014 and donated 2,192,500 yen to the Asia-Pacific Cultural Centre for UNESCO (ACCU). The funds are now being used for literacy education and classes on maternal and child health and activities to pass on local traditional culture to coming for mothers raising young children in Cambodia. In a side progenerations in the communities neighboring its operational gram linked to the concerts, Toppan invited staff from the sites. Cambodian Women’s Development Agency (CWDA) to Japan. An operational site in Taito City, Tokyo serves its community CWDA is working on various projects in Cambodia in conjuncby disseminating local culture and traditions. Every June the tion with the ACCU. Toppan employees met with CWDA staff site sets up an exhibit of portable shrines that will be paraded at get-togethers and opinion exchanges on projects during through the streets by local revelers in an annual festival. their visit. 38 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 Plant tour for high school students (Saitama) Work experience for middle school students (Chiba) Class for elementary school students invited to the site (Aichi) Community Involvement and Development Plant tour for elementary and middle school Cleanup around the site (Saga) Local village support (Shanghai) students (Hokkaido) NGO personnel working on literacy education in Cambodia visited Japan. A video of the visit is available. Lecture on design (Shanghai) Literacy education in Cambodia ©ACCU 1. D  ownload the “AReader” app from the App Store or Google Play Store (free). *Update your “AReader” app if you have already installed it. *If you are using an Android OS device in PRC, download the app at: http://areader.toppan.com.cn/app/. 2. O  pen the app and scan the AR marker above to see the video. Toppan Charity Concert (Yu Kosuge, pianist) Toppan Charity Concert (Michiko Hayashi, mezzo-soprano vocalist) TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 39 The Environment The Toppan Group established a new medium-and-long-term environmental target seeking a 20% reduction of CO2 Points emissions by fiscal 2020 (compared with the fiscal 2008 level) after attaining its original 11%-reduction target seven years earlier than the deadline set. The Group calculated its entire value chain greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3 emissions) and identified which activity categories represent larger sources of emission. Toppan’s Environmental Activities verifies the data and reports the results to the Board of Directors and other management bodies. Points of improvement n Four Environmental Activity Areas for the continuous upgrading of environmental management The Toppan Group promotes environmental initiatives based are proposed and implemented throughout the entire Group. on The Toppan Group Declaration on the Global Environment, The environmental audit follows a three-stage screening a basic philosophy for the environmental conservation activities process: a management system audit by an ISO 14001 regof the Group. istrar, an internal audit by the Ecology Center, and another Toppan’s environmental activities are divided into four internal audit at the individual site. Toppan underwent manareas—Environmental Management, Eco-protection, Eco-creagement system audits for 46 systems and carried out interativity, and Environmental Communication. The Group enacted nal environmental audits at 60 sites in fiscal 2014. Necessary a set of five bylaws to strengthen the Eco-protection Activiprocedures were taken to correct the deficiencies pointed out ties performed to minimize environmental burden associated during the audits. with the Group’s corporate operations: the Bylaw on Global Warming Mitigation, the Bylaw on the Building of a Recyn Improving Environmental Literacy cling-oriented Society, the Bylaw on Chemical Substance The Toppan Group implements various measures to improve Management, the Bylaw on Pollution Control, and the Bylaw the environmental literacy of its employees based on social on Biodiversity. The Toppan Group has taken steps to conserve trends related to the environment, priority topics for year-bythe global environment in each of the areas based on the five year environmental activities, and other environment-related bylaws. issues. In fiscal 2014 Toppan held sessions for rank-based training, optional training, and internal auditor training, along with The Toppan Group Declaration Group-wide e-learning-based training. Ongoing group trainon the Global Environment ing in rank-based education is arranged in conjunction with The Environment As responsible members of international society, we who work within the Toppan Group e-learning programs focused on chemical substance manstrive to realize a sustainable society agement for employees in manufacturing and technology through forward looking corporate activities with consideration departments and Eco-creativity Activities for employees in for the conservation of the global environment. sales departments. Basic Principles 1. We observe all laws, regulations and in-company rules relating to the n Calculating Scope 3 Emissions environment. More and more businesses around the world nowadays are 2. For the future of the Earth, we strive for the effective utilization of limited quantifying and managing their value chain greenhouse gas resources and the reduction of all types of environmental burden. 3. W ith foresight, we promote the development and widespread use of (GHG) emissions associated with all stages of operation from products that show consideration for the environment, and contribraw material procurement to the distribution and disposal of ute to the environmental activities of customers. products (scope 3), in addition to direct emissions (scope 1) 4. We engage in communication related to the environment with a wide and indirect emissions associated with purchased electricity range of peoples both inside and outside the company, and strive for mutual understanding. and steam consumption (scope 2). 5. We also take a proactive approach to environmental conservation in The Toppan Group calculated its scope 3 emissions in fiscorporate activities in international society. cal 2014 to identify the categories of corporate activity that Established in April 1992 represented larger sources of GHG emissions and to establish Revised in April 2009 priority targets in its emission reduction strategy. This calculation showed that raw material consumption in categories such as category 1 (manufacturing of products purchased by Environmental Management Activities Toppan), categories 4 and 9 (transportation and distribution of products purchased and sold by Toppan), and category 12 n Operating Environmental Management Systems (end-of-life treatment of products sold by Toppan) collectively The Toppan Group operates established environmental manaccounted for the largest share of Toppan’s GHG emissions. agement systems based on its environmental management The Group will continue monitoring and evaluating GHG rules. emissions across its value chain and work to reduce environSixty Group sites in Japan undertake environmental activimental burden incurred throughout the life cycle and producties to achieve the targets set under the Eco-protection Activtion process of every product. ity Plan. The Ecology Center collects environmental performance data as the organization responsible for supervising the Group’s environmental activities. The center then evaluates and 40 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 Medium-and-long-term Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2020 1. Mitigation of global warming 2. A  ction for building a 3. C  onservation of the atmospheric I Reduce CO2 emissions by 20% recycling-oriented society environment compared to the fiscal 2008 level I Reduce final landfill waste disposal I Reduce VOC emissions into the (751 kilotons by 87% compared to the fiscal atmosphere by 70% compared to 600 kilotons: –151 kilotons) 2008 level the fiscal 2008 level (1,584 tons (7,326 tons 206 tons: –1,378 tons) 2,198 tons: –5,128 tons) Values, Results, and Evaluation of Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2014 and Environmental Target Values for Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2014 Environmental Management Environmental Targets Target Achievement Target Values for Indicators Results Evaluation Values Rates Fiscal 2015 I Reduce CO2 emissions I CO2 emissions 620 kilotons 593 kilotons 104.3% A 613 kilotons 1. M  itigation of global warming IC  O2 emissions per 0.70 tons/ 0.72 tons/ 0.70 tons/ 97.1% B unit of sales million yen million yen million yen 2. A  ction for building a I Reduce final landfill waste IF  inal landfill waste 375 tons 373 tons 100.5% A 240 tons recyclingdisposal disposal oriented society 3. C  onservation of I Reduce VOC emissions into I VOC emissions into the atmospheric 4,527 tons 3,935 tons 113.1% S 4,000 tons the atmosphere the atmosphere environment Evaluation criteria: S, Results achieved far surpass the targets (achievement rate [%] 105); A, Targets achieved (100 achievement rate [%] 105); The Environment B, Activities fully carried out, but targets unachieved (70 achievement rate [%] 100); C, Activities insufficient (achievement rate [%] 70) Achievement rates: 200 – (values actually achieved / target values) × 100 [%] Calculating Scope 3 Emissions Scope 1-3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 3 Scope 2 I Extraction of raw Other materials categories* Category I Consumption of electricity I End-of-life treatment 12 supplied by entities outside of sold products and Category the reporting company goods 9 I Consumption of heating Category 4 and cooling supplied by entities outside the reporting company Scope 3 4,186 Suppliers, etc. Users of products kilotons 3,938 I Production of raw Scope 1 and goods kilotons materials, etc. The reporting I Use of sold products company itself and goods Category 1 I Fuel combustion I Emissions from industrial I Transportation and I Transportation and processes distribution of raw distribution of sold materials, etc. products and goods Scope 2 I Employee commuting 413 379 kilotons kilotons I Sales activities, business travel Scope 1 214 220 kilotons kilotons Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 *Categories 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 41 Toppan’s Environmental Burden and Eco-protection Activities Environmental Impact n Mitigating Global Warming and Saving Energy The Toppan Group applies the LIME* life-cycle assessment The Toppan Group has been reducing the total emissions of method to consolidate INPUT and OUTPUT data on environcarbon dioxide (CO2) to help mitigate global warming. mental burden associated with business activities into a single In fiscal 2014 Toppan continued controlling maximum power index of environmental impact. consumption by companies throughout the Group in Japan This assessment provides a holistic view of the environmenusing a nationwide demand-monitoring system for checking tal impact of all business activities at the Group and serves as peak power demand in summer and winter. The electricity a benchmark for establishing medium-and-long-term environconsumption data compiled for each site via this system enamental targets and checking the effectiveness of environmental bles the Group to continuously review power contracts and measures. Toppan has managed to reduce its environmental encourage energy-saving efforts on a site-by-site basis. impact every year. In fiscal 2014 the Group attained a 36% In April 2014 the Group completed the Gunma Central reduction compared to the fiscal 2006 level. Plant, a production site for cutting-edge packaging materials. *Life-cycle Impact assessment Method based on Endpoint modeling (LIME): A cogeneration system for in-house power generation, waste A version of the damage-oriented environmental impact assessment heat utilization, and other energy-saving functions at the plant method adjusted for application in Japan based on the environmental background domestically. Damage derived from impact categories is quanenables more efficient energy use. tified for each part of the environment to be protected (e.g., human health, Toppan also continued replacing older utility facilities with biodiversity). Once the damage is quantified, the environmental impacts of high-efficiency alternatives, installing heat insulators for equipmultiple factors are integrated into a single index. ment, and painting heat-shield coatings on folded-plate roofs and other buildings. As new measures to reduce the unnecesTypes of Environmental Impact by Business Field sary or nonessential use of electricity, the Group has redressed The Environment 100% demand-and-supply imbalances and suspended the use of any Other Other Other equipment that stays running continuously during vacations. As a result of these efforts, CO2 emissions in fiscal 2014 80% Photochemical Photochemical were reduced to 593 kilotons, below the targeted limit of 620 oxidants oxidants kilotons for the year. n Improving Transport Efficiency in Logistics Environmental impact 60% Toppan Logistics Co., Ltd., the logistics specialist for the ­Toppan Group, is working with shippers from Toppan Group Global warming Global companies to reduce the energy consumption per unit of transGlobal 40% warming warming port volume by company vehicles and the total volume of CO2 emissions from transport. Energy consumption per unit of transport volume in fiscal 2014 was 57.5 kL/million ton-kilometers, a 1.2% reduction 20% from fiscal 2013. The targeted year-by-year reduction of 1% prescribed by the Act on the Rational Use of Energy of Japan Resource Resource Resource consumption consumption consumption was therefore attained. CO2 emissions were 34,805 tons, or 0% 0.2% lower than the fiscal 2013 level. Information & Living Material Toppan Logistics will work to accomplish the targets for Communication Environment Solutions fiscal 2015 by optimizing transportation conditions and further Note: E  very business field shows comparatively high global warming effects improving transportation efficiency. from energy consumption for electricity used for power and air-conditioning and for natural gas used for heat sources. The Living Environment and Material Solutions fields show significant impacts from photochemical oxidants, pollutants formed by reactions between sunlight and VOCs released into the atmosphere. The Toppan Group includes these indicators among medium-and-long-term environmental targets and has taken steps to reduce environmental impacts of these types. 42 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 Major Types of Environmental Burden by Business Field in Japan (INPUT/OUTPUT data) INPUT Material Input Total Energy Consumption Total Water Consumption Total PRTR Handling Information & Information & Information & Information & Communication Communication Communication Communication 663,928 (52.3%) 3,477 (25.6%) 845 (11.5%) 565 (12.7%) Living Environment Living Environment Living Environment Living Environment 528,554 (41.6%) 4,634 (34.1%) 1,772 (24.2%) 1,773 (39.7%) Material Solutions Material Solutions Material Solutions Material Solutions 76,715 (6.0%) 4,831 (35.6%) 4,366 (59.5%) 2,123 (47.6%) Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites 0 (0%) 645 (4.7%) 350 (4.8%) 2 (0.0%) Total 1,269,197 (Unit: tons) Total 13,586 (Unit: 1,000 GJ) Total 7,333 (Unit: 1,000 m3) Total 4,463 (Unit: tons) OUTPUT Total Waste Discharge CO 2 Emissions Total Effluent Discharge Total PRTR Release Information & Information & Information & Information & Communication Communication Communication Communication 120,470 (49.7%) 149,773 (25.3%) 530 (8.5%) 38 (20.5%) Living Environment Living Environment Living Environment Living Environment 93,631 (38.7%) 218,570 (36.9%) 1,340 (21.5%) 111 (60.0%) Material Solutions Material Solutions Material Solutions Material Solutions 24,177 (10.0%) 198,738 (33.5%) 4,010 (64.5%) 36 (19.5%) Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites 3,940 (1.6%) 26,011 (4.4%) 338 (5.4%) 1 (0.5%) The Environment Total 242,218 (Unit: tons) Total 593,092 (Unit: t-CO2) Total 6,218 (Unit: 1,000 m3) Total 185 (Unit: tons) Notes: I Energy consumption associated with fuel consumption is calculated using the conversion factor specified in the year 2000 amendment of the Act on the Rational Use of Energy of Japan. The primary energy input associated with electricity consumption is calculated uniformly as 0.00983 GJ/ kWh. Some of the material inputs are calculated from estimated values based on production values. I “Waste” in this report includes industrial waste of no value and waste materials of value sold or transferred as resources (both generated in association with business activities). I Total energy consumption is the quantity of electricity and fuels consumed. I Total values may not exactly match the sum totals of individual values, as decimals are rounded up or down. CO2 Emissions (1,000 t-CO2) Q CO2 emissions CO2 emissions (t-CO2/million yen) per unit of sales 1,500 1.00 1,200 0.76 0.80 0.71 0.72 0.72 900 0.60 751 679 632 600 593 0.40 300 0.20 Gunma Central Plant 0 0 2008 2012 2013 2014 (fiscal year) Note: CO2 emissions are calculated by the method specified in the Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Businesses (2003) issued by the Ministry of the Environment (MOE) of Japan. The CO2 emissions associated with electricity consumption, however, are calculated uniformly as 0.378 t-CO2/MWh.  CO2 emissions in fiscal 2014 amounted to 752,220 t-CO2 when calculated using the effective emission factor from another MOE method specified in the Ministerial Ordinance Concerning the Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities of Specified Dischargers (the latest amendment on April 30, 2015). Roof coated with heat-shield painting (Fukuoka Plant) TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 43 n Building a Recycling-oriented Society n Controlling Chemical Substances In a drive to use limited resources more effectively, the Toppan The Toppan Group has striven to reduce the consumption of Group works to reduce the discharge of waste, increase the chemical substances to mitigate the impacts of these subrecycling rate, and apply appropriate waste treatment methods. stances on the environment. The Group continues reducing Waste paper derived from operational sites primarily in the the consumption of chemical substances designated under the Information & Communication and Living Environment fields Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) law of Japan makes up the largest portion (75.5%) of the total waste disand introducing safer substitutes by setting priorities in terms charged at Group sites. This is followed by waste plastics of both the type and range of application. These measures from plants in the Living Environment field and sludge from the helped the Group reduce the amount of chemical substances Material Solutions field. The Group has striven to increase the handled under the designation of the PRTR law by 15.3% material recycling rate by processing waste paper into recycled compared to the amount handled in fiscal 2013. paper, by separating waste plastics and processing composGroup production sites have also been appropriately manite plastics into pellets, and by implementing other recycling aging chemical substances based on established control promethods. Sludge, meanwhile, has been reduced in-house to cedures. smaller volumes for disposal. The Fukusaki Plant in Hyogo Prefecture has begun material n Approach to Environmental Compliance recycling by processing cinder generated from incinerators for In fiscal 2014, Toppan used its in-house environmental datareuse as cement material. The Gunma Plant suspended the base to identify possible risks of exceeding any of the limits use of incinerators in August 2014 and substantially reduced stipulated under regulatory standards for Group sites in Japan. the discharge of cinder and particles. These measures reduced Preventive measures against higher risks were taken to ensure the final landfill waste disposal in fiscal 2014 to 373 tons. that none of the regulatory limits were broached. The Toppan Group will continue reducing waste discharge Despite these steps, one production site recorded excesThe Environment and promoting material recycling. sive levels of odor and three sites recorded excessive levels of pH, BOD, or other water contaminants relative to standards n Preventing Pollution set under laws, ordinances, agreements, or other applicable The Eco-protection Promotion Committee at each Group site regulations. The Toppan Group has taken immediate corrective in Japan sets in-house control standards more stringently than measures for every case, including steps to inspect facilities the regulatory standards require. By complying with these and revise the methods for facility control. Since implementing standards, the Toppan Group works to reduce environmental these corrective measures, the Group has reviewed control burden and prevent pollution. procedures and taken necessary actions to reliably prevent To prevent atmospheric pollution, the Group controls boilers recurrences. As a preventive action against environmental and other plant facilities responsible for air pollutants by manpollution, the Group holds regular drills to cope with potential aging operations under appropriate combustion conditions. emergencies and accidents during production operations. In fiscal 2014 the Group continued enhancing the efficiency of Emergency-preparedness procedures are reviewed whenever effluent-gas treatment by precisely controlling plant facilities the results of the drills call for them. subject to the requirements stipulated under the Air Pollution Communities around Toppan plants filed 11 complaints or Control Act of Japan. VOC and toluene emissions into the inquiries at seven sites in fiscal 2014. Three of them involved atmosphere in fiscal 2014 were both reduced compared with inconveniences to community residents related to odor and the fiscal 2013 levels. the other eight involved noise. The Group has responded by To prevent water pollution, the Group has installed wastereplacing deodorizing materials and upgrading sound-insulawater treatment facilities designed to cope with specific water tion equipment and reviewing the operational rules for plant consumption and pollutant conditions at individual sites. facilities. To prevent the recurrence of problems, the Group Wastewater recycling systems have also been installed at has also been instituting a stricter regime for maintaining and Material Solutions plants that discharge effluents in signifiinspecting facilities that generate odor and noise. The Toppan cant amounts. By recovering and reusing wastewater via these Group will continue enhancing the quality of environmental systems, the plants have been working to reduce the levels of management through earnest dialogue with residents in surwater consumption and effluent discharge. rounding communities. The Toppan Group also took steps to prevent the leakage of chemicals and other liquids from plant facilities subject to the requirements stipulated under the revised Water Pollution Control Law of Japan. The Group will strive to prevent groundwater pollution by checking facilities and taking other preventive measures on a continuous basis in line with the law. 44 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 Total Waste Discharge and VOC and Toluene Emissions into the Final Landfill Waste Disposal Atmosphere*1 (1,000 tons) Q Total waste discharge Q Final landfill waste disposal (1,000 tons) (tons) VOCs Toluene 350 2.5 10,000 313.8 280 2.0 7,326 265.1 255.9 7,500 242.2 1.6 210 1.5 5,000 4,530 4,232 3,935 140 1.0 2,500 70 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.4 362 281 221 162 0 0 0 2008 2012 2013 2014 (fiscal year) 2008 2012 2013 2014 (fiscal year) *1 E  missions into the atmosphere are calculated in conformance with the standards established by the Japan Federation of Printing Industries (JFPI) and the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA). Recycling Rate and Material Recycling Rate Chemical Substances Designated under the PRTR Law*2 (%) Recycling rate (recycling / total waste discharge) (tons) Total handling Total transfer Total release Material recycling rate (material recycling / total waste discharge) 100 10,000 98.8 99.6 99.5 99.6 95 93.0 92.7 92.5 92.4 7,500 6,722 The Environment 90 5,271 5,000 4,463 85 2,500 2,112 1,894 80 1,654 300 243 185 0 0 2008 2012 2013 2014 (fiscal year) 2012 2013 2014 (fiscal year) *2 Dioxins are excluded because of a difference in the counting unit. Purification of Soil and Groundwater Pollution Operational Site Detail Current Progress*3 Itabashi Plant (Itabashi City, Tokyo) Groundwater pollution by hexavalent chromium and toluene Continuously monitored Niigata Plant (Shibata City, Niigata) Soil pollution by fluorine and fluorine compounds Continuously monitored Toppan Technical Research Institute Soil pollution by fluorine and fluorine compounds Continuously monitored (Kita-Katsushika District, Saitama) Remediation of Soil Pollution for Redevelopment to Comply with Applicable Laws, Regulations, and Ordinances Remediation Operational Site Chemical Substances Subject to Remediation Current Progress*3 Measures Excavation Numazu Plant (Numazu City, Shizuoka) Hexavalent chromium; lead; fluorine and fluorine compounds Remediation completed and removal Excavation Akihabara Sales Building (Taito City, Tokyo) Lead and lead compounds Remediation completed and removal Hexavalent chromium; lead; selenium and selenium Excavation Nishigaoka Plant (Kita City, Tokyo) Remediation completed ­compounds and removal Excavation Remediation still Kawaguchi Plant (Kawaguchi City, Saitama) Lead; fluorine; cyanide and cyanide compounds and removal underway Excavation Remediation still Ebie Site (Osaka City, Osaka) Hexavalent chromium; lead and lead compounds and removal underway *3 As of March 2015 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 45 n Promoting the Conservation of Biodiversity Eco-creativity Activities I Biodiversity Conservation at Operational Sites The Fukaya Plant in Saitama Prefecture has promoted biodiversity conservation within its premises in collaboration with the Environmental NPO “SHU” since fiscal 2012. The NPO and n Developing and Approving Environmentally Friendly Products  In fiscal 2013 Toppan established the Toppan Standards for plant worked together in the 5th phase of their wildlife-support Environmentally Friendly Products, a set of criteria covering project, “Paradise for Wild Birds,” in the summer of 2014. In five stages of the product life cycle. A total of 94 products the “Path Clearing” activity, participants mowed undergrowth were registered as “environmentally friendly products” as of and laid logs from trees that had collapsed under heavy snowthe end of March 2015. falls along pathways. In the “Bud Hunt,” they searched for Toppan has approved and registered “exceptional environseedlings of acorns and other fruits and discovered rare flora mentally friendly products” that are recognized as eco-friendly species that appeared to have been nurtured in the area by third-party organizations or that have undergone life cycle through the effects of the program. In the winter, participants assessment for quantification of environmental burden across collaborated in the 6th phase to clean up and make over birdthe life cycle. houses installed in the area. Varied Tits and Japanese Tits were still nesting in about 80% of the birdhouses, providing a wonn Environment-related Businesses at Group Companies derful exhibition of bird nests in their natural state. Like Toppan itself, the companies of the Toppan Group develop, produce, and market eco-friendly products in line I Acquiring a Certification for Business Facilities Engaging with standards they formulate themselves in consideration of in Conservation of Biodiversity social demands. The Fukaya Plant in Saitama Prefecture has become the first The total sales of environment-related businesses—includfactory to acquire certification for Business Facilities Engaging ing, most notably, sales of environmentally friendly products The Environment in Conservation of Biodiversity. The Association for Business satisfying the in-house criteria of the Toppan Group—were Innovation in harmony with Nature and Community (ABINC) 278.9 billion yen in fiscal 2014. grants this certification to factories, office buildings, commercial facilities, apartments, and other facilities engaging in biodiEnvironmental Communication Activities versity conservation in Japan. ABINC’s independent-evaluation and verification is based on a set of Guidelines for Sustainable n Presenting at Eco-Products 2014 Business Sites and the Land Use Score Card established by At the Eco-Products 2014 fair in December 2014, Toppan the Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB). presented its environmental proposals based on four themes: Since fiscal 2010, a cumulative total of 17 operational sites a low-carbon society, a recycling-oriented society, a society at the Toppan Group have applied a JBIB land-use assessment where nature and humans coexist, and next-generation edumethod to self-evaluate the degree to which their land use cation. The booth displays exhibited the eco-friendly “Cartocontributes to biodiversity at the sites. can,” “one-stop services from CFP quantification to carbon offsetting,” free educational app “Manabi Get!,” and more. I Biodiversity Conservation outside Operational Sites These products and services are examples of Toppan endeavThe Toppan Group continues conserving forest resources ors realized through collaboration with client companies, throughout Japan. In fiscal 2014 Toppan employees took part organizations, governments, and other entities in development, in a workshop for thinning Japanese cypress and other eversales, and operation. Staff from companies collaborating with green needle-leaved trees in the “Ranzan Community Forest” Toppan publicly discussed viable strategies for creating new neighboring the Ranzan Plant in Saitama Prefecture. Particsociety-wide eco-schemes. ipants teamed up to perform logging activities of all kinds, from hewing-down and pruning to bucking, chopping, and n Issuing Site Eco Reports crushing for the fashioning of woodchip souvenirs. At Umi-noToppan’s ISO 14001-certified sites in Japan issue Site Eco Mori sea forest in Tokyo, another team of employees continued Reports directed towards local municipalities and residents their activities to plant saplings of native species that tolerate in surrounding communities. Thirty-five reports from 47 sites salty wind and bear blossoms and fruits attractive to birds. were issued in fiscal 2014. The Umi-no-Mori is a living example of a recycling-oriented zone where planting activities are transforming a waste island into a beautiful forest. Employees have also been maintaining bamboo thickets in countryside woods in Katano City, Osaka Prefecture. 46 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 Spotting seedlings in Paradise for Wild Birds Cleaning up and making over birdhouses in Planting trees at Umi-no-Mori sea forest in (Fukaya Plant) Paradise for Wild Birds (Fukaya Plant) Tokyo The Environment Maintaining bamboo thickets in Katano City, Eco-Products 2014 Eco-Products 2014 Osaka Prefecture Toppan Standards for Environmentally Friendly Products Toppan Standards for Environmentally Friendly Products Life Cycle Stage Large Categories Small Categories Reduced use of hazardous substances Reduced use of hazardous substances and volatile solvents (excluding banned substances) Use of waste paper Use of recycled materials Use of recycled plastics Use of materials with lower Raw material Reduced consumption of energy and water environmental burden procurement Resource-saving efforts Reduced use of materials in production Use of lumber from forest-thinning operations, use of forest-certified paper, use of tree-free paper Use of sustainable resources Alternatives to petroleum-based materials and mineral resources Effective use of biomass resources Reduced energy consumption in Reduced energy consumption through changes in product design and production processes production (excluding reduction through changes in equipment) Use of recyclable energy Use of green electricity Implementation of carbon offsets Same as left Production Reduced water consumption in Reduced water consumption through changes in product design and production processes production (excluding reduction through changes in equipment) Reduced generation of waste in Waste reduction (excluding reuse of waste inside plants) production Improvement in transport efficiency Product design for improved loading ratio Distribution Optimization of transportation Selection of more environmentally friendly transportation Reduced release of chemical Reduction of chemical substances potentially released from products substances during use Use Extension of product life Prolonged product life through improvement in durability and enhancement of functions Reduced environmental burden Reduced consumption of energy and water during use during use Improvement in reusability Reuse Easy separation and disassembly for reuse Improvement in recyclability Recycling Easy separation and disassembly for recycling Disposal & recycling Recyclability through existing recycling routes (excluding waste paper collection routes) Environmentally friendly disposal Reduced emissions of hazardous gases during disposal Use of recyclable materials that can be degraded and returned to nature (biodegradability, phoUse of biodegradable materials todegradability, etc.) Proof of environmental Visualization of environmental burden Carbon footprint of products (CFP), life-cycle assessment (LCA), water footprint (WFP) friendliness Labeling with environmental logos Examples: Eco Mark, Forest Thinning Mark, etc. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 47 Independent Assurance The CSR Report 2015 clearly presents material CSR issues closed on a global, consolidated basis in the CSR Report 2015: for the Toppan Group and its stakeholders by describing the Detailed Data. For data on social performance, the boundaries process used to identify and prioritize the issues expected to of reporting are limited to Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. alone. become more material for the Toppan Group and its stakeholdOnce the material issues are defined, Toppan will be required ers. The Toppan Group develops a wide range of CSR activities to determine where the Group’s impacts occur and identify in its various relationships with stakeholders. We believe that specific issues that need to be addressed in the Group’s CSR Toppan’s efforts to identify its material issues will help the initiatives. We recommend that the Toppan Group review the Group improve its CSR activities in the future and disclose boundaries of reporting during the process. information more focused on material issues. Toppan’s material issues include not only environmental issues, but also social issues such as human rights and human Tomonori Yoshida resource development. Environmental performance data is disKPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Indicators in this Report Assured by an Independent Assurance Provider Pages Indicators Assured by an Independent Assurance Provider 24 Number of retired employees; number of reemployed employees Number of female managerial and supervisory staff Human Rights 25 Number of employees with disabilities; percentage of employees with disabilities Number of Recruits Number of employees who registered to join the rehiring system for employees who resign from the Company to 26 deliver and bring up children; number of employees who have been reemployed Number of Employees Reasons for Leaving 27 Average Annual Salary Annual Paid Leave Used Labor Practices Employees Taking Maternity or Childcare Leave Number of employees who participated in the Toppan Business School and Challenge School Number of employees who participated in basic, Company-wide education (via e-learning programs) 28 Number of employees who were deployed overseas under the trainee system to acquire practical training in overseas business Number of employees who participated in selective training on global business 29 Occupational Health and Safety Number of Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders; ratio of female Leaders Number of employees who participated in training sessions for Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders 30 Number of employees who participated in training sessions on compliance with the Subcontract Law of Japan Fair Operating Practices Number of employees who participated in training in group sessions or via the e-learning system on export controls under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act of Japan 32 Number of business partners surveyed to verify the legality of lumber used for paper production Number of employees who participated in training sessions for internal auditors Consumer Issues 34 Results of audits conducted based on the Quality Assurance Guidelines for Food Packaging using the quality audit checklist Environmental target values and results for fiscal 2014 41 Scope 1-3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Major Types of Environmental Burden by Business Field in Japan (INPUT/OUTPUT data) 43 CO2 Emissions Number of production sites that recorded odor or water-contaminant levels exceeding applicable regulatory 44 standards Number of complaints and inquiries from communities around Toppan sites The Environment Total Waste Discharge and Final Landfill Waste Disposal Recycling Rate and Material Recycling Rate 45 VOC and Toluene Emissions into the Atmosphere Chemical Substances Designated under the PRTR Law Purification of Soil and Groundwater Pollution Number of approved and registered environmentally friendly products 46 Total sales of environment-related businesses Some data in the CSR Report 2015: Detailed Data posted on the Toppan website are also assured by the assurance provider. Toppan is authorized to attach the mark on the left as a testament to the reliability of the sustainability information presented in the report. Any report bearing this mark meets the Sustainability Reporting Assurance and Registration Criteria established by The Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information. 48 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 Independent Assurance Report TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2015 49 http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/ © TOPPAN 2015.11 K I Printed in Japan
