2014 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress The United Nations Global Compact The Global Compact is a purely (UNGC) was launched in 2000 to voluntary initiative with two harness the power of collective action objectives: in the promotion of responsible corporate citizenship. The Compact is a framework for businesses that To mainstream the ten are committed to aligning their principles in business activities around the world; operations and strategies with the ten universally accepted principles in To catalyse action in support the areas of human rights, labour, the of broader UN objectives, environment and anti-corruption. such as the Millennium Development Goals. As the world’s largest global corporate citizenship initiative, the Global Compact is concerned with The UNGC is not a regulatory demonstrating and building the social instrument, but rather a voluntary legitimacy of business and markets. initiative that relies on public Marshalls plc became a signatory accountability, transparency and of the UNGC in January 2009 and a disclosure to complement regulation member of the UK Network later the and to provide a space for innovation same year. and collective action. This is Marshalls’ sixth Communication on Progress and outlines how the company is aligned with the ten principles and how, throughout 2015, we intend to develop our activities in support of the framework laid out by the UNGC. UNGC Ten Principles Contents Human Rights Environment 6 Statement of Support for the UNGC by 37 A Design for Sustainable Martyn Coffey, Marshalls CEO Development Goals Principle 1: Principle 7: 7 Statement by UNGC UK Chairman, 38 Human Rights Businesses should support Businesses should support a Chris Harrop and respect the protection precautionary approach to 46 Labour of internationally proclaimed environmental challenges; 8 Foreword and Focus for 2015 by human rights; 52 Environment Chris Harrop, Group Marketing Principle 8: Director, Responsible for Sustainability 58 Anti-Corruption Principle 2: Undertake initiatives to Make sure that they are not promote greater environmental 12 Global Megatrends 62 Business in the Community complicit in human rights responsibility; and abuses. 13 Business, the Post 2015 Agenda and 64 Equality & Diversity Principle 9: Sustainable Development Goals Encourage the development 65 The Marshalls Way to Employee and diffusion of environmentally 14 Scope of Operations Engagement friendly technologies. Labour 16 Achievement Indicators 66 Best Companies Survey 17 Third Party Assurances 68 Training and Development Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Anti-Corruption 17 Marshalls’ Brand Manifesto 69 Health and Safety effective recognition of the right 18 Marshalls the Superbrand 70 Third Party Recognition & Awards to collective bargaining; Principle 10: Businesses should work against 20 Product Innovation 72 GRI Principle 4: all forms of corruption, including The elimination of all forms of extortion and bribery. 26 Fairstone & UNICEF from local forced and compulsory labour; engagement to global advocacy and systemic change Principle 5: The effective abolition of child 30 Leadership Blueprint labour; 36 Millennium Development Goals how Principle 6: Marshalls has contributed The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 5 Statement of Support for the UNGC Statement by UNGC Chair Martyn Coffey, Marshalls CEO Chris Harrop As I review this year’s business in all quarters. We go to great 2015 is a key moment in UK signatories, have ensured that I begin Communication on lengths to improve, innovate, make time for business and the the third year of my tenure as Chair of Progress report, I am progress and report on activity, and we UN Global Compact to help the UNGC UK Network with an absolute deeply struck by how far leverage our resources and influence, shape the future priorities commitment and renewed optimism. I we have travelled on our sustainability ensuring that we act locally in the of the UN and what will maintain my view that corporates will journey over the last six years; by how appropriate manner. be the much anticipated Sustainable continue to lead the way regarding much we have experienced, benefited, Development Goals (SGDs). As the sustainability and will derive commercial grown and how fundamentally the ten Harnessing our brand values of leadership, Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) benefit as a result. principles are woven into the strands trust and sustainability, I have witnessed expire in 2015 the UN, in consultation of Marshalls’ DNA which orient and the entire business work with great with a broad range of stakeholder groups Thanks to a dynamic UK secretariat, the determine our business decisions. integrity to uphold the UNGC pillars including business, is in the final stages commitment of trustees and the energy of human rights, labour, environment of determining its future development of the active network members, 2015 will I recently read that according to UNGC, and anti-corruption, and in doing so framework and defining the post-2015 see us: there are five things that sustainable to drive commercial advantage for our development agenda. The Global Martyn Coffey, Marshalls CEO companies absolutely must do*. Firstly, business. Our business lives and breathes Chris Harrop, Marshalls’ Group Compact continues to convey the voice • Focus upon increasing the number Driving Business Growth and unequivocally, they must operate sustainability. Marketing Director, (Responsible for of responsible business through these key of organisations engaging with the Through Sustainability responsibly in alignment with the Sustainability), UNGC UK Network This yearly UNGC Communication on Chair, ETI Non-Executive Director intergovernmental processes. The results UNGC framework and the UK network; universal principles and take actions of the post-2015 process will be launched that support and strengthen society. Progress now sits alongside our Annual at a UN summit in September 2015. • Seek to forge links with other UN Then, working to embed sustainability Report as the main vehicle for sharing entities and initiatives which have the deep within, the business must commit our sustainability progress. I hope that as It is clear to me as I speak to UNGC potential to support corporates in the at the highest level, report annually you read on, you too will see for yourself “Businesses across the planet are not signatories here in the UK, that leading effective delivery of UNGC principles; on progress, and take action to engage the actions which so clearly show that shying away from global risks such companies increasingly recognise and locally where they have presence. sustainability is at the heart of all that we do. as climate change, and increasingly embrace the interdependence between • Focus network educational activities recognise the positive benefits of societal and company performance. There on the key issues of human rights, I am proud to say without hesitation that seizing the related opportunities. The is clear evidence that they are responding women’s empowerment, children’s Marshalls continues to demonstrate that report confirms that there has been a by integrating risk and opportunities rights & business principles, water, it is a principled business. We work from turning point, where private sectors related to sustainable development climate change & biodiversity, micro to macro to strengthen society and are now a critical driver of sustainable into their business strategies and business and peace. build capacity. High level commitment development with emerging operations, as well as through crossis more than matched throughout the * Source: https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ economies in the front seat,” AboutTheGC/guide_to_corporate_sustainsector collaboration and partnerships. It is also widely agreed that scalable and I look forward to 2015 and to serving ability.html Georg Kell, Executive Director of UN transformational partnerships aligned the UNGC UK Network to the best of my Global Compact * with the SDGs will be essential for ability. And also to walking-the-talk by delivering on global priority issues such as demonstrating through Marshalls plc, climate change & energy, education, food how organisations can contribute to & agriculture, governance & human rights, the sustainable development agenda health, infrastructure & technology, peace while realising the very real competitive & stability, poverty, water & sanitation, advantages that this brings. and women’s empowerment. The focus provided by the anticipated Sustainable Development Goals, together with the committed and innovative response to challenges from * The Global Opportunity Report and Survey http://www.globalopportunitynetwork.com/ 6 7 Foreword TAINABLE Regular readers of our COPs will be Marshalls remains focused on being a S SUS ILABLE SPECIFICBUSIN FTSE4GOOD MEMBERSHIP GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE familiar with our sustainability model successful and profitable business whilst LL LIC AVA BS EN ISO 14001 ATION 9 ESS which incorporates our membership minimising our impact on the environment, HA PUB 9 of the UNGC and FTSE4GOOD, and our looking after our people and communities, Chris Harrop, Marshalls Group Marketing Director, MA RS ATIONS GLOBAL C T UN CORPO F ITED OR N OM RATE SUSTAINA PACT BILI TY LE OD EL continued commitment to Integrated Management Systems. It also continues striving to be innovative and to respond to market challenges and opportunities and to IN AD M Responsible for Sustainability. PR IP BLUE Environmental Water use ER SH to reflect our active engagement in, and taking the lead in our sector. CO2 and CO2e response to, the Blueprint for Corporate Biodiversity Waste to Sustainability Leadership framework Our purpose as a business is to ‘Create Better Legal landfill laid out by the UNCG. Spaces’ for all of our customers. We do this Social Economic ‘The Marshalls Way’ by ensuring that we live Total shareholder 1 Ethical sourcing Community Safety return BS E The three pillars of sustainability; our shared values of leadership, excellence, 800 responsibility Customer N S1 service index economic, environmental and social, trust and sustainability. These are the values SA ISO E OH continue to provide the focus for our that our business is built on. T IV 90 SE FT IA IT 01 4G IN OO DM EMB EP OR TI N G activity. Underpinned by the UNGC A very warm welcome to all Our CEO, Martyn Coffey, champions E RS HIP GLO BAL R principles regarding the environment, readers of this, Marshalls’ sixth Marshalls’ strategic approach to labour, human rights and anti-corruption. UNGC Communication on sustainability and made plain in his Progress (COP). I’ll share with Statement of Support that, you here highlights of the ‘... sustainability is at the heart of all that challenging and exciting work that we’ve we do.’ The UNGC framework sits firmly undertaken during 2014. as a fundamental part of Marshalls’ longTHE VALUES OUR BUSINESS IS BUILT ON term business strategy. As we move forward into an era that will LEADERSHIP is not just about being a manager. TRUST means that we are open, honest, fair and It means that we should all set the standards that consistent. We must always follow through on our doubtless be shaped by the Sustainable A consistent process of communication others aspire to, no matter what our role is within promises, respect others’ talents and treat each Development Goals and by business and engagement has ensured that the business. We should all take responsibility for other fairly whilst always acting with integrity. innovation, resilience and bravery, I want Marshalls’ employees are all aware our actions and try to set a good example every single day. SUSTAINABILITY means that we are committed to tell you about the insights that we’ve of the business’ commitment to to doing the right thing for the long-term good of gained, how we have been stretched sustainability and what this means to EXCELLENCE means that we must always strive our business, for society and for the environment. Chris Harrop, Marshalls’ Group to be the best we can be. We must be ambitious This means that we must always do the right thing through a ground breaking collaboration, them in terms of what they do here at Marketing Director, Responsible for and demand high performance from ourselves and consider the impact on our business and of our how we’ve matured on our sustainability work and also beyond into the local and as well as others. We must also be innovative decisions and actions. Sustainability, UNGC UK Network Advisory Committee, ETI Nonjourney and how we plan to apply all of global community. New employees and constantly seek to improve our performance. this for even greater success throughout are introduced to our sustainable It’s essential that we always make good our Executive Director commitments and have pride and passion in 2015 and beyond. approach through a specially developed everything that we do. induction process. We also look forward Marshalls became a UNGC signatory in to launching, later in 2015, Marshalls’ 2009 and during that time, under my Certificate in Sustainability which is guidance as UNGC UK Network Chair, aligned with the UNGC principles. the UNGC UK Network continues to Employees throughout the business continue to be actively involved: deliver high level networking, discussion, As the Leadership Blueprint continues to dialogue and peer support, excellent be rolled out across all operations and educational opportunities, specialised divisions, it is important that everyone has work streams and working groups and an understanding of how our sustainable frank and honest lines of communication approach helps us to maintain our directly the UNGC office in New York. The leadership position within our industry. Andy Ackroyd Richard Capper Gemma Chappell, Jon Isherwood Claire Edwards David Morrell Matthew Gibb Nick Carr Commercial Energy Head of Domestic Group Procurement Head of PR Group Head of Group Environment Group Health & UK Network remains a key resource for I never tire of seeing employees engage Controller Management Marketing Director Sustainability & Water Manager Safety Advisor Engineer Marshalls as we carefully engineer our with enthusiasm and talk with knowledge business to face the ongoing challenges about our approach to sustainability. This and to take advantage of the emerging for me is sustainability in action day-inopportunities. day-out. Chris Frankland Andrew Stalker Kevin Hull Steve Reddington, David Sarti Pete Stevens Steve Swanwick Helen Taverner International Head of Human Resources Head of Commercial Chief Operating Group Carbon & Group Systems Group Systems Product Manager Commercial Director Marketing Officer Energy Manager Manager Auditor Marketing These employees work alongside those with Business Principles implementation, working Marshalls has again retained its Superbrand status special responsibilities including Group Head towards becoming signatories of the Women’s for the fifth year running. This is a testament to of Sustainability, David Morrell, and Group Empowerment Principles as well as quarterly the hard work of everyone within the business Procurement Director, Jon Isherwood. human rights briefings. In addition, we continue and a feat which we are particularly proud of. to work closely with Indira Saxena regarding Marshalls’ progress is monitored thoroughly In this, our sixth Communication on Progress, we social issues in India and Sterling Smith of Just and on an ongoing basis against both internal share with you the efforts that we have made to Solutions Ltd. and external measures. As a matter of course, uphold the UNGC principles during 2014 and our Marshalls seeks verification from third party The business is working towards full Global enduring commitment to these principles as we organisations which include non-governmental Reporting Initiative (GRI) measuring. GRI is the move forward throughout 2015. organisations and independent auditors preferred reporting methodology for UNGC including The Carbon Trust, BSI, Wild Life Trust, participants and will allow Marshalls to chart ETI and BITC. its progress and benchmark against other international organistations. It will also provide Our Human Rights Programme has developed even greater transparency regarding our steadily since 2010 and now includes human activities. rights impact assessments, Children’s Rights & 8 9 Focus for 2015 Focus for 2015 Marshalls’ Partnership with UNICEF Marshalls’ Partnership with UNICEF One year on, our partnership with UNICEF goes from strength-to-strength. The and local and national governments. It is a journey which has seen the stone Women’s Empowerment Principles business case for improving children’s sector in denial, where to begin with we Towards the second half of 2014, change discriminatory legislation and rights is simple for us. Marshalls is experienced ferocious push-back from Marshalls began the process of mapping foster global awareness of women’s issues. fundamentally committed to leveraging quarry owners in India, and one where its operations against the Women’s In contributing to the drafting of the sustainability to drive competitive we have had to address complex issues Empowerment Principles (WEPS) Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the advantage. As such, we made a public including the access to education, the framework, a collaboration between UNGC CSW successfully argued against references commitment as a United Nations Global fundamental questions surrounding a and UN Women. It is our aim to complete to “men” as a synonym for humanity, Compact signatory in 2009 to uphold living wage for workers, and the close link this work during 2015 with a view to and succeeded in introducing new, more the human rights of all, including children, between children’s rights and women’s becoming a WEPS signatory. inclusive language. This event will focus many of whom represent some of empowerment. The process has been upon the 20 year anniversary of the Beijing society’s most vulnerable members. underpinned by an absolute commitment 2015 is an extremely important year in Declaration and Platform for Action. It is to sustainable business practice. terms of the Sustainable Development fitting that in 2015, Marshalls undertakes What began over ten years ago as a Goals which are widely anticipated to its own work regarding the empowerment David Bull, Executive Director journey to ensure the absence of child With the research phase almost complete include specific goals regarding the of women. of UNICEF UK labour in our own supply chain, and to and initial interventions on the ground empowerment of women. March 8th is eradicate child labour in the wider India delivering results, year two will see us International Women’s Day and marks stone sector, has led to a deepening working deeply with UNICEF to engage “I am pleased that we are partnering the beginning of the 59th Convention understanding of the wider issue of other stakeholders for the benefit of with Marshalls to tackle the shameful on the Status of Women (CSW) in New children’s rights and more knowledgeable children, their families and communities. York. Since its inception in 1947, the practice of child labour in the and extensive engagement through The details of this groundbreaking Commission has set the standards and quarrying sector in India. This new which we are now seeking to drive long partnership are documented later in this formulated international conventions to partnership will enable us to work term systemic change for children. report. together for change, so that children in Rajasthan can be helped to leave It’s an ongoing journey which has RIGHT behind a life of hard and hazardous required dogged persistence, a fair THE TRUTH ABOUT HUM AN S ON amount of punching above our weight Child Labour in the IN A CTI work and focus on their educational S Indian Sandstone H UM HT A N RI G and very direct communications with a Industry prospects.” wide range of stakeholders including our Module 5: UNGC Principles: Environment David Bull, Executive Director employees, suppliers, NGOs, quarrying Marshalls Certificate Water; Carbon; Bio-Diversity. of UNICEF UK This is to certify that ................................................................................................ communities, quarry owners, customers, in Sustainability has achieved Module 5 of Marshalls Certificate in Sustainability .................... (date) Signed ........................................................................................................................ Module 7: Chris Harrop, Marshalls Director of Marketing, Responsible Global Responsible for Sustainability & UNGC UK Network Chair Supply Chains BRS 6001 Sustainability is now fundamental This is to certify that ................................................................................................ Certified by Marshalls Certificate UNGC Network UK to Marshalls and affects all parts of has achieved Module 7 of Marshalls Certificate in Sustainability .................... (date) in Sustainability the business. To help ensure that all Children’s Rights & Business Principles (CRBP) Signed ........................................................................................................................ Chris Harrop, Marshalls Director of Marketing, Responsible for Sustainability & UNGC UK Network Chair employees are knowledgeable and Certified by This is to certify that ....................................................................................................................................................... engaged, we are aiming to launch the Module 1: UNGC Network UK During 2015 we will conduct our second has achieved Marshalls Certificate in Sustainability............................................................. (date) ‘Marshalls Certificate in Sustainability’, UNGC & Sustainability Children’s Rights & Business Principles Signed ................................................................................................................................. developed in consultation with Global This is to certify that ................................................................................................ report against the CRBP framework. Chris Harrop, Marshalls Director of Marketing, Responsible for Sustainability & UNGC UK Network Chair Compact UK. This online training has achieved Module 1 of Marshalls Certificate in Sustainability .................... (date) Marshalls undertook its first CRBP programme harnesses core values Signed ........................................................................................................................ audit in 2013 and was one of the first Certified by of leadership, excellence, trust and Chris Harrop, Marshalls Director of Marketing, Responsible for Sustainability & UNGC UK Network Chair UNGC Network UK organisations globally to go through sustainability to address the UNGC Certified by UNGC Network UK this process. The work that we have principles human rights, labour rights, done as a result of the first audit has environment & anti-corruption and also deepened our understanding of how focuses upon responsible global supply we can work in support of children’s chains. rights. Key areas of action during 2015 Marshalls Response to... include, employee training on children’s Do enjoy reading on and finding out AN RIGHT Children’s Rights rights, policy development and processes HUM ION S and Business more about how sustainability is ACT specifically regarding teenagers to IN Principles helping to build competitive advantage S H HT UM G A N RI age 18, and developing a process of for our business. ongoing consultation with children as Chris Harrop, Children’s rights & Business Group Marketing Director, Responsible stakeholders. PrinCiPles Audit 2012 for Sustainibility, Marshalls plc 10 11 Global Megatrends Business, the UN Post 2015 Development Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals Our ‘Mega Trend’ champions continue to track global megatrends which offer (You can access this information at http:// www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability/ UN Post-2015 Development Agenda scalable opportunities for our business. publications/pdfs/32821%20COP_FINALConsultations & The UN is in a process of determining its The Global Compact is conveying the In the 2012 COP we looked in detail at Mega Trends; what they are, why they are 4.9.pdf) We also identified in last year’s COP, trends including the development of mega future development framework as the voice of responsible business through Business Priority Areas important and why Marshalls tracks them. cities, mega regions and mega corridors, targets of the Millennium Development key intergovernmental processes. This Goals expire in 2015. Defining a postincludes milestones such as the Third Following the Rio+20 Corporate smart cities and innovating to zero all of 2015 development agenda is Member Financing for Development Conference Sustainability Forum in June 2012, which offer opportunities for exploration State-led with broad participation from in July 2015. The results of the post-2015 the UN Global Compact began and development. different stakeholder groups, including process will be launched at a UN summit gathering input and perspectives businesses and investors. This is an in September 2015. from the private sector for the opportune moment for business and the UN Secretary-General to inform UN Global Compact to help shape the the discussions at the UN General future priorities of the UN and to prepare Assembly plenary in September 2013. for supporting the implementation of the The findings of the consultations In business, foresight involves crafting results of the post-2015 process, which fed into other post-2015 processes, evidence-based narratives about the is anticipated to include Sustainable such as the High-Level Panel on the Development Goals (SDGs). Post-2015 Development Agenda future in order to help us make wiser and were brought to entities such as choices. We know that Megatrends the inter-agency UN Development are connected and intertwined, Group to contribute directly to like an ‘eco-system’, and that it is recommendations made to Member important for us to monitor and States. track these in order to: identify new The Post-2015 Business Engagement Architecture Thousands of UN Global Compact Balance Shift market places, maximise growth business participants and Local opportunities, exploit opportunities, The Post-2015 Business Engagement To support this alignment, the Global Networks were surveyed on what identify new business models, sustain Architecture illustrates the main building Compact, the Global Reporting global development priorities rth blocks necessary to enhance corporate Initiative (GRI), and the World Business they consider central to a future Va a continuous flow of innovative new Ea sustainability as an effective contribution Council for Sustainable Development lue ideas, build contingency plans, be development agenda. Below is a sS gile to sustainable development, creating (WBCSD) have joined forces to develop visualisation of recommendations aware of new competition from nonhif Fra value for both business and society. methodologies for companies. The toolkit by business on issue prioritisation, t FORCES traditional sources and identify future customers. Each of these building blocks must be further strengthened and connected will offer approaches to aligning business strategies with the SDGs, assessing organised into four overarching areas: Inclusive Growth; Human Needs and FOR through a comprehensive and collective effort if they are to help take corporate impact, setting forward-looking goals and communicating results in a credible Capacities; The Resource Triad; and Enabling Environment. ss CHANGE sustainability to scale and turn business into a truly transformative force in the manner. The toolkit is being developed in parallel to intergovernmental discussions ne Post-2015 era. with a view to develop guidance Pro ed consistent with the future SDGs and ect tec In 2015, to enhance the activity of tio associated targets. nn n sustainable business toward this agenda, Co the Global Compact will further articulate the building blocks of the Architecture, placing a special emphasis on issue Transparency platforms, Local Networks and aligning business strategies with the SDGs. Source: http://digital.edition-on.net/links/6012_forces_for_change.asp?page=2 Source: UNGC https://www.unglobalcompact. org/issues/partnerships/post_2015_ development_agenda.html 12 13 Scope of Operations Scope of Operations UK NORTHERN FRANCE BELGIUM TURKEY CHINA INDIA VIETNAM NORTH AMERICA 14 15 Achievement Indicators Third Party Assurances Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice 79% Reviewing Feedback Delivering Best Legal Compliance & Developing Our Approach Practice Once this report is submitted to the UNGC and published online, it will be volunteered for peerreview by a randomly selected group of corporate members and observers of the UK Network of the // Collaborating & Sharing Best Practice Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework of concepts, consistent // Delivering Best Practice language, and metrics is required. It UNGC. Any suggested changes is the GRI’s mission to fulfil this need will be made and the report will // Achieving Good Results The GRI is a by providing a trusted and credible be re-submitted, if required, to the // Reviewing Feedback & Developing framework for framework for sustainability reporting UNGC following the peer review // Piloting New Initiatives reporting on an that can be used by organisations of any process. // Legal Compliance organisation’s economic, environmental and social size, sector or location’. (2) As indicated in the 2010 COP, performance. Key executives, managers and individuals Marshalls has sought to extend Throughout this and all other Marshalls stakeholder engagement in the The goal of sustainable development is have undergone GRI accredited Communications on Progress you will find a COP process by inviting feedback to ‘meet the needs of the present without training and have formed a working self assessment indicator which represents of its COP by inviting employees, compromising the ability of future party responsible for the delivery of what Marshalls believes it is achieving in customers, suppliers, partners, generations to meet their own needs.’ (1) GRI monitoring and reporting moving relation to each of the principles. Marshalls NGOs, third parties and peers to forward. Marshalls’ 2015 COP will contain will strive to improve its achievements yearassess the company’s progress. As key forces in society, organisations of futher GRI disclosure regarding economic, on-year. all kinds have an important role to play in environmental, social – labour practices and decent work – human rights, society Marshalls looks forward to Marshalls initially developed its own achieving this goal. and product responsibility. receiving comments from its wide indicators for its COP reporting rather than range of stakeholders. Details use an existing one, such as the Ethos ‘The urgency and magnitude of the risks (1) World Commission on Environment and of where to give feedback via a Indicators and Global Reporting Initiative and threats to our collective sustainability, Development. Our Common Future. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1987, p.43 dedicated survey can be found at (GRI) methodology. Whilst it is Marshalls’ alongside increasing choice and (2) GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, 2011, p.2 the end of this report. intention to introduce GRI methodology in opportunities, will make transparency subsequent COP reports, it has left its own about economic, environmental and indicators in place for this 2014 report. social impacts a fundamental component in effective stakeholder relations, Each indicator is broken down in investment decision, and other market percentage terms, which allows any relations. To support this expectation, progress made to be identified by all and to communicate clearly and openly readers of this report with ease. It is about sustainability, a globally shared also intended to make any year-on-year comparisons clear, uncomplicated and informative. Marshalls constantly monitors best practice in its sector, as well as in the field of corporate responsibility and sustainability reporting. Any informative developments and advancements in this area will be introduced into subsequent COP reports. 16 17 Marshalls sUPErBraNDs aNNUal 2015 The Superbrand Bra 1890 marshalls.co.uk 1947 1964 1972 Market In 2014, Marshalls extended its water Marshalls is proud to have retained its For clarity it is worth stating that brands Founded in the 1890s, In the public sector and commercial end management range with a number of Superbrand status. Published annually cannot apply or pay to be considered marshalls is the UK’s market Marshalls focuses on developing innovative new drainage products. These 1988 leading manufacturer of products which help architects, local included Mono Beany, a market first since 1995, the Superbrands Annual for Superbrand status. Only following authorities and contractors to create Better concrete combined kerb and drainage 2004 hard landscaping materials. Spaces, whether it’s street furniture, natural product, and Conservation Priora, large documents some of the strongest a rigorous and independent selection marshalls prides itself on stone paving for the internal or external plan sized permeable paving. consumer and business-to-business process is the accolade awarded on an being a sustainable business, environment, concrete block paving, For homeowners, Marshalls offers the 2009 water management or anti-terrorist brands in Britain today. The book annual basis. demonstrating a high degree products. inspiration and product ranges to create DID gardens and driveways that integrate establishes how Superbrands manage to of social and environmental Marshalls’ domestic customers OW ? effortlessly with people’s lifestyles. 2011 YOU KN achieve outstanding success. The 2015 Superbrand book provides responsibility whilst range from DIY enthusiasts 20 14 wa s 2012 50 th The Marshalls Register of Accredited insights into Marshalls’ branding strategy maintaining and developing to professional landscapers, Marshalls’ as Landscapers and Driveway Installers, driveway installers and garden anniversary its market position. marshalls a PLC. with more than 1,800 teams of 2013 and business success. Further information believes that the better our designers. Sales continue to professionals across the UK, ensures be driven through the Marshalls can be found at www.superbrand.uk.com environment, the better Register of Accredited Landscapers high standards of training and installation, 2014 giving homeowners the peace of mind and Driveway Installers. we can be, and strives to they need. create products that improve Through recent expansion the business now Achievements has a presence in Northern Europe, Asia and landscapes and create happier North America. Marshalls remains at the forefront of sustainable business. It was the first and healthier communities. Product company in the hard landscaping industry MAR HAS Marshalls is committed to producing new to belong to the Ethical Trading Initiative RE products that better any existing market (ETI). Marshalls is committed to the B offering, to make them from the best implementation of the ETI Base Code, materials it can source and to care about the pioneering the ethical sourcing of natural N impact on society and the environment. stone paving from India and China. superbrands.uk.com This case study is reprinted from the Superbrands Annual 2015. sUPErBraNDs aNNUal 2015 Definition marshalls A Superbrand is a brand that has established the finest reputation in its field. It offers customers emotional and/or tangible advantages over its competitors, which customers want and recognise. It must represent: Building on its work with the ETI, in carbon emissions by over three per cent per • Quality Brand History 2013 Marshalls announced a three-year year until 2020. • Reliability partnership with UNICEF aimed at tackling 1890 Solomon Marshall starts to quarry in Marshalls remains the only organisation marshalls.co.uk Southowram, Halifax and, in 1904, child labour in India’s quarrying sector • Distinction establishes S. Marshall & Sons Ltd in and furthering children’s rights in China in the world to have carbon labelled its West Yorkshire. entire domestic range. It continues to be a and Vietnam. As part of this partnership 1947 A second production site is opened, constituent member of the FTSE4Good UK Selection Process manufacturing lintels, steps and fence Marshalls donates £1 per square metre sold Index and an active member of Business in posts. In 1948 an engineering division is of its ethically sourced natural stone paving Brands do not apply or pay to be considered for established. the Community (BITC). to the charity. Superbrands status. Rather, the accolade1964 is awarded Marshalls becomes a PLC with shares quoted on the London Stock Exchange. Recent Developments to the country’s strongest brands following a rigorous Following its acceptance in 2009, Marshalls 1972 In 2014, Marshalls is proud to have been and independent selection process that consults New product development sees the remains a signatory of the United Nations introduction of block paving and the accredited by the Living Wage Foundation Market In 2014, Marshalls extended its water marketing experts, business professionals and famous ‘Beany Block’, which combines Global Compact (UNGC) and its Group Founded in the 1890s, In the public sector and commercial end management range with a number of drain and kerb. Marketing Director is Chair of the UNGC UK as a Living Wage employer. Marshalls thousands of British consumers. also received a ‘Very Good’ in the BRE marshalls is the UK’s market Marshalls focuses on developing innovative new drainage products. These 1988 Brick manufacturer George Armitage & network. standard BES 6001 Sustainable Sourcing of Sons is acquired, becoming Marshalls leading manufacturer of products which help architects, local included Mono Beany, a market first Full details are available at Clay Products. In addition, The Carbon Trust has Construction Product Certification for each the issue of child labour in Indian Sandstone authorities and contractors to create Better concrete combined kerb and drainage Superbrands.uk.com. 2004 hard landscaping materials. Spaces, whether it’s street furniture, natural product, and Conservation Priora, large Marshalls acquires Woodhouse, expanding its product offering to include reaccredited Marshalls three times. Since and every one of its concrete product and quarries to consumers, installers and builder’s 2009, the company has reduced its relative stone manufacturing facilities in the UK. merchants. marshalls prides itself on stone paving for the internal or external plan sized permeable paving. design-led street furniture, lighting and signage. carbon footprint by more than 24 per cent Marshalls was the first business in its sector being a sustainable business, environment, concrete block paving, 2009 The commercial business focused on the For homeowners, Marshalls offers the More than 2,000 of Marshalls’ and has made a commitment to reduce its to receive this certificate under BRE’s new water management or anti-terrorist commercial products now have a Carbon promotion of key growth areas of the demonstrating a high degree products. inspiration and product ranges to create Trust Carbon Reduction Label. and more stringent standard. business, such as water management, DID gardens and driveways that integrate of social and environmental ? 2011 Marshalls announces a European venture, Promotion internal stone paving, rail products and street Marshalls’ domestic customers YOU KNOW effortlessly with people’s lifestyles. Marshalls NV. Brand communications for both the furniture. responsibility whilst range from DIY enthusiasts 2014 was 2012 Marshalls is an official supplier to the 50th The Marshalls Register of Accredited London 2012 Olympic Park. An office domestic and commercial markets focus maintaining and developing to professional landscapers, Marsh alls’ as Landscapers and Driveway Installers, opens in Xiamen, China. on the company’s mission to create better Marshalls has also continued to invest in its driveway installers and garden anniversary online presence with a focus on social media its market position. marshalls designers. Sales continue to a PLC. with more than 1,800 teams of 2013 Marshalls opens an office in North spaces for all. activity through Twitter, Facebook, YouTube America and announces a three-year believes that the better our professionals across the UK, ensures partnership with UNICEF. be driven through the Marshalls In 2014, the domestic business ran an and Pinterest. In 2014, Marshalls was listed in high standards of training and installation, 2014 environment, the better Register of Accredited Landscapers giving homeowners the peace of mind Marshalls is accredited by the Living Wage Foundation and receives a Very advertising campaign to promote Marshalls the world’s top 200 Tweeters on sustainability and Driveway Installers. partnership with UNICEF and to highlight and the built environment. we can be, and strives to they need. Good rating in BES 6001 Sustainable Sourcing of Construction Product createAn insight products thatinto some of improve Britain’s strongest brands Achievements Through recent expansion the business now © 2014 Superbrands (UK) Ltd Tel: 020 7079 3310 Certification. Brand Values has a presence in Northern Europe, Asia and 22–23 Little Portland Street Superbrands.uk.com landscapes and create happier North America. Marshalls remains at the forefront of London W1W 8BU @SuperbrandsUK Marshalls believes that we all need places that make us feel safer, happier and more sustainable business. It was the first and healthier communities. Product company in the hard landscaping industry MARSHALLS’ POLLUTION FIGHTING NOXER PAVING HAS HELPED A BUSY STREET IN CUMBRIA TO sociable; places to be ourselves where we can live, play, create and grow. Its shared brand values are based on leadership, excellence, trust and sustainability. Marshalls is committed to producing new to belong to the Ethical Trading Initiative REDUCE AIR POLLUTION CAUSED products that better any existing market (ETI). Marshalls is committed to the BY TRAFFIC BY Marshalls aims to be the supplier of choice for every landscape architect, contractor offering, to make them from the best materials it can source and to care about the implementation of the ETI Base Code, pioneering the ethical sourcing of natural NEARLY 20% and consumer, and for the brand to remain synonymous with quality, innovation and superior customer service. impact on society and the environment. stone paving from India and China. superbrands.uk.com 18 19 Product Innovation: Product Innovation: Mono Beany Mono Beany The growing demand for more cost effective and less complicated drainage Discover Mono Beany, the systems has led to modern linear drainage simple way to control water becoming the preferred choice amongst specifiers and contractors like. Combined kerb and drainage completes By combining a kerb and a drain, it Mono Beany is a one piece low to medium, two roles in one, intercepting and effortlessly fuses strong construction, combined kerb and drainage system. transporting water in addition to restraining rapid installation and efficient water Marshalls’ high strength M-Tech concrete the edges of roads and footways. management in one…. is cast around a plastic core. Mono Beany combines strength and aesthetics with With the introduction of Mono Beany to Engineer excellent hydraulic flow characteristics. sit alongside Mini Beany and Beany Block, It’s tough inside and out, able to cope with Marshalls now able to offer a complete is strong flows of water and withstand 40 Construction saving, simple to design, range of combined kerb and water drainage tonnes. easy to set out and straight forward to systems. Marshalls’ unique Beany product install. offer combines the clear-cut advantages Contractor Versatile range offered in a variety of of combined kerb and drainage systems, The simple design helps you install in invert depths in both 45⁰ Splayed and with the benefits of a high quality, robust record time, finishing on deadline and Half Battered profiles. concrete product. budget. Accredited and Certified with the BSI Architect Kitemark, British Standard BS EN:1433 It swiftly clears surface water, while and CE approved. maintaining a smooth flow. M O N O B E A N Y . T H E A L LI N O N E K E R B A N D D R A I N A G E S Y S T E M . T H E WAT E R M A N A G E M E N T E X P E R T S COMPLE T E CO NTRO L FLE XIBLE TO FIT YOUR PROJEC T At Marshalls we’re focused on making water management more With Mono Beany, we have created the ultimate system for low to Every job is different, that’s why we have made the range as flexible effective and accessible. Building on the success of Beany and Mini medium capacity water management. Delivering expert control at as possible. Select the sizes you need to reduce cutting and waste Beany, our best selling linear drainage products, we are launching this level thanks to a combination of key features. on site. Choose from half-battered or 45˚ splayed profiles, for spaces our latest innovation in combined kerb and drainage. with slow or fast moving traffic. And add accessories to incorporate • The inlet apertures are specially designed and angled at 45˚ to prevent blockages and maximise drainage efficiency. pedestrian crossings or roundabouts. Mono Beany is our first one-piece concrete • Made with ultra-tough M-Tech, the latest kerb and drainage system. Delivering all in concrete technology, it can handle • The new Polyethylene core creates less resistance Profile Name Length (mm) Width (mm) Height (mm) Weight (kg) Natural your water management needs in one, strong flows of water and carry up to than concrete, for a faster flow. Half Battered 1000 150 321 69 DR6630300 it’s the simple way to control water. 40 tonnes (Class D400). 500 150 321 34.5 DR6630350 Together these features ensure surface 1000 150 502 91 DR6630400 Easy to specify, quick to install and built • Its intelligent features deliver rapid water is cleared rapidly and internal 500 150 502 45.5 DR6630450 45o Splayed 1000 150 321 64 DR6631200 to last. Mono Beany can bring a range of surface water clearance and efficient flow is smooth and efficient. 500 150 321 32 DR6631250 benefits to your next project. drainage flow. 1000 150 502 86 DR6631300 500 150 502 43 DR6631350 • The one-piece design is ready for rapid Half Battered Centre Stone 321 1000 150 321 40 DR6631100 installation, with the potential to lay Centre Stone 502 1000 150 502 50 DR6631150 Right Hand 321 1000 150 321 50 DR6630900 1m in a single motion, helping you finish Right Hand 502 1000 150 502 60 DR6630950 projects faster. Left Hand 321 1000 150 321 50 DR6631000 Left Hand 502 1000 150 502 60 DR6631050 GET IN TOUCH Outfalls and Access Units Weight (kg) Natural Inline Side outfall 80 DR6641800 With such a wide variety of sizes, Half Battered Access Cover 40 DR6640100 profiles and accessories it’s easy to 45o Splayed Access Cover 40 DR6640200 Rodding Box for 321 System 20 DR6641850 specify Mono Beany for any job. Rodding Box for 502 System 30 DR6641900 To learn more about how Mono Beany could fit your next project, visit www.marshalls.co.uk/ commercial/water-management or call 0870 241 4725. 20 21 Product Innovation: Product Innovation: Priora Paving Priora Block Interlock Research Marshalls understands permeable paving better than anyone In 2014 we’ve taken our “It’s great to see some real progress in understanding how block paving Work is still ongoing... but what have we learned so far? else. We have sold enough Priora to cover over 550 football knowledge to the next level: works, even though it’s been on the devising, developing and carrying “In field tests we found that, when Whether a project needs conventional or pitches. Every year, enough water flows through these out groundbreaking full-scale market for so long.” correctly installed, Marshalls Priora permeable pavers, specifying Marshalls systems to fill over 1,200 Olympic sized swimming pools. tests to discover even more about Professor John Knapton provided approximately 40% additional Priora will bring long-term benefits in Priora the best selling permeable rotational interlock. This is an relation to pavement longevity and We go further than any other provider to paving system in the UK. astounding finding.” Professor John maintenance requirements regardless help our customers understand permeable Knapton, October 2014. of hydraulic benefits. paving too: In 2012, Professor John Knapton This means that we now have evidence calculated that the nibs on a Priora block • In 2009 we worked with Abertay that enhanced interlock is an added maximise rotational interlock by up to University to understand how a feature of Marshalls Priora. 40% a discovery that gave Marshalls geotextile might improve the confidence to reduce Priora sub-base water quality. depths vs. the BS and ultimately save our • In 2012 we worked with Professor John customers money. Knapton to rationalise our sub-base Two years later, we set out to prove designs, saving our customers money. Professor Knapton’s desktop analysis, and answer some other questions, in a fullscale test. • Do different depths of Priora interlock better than others? • How much effect does the jointing “The project is the largest and most Work is still ongoing... but what have we • Both the shallowest and deepest Marshalls aggregate have? ambitious laboratory simulation of learned so far? Priora designs which include MT120 Filtration • How does Priora compare to Keyblok? its kind in the world, and will set the Textile produce the cleanest water of all the • Structural depth has not been shown to be standard for future water quantity designs tested. With Professor Knapton’s support, we a detectable contributor to water cleansing. and quality design” • Marshalls’ MT120 Filtration Textile performs have developed a method for measuring Therefore, Marshalls’ rationalised sub-base designs are as effective as the deeper (and more better at cleaning chemical impurities from rotational interlock. We have created Dr Stephen J Coupe expensive) BS designs at cleansing water. water than a leading competitor filtration layer. the necessary equipment and honed the technique to a point where we can provide actual comparisons between the Our own testing with Abertay University This involved constructing 13 rigs, weighing in performances of different blocks. ANGLE IS CURRENTLY AT 25 DEFREES, THIS WILL PROBABLY NOT BE THE CORRECT ANGLE :) concluded that up to 94% of heavy metals are at over a tonne each, and transporting them ALSO COLOURS ARE FOR AMENDING IF YOU HAVE A DIFFERNT PALETTE :) removed from effluent as it passes through to a lab in Coventry University’s technology a sub-base, and UK SuDS expert Bob Bray is park where they are subjected to a range of regularly quoted as saying that permeable simulated rainfall events. The combination of paving provides “a controlled flow of clean rigs allows us to compare different sub-base water”. depths and compositions, and also to monitor the long term effect of different layers within However, confusion still surrounds water the sub-base. Probes have been inserted to quality in permeable pavements. monitor microbial activity at different depths. • How does this cleaning process work? Dr Stephen J Coupe, BSc • Now that Marshalls’ Priora sub-bases are (Hons) PhD shallower than the BS, does it make them less Research Fellow in effective at removing pollutants? Environmental Science • Can anything be done to maximise the and Water Management cleansing potential of Marshalls’ sub-base designs? As water quality becomes increasingly Dr Luis Angel Sañudo Fontaneda, MEng, MSc, PhD important to meet planning requirements, we have embarked on an ambitious testing Researcher in Civil programme with Coventry University to Engineering and Water understand exactly how our Priora systems Management www.marshalls.co.uk/watermanagement improve the water that flows through them. 22 23 Product Innovation: Product Innovation: The Marshalls Stone Standard The Marshalls Stone Standard Have complete confidence in the stone you lay... There are three key stone characteristics What is the Marshalls Stone Standard? you need to be made aware of... Indian sandstone is popular in the We tested Indian sandstones currently our sandstone products with the ‘Stone UK and complements the style of available in the UK and found over 50% Standard’ trademark. This trademark All Marshalls’ sandstone supplied All Marshalls’ sandstone will have a All Marshalls’ sandstone supplied is will have a low water absorption high flexural strength. frost resistant. many British homes, however not all failed to meet the British Standard*. gives our customers peace of mind percentage. sandstone is the same. When you think This means homeowners may be when choosing sandstone for their This means the stone is stronger and less If stone loses strength or starts to fall apart of stone, you think of it being strong purchasing stone which could fail garden patio or driveway. The lower the water absorption, the less likely to break or crack under pressure or in when subjected to repeated frosts, then and long-lasting. In reality, there’s a wide during installation, or once installed chance the stone has of going green due to transit. it isn’t fit for purpose. Marshalls’ sandstone variety of Indian sandstone products which could cause maintenance issues There are three key stone characteristics algae growth. is strong and will cope with harsh winters currently available on the market and or costs to repair the damage. homeowners should be aware of when with minimal maintenance. this variation causes confusion amongst choosing sandstone for their garden: homeowners as to what constitutes To ensure all the sandstone products Marshalls supplies are fit for purpose, we Sandstones with a high water Bed delamination indicates good quality stone. have carried out tests and have labelled absorbency may turn green quickly low flexural strength Damage caused by frost Quality sandstone will look good for years to come Any natural stone paving that doesn’t meet these criteria, will not be fit for purpose and could fail. Make sure you are fully aware about the products you are laying. ‘The Marshalls Stone Standard’ *A random selection of Indian sandstone bought in the UK and tested at a Marshalls laboratory. 24 25 Fairstone® Fairstone® by by Marshalls Fairstone® is an ethically sourced range of Natural Stone that has been quarried and produced in line with a clear set of ethical values and commitments. Much Needed Research Fairstone® Fairstone® Fairstone® Fairstone UNICEF Partnership The first year has seen much needed INDIA Defined CHINA Defined VIETNAM Defined At the beginning of 2014, Marshalls entered detailed research undertaken into the into a unique and strategic partnership with sandstone sector in India, looking at UNICEF to eliminate child labour in India’s stone the lives and role of children, living and Marshalls knows where its quarried Marshalls knows where its quarried Marshalls Fairstone® is an ethically sourced working conditions of families within the quarrying sector. This partnership underpinned stone comes from. It knows how it stone comes from. It knows how it range of Natural Stone. quarrying communities and the impact of the work that Marshalls had done since 2005 is manufactured and that it has been is manufactured and that it has been regarding implementing the ETI Base Code and the industry upon the rights of children. produced in accordance with a clear and Fairstone® means that Marshalls knows produced in accordance with a clear and the development of Fairstone ethical standards unequivocal set of ethical values and where its quarried Vietnamese stone comes unequivocal set of ethical values and and product range. The partnership involves Research will focus upon a comprehensive commitments . Specifically in the India from, how it is manufactured and that it has If you think your paving is ethical commitments : extensive research, action for systemic change analysis of the sustainability of supply chain: been produced in accordance with a clear you need to dig a little deeper. and the promotion of education and is funded quarrying and scrutinise the situation of Specifically in the Chinese supply chain: and unequivocal set of ethical values and ✔ No child labour is used through Fairstone sales across the globe. children working in quarries in several commitments based on the ETI Base Code ✔ Chinese workers receive and UNGC Principles: regions in India, and assess the best ✔ Indian workers receive living wages for a normal practice inventions to prevent and living wages ✔ Bonded labour is not used, working period Our ethics are set in stone. Are yours? combat child labour. The findings and ✔ Health & safety practices i.e. prison labour Most paving companies aren’t as ethical recommendations from this research will as they say they are. Marshalls is different. ✔ Working hours are not forced We don’t turn a blind eye to child labour. In fact, we’re the only hard landscaping company actively working with UNICEF are in place to end it. We’ve partnered with them and ✔ Living wages are paid for be used to lobby for systemic change and will donate £1 to their work for every square metre of Fairstone paving we economically or physically *Marshalls will pay £1 (+VAT) per square metre of Fairstone paving sold to UNICEF UK Enterprise Limited, which pays all its sell*. To find out more about our ethical taxable profits to UNICEF UK, a registered charity in England and Wales (1072612) and Scotland (SC043677). UNICEF does paving, visit marshalls.co.uk/fairstone not endorse any brand or product. Marshalls supports UNICEF. a normal working period by will also inform an ongoing programme Marshalls employs a full time, field-based, ✔ Health & Safety practices of activity on the ground funded by Social Auditor in India who works with are in place ✔ Working hours are not forced Marshalls. quarry owners and workers on a daily basis economically or physically to ensure the ongoing implementation of the Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code Through its local office in Xiamen, ✔ No child labour is used Interventions on the Ground Already and to monitor progress. Daily contact, Marshalls’ employees regularly visit quarries and factories to work alongside workers ✔ Health & safety practices Making a Positive Impact weekly reporting, annual third party are in place and managers to ensure that these three auditing and regular quarry inspections In tandem with the research UNICEF, with funding from Marshalls, has undertaken a commitments are implemented. In by Company employees allow Marshalls The Fairstone® Manager takes the lead on programme of initial interventions in order to gain insight into the situation of children addition, a dedicated member of Marshalls’ to ensure that Fairstone commitments are all ethical supply chain matters and the coin the quarrying areas, strengthen child protection structures at state, district, block and Chinese team takes the lead on all ethical upheld. ordination of the in-field Quality Controllers supply chain matters. Quality Controllers panchayat level, strengthen State level structures that will improve education, advocate also play a critical role in improving worker who play a critical role in monitoring and and improve the enforcement of the various acts & guidelines affecting children in the Marshalls is committed to working in improving worker conditions. conditions. quarrying areas, and also to link vulnerable families to social protection schemes. partnership with its sole supplier Stone Shippers India to achieve continuous Marshalls is committed to working in Marshalls works with a small number of WORK SO FAR IS CONCENTRATING ON: improvement in supply chain conditions partnership with its suppliers in China suppliers in Vietnam and is committed and to help deliver tangible benefits to to achieve continuous improvement in to building relationships which promote all workers involved in stone production, supply chain conditions and to help deliver shared learning, best practice and the Helping to ensure that the UNICEF/MARSHALLS their families and the wider community. tangible benefits to all workers involved continuous improvement of conditions District is able to implement in stone production, their families and the throughout the supply chain for workers. PARTNERSHIP special training to ensure Developing a Interventions on the Ground that children are prepared for health referral Since early 2007, and following wider community. Marshalls has ensured that every quarry and Already Making a Positive Impact mainstream schooling. system for children community consultation, Marshalls has and their families. worked with local NGO Hadoti Hast Shilp Marshalls ensures that every quarry production facility in its supply chain has an Sansthan in partnership to: and factory in its supply chain has an appropriate first aid kit. appropriate first aid kit and has specifically funded the training of a nominated worker REACHING EDUCATING KEY STAKEHOLDERS 10,000 children Develop and fund 6 Free Schools giving in first aid practices. and around 50,000 teachers, community leaders, young people Marshalls has also specifically funded the about child protection, education and the the children of migrant workers and local members of the quarrying rights of children. training of a nominated worker at each population in 50 villages raising workers an education that they would quarry and production facility in first aid awareness of the harms of child Working with the local not otherwise have had. labour and the advantages of school management WORKING WITH SENSITISING * UNICEF’s Child Friendly Schools practices. Develop 6 free Health Centres and school education. committees in 50 villages to improve the 50 SCHOOLS DISTRICT and local http://www.unicef.org/cfs/ officials on the issues Marshalls funds regular cultural enrolment and retention to developed and deliver monthly community health STRENGTHENING of children from the deliver child friendly which children in the This work is ongoing and subsequent work on community events for workers, their 20 CHILD quarrying community. schools. * quarrying region face. camps in the heart of the quarrying the ground will build upon this activity, and the families and the wider community. area in Bundhi. These services offer protection committees research findings, throughout 2015 and beyond. consultation, treatment, free medicines to ensure the protection of Identifying vulnerable children in the quarrying region. and referral pathways all of which would families and children in the not otherwise be available. 50 villages and linking them to Helping to ensure that Kota District has a SOCIAL clear plan for child protection; including PROTECTIVE MEASURES for children PROTECTION among the quarrying community. SCHEMES. 26 27 Fairstone® Fairstone® Looking Forward to 2015 and Beyond by Actively Working To End Child by Labour for 10 Years Moving forward into 2015, Marshalls Marshalls will be in India with UNICEF Marshalls has been actively working to will work with UNICEF using the study throughout the coming year to take part Chris Harrop, Marshalls’ Group eliminate child labour in the quarrying results and insights from the interventions in consultation, advocacy and programme Marketing Director and also sector in Rajasthan for over 10 years activity to advocate with government, activity. While here in the UK we will be children’s rights ambassador within providing free primary education, business and other relevant stakeholders, engaging with UNICEF’s Public Affairs the organisation, said: advocating regarding children’s rights and to adapt policies and create a regulatory team and engaging with human rights offering practical support in terms of fair framework to ensure child labour is and child labour platforms in order to raise pay, social insurance, health care, adult eliminated within the quarrying industry. awareness and work for change. literacy and workers’ rights education all “What began over ten years ago of which are factors involved in issues of as a journey to ensure the absence child labour. of child labour in our own supply The results of the research will inform the chain, and to eradicate child labour approach to working with our suppliers, in the wider India stone sector, has partners and the community in India, led to a deepening understanding China and Vietnam and all activities will of the wider issue of children’s rights be driven and more knowledgeable and through this RIGHTS AN extensive engagement through partnership HUM AC TIO N S IN which we are now seeking to drive with HT HU M A N RI G long term systemic change for UNICEF. children.” Sustainable Development Activity Since 2005 Chris Harrop, Marshalls’ Group Marketing Director and also children’s rights ambassador within the organisation, said: “The partnership will definitely Number of health Dedicated maternal Specialists Door-to-door Children’s see Marshalls and UNICEF camp benefitiaries: health clinics: treatment needs: consultation and immunisation supporting education 81,207 1,729 1,261 43,027 medicine distribution: and vaccination interventions in Rajasthan, at health camps: 1449 focusing on the key long-term preventative measures and including special HIV/ ie. paediatrican, skin essential components for AIDS screening support & specialists, cancer education, malaria & TB. specialist. the rehabilitation of children involved in child labour”. These info-graphics show the impact of Marshalls’ work on the ground in Kota. We’ve worked tirelessly since 2005 with local partners to understand, identify and support issues important to quarry workers in the region. Moving forward we will Number of students Insurance provided Number of labourers Women’s literacy work with UNICEF, following the research phase of our attending schools to workers: claiming on insurance: pilot project partnership, which included 4000 342 (annual student beneficiaries: living and working conditions 186 places): of workers & their familes 1,793 across the region, to implement programmes on-the-ground. 28 29 Leadership Blueprint Marshalls announces its participation in UNGC Steering Group Building strong links with the global construction industry Marshalls has announced societies everywhere. 3. To develop a sector specific best practice tool that it has joined a steering kit for companies operating in these areas to group of UN Global The land, real estate and construction sector help them tackle these issues and harness Compact signatory sector represents about 70% of global wealth. Its significant sustainability opportunities. representatives from the contribution makes up around one-tenth of the real estate, development, total global GDP and represents 7% of overall Chris Harrop, Marshalls’ Group Marketing finance, investment, employment. Its significant impact within Director and Chair of the UK’s UNGC Network, Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & social, environmental, and economic spheres said: “Hard landscaping plays a vital role in Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice construction, research and training sectors convened by the UN Global opens to a number of risks and sustainability the built environment. Marshalls is known Compact and the Royal Institution of Chartered challenges. across the globe for its leading position in 48% sustainability and see this initiative as a key Surveyors (RICS) that will support a two year The project has three key objectives: project to develop a best practice sustainability driver for change and improvement. We are tool kit for the land, real estate and construction 1. To identify key challenges and opportunities joining a group of exceptionally influential and sector. for the land, real estate and construction prestigious businesses and by working together sector relating to the Global Compact’s issue I believe that we can make a real difference.” Reviewing Feedback The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy areas and United Nations’ goals; initiative for businesses that are committed to Founded in the 1890’s Marshalls, the UK’s & Developing Our Delivering Best aligning their operations and strategies with 2. To actively engage UN Global Compact leading supplier of hard landscaping materials, Legal Compliance Approach Practice ten universally accepted principles in the areas participants from the land, real estate and has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact of human rights, labour, environment and anticonstruction sector as well as associated since 2009. Marshalls believes in conducting corruption. By doing so, business, as a primary users and stakeholders to capture and its business in a manner which achieves driver of globalisation, can help ensure that scale up existing best practice efforts and sustainable growth whilst incorporating markets, commerce, technology and finance initiatives in applying and implementing the and demonstrating a high degree of social advance in ways that benefit economies and Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact; responsibility. Moving forward, Marshalls will work towards realising elements within the Blueprint as identified in the targets for 2015. In order that readers have a full understanding of this commitment, we have reproduced on the following 4 Blueprint pages the Corporate Action Plan 5 from within the UNGC Blueprint for Leadership Blueprint Corporate Sustainability Leadership (to be found overleaf on pages 32 and 33). Marshalls continues to demonstrate Engaging in the Blueprint process that it is a leader in its field and stated has allowed Marshalls to effectively in 2010 that it recognised that Blueprint assess progress with respect to its Blue rint for Corporate Sustainability Leadership offered a model for achieving even higher commitment, strategy, implementation and communications as the organisation Key Dimensions and Components of Leadership – taken from the UNGC Blueprint document. For Corporate Sustainability Leadership levels of performance and generating ascends Understanding the learning the performance Blueprint curve. enhanced value through the UNGC. The Dimensions KeyBlueprint has been Components and developed to: of Leadership The 2010 COP detailed the elements of the Blueprint together with why and how •The Challenge Blueprint offers UN andGlobal Compact companies inspire The Blueprinttoencompasses three Implementing the Taking Action participants a model for achieving higher levels distinct but overlapping and synergistic Ten Principles into in Support of Broader achieve higher levels of sustainability of performance and generating enhanced value dimensions. They are: Strategies and Operations UN Goals and Issues* Marshalls has engaged. You can view through the UN Global Compact. It allows performance within the UNGC; companies and their stakeholder to assess and the Ten Principles into 1. Implementing all of Marshalls’ previous COP reports 1. Full Coverage and 1. Core Business Contributions • progress with respect to their commitment, Strategies and Operations at www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability/ Integration Across Principles to UN Goals and Issues Evolve the UNGC and its engagement strategy and implementation and to communicate effectively as they ascend the learning 2. Taking Action in Support of Broader publications opportunities to deliver more and performance curve. UNvalue Goals andtoIssues 2. Robust Management Policies and Procedures 2. Strategic Social Investments and Philanthropy In leading participants. the context of the Blueprint, corporate sus3. Engaging with the UN Global Compact 3. Mainstreaming into CEO Commitment tainability is defined as a company’s delivery of 3. Advocacy and Public long-term value in financial, social, environmenEach dimension contains a number of key Corporate Functions and and Leadership Policy Engagement tal and ethical terms. It thus covers all princiComponents. In addition, several cross-cutting Business Units Marshalls will continue to work towards ples and issue areas of the UN Global Compact. Components of leadership were identified as Board Adoption and 4. Partnerships and Oversight 4. Value Chain realising the elements within the Blueprint The Blueprint is grounded in the two core a crucial overlay to the three dimensions. Implementation Stakeholder Engagement Collective Action as identified commitments made by the targets inparticipating companies.for 2015. The oppositeThepage contains the visual represenTransparency It includes aspects of leadership that are tation of the Blueprint, encompassing the three organisation remains considered key to maximizing realistic results with that this will key dimensions as well as, at the centre, the and Disclosure respect to these commitments, including active cross-cutting Components. Each of the Compobe a longwithterm engagement the UNcommitment. Global Compact nents within the Blueprint contain associated locally and globally. Action Items. These are fully detailed in the Engaging with Corporate Action Plan on pages 10 and 11. the UN Global Compact The UNGC Blueprint for Corporate Sustainability Leadership document can be found at http:// 1. Local Networks and Subsidiary Engagement www.unglobalcompact.org/docs/news_ “Broader UN Goals and Issues” refers to an array of global issues – based on the most acute 2. Global and Local Working Groups events/8.1/Blueprint.pdf or chronic global challenges – including Peace & Security; the Millennium Development Goals; Human Rights; Children’s Rights; Gender Equality; Health; Education; Humanitarian Assis3. Issue-Based and Sector Initiatives tance; Migration; Food Security; Sustainable Ecosystems and Biodiversity; Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation; Water Security and Sanitation; Employment and Decent Working 4. Promotion and Support of Conditions; and Anti-Corruption. the UN Global Compact Marshalls’ target position to 2020 and This is an illustrative list of issues covered “Broader UN Goals and Issues”, and there are obvibeyond demonstrates the long term nature ously considerable overlaps between individual elements. The order of this list does not indicate any prioritization of issues. For a list of further Global Issues that are relevant to the work of the of its commitment. UN as well as business, please refer to http://business.un.org/en/browse/global_issues. 30 31 Realising the Blueprint: Corporate Action Plan IMPLEMENTING THE TEN PRINCIPLES • Align strategies, goals and incentive • Coordinate efforts with other • Publish sustainability information THE CROSS-CUTTING COMPONENTS • Establish channels to engage with INTO STRATEGIES AND OPERATIONS structures of all business units and organisations and initiatives to amplify – related to each individual subsidiary employees and other stakeholders to hear subsidiaries with corporate sustainability and not negate or unnecessarily duplicate separately or reference it explicitly in the CEO Commitment and Leadership their ideas and address their concerns, Full Coverage and Integration strategy. – the efforts of other contributors. Communication on Progress of Corporate and protect ‘whistle-blowers’. • CEO publicly delivers explicit statements Across Principles Headquarters. • Assign responsibility for corporate • Take responsibility for the intentional and and demonstrates personal leadership on • Implement all ten UN Global Compact sustainability implementation to an unintentional effects of funding and have sustainability and commitment to the UN Transparency and Disclosure principles into strategies and operations. individual or group within each business due regard for local customs, traditions, Global Compact. Global and Local Working Groups unit and subsidiary. religions, and priorities of pertinent • Share sustainability information with • Design corporate sustainability strategy • CEO promotes initiatives to enhance individuals and groups. • Participate in relevant global or local all interested parties and respond to to leverage synergies between and among sustainability of the company’s sector and working groups and share experiences, stakeholder inquiries and concerns. issue areas and to deal adequately with leads development of industry standards. Value Chain Implementation networks, tools and good practices with trade-offs. • Ensure that Communication on Progress Advocacy and Public Policy Engagement other UN Global Compact participants. • CEO leads executive management team • Analyse each segment of the value chain covers all aspects of the Leadership • Ensure that different corporate in development of corporate sustainability carefully, both upstream and downstream, • Publicly advocate the importance of • Take active part in defining scope and Blueprint and utilise, where appropriate, functions coordinate closely to maximise strategy, defining goals and overseeing when mapping risks, opportunities and action in relation to one or more UN goals objectives of new working groups when the Global Reporting Initiative framework. performance and avoid unintended implementation. impacts. /issues. relevant. negative impacts. • Integrate Communication on Progress • Make sustainability criteria and UN • Communicate policies and expectations • Commit company leaders to participate into annual financial report or publish Global Compact principles part of goals to suppliers and other relevant business in key summits, conferences, and other them together. Issue-Based and Sector Initiatives and incentive schemes for CEO and Robust Management Policies partners. important public policy interactions in executive management team. • Secure external verification of and Procedures relation to one or more UN goals/issues. • Join and help advance one or more • Implement monitoring and assurance Communication on Progress or seek other existing UN Global Compact initiatives, • Assess risks and opportunities on an mechanisms within the company’s sphere methods for legitimisation by external e.g. Caring for Climate, CEO Water ongoing basis at both enterprise and of influence. Board Adoption and Oversight stakeholders. Partnerships and Collective Action Mandate, Women’s Empowerment product level and undertake due diligence • Undertake awareness-raising, training Principles, and Global Business Initiative • Board of Directors (or equivalent**) to ensure that the company identifies any • Develop and implement partnership and other types of capability building with on Human Rights. assumes responsibility and oversight for negative impacts caused by its operations projects with public or private ** For companies without a formal Board, suppliers and other business partners. long term corporate sustainability strategy and activities. organisations (UN entities, government, • Spearhead need-driven development other governance or ownership body and performance. NGOs, or other groups) on core business, of new issue-based or sector initiatives assumes these responsibilities • Develop strategies and policies specific social investments and/or advocacy. within the UN Global Compact and the • Board establishes, where permissible, a to the company’s operating context – as wider United Nations. committee or assigns an individual Board well as scenarios for the future and • Join industry peers, UN entities and/ TAKING ACTION IN SUPPORT member with responsibility for corporate establish measurable short, medium, and or other stakeholders in initiatives that OF BROADER UN GOALS AND ISSUES sustainability. long term goals. contribute to solving common challenges Promotion and Support of the UN and dilemmas at the global and/or local • Board (or committee), where • Engage and educate employees through Global Compact Core Business Contributions to UN levels with an emphasis on initiatives that permissible, approves formal reporting on training activities, the development and Goals and Issues extend the company’s positive impact on • Advocate the UN Global Compact to corporate sustainability (Communication NOTE: Reproduced from the UNGC Blueprint adjustment of business processes, and its value chain. business partners, peers and the general on Progress). • Align core business strategy with one or document http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ sound incentive schemes. public. more relevant UN goals/issues*. docs/news_events/8.1/Blueprint.pdf • Implement a system to track and • Encourage suppliers and other business measure performance based on • Develop relevant products and services Stakeholder Engagement partners to join the UN Global Compact, standardised performance metrics. or design business models that contribute ENGAGING WITH THE UN GLOBAL and take on mentoring role on issues • Publicly recognise responsibility for to UN goals/issues. COMPACT related to the initiative. the company’s impacts on internal and • Adopt and modify operating procedures external stakeholders. Mainstreaming into Corporate • Participate in activities to further develop to maximise contribution to UN goals/ Local Networks and Subsidiary Functions and Business Units and strengthen the UN Global Compact. • Define sustainability strategies, goals issues. Engagement and policies in consultation with key • Place responsibility for execution stakeholders. • Contribute to the building and operating of sustainability strategy in relevant Strategic Social Investments and of at least one UN Global Compact Local corporate functions (procurement, • Consult stakeholders in dealing with Philanthropy Network and help elevate performance government affairs, human resources, implementation dilemmas and challenges of other companies through training, legal, etc.) and ensure that no function is and invite them to take active part in • Pursue social investments and mentoring, COP peer review, etc. operating in conflict with sustainability reviewing performance. philanthropic contributions that tie in commitments and objectives of the with the core competences or operating • Encourage subsidiaries to engage with company. context of the company as an integrated UN Global Compact Local Networks part of its sustainability strategy. and to participate actively in events and activities. 32 33 Leadership Blueprint: Leadership Blueprint: Targets 2015 Targets 2015 ACHIEVEMENTS 2014 TARGETS 2015 ACHIEVEMENTS 2014 TARGETS 2015 Core Business Contribution to UN Goals and Issues: Core Business Contribution to UN Goals and Issues: Global & Local Working Groups: Global & Local Working Groups: Aligning core business strategy with one or more Continue to align core business strategy with one or more relevant Participating in relevant global or local working groups Continue to participate in relevant global or local working groups relevant UN goals/issues. UN goals/issues. and sharing experiences, networks, tools and good and share experiences, networks, tools and good practice with Developing relevant products and services that Continue to develop relevant products and services that practice with other UNGC participants. other UNGC participants. contribute to UN goals/issues. contribute to UN goals/issues. Taking active part in defining scope and objectives of Continue to take active part in defining scope and objectives of Adopt and modify operating procedures to maximise new working groups when relevant. new working groups when relevant. contributions to UN goals/issues. Issues-Based and Sector Initiatives: Issues-Based and Sector Initiatives: Strategic Social Investments & Philanthropy: Strategic Social Investments & Philanthropy: Joining and helping advance one or more existing UNGC Continue to advance one or more existing UNGC initiative – initiative; e.g. Caring for Climate, CEO Water Mandate, Children’s Rights & Business Principles, Women’s Empowerment Pursuing social investments and philanthropic Continue to pursue social investments and philanthropic Women’s Empowerment Principles, and Global Business Principles. contributions that tie in with the core competencies or contributions that tie in with the core competences or operating Initiatives on Human Rights. operating context of the company as an integrated part context of the company as an integrated part of its sustainability of its sustainability strategy. strategy. Promotion and Support of the UNGC: Promotion and Support of the UNGC: Taking responsibility for the intentional and Continue to take responsibility for the intentional and unintentional unintentional effects of funding and having due regard effect for funding and having due regard for local customs, Advocating the UNGC to business partners, peers and Continue to advocate the UNGC to business partners, peers and the for local customs, traditions, religions, and priorities of traditions, religions and priorities of pertinent in dividuals or groups. the general public. general public. pertinent individuals and groups. Co-ordinate efforts with other organisations and initiatives to Encouraging suppliers and other business partners to Continue to encourage suppliers and other business partners to amplify – and not negate or unnecessarily duplicate – the efforts of join the UNGC, and take on mentoring role on issues join the UNGC, and take on mentoring role on issues related to the other contributors. related to the initiative. initiative. Participating in activities to further develop and Continue to participate in activities to further develop and strengthen the UNGC. strengthen the UNGC. Advocacy and Public Policy Engagement: Advocacy and Public Policy Engagement: Publically advocating the importance of action in relation Continue to publicly advocate the importance of action in relation Stakeholder Engagement: Stakeholder Engagement: to one or more UN goals/issues. to one or more of the UN goals/issues. Establishing channels to engage with employees and Continue to establish channels to engage with employees and other Committing company leaders to partiticipate in key Continue to commit company leaders to participate in key summits, other stakeholders to hear their ideas and address their stakeholders to hear their ideas and address their concerns, and summits, conferences, and other important public policy conferences, and other important public policy interactions in concerns, and protect whistle blowing. protect whistle blowing. interactions in relation to one or more UN goals/issues. relation to one or more UN goals/issues. Transparency and Disclosure: Transparency and Disclosure: Sharing sustainability information with all interested parties Continue to integrate the COP within the financial report or Partnerships and Collective Action: Partnerships and Collective Action: and responding to stakeholder enquiries and concerns. publish them together. Developing and implementing partnership projects with Continue to develop and implement partnership projects with Ensuring that COP covers all aspects of the Leadership Blueprint public or private sector organisations on core business, public or private sector organisation on core business, social and utilising, where appropriate, the Global Reporting Initiative social investments and/or advocacy. investments and/or advocacy. framework. Joining industry peers, UN entities and/or other Continue to join with industry peers, UN entities and/or the Integrating the COP within the financial report or publish them stakeholders in initiatives that contribute to solving stakeholders in initiatives that contribute to solving common together after consultation with stakeholders. common challenges and dilemmas at the global and/or challenges and dilemmas at the global and/or local levels with local levels with emphasis on initiatives that extend the emphasis on initiatives that extend the company’s positive impact company’s positive impact on its value chain. on its value chain. CEO Commitment and Leadership: CEO Commitment and Leadership: CEO publicly delivering explicit statements and Continue to publicly deliver explicit statements and demonstrating personal leadership on sustainability and demonstrate personal leadership on sustainability and commitment to the UNGC. commitment to the UNGC. Local Networks & Subsidiary Engagement: Local Networks & Subsidiary Engagement: Active participation in events and activities. Continue to actively participation in events and activities. Board Adoptions and Oversight: Board Adoptions and Oversight: Encouraging subsidiary to engage with UN Global Compact Continue to encourage subsidiary to engage with UNGC Local Board of Directors to approve formal reporting on Board of Directors (or equivalent) assumes responsibility and Local Networks and to participate actively in events and Networks and to participate actively in events and initiatives. corporate sustainability. oversight for long term corporate sustainability strategy and initiatives. Continue to contribute to the building and operating of at performance. Actively participating in events and activities. least one local network and help elevate performance of other Board establishes, where permissible, a committee or assigns companies through training, mentoring, COP peer review, etc. an individual Board member with responsibility for corporate sustainability. Board (or committee), where permissible, approves formal reporting on corporate sustainability (Communication on Progress). 34 35 Millennium Development Goals A Design for Sustainable How Marshalls is Contributing Development Goals The opportunities to develop new products, There are two fundamental ways by which Marshalls will actively engage throughout 2015, services and business models that help solve companies contribute to sustainable through UNGC participation and the UNGC UK global challenges are clear – particularly development. One is by upholding respect Network, in activity regarding the setting of associated with green growth and “base of for universal sustainability principles in their sustainable development goals. the pyramid” endeavours. As a result, there is operations, thus making sure to do no harm. enormous potential for the private sector to help The other is through taking actions that support advance sustainable development on a broad advances on sustainable development, such as scale, in line with the post-2015 agenda. new products, services and business models. The Millennium Development Goals are GOAL 1: Eradicate Extreme Poverty & Hunger GOAL 7: Ensure Environmental Sustainability a set of time-bound targets, by which progress in reducing income poverty, Halve, between 1990 and 2015, the proportion of Integrate the principles of sustainable people whose income is less than $1 a day. development into country policies and hunger, disease, lack of adequate shelter and exclusion while promoting Achieve full and productive employment and decent programmes and reverse the loss of Goal 1: End poverty and increase Continue to reduce the reach of TB, malaria and Goal 8: Build peaceful and stable environmental resources. prosperity via inclusive economic growth, HIV/AIDS, and contain the spread of new drug societies, targets include: work for all, including women and young people. gender equality, health, education and resistant strains. Reduce biodiversity loss, achieving, by 2010, a targets include: Improve access for diverse ethnic, religious and environmental sustainability is being Halve, between 1990 and 2015, the proportion of people who suffer from hunger. significant reduction in the rate of loss. Eliminate extreme poverty ($1.25/day per Halt the rise in non-communicable diseases. social groups to justice, services and economic measured. They embody basic human opportunity. capita in 2005 real US dollars). Universal reproductive health services including rights the rights of each person on the GOAL 2: Achieve Universal Primary Education Halve, by 2015, the proportion of the population Create jobs through decent work sufficient to access to birth control and to a qualified Improve mediation, dispute resolution and planet to health, education, shelter and without sustainable access to safe drinking water attendant at birth. dialogue mechanisms to prevent and resolve Ensure that, by 2015, children everywhere, boys and basic sanitation. keep unemployment below 5 per cent, including security. The Goals are ambitious and for women as a group, and below 10 per cent conflict and to build peace. and girls alike, will be able to complete a full Cut maternal mortality rate by at least ¾. together with the comprehensive United course of primary schooling. By 2020, to have achieved a significant for youth. Reduce the under-five mortality rate by at least 2/3. Reduce incidence of violent deaths per 100,000 Nations development agenda, set the improvement in the lives of at least 100 by at least 20 per cent. GOAL 3: Promote Gender Equality and Eliminate child labour. course for the world’s efforts to alleviate Empower Women million slum dwellers. Ensure full access to private finance, including Prevent, combat and reduce the illicit trade in extreme poverty by 2015. Eliminate gender disparity in primary and Goal 5: Good nutrition for all through small arms, light weapons and ammunition. GOAL 8: Develop a Global Partnership for basic savings, loans and growth capital secondary education, preferably by 2005, and in Development products, on fair terms including for women and sustainable food and agricultural Reduce the reach and extent of organized crime, all levels of education no later than 2015. marginalised groups. systems, targets include: especially through the provisions of the United Develop further an open, rule-based, predictable, GOAL 4: Reduce Child Mortality non-discriminatory trading and financial system. Reduce by 30 per cent the Gini co-efficient rating Eradicate calorie-deficient hunger and halt Nations Convention against Transnational in each country. increase of rates of obesity and of malnutrition. Organized Crime. Reduce by two thirds, between 1990 and 2015, Address the special needs of least developed Eliminate stunting of children under two years of the under-five mortality rate. countries. age through appropriate micro-nutrients. Goal 9: Modernize infrastructure and Goal 2: Quality education for all, targets GOAL 5: Improve Maternal Health Address the special needs of landlocked include: Double the productivity of LDC agriculture. technology, targets include: developing countries and small island developing Reduce by three quarters the maternal mortality ratio. Every child completes primary education Stop and turn back annual increases in Deploy investment sufficient to meet States. with basic literacy and numeracy, in schools greenhouse gas emissions and deforestation requirements for “green” transport, energy and Achieve universal access to reproductive health. resulting from farming and livestock production water systems in the developing world, and Deal comprehensively with the debt problems of with grade divisions, books, light, meals and GOAL 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, Malaria and sanitation. by 2020. for upgrading or replacing old and “brown” developing countries. Other Diseases infrastructure in the developed world. All secondary schools to facilitate computing Bring down the share of over exploited ocean Have halted by 2015 and begun to reverse the In cooperation with pharmaceutical companies, fish stocks by 20 per cent. Universal and affordable access to the Internet skills, and a 50 per cent availability of digital spread of HIV/AIDS. provide access to affordable essential drugs in and computing technology. facilities among primary schools without them. Reduce amount of food lost through Achieve, by 2010, universal access to treatment for developing countries. Increase the percentage of young adults with poor storage and waste by 1/3. Effective use of e-governance at national and HIV/AIDS for all those who need it. state/provincial level in all countries, to increase In cooperation with the private sector, make the skills needed for work. Have halted by 2015 and begun to reverse the managerial capacity as well as transparency. available benefits of new technologies, especially Achieve parity in enrollment and educational Goal 6: Water and sanitation for all, incidence of malaria and other major diseases. information and communications. opportunities at primary, secondary and tertiary Double the share of the population with easy targets include: and affordable access to public transportation levels for girls and women. Universal access to affordable fresh water. systems. Curricula at primary level and at all levels above to include sustainable development concepts, Universal access to basic sanitation facilities by Step up R&D in both public and private sectors. GOAL 1: Eradicate Extreme Poverty & Hunger GOAL 4: Reduce Child Mortality with special emphasis on business schools. 2020 and improved sanitation facilities by 2030. Reduce carbon emissions from the construction Fresh water use brought in line with supply. and operation of buildings. Workers’ rights education in India. Vaccination programmes for children in India. Fairstone® product in India, China and Vietnam. GOAL 5: Improve Maternal Health Goal 3: Achieve women and girls’ Ensure establishment and full implementation of Community school development in India. Maternal health camps in India. empowerment, targets include: national water effluent standards. Goal 10: Good governance and realization Collaboration with quarry owners, local GOAL 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, Malaria and Other Increase the proportion of leadership positions of human rights, targets include: government and NGOs in India regarding labour Diseases held by women in public and private sectors to Goal 7: Sustainable energy for all, targets Raise awareness and implementation of all UN Marshalls’ position is one of actively rights and fair pay. AIDS/HIV education programme as part of health 40 per cent or better. human rights conventions and instruments camps in India. include: engaging and maximising benefit, GOAL 2: Achieve Universal Primary Education Universally recognized and enforced equal pay among all people and at all levels of governance. Universal access to modern energy services. both in terms of business performance, GOAL 7: Ensure Environmental Sustainability for equal work. Achieve competitive and transparent Foundation and continued funding for schools in Double the global rate of improvement in procurement processes through public upholding the ten UNGC principles and Kota region of Rajasthan, India. CEO Water Mandate. Full and equal access of women to ownership, energy efficiency in production, distribution and supporting the delivery of the MDGs. property rights and land titles. advertising of all government procurement consumption. cases. Informal community education programme. Biodiversity benchmark activity. Marshalls is working in international Reduce rates of violent acts committed against Double the share of renewable sources in the partnerships in India, China and Vietnam Women’s literacy programme. Water management programme. women and girls by at least 50 per cent. Develop further an open, rule-based, energy mix. nondiscriminatory international trading and to tackle issues of labour rights, human GOAL 3: Promote Gender Equality and Empower GOAL 8: Develop a Global Partnership for Reduce by at least 50 per cent the particulate financial system. rights, child labour, child education, Women Development Goal 4: Universal health coverage, targets concentration in urban air, not to exclude Establish a climate supportive of business women’s empowerment and health. Girls’ education drive resulting in equal number of achievement of more stringent regional targets. girls in education in Marshalls funded schools. Product development. include: and investment at home and from overseas, Marshalls will actively seek to make a including incentives in favour of sustainability. Women’s literacy programme. Extending Fairstone® to China and Vietnam. Affordable access to quality (meets patient positive contribution towards achieving needs) treatment and care for all, or to 80 per the MDGs operating within its areas of Development of ‘Fit for Life; Fit for Work’ informal Strategic partnership with UNICEF. cent where such access was less than half in Source: Global Compact LEAD consultations influence to maximise impact. education programme. 2010. 36 37 Human Rights Human Rights Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice 80% Reviewing Feedback & Developing Our Delivering Best Legal Compliance Practice MARSHALLS’ CHILDREN’S Approach RIGHTS POLICY MARSHALLS’ HUMAN Marshalls supports children’s rights consistent with the UN RIGHTS POLICY Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC). The CRC sets out the basic human rights that children everywhere: have Marshalls supports human rights consistent with the the right to survival; to develop to the fullest; to protection Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In conducting its from harmful influences, abuse and exploitation; and to business activities across the globe Marshalls respects these participate fully in family, cultural and social life. rights and seeks to uphold, preserve and promote them. Marshalls acknowledges its corporate Guidance material for all employees code differ, the correct procedure is responsibility to respect and support about avoiding violence, abuse and to adhere to the standard that offers Marshalls works to ensure that its standards upheld by the appropriate children’s rights and actively seeks exploitation of children, plus specific workers the highest level of protection. presence cultivates fair and sustainable governments, institutions and agencies. to implement the Children’s Rights guidance regarding children working Marshalls therefore follows the ETI relationships. & Business Principles (CRBP) thereby for company employees, is available on Code, and ILO standard, and will not Marshalls embraces opportunities to supporting children’s rights in the Company intranet. permit children under 18 to work in its Marshalls respects and values the promote a broader understanding of the workplace, marketplace and supply chain. dignity, well-being and rights of human rights values working within its The CRC states that children have the community. employees, their families and the wider sphere of influence. right to a voice in matters that concern In addition, the Company provides community. The Company actively As a signatory of the UNGC, Marshalls them and to have their opinions given information regarding issues of child Marshalls actively seeks to collaborate seeks to uphold the ten guiding UNGC due weight, based on their capacity labour and human rights guidance works and collaborates with employees, with appropriate organisations to principles which act in support of and level of maturity. To ensure that for all of its stakeholders, including communities, non-governmental and promote respect for human rights in children’s rights. In conducting its any consultations with children follow its suppliers, which is available in the other appropriate stakeholders to a manner which is consistent with the business activities across the globe ethical standards and are effective publications section at www.marshalls. uphold and promote these rights. role of business. Marshalls respects children’s rights and and meaningful for children, and co.uk/sustainabilty. Where human rights are under threat, seeks to uphold, preserve and promote useful for the organisation. Marshalls Marshalls works to uphold local laws, The Company has a programme them wherever possible. engages with in-country NGOs and/ promote international standards December 2010 of engagement with its suppliers or community-based organisations Marshalls has a Children’s Rights regarding the implementation of UNGC and strives to have international to organise safe and respectful Ambassador on the board who is principles and the CRBP. All suppliers consultation with children. The responsible for ensuring that the have received a copy of this Children’s Company also consults with other company’s Children’s Rights Policy is Rights Policy and the Children’s Rights & experts on children such as UNICEF, implemented across the business. Business Principles. human rights organisations, national Marshalls’ Human Resources authorities and independent experts. Where children’s rights are under Department provides detailed threat, Marshalls works to uphold local Marshalls has an established protocol information and guidance through the laws, promote international standards regarding the use of children’s images Company’s induction process regarding and strives to have international which demands that consent is given by the avoidance of violence, abuse standards upheld by the appropriate a child parent/guardian. and exploitation of children. Annual governments, institutions and agencies. training workshops on children’s rights As a member of the Ethical Trading Marshalls embraces opportunities to and the implementation of CRBP also Initiative (ETI), Marshalls commits to promote a broader understanding take place. Additional training and the ETI Base Code which states that of children’s rights working within its guidance is given to those employees interpretation of the child labour clause sphere of influence. Marshalls actively who have greater involvement with or of the Code should be done bearing in seeks to collaborate with appropriate exposure to potential children’s rights mind International Labour Organisation organisations to promote children’s issues, e.g. procurement personnel, conventions. In addition, the ETI Code rights in a manner which is consistent those travelling overseas, etc. states that where national law and the with the role of business. 38 39 Marshalls’ Human Rights Human Rights Programme Marshalls actively started its formal • Women’s Empowerment Principles; human rights impact assessment programme in 2010 when it began an • Renewed UN commitment to Human In 2011, the UN Human Rights Council unanimously endorsed the Our Human Rights Programme of activity is framed by the International Strategic Human Rights Partnerships & Activity initial four year programme of impact Rights in June 2014 by strengthening ‘Guiding Principles on Business and Bill of Rights, consisting of the Marshalls’ partnership with UNICEF We are also participating in the UK assessments in India, China, Vietnam and the mandate on the Working Group Human Rights: Implementing the Universal Declaration of Human directly addresses human rights Business & Human Rights Steering the UK. Since then and with the: and Business and Human Rights; United Nations Protect, Respect Rights, International Covenants issues of those living and working in Group on Updating the National Action • Increased pressure on governments to & Remedy Framework’, proposed • Publication in 2011 of the ‘Guiding on Civil & Political rights, and the quarrying communities in and Plan on Business & Human Rights. deliver on their Human Rights National by the Special Representative Principles on Business & Human economic, social and cultural around Kota. Key to eliminating Governance of the National Action Action Plans; of the UN Secretary-General on Rights’; rights. It is informed by, and draws child labour is promoting a more Plan is through a cross-governmental Business and Human Rights, The organisation has developed a Professor John Ruggie. The Guiding upon, existing methodologies and responsible business model across Steering Group that meets quarterly • Children’s Rights & Business Principles; comprehensive Human Rights Programme. Principles outline how states and frameworks including The Danish the entire sandstone industry and and is jointly chaired by BIS and businesses should implement the Institute fo Human Rights Human raising standards. Having funded FCO. The group includes those with UN Framework in order to better Rights Compliance Assessment, important research, the focus in India responsibility for all areas covered in manage the human rights challenges Nogogaia, IFE, UNGC, IBLF 'Guide to now is on advocacy, government the Action Plan, such as procurement to business. They provide a roadmap Human Rights' and also Children's and stakeholder consultation, and (Cabinet Office), access to remedy for companies to demonstrate that Rights & Business Principles, and programme intervention. (Ministry of Justice), export credits (UK they are respecting human rights. Women's Empowerment Principles. Export Finance) and the Equality and The corporate responsibility to Human Rights Commission. respect human rights, including children’s rights, does not replace a state’s duty to protect human rights; it exists independently of states’ abilities and willingness to fulfil their obligations. Ruggie Protect, Respect and Remedy Framework PROTECT RESPECT REMEDY The first pillar of the Framework is the state’s The corporate responsibility to respect human Even where institutions operate optimally, duty to protect against human rights abuses rights means acting with due diligence to adverse human rights impacts may still result Modern Slavery & Supply Chains committed by third parties, including business, avoid infringing on the rights of others, from a company’s activities and victims must through appropriate policies, regulation and and addressing harms that do occur. The be able to seek redress. Effective grievance adjudication. It highlights that states have the Framework is a global standard of expected mechanisms play an important role in both In the UK, Marshalls is engaging with the Modern slavery is a broad term used It is our intention to publish our Antiprimary role in preventing and addressing conduct acknowledged in virtually every the state’s duty to protect and the corporate Government via the Modern Slavery and to encompass the offences of ‘slavery, Slavery Policy during the first half of corporate related human rights abuses voluntary and soft-law instrument related to responsibility to respect. corporate responsibility, and now affirmed by Supply Chains Consultation; Consultation servitude and forced or compulsory 2015 which will be informed by our the Human Rights Council itself. As part of their duty to protect against on the transparency in supply chains labour’ and ‘human trafficking’. These engagement with Government, our business-related human rights abuse, states clause in the Modern Slavery Bill. offences are closely related but not partner UNICEF and the Children’s A company’s responsibility to respect applies must take appropriate steps within their identical in a legal sense. Slavery is Rights & Business Principles activity that across its business activities and through its territory and/or jurisdiction to ensure that relationships with third parties connected when such abuses occur, those affected have The Government introduced a Modern where ownership is exercised over a we are undertaking, NGOs and other with those activities such as business partners, access to effective remedy through judicial, Slavery Bill to Parliament on 10 June 2014. person; servitude involves the obligation stakeholders. entities in its value chain, and other nonadministrative, legislative or other appropriate The Bill was amended at Commons Report to provide services imposed by coercion; State actors and State agents. In addition, means. Stage, on 4 November 2014, to include forced or compulsory labour involves companies need to consider the country and a new clause requiring companies to work or service exacted from any person local contexts for any particular challenges Source: http://www.reports-and-materials.org/ Ruggie-protect-respect-remedy-framework.pdf disclose what steps they have taken to under the menace of a penalty and for they may pose and how those might shape the human rights impacts of company activities ensure there is no modern slavery in their which the person has not offered himself and relationships. business or their supply chains. voluntarily; human trafficking concerns arranging or facilitating the travel of another with a view to exploiting them. 40 41 Human Rights Human Rights Human Rights Compliance Assessment Women’s Empowerment Principles Towards the end of 2014, Marshalls began Institute of Human Rights and is a joint Towards the second half of 2014, global awareness of women’s issues. the process of undertaking a Human venture between the Danish Institute Marshalls began the process of mapping In contributing to the drafting of the Rights Compliance Assessment across our for Human Rights, the Confederation its operations against the Women’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, business. The Human Rights Compliance of Danish Industries, and the Danish Empowerment Principles framework, the CSW successfully argued against Assessment (HRCA) is a tool designed to Industrialization Fund for Developing a collaboration between UNGC and references to “men” as a synonym for help detect human rights risks in company Counties, with the support of the Danish UN Women. It is our aim to complete humanity, and succeeded in introducing operations. It covers all internationally government. this work during 2015 with a view to new, more inclusive language This event recognised human rights and their The HRCA will be completed during the becoming a WEPS signatory. will focus upon the 20 year anniversary of impact on all stakeholders, including first half of 2015 and will complement the Beijing Declaration and Platform for employees, local communities, customers 2015 is an extremely important year in Marshalls’ approach to upholding human Action. It is fitting that in 2015 Marshalls and host governments. This diagnostic terms of the Sustainable Development rights. undertakes its own work regarding the tool has been developed by the Human HUMAN RIGHTS COMPLIANCE Goals which are widely anticipated to empowerment of women. Rights & Business Project at the Danish ASSESSMENT (HRCA) include specific goals regarding the QUICK CHECK empowerment of women. March 8th is International Women’s Day and marks the beginning of the 59th Convention on The Danish Institute for Human Rights 1 · HUMAN RIGHTS & BUSINESS Human Rights & Business Project the Status of Women in New York. Since its inception in 1947, the Commission has set the standards and formulated international conventions to change Human Rights Impact Assessment Programme discriminatory legislation and foster During 2015, and building on our existing The HRIA programme will now incorporate HRIAs in India, China, Vietnam and the quarterly Human Rights business briefings UK, Marshalls will undertake a further and face-to-face workshops and training assessment in India. Naturally the process to supplement the online training will be informed by all that we have available via the Marshalls Certificate in learned during our journey so far and Sustainability. the developments generally in relation to human rights impact assessments. In addition, annual monitoring in relation to all existing HRIAs is undertaken together with the implementation of recommendations is ongoing. Children’s Rights & Business Principles During 2014 we have been working guidance; engaging our supply chain on delivering the recommendations on issues of child labour and children’s which resulted from our first CRBP audit, rights; developing an employee training in 2013, against the framework. This programme; consulting with children; work has included integrating children’s and collaborating with other stakeholders rights within our human rights impact to advocate for robust anti-corruption assessment process; developing specific efforts. policies and processes which support Marshalls Response to... children’s rights; implementing a 2015 will see Marshalls undertake its AN RIGHT Children’s Rights responsible marketing and advertising second CRBP audit and share the findings HUM S and Business ON and resulting plan of action with UNICEF. CTI policy; developing safeguarding IN A S Principles H HT UM G A N RI 42 43 Human Rights Human Rights Targets Human Rights Information and Education TARGETS 2014 TARGETS 2015 AN RIGHT Marshalls Response to... HUM AN RIGHT N S Continue to ensure that ETI Base Continue to ensure that ETI Base CTIO HUM The Ruggie IN A Code is adhered to and that no Code is adhered to and that no S IO N S ACT H HT UM G IN Framework A N RI S child is employed in the supply H HT UM A N RI G child is employed in the supply World Association of chain. chain. Girl Guides & Girl Scouts BEHAVING THE TRUTH ETHICALLY ABOUT IMPORTED Marshalls AN RIGHT Indian in India HUM S ION Partnership ACT IN S Sandstone Continue to gather weekly reports H Develop the reporting process HT UM G A N RI 1 from the social auditor in India. undertaken by the social auditor We regret that despite our best efforts in India. Develop, together with Chinese and forthcoming financial support, Human Rights AN RIGHT Human Rights AN RIGHT Human Rights HUM partners, a suitable reporting Continue to receive social auditor S HUM S RIGHT ON ON AN CTI CTI WAGGGS were unable to deliver the Impact IN A Impact IN A Impact HUM S ON S S CTI H H process which seeks to uphold HT HT Assessment UM A N RI G Assessment UM A N RI G Assessment IN A S reporting from China and Vietnam. Fit for Work/Fit for Life education H HT Programme Programme Programme UM AN R IG China. human rights in the manufacturing programme in the Kota region of India. Vietnam. context. Rajasthan. We can report, however, that the funding was returned by WAGGGS and has now been re-directed by Marshalls into community activities in India. Continue to receive monthly Develop the reporting and reports from NGO in Kota. monitoring provided by the NGO RIGHT HUM AN CTIO N S in India. IN A S H HT UM G A N RI #2 THE TRUTH ABOUT IMPORTED Indian RIGHT HUM AN N S Human Ongoing monitoring and Ongoing monitoring and evaluation Sandstone IN A CTIO Rights evaluation of human rights in India. S H of human right in India. HT UM G A N RI Guidance Marshalls Response to... HUM AN RIGHT S Children’s Rights Undertake HRIA in China in relation Review of HRIA India. CTIO N and Business IN A H UM HT S G Principles to the manufacturing process. Ongoing monitoring and evaluation A N RI 01 of human rights in China. Annual review of HRIA China. Marshalls produced a comprehensive All of these booklets are available Undertake HRIA for ROW in relation range of booklets regarding its human in the publications section of the to Marshalls activities. rights approach and commitments to sustainability website and can be engage and inform its wide range of accessed at www.marshalls.co.uk/ stakeholders; including employees, sustainability/publications Process of embedding human Further develop the process of customers, suppliers and NGO partners. rights within the organisation; embedding human rights within An addition to the suite, The Truth achieving the goals set out within the organisation achieving the About Child Labour, will be produced the HRGD. goals set out within the HRGD. during the second quarter of 2015. Undertake a report which Continue to develop and clarifies Chinese laws regarding implementation of Marshalls employment, human rights and Human Rights Programme. environmental rights. 44 45 Labour Labour: Social Auditors Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice 73% Reviewing Feedback & Developing Our Delivering Best Legal Compliance Approach Practice Marshalls’ approach to labour rights continues to be driven by the Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code, the UNGC Labour principles and the organisations’ commitment to sustainable business. THE ETI BASE CODE STATES THAT: 1. Employment is freely chosen 4. Child labour shall not be used. 7. No discrimination is practiced. 1.1 There is no forced, bonded or involuntary prison 4.1 There shall be no new recruitment of child 7.1 There is no discrimination in hiring, labour. labour. compensation, access to training, promotion, 1.2 Workers are not required to lodge “deposits” or 4.2 Companies shall develop or participate in termination or retirement based on race, caste, their identity papers with their employer and are free and contribute to policies and programmes which national origin, religion, age, disability, gender, Satya and Hitesh in India, undertaking social audits. to leave their employer after reasonable notice. provide for the transition of any child found to be marital status, sexual orientation, union membership performing child labour to enable her or him to or political affiliation. 2. Freedom of association and the right to attend and remain in quality education until no collective bargaining are respected. longer a child; “child” and “child labour” being defined 8. Regular employment is provided. Central to ensuring that the ETI Base Marshalls’ head office has daily contact 2.1 Workers, without distinction, have the right to in the appendices. 8.1 To every extent possible work performed Code is implemented and embedded with the social auditors who provide join or form trade unions of their own choosing and 4.3 Children and young persons under 18 shall not must be on the basis of recognised employment within its supply chain and operations are weekly reporting on all aspects of the to bargain collectively. be employed at night or in hazardous conditions. relationship established through national law and Marshalls’ social auditors in India, China & Base Code; for example the amount 2.2 The employer adopts an open attitude towards 4.4 These policies and procedures shall conform to practice. the provisions of the relevant ILO standards. Vietnam. workers are paid, the hours that they the activities of trade unions and their organisational 8.2 Obligations to employees under labour or work, the conditions they work in, health activities. social security laws and regulations arising from Social auditors works on a daily basis with 2.3 Workers’ representatives are not discriminated 5. Living wages are paid. the regular employment relationship shall not be and safety, measures that no child labour quarry owners, factory owners, managers against and have access to carry out their 5.1 Wages and benefits paid for a standard working avoided through the use of labour-only contracting, is used and that there is no harsh or representative functions in the workplace. week meet, at a minimum, national legal standards subcontracting, or home-working arrangements, and workers to ensure the ongoing inhumane treatment of workers. 2.4 Where the right to freedom of association or industry benchmark standards, whichever or through apprenticeship schemes where there implementation of the ETI Base Code. and collective bargaining is restricted under law, is higher. In any event wages should always be is no real intent to impart skills or provide regular the employer facilitates, and does not hinder, the enough to meet basic needs and to provide some employment, nor shall any such obligations be development of parallel means for independent and discretionary income. avoided through the excessive use of fixed-term Stirling Smith, Just Solutions Ltd, auditing and free association and bargaining. 5.2 All workers shall be provided with written and contracts of employment. verifying activity on the ground. understandable information about their employment 3. Working conditions are safe and hygienic. conditions in respect to wages before they enter 9. No harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed 3.1 A safe and hygienic working environment employment and about the particulars of their 9.1 Physical abuse or discipline, the threat of wages for the pay period concerned each time that shall be provided, bearing in mind the prevailing they are paid. physical abuse, sexual or other harassment and Marshalls’ sole supplier in India is Stone Shippers Ltd. The long term knowledge of the industry and of any specific verbal abuse or other forms of intimidation shall be hazards. Adequate steps shall be taken to prevent 5.3 Deductions from wages as a disciplinary prohibited. relationship has enabled Marshalls to share its knowledge with the measure shall not be permitted nor shall any accidents and injury to health arising out of, deductions from wages not provided for by national organisation and to work closely to embed sustainable practices, and associated with, or occurring in the course of work, The provisions of this code constitute minimum by minimising, so far as is reasonably practicable, law be permitted without the expressed permission and not maximum standards, and this code should to monitor these on an ongoing basis. the causes of hazards inherent in the working of the worker concerned. All disciplinary measures not be used to prevent companies from exceeding environment. should be recorded. these standards. Companies applying this code 3.2 Workers shall receive regular and recorded are expected to comply with national and other health and safety training, and such training shall be 6. Working hours are not excessive applicable law and, where the provisions of law and Stone Shippers undertakes social responsibility activity including: repeated for new or reassigned workers. 6.1 Working hours comply with national laws and this Base Code address the same subject, to apply 3.3 Access to clean toilet facilities and to potable benchmark industry standards, whichever affords that provision which affords the greater protection. Safety education workshops for Provision of uniforms, books and midwater, and, if appropriate, sanitary facilities for food greater protection. employees and subcontractors. day meals for children at local schools. storage shall be provided. 6.2 In any event, workers shall not on a regular basis 3.4 Accommodation, where provided, shall be be required to work in excess of 48 hours per week Awareness raising about issues of Free medial health checks and visits clean, safe, and meet the basic needs of the workers. and shall be provided with at least one day off for child labour and establishing crèche by the Doctor. 3.5 The company observing the code shall assign every 7 day period on average. Overtime shall be facilities. responsibility for health and safety to a senior voluntary, shall not exceed 12 hours per week, shall Supporting local hospitals by management representative. not be demanded on a regular basis and shall always Building schools and donating providing blankets, bed linen and air be compensated at a premium rate. computers. conditioning units. 46 47 Labour Labour: Living Wage Marshalls was awarded the Living Wage Employers Accreditation in 2014. This is only available in the UK. In India, Marshalls works with NGOs and others to calculate Number of health Dedicated maternal Specialists Door-to-door Children’s camp benefitiaries: health clinics: treatment needs: consultation and immunisation a living wage which is paid to those working in its 81,207 1,729 1,261 43,027 supply chain there. medicine distribution: and vaccination at health camps: including special HIV/ AIDS screening support & ie. paediatrican, skin specialists, cancer 1449 education, malaria & TB. specialist. These info-graphics show the The Living Wage Foundation does three things: impact of Marshalls work on the ground in Kota. We’ve worked tirelessly since 2005 with local ACCREDITATION: INTELLIGENCE: INFLUENCE: partners to understand, identify Offers accreditation to employers that pay Provides advice and support to employers Provides a forum for leading employers and support issues important to the Living Wage, or those committed to and service providers implementing and service providers to publicly back the quarry workers in the region. an agreed timetable of implementation, the Living Wage including best practice Living Wage. Work with Principal Partners Moving forward we will by awarding the Living Wage Employer guides; case studies from leading who bring financial and strategic support Number of students Insurance provided Number of labourers Women’s literacy work with UNICEF, following Mark. employers; model procurement to our work. The Foundations coordinates the research phase of our frameworks and access to specialist Living Wage Week each November, a UK attending schools to workers: claiming on insurance: pilot project partnership, which included 4000 342 (annual student beneficiaries: Offers a Service Provider Recognition legal and HR advice. We coordinate the wide celebration of the Living Wage. living and working conditions 186 places): Scheme for third party contractors who announcement of the new Living Wage of workers & their familes 1,793 across the region, to implement pay their own staff the Living Wage and rates each November. programs on-the-ground. always offer a Living Wage option when submitting tenders. Celebrating our Living Chris Harrop, Marshalls’ Group Marketing Director said: “As Living Wage Foundation Director, Rhys Moore Wage Commitment a responsible employer it was said: “We are delighted to • • WHAT important for us to ensure that every single welcome Marshalls plc to the Living Wage An hourly rate set independently and The Living Wage enjoys cross party We are pleased to announce that Marshalls person in our workforce earns a living wage, movement as an accredited employer. updated annually support, with public backing from the has been accredited as a Living Wage and we are very proud to be Living Wage Prime Minister and the Leader of the IS IT • “The best employers are voluntarily signing employer. accredited. It is quite simply the right thing The Living Wage is calculated Opposition up to pay the Living Wage now. The Living to do.” according to the basic cost of living in • The Living Wage commitment will see Wage is a robust calculation that reflects the real cost of living, rewarding a hard day’s the UK Paying the Living Wage is good for everyone working at Marshalls, regardless of work with a fair day’s pay. business, good for the individual and whether they are a permanent employee or third-party contractor or supplier, receive a Employers choose to pay the Living Wage • The current UK Living Wage is £7.85 good for society on a voluntary basis. The Living Wage enjoys “We have accredited over 700 leading an hour • minimum hourly wage of £7.85 significantly cross-party support, with public backing employers, ranging from independent The Living Wage Employer Mark • higher than the national minimum wage from the Prime Minister and the Leader of printers, hairdressers and breweries, to of £6.50. The Living Wage is an hourly rate The current London Living Wage is and Service Provider Recognition the Opposition. well-known companies such as Nationwide, £9.15 an hour Scheme provide an ethical badge for set independently and updated annually. Aviva and SSE. These businesses recognise The Living Wage is calculated according to responsible pay the basic cost of living using the ‘Minimum that clinging to the national minimum wage is not good for business. Customers expect • Employers choose to pay the Living Income Standard’ for the UK. Decisions Wage on a voluntary basis better than that. “ about what to include in this standard are set by the public; it is a social consensus about what people need to make ends meet. 48 49 Labour: Labour Targets Living Wage TARGETS 2014 TARGETS 2015 Maintain accreditation to Maintain accreditation to IMS. Integrated Management Systems. Continue researching, reporting Continue researching, reporting and embedding relevant and embedding relevant information regarding labour laws information regarding labour laws and their implications; both in and their implications; both in India India and China. and China. India India Maintain funding for NGO. Continue to implement ETI Base Code. Further develop and enhance the weekly reporting process regarding Continue to undertake social What are the benefits? social auditing. audits. Continue to deliver workers’ rights Maintain Living Wage GOOD FOR BUSINESS GOOD FOR FAMILIES GOOD FOR SOCIETY education camps. accreditation. An independent study examining the The Living Wage affords people the The Living Wage campaign was launched business benefits of implementing a Living opportunity to provide for themselves and in 2001 by parents in East London, who Continue education on health and Engage with wider sandstone Wage policy in London found that more their families. were frustrated that working two minimum safety practices. industry regarding labour than 80% of employers believe that the wage jobs left no time for family life. standards through UNICEF driven Living Wage had enhanced the quality of 75% of employees reported increases in consultations. the work of their staff, while absenteeism work quality as a result of receiving the The causes of poverty are complex and had fallen by approximately 25%. Living Wage. in order to improve lives, there should be a package of solutions across policy Two thirds of employers reported a 50% of employees felt that the Living Wage areas. The Living Wage can be part of the significant impact on recruitment and had made them more willing to implement solution. retention within their organisation. 70% changes in their working practices; enabled China China of employers felt that the Living Wage them to require fewer concessions to effect Put in place a social auditing Maintain social auditing. had increased consumer awareness of change; and made them more likely to process in China. Launch Fairstone China. their organisation’s commitment to be an adopt changes more quickly. ethical employer. Following the adoption of the Living Wage PwC found turnover of contractors fell from 4% to 1%. 50% of employees felt that the 75% of employees reported Living Wage had made them more willing to implement changes in increases in work quality as a result their working practices of receiving the Living Wage. 50 51 Environment Environment Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice 78% Reviewing Feedback & Developing Our Delivering Best The key environmental issues for Legal Compliance Approach Practice Marshalls are climate change, water and biodiversity. These are particularly significant because Marshalls is aware of its Biodiversity is also key because of contributions to man-made climate the activities Marshalls carries out Due to Marshalls’ status the environmental standards including ISO14001 for large internal resource. Systems, which change (as detailed by the Inter– extracting material has an impact Government Panel on Climate Change) on the environment and it’s only by key performance indicators will be environmental management. represent a significant investment, are and as such is committed to helping working with the land that we can published alongside the annual report in in place throughout the business and Key environmental targets and drivers for reduce it. manage our impact on the land. April. This will be available online in due allow the real time monitoring of energy our business are determined by legislative course. consumption and how this relates to Water as a resource is becoming scarce requirement and also the Company’s carbon reduction measures. and Marshalls has identified clean At the heart of Marshalls’ sustainable commitment to sustainability, cost business model, shown earlier in this efficiency and shareholder value. Marshalls’ Environment & Climate water shortage as one of the biggest challenges of the future. report, is an approach which combines Change Policy documents the related key Marshalls’ environmental targets relate key business issues and KPIs with third performance indicators. to strategic plans which are driven by party verification, legislation and industry board executives and implemented by a Environmental Policy Statement Energy and Climate Change Policy Statement Marshalls is committed to achieving the highest standards of environmental performance, The use of energy is vital in the supply and manufacture of our products and represents a preventing pollution and minimising the impact of our operations. The Group’s aim is to minimise significant proportion of our operating costs. Rising energy costs for us and in our supply Marshalls receives BRE Global’s latest the environmental damage that occurs as a result of our activities and policies are being chain, growing concerns over the security of supply and of climate change mean that the implemented to ensure that all our operations meet or exceed the requirements of legislation and importance of controlling our energy use and reducing our reliance on fossil fuels has never applicable best practice. been so high. This policy document is consistent with our sustainability strategy and supports our vision by helping us to operate our business, as market leaders, in a sustainable and Marshalls regards compliance with relevant environmental laws, and the adoption of responsible Responsible Sourcing credential responsible manner. standards where no legislation exists, as an integral part of our business strategy and we are Sustainability is one of Marshalls’ four key core values, balancing our environmental, social committed to considering the environmental impacts associated with our products throughout and economic impacts. In essence, achieving our goal of sustainability involves judging the their life cycle. The Group aims to make most efficient use of raw materials and to maximise use long-term merits of our business against this triple bottom line. of recycled and secondary raw materials, and production residues, where appropriate. The Marshalls recognises that sound energy management is vital to the future of our business and environmental stewardship of our major raw material suppliers is reviewed as part of the Group’s it must be fully integrated into our management and operational procedures so that it is an ongoing commitment to Responsible Sourcing. every day part of what we all do. Marshalls commits to ensuring that appropriate energy management systems are developed and maintained, and that sufficient resources are made Marshalls is committed to monitoring and measuring our environmental performance, using appropriate external guidelines wherever practicable. Each operational site has assessed the environmental aspects and impacts of its activities with objectives and targets being set with a available to achieve the objectives of this policy in a sustainable manner This policy applies to all Marshalls businesses and covers our direct and indirect emissions, Marshalls is proud to announce that We continue to commit to the principles the newly revised Issue 3.0, and with a including our supply chain. The policy requires Marshalls to: view to improving the overall environmental impact of those activities particularly in relation to Group targets. • Reduce our corporate Green House Gas (GHG) emissions by 34% by 2020 and 80% by 2050. These reductions are measured against a 1990 baseline. we are the first company in our sector of responsible sourcing, covering social, ‘Very Good’ rating, Marshalls has set a This policy applies to all Marshalls businesses and requires Marshalls to: • Our target for absolute GHG emissions until 2020 requires an annual reduction of 3.1% in GHG emissions. to be awarded BRE Global’s BES 6001 environmental and economic principles precedent for other companies to follow.” • Reduce the volume of mains and extracted borehole water to 0.05m3 per tonne of production by 2015, this will be reviewed during the year with new targets being set • Achieve a relative GHG emission target (excluding transport) of 7kgCO2e/tonne of production by 2015 and then reduce by 3% pa thereafter. Responsible Sourcing certificate, under of which this standard forms an important • Develop renewable projects that ensure we use 20% renewable energy in our • • Manage Biodiversity where appropriate against site specific Action Plans Reduce the weight of packaging per tonne of production by 2% per annum over a 3 year manufacturing operations by 2020. • Develop an adaptation and mitigation strategy for Climate Change and fossil fuel their new and more stringent standard part. David Morrell, Head of Sustainability at rolling cycle to a level where pack and product safety is not compromised • Reduce the % of total waste to landfill per production output by 3% per annum on a 3 year rolling average depletion. • Extend the coverage of the Energy Management System to include product carbon and have received a ‘Very Good’ Marshalls said: • Review the Group’s targets and Policy annually against business objectives and commitments given to industry initiatives and wider stakeholders. The review being footprints, supply chain emissions and GHG gasses other than CO2. • Comply with our legal obligation in the UK Government’s mandatory GHG reporting for performance rating. Katie Livesey, Head of Responsible “Marshalls is proud to be leading the publicly listed Companies undertaken by the Sustainability Team • Comply with our legal obligation within the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme, by gaining ISO50001 standard in 2015. Sourcing at BRE said: industry in responsible sourcing. We take Marshalls will continue to raise environmental awareness within the Group through the development and training of our employees and will communicate openly and consult with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders on relevant environmental matters. Marshalls’ Energy Strategy details group wide projects and investments; this includes a plan The scope of the certificate (RS0008) is for “BRE Global works to ensure products this issue extremely seriously and we of actions, timescales and resources up to 2020 to help us achieve our goals. Every Marshalls strives to protect and enhance biodiversity and natural habitats within our landholdings operational site has an energy action plan, which is maintained by the site and details a practical schedule of actions and investments. a range of concrete, UK quarried natural and services protect people, property and are constantly seeking ways to further where possible. We also recognise the need for sympathetic restoration and after-use of quarry and other operational sites and consider the character of the local environment and the concerns of the local community and other stakeholders when planning such matters. Signed by: stone paving and masonry products the planet. Many companies say they are enhance our sustainable credentials. Signed by: (Marshalls Stancliffe Stones). ‘green’, but these claims are not easily substantiated and often the result of “Not only is this a fantastic achievement Martyn Coffey, Chief Executive There are a number of key differences to common marketing tactics. for us, but it also offers our clients third Martyn Coffey, Chief Executive January 2015 January 2015 the revised certificate launched in May party assurance that they are working 2014 making the scheme a more robust “It is great to see companies like Marshalls with a responsible partner.” test of a product’s responsible sourcing embedding sustainability into the heart characteristics. of its business. As the first company in its sector to be awarded BES 6001 against 52 53 Environment Environment Environment Water Energy Marshalls is on track to reduce its water 1. Direct Operations Biodiversity Climate change is one of Marshalls’ KPIs In 2009, Marshalls announced carbon consumption of 0.053m3 per tonne of Carbon Reduction from the sustainable business model. footprints for all its commercial products, product by 2012. 2. Supply Chain Marshalls has drafted a biodiversity Marshalls has made a commitment to bringing the total carbon labelled 3. Watershed Management strategy, in consultation reduce emission of greenhouse gases products to over 2,000 commercial and Marshalls has committed to The 4. Collective Action with external stakeholders, Marshalls has already by 80% by 2050 by employing energy domestic hard landscaping products – the CEO Water Mandate, an initiative by documenting a systematic 5. Public Policy demonstrated good energy management systems, reviewing most of any company in the world at the business leaders in partnership with the approach to our legal, protection international community. Its structure, 6. Community Engagement and enhancement commitment management by achieving processes and keeping abreast of new time. Since then, Marshalls has continued covers six key areas in a comprehensive & Transparency to the biodiversity on its sites. The Carbon Trust Standard and technologies, reporting progress, and to work to reduce those product is now well equipped for the developing carbon tools to allow our footprints. approach to water management, which This strategy includes a priority Government’s Carbon Reduction customers to measure their impact. will develop Marshalls current water approach to defining appropriate Commitment Energy Efficiency management approach to flooding, sites together with evaluation of Scheme (CRC), which was water quality and drought management. the biodiversity ecosystem services launched in April 2010. delivered. Now in its fifth year, the Energy Management Steering Group promotes Marshalls’ carbon reduction policy throughout the organisation. Chaired by the Board Director Marshalls already voluntarily discloses information on its who reports on sustainability, the group meets quarterly to: greenhouse gas emissions, risks, Landscape House, Premier Way, • Identify current inefficiencies Lowfields Business Park, Elland, West Yorkshire HX5 9HT opportunities and plans via the T 01422 312000 F 01422 312999 • Advise on setting of company and site specific targets www.marshalls.co.uk Carbon Disclosure Project and Marshalls Mono Limited Registered Office: • Oversee training practices relevant to energy Birkby Grange, Birkby Hall Road The Prince’s May Day Network. Huddersfield HD2 2YA Registered in England No. 509579 A subsidiary of Marshalls plc The company is also addressing • Summarise progress for annual report and investors 31st December 2012 alternatives such as renewables, • Review energy management procedures Dear UN Global Compact Office THE CEO WATER MANDATE: MARSHALLS PLC as well as committing to Marshalls plc has been a UNGC signatory since early 2009. During the last four years the oganisation has very tangibly experienced the positive impact of UNGC engagement in a plethora of ways. Of key importance has been the development of our business strategy regarding the reducing consumption through a From the group, ideas and projects get filtered through sites and corporate teams to environmental principles, and also the resulting product development as we seek to contribute positively to the issues regarding water; namely drainage particularly in relation to the challenges posed by increasing urbanization. number of energy management a team of 60+ energy champions who are based on site. As a result I believe that the time is right for us to engage fully with The CEO Water Mandate. I recognize that the private sector has an important stake in helping to address the water challenges programmes. faced by the globe. Both myself, Marshalls board and senior management team, as well a great number of our employees, recognise that water stress is set to worsen in many parts of the world as a result of numerous factors including; urbanization, population growth, increasing food production, changes in consumption patterns, continued industrialization, water pollution and climate change. I understand that strategic frame work presented in The CEO Water Mandate is voluntary and aspirational and that it represents an excellent opportunity for Marshalls to engage, excel and make a positive contribution to the water challenges which are very real and set to worsen. With my full backing and commitment Marshalls is ready to embrace The CEO Water Mandate and to work in the six areas identified within the Mandate; Direct Operations; Supply Chain and Watershed management; Collective Action; Public Policy, Community Engagement; and MANAGEMENT BOARD Transparency. I look forward to sharing our progress in this area in our 2013 Communication on Progress. CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER Yours faithfully, Board Members Graham Holden CEO Marshalls plc ENERGY MANAGEMENT STEERING GROUP CHAIR Energy Management Coordinator Site/Regional/Business Managers Corporate Team Members Waste Reduction & Packaging SITES/REGIONS During 2014 Marshalls continued to measure the amount of waste leaving site and SITE/REGIONAL ENERGY CHAMPIONS ENERGY WORKING GROUPS is on track to achieve its aim of reducing wate by 3% per annum averaged over a Site Staff three year period. The target for packaging is to reduce by 2% per annum over a three year period. The Company continues to carefully monitor the sourcing of timber by pallet suppliers having worked with them to achieve Forestry Stewardship Counsel accreditation at the end of 2009. 54 55 Environment Environment Targets TARGETS 2014 TARGETS 2015 To reduce emissions of CO2 in line To reduce emissions of CO2 in line with Government targets; 80% by with Government targets; 80% by 2050 and 34% by 2020. 2050 and 34% by 2020. Carbon footprinting of 500 Carbon footprinting of 500 consumer products and 1565 Out with the old and in with the new fleet consumer products and 1565 commercial paving products. commercial paving products. Since September 2013 the Marshalls fleet of LGVs has undergone a complete change, All of the equipment has been specifically designed around Marshalls’ requirements and 'Relative CO2 per making way for new, state-of-the-art vehicles and equipment. The old, outgoing fleet has many safety and efficiency factors have been engineered into the design. The industryproduction tonnage Uphold the BITC May Day Network done a sterling service with some running at leading design is being copied by other excluding transport' Uphold the BITC May Day Network pledges. pledges. 750,000km, however trailers and cranes are also companies and has certainly created interest being traded in for newer models as the fleet from other parties, including the HSE who have reaches ten years old and past its best. asked to use the equipment as an example of best practice. The new equipment is certainly fit for purpose Marshalls Energy Savings Week. and will give Marshalls a competitive edge. In total, 95 new trucks, 25 new drawbars, The fleet offers fantastic load carrying 138 new trailers and 128 new cranes have capability and product handling capability. hit the road and 11 of the new trucks will be The new vehicles are also fuel efficient which is showcased at TruckFest, Europe’s largest Truck Reduce use of water from mains Reduce use of water from mains incredibly important in terms of running costs, Festival held in Peterborough. and licensed boreholes to 0.05m3 and licensed boreholes to 0.05m3 making them more cost effective than the per tonne of production by 2015. per tonne of production by 2015. outgoing fleet. Develop biodiversity plans for all Brookfoot and the Minerals division appropriate sites. Implement biodiversity plans at selected sites. welcome Withinfields Primary School Brookfoot and the Minerals division welcomed 80 pupils aged seven to nine from Withinfields Primary School on 16th June. Reduce by 3% the total wasteReduce by 3% the total wasteto-landfill per production output to-landfill per production output The children were taken on a tour of the site per annum on 3 year rolling per annum on 3 year rolling and learnt all about the site’s operations, average. Reduce by 2% per tonne average. Reduce by 2% per tonne including watching the robot making concrete paving flags. of production output per annum of production output per annum over a 3 year cycle to a level where over a 3 year cycle to a level where Special thanks to David Smith and Bob England pack and product safety is not pack and product safety is not for their help on the day. The children, who compromised. compromised. were learning about Geology at the time, had been asked to write about their experience and it seems they were very impressed with their visit to Marshalls. To the right is just one of the letters the site received. 56 57 Anti-Corruption Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice 68% Reviewing Feedback & Developing Our Delivering Best Legal Compliance Approach Practice The UK Bribery Act 2010 came into force on 1st July 2011. It amends and reforms UK criminal law and provides a modern legal framework Throughout 2011 there was great focus by to combat bribery in the UK and internationally. the UNGC UK Network on Anti-Corruption with a number of events and speakers attending education events open to The Bribery Act creates the following offences: UK Network members. Marshalls took advantage of these opportunities with a range of individuals from within the 1 Active bribery: promising or giving a organisation attending and reporting back. financial or other advantage. The UNGC tenth principle commits signatories not only to actively avoid bribery, extortion and other forms of 2 Passive bribery: agreeing to receive or corruption but to develop policies and concrete programmes to address accepting a financial or other advantage. corruption and related risks. Marshalls understands that bribery is not 3 a victimless crime and that it discourages Bribery of foreign public officials. developmentally effective trade and siphons off funds away from projects designed to help the most disadvantaged. It tarnishes reputations, drains corporate 4 The failure of commercial organisations motivation and distorts competition. to prevent bribery by an associated person (corporate offence). Marshalls’ procurement policy can be viewed at: www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability 58 59 Anti Bribery Code Anti-Corruption Targets 1. In this Code, “Marshalls” means Marshalls any employee involved. Any activity or bribery and corruption. It will select business plc and its subsidiary companies. behaviour by an employee that is unlawful partners who have adopted similar policies or prohibited by this Code will constitute and objectives and will avoid doing business 2. Marshalls is committed to conducting its business with the utmost integrity and in gross misconduct and may result in with those who act unlawfully or in a way TARGETS 2014 TARGETS 2014 dismissal. Employees may be suspended that is not consistent with ethical business accordance with the principles set out in the while investigations are carried out. principles. UK Bribery Act 2010. • Employees who engage or do business Make the Procurement Policy Develop procurement for Marshalls plc is a signatory of the UN Global Statement available online. sustainability strategy which has with third parties who act on behalf of 6. Monitoring and Compliance Compact, which informs and governs the anti-corruption measures woven Marshalls or represent Marshalls should way in which we do business. Marshalls • The Board of Marshalls plc has approved throughout. ensure that this Code is drawn to their expects its employees and business partners this Anti-Bribery Code and will set standards attention. Marshalls expects such third to respect and support our core values of in relation to its principles and their parties to comply with this Code and with trust, honesty and integrity and to recognise application across the Marshalls Group. Brief the procurement department Develop and publish sustainable the applicable law relating to bribery. and implement this Code. on the UNGC and specifically the procurement guidance. • Marshalls reserves the right to terminate • The Audit Committee of the Board will Anti-Corruption principles. 3. Marshalls does not tolerate the offering, review procedures across the Group and will immediately any contract or business giving, requesting, receiving or acceptance monitor their effectiveness. relationship with any agent, consultant, or of bribes in any form. other business intermediary where bribery • Designated individuals within each Engage procurement personnel Ensure that this guidance is A bribe is a financial payment or other form has occurred. business area, together with the Company in UNGC activities. circulated to all suppliers. of reward that is intended to induce or Secretary (who oversees day to day influence an individual, company or public compliance) have responsibility for the body to perform their functions improperly. 4. Our Policies and Procedures implementation and development of such Produce an Anti-Corruption Ensure that this guidance is This may include showing partiality, acting Marshalls has adopted policies and procedures. Guidance Document for multiple made publicly available for all in bad faith or acting in a way that is procedures intended to address the stakeholders. stakeholders. inconsistent with a position of trust. • All employees have an obligation to potential risk of bribery and corruption. comply with this Code and support and Bribes, for the purpose of this Policy, include These include:promote its principles in their business facilitation payments, kickbacks and any Make the Anti-Corruption Guidance Continue to undertake a series • The Group Procurement Policy Statement; function. other reward, favour or payment designed to Document available online. of face-to-face briefing and induce or influence the recipient to perform • The Code of Ethics; 7. Any employee having a question or workshops with key suppliers. his or her functions improperly. concern in relation to this Code, the • Guidance on hospitality and gifts, and administration of Marshalls policies and In the case of a foreign public official, it is the maintenance of a hospitality and gifts procedures designed to prevent bribery, Ensure the Anti-Corruption Communicate Marshalls Antinot permitted to offer a payment or other register; or any issue where guidance is sought on Guidance Document is part of the Bribary policy internally and reward to a foreign public official that may • The Serious Concerns Policy. a particular set of circumstances may raise procurement policy process. externally. influence that official to give an advantage it with their line manager or the Company These are regularly reviewed and updated, to our business, whether or not intended to Secretary (Cathy Baxandall, Birkby Grange, and should be read together with this induce improper performance. Birkby Hall Road, Huddersfield HD2 2YA: Code. This Code and these policies can be Hospitality designed to improve business Tel: 01484 438930: email cathy.baxandall@ Communicate with all existing Continue to review and develop accessed via the Marshalls intranet. The relations which is proportionate to the marshalls.co.uk) suppliers regarding the anti-bribary processes and hospitality and gifts register is maintained circumstances and which is not for an Anti-Corruption Guidance procedures. at Birkby Grange (contact Gillian Harley/Jill 8. Any employee who suspects that bribery improper purpose is not usually regarded as Document. Bedford). has occurred or that there has been any a bribe. Further guidance can be found in other breach of this Code should report it Among our procedures to mitigate risk are the Procurement Policy Statement and the in accordance with the procedure in the Identify key overseas partners/ the following:Hospitality Guidelines. Serious Concerns Policy so that it can be suppliers and undertake face-to• Supplier and customer risk assessments; face briefing/working sessions to No employee, agent, consultant or business formally investigated. intermediary acting for Marshalls may offer, • Training for employees and those working identify areas of risk and to develop Adopted by the Board on 5 October 2011. give, request, receive or accept any bribes, for Marshalls or representing Marshalls in a appropriate plans. Graham Holden whether directly or indirectly. business capacity ; Chief Executive Chairman • Written commitments from those we work Review and develop anti corruption with to engage with the principles in this processes and procedures What does this mean for me? Code. • Any alleged or suspected incident of 5. Marshalls will work with its business bribery will result in a formal investigation, partners worldwide to develop and improve and may result in disciplinary action for good practice and to seek to eliminate 60 61 Business in the Community Business in the Community Business Class programme Business in the Community is the Prince's What is Business Class? Responsible Business Network. Many young people struggle to learn about employment opportunities available BITC members work together to tackle The BITC are a business-led charity to them and develop the necessary skills a wide range of issues that are essential with more than 30 years' experience of and behaviour to access them. 30% of UK to creating a fairer society and a more mobilising business. It engages thousands employers say a lack of skills contributes to sustainable future. of businesses through our programmes unfilled vacancies. driven through a core membership of more than 800 organisations from small Without good role models, high quality enterprises to global corporations. work experience and encouragement there is a huge risk that an ever increasing group of young people in the UK will fail to build successful working lives. Working together to take action. Students from Park Lane High School in Halifax BITC offers a range of practical ways for businesses to work together and take action to help tackle some of the key issues facing society. So why are we doing this? So who is getting involved? Environment Employment For Marshalls, contributing to our local There are currently 10 sites/teams Using our natural resources more Helping people overcome communities is an element of our involved in the programme from Falkirk Adrian Briggs, Sales Office Manager – sustainably. disadvantage by increating access to commitment to our corporate social down to Sittingbourne. Marshalls Street Furniture, sustainable, good employment responsibility agenda. Externally, Business Class Mentor Employees our brand is very much positioned around families including children so “Over the last three years I Ensuring that age, gender, health Enterprise What kinds of things are have been involved with the our involvement in the Business in the and race do not limit an employee's Creating jobs and vibrant communities Community Business Class programme volunteers doing? mentoring programme and engagement and success in the by supporting small, local businesses. enables team members to connect with • Mentoring young people to help also ran a careers day at Park Lane High workplace. this agenda. support career aspirations School, Halifax. Education For employees, it’s not just about • Bringing the curriculum to life such “Before the first meeting at the school I was Ensuring a young person's success at giving something back outside of the as learning about innovation from apprehensive with how the programme school and beyond is not determined company, but there is the opportunity our marketing team and seeing our would work and what it could achieve. I by their social background. for volunteers to share their expertise commercial products at West Lane thought it may be difficult to gain the trust and equally develop new skills to bring and enthusiasm of the children involved. back into their team. Many volunteers • Delivering talks on what employers are However the initial meeting changed my find this both personally fulfilling and looking for such as good attendance views entirely. I find the enthusiasm and it also enhances the skills and talents and a positive attitude confidence in the children infectious and it of our teams to continue to perform at • Preparing students for the world has assisted me in the direction required. their best. of work to take them through It’s interesting to understand the children’s recruitment and practice interviews ambitions and try to nurture those ambitions to become a realistic plan. • Supported work experience opportunities “The programme has improved each year • Run enterprise/engineering with further sessions and structure and competitions such as designing a I’m sure this year will be very successful for bollard both the children and the mentors.” 62 63 Equality & Diversity The Marshalls Way to Employee Engagement Marshalls’ success is without doubt due and that we strive to deliver each day. There is a dedicated resource within Marshalls’ Through our employee ‘Options’ to its people. Our business is built on They help to ensure that we all treat human resources team which focuses specifically platform we offer a wide range our values of leadership, trust, excellent each other with respect; recognising & of employee-focused benefits & sustainability. These are the high honouring the talents of each individual. on co-ordinating and framing employee including Childcare Vouchers, expectations that we set for ourselves engagement activities through local management plus access to other benefits such as the ‘Cycle to Work’ Scheme. teams and employee focus groups. Celebrating a quarter of a century Through our intranet, monthly product developments, sales successes, newsletters, site notice boards and regular partnership activities, UN Global Compact face-to-face briefings we communicate support, the Dignity at Work programme Marshalls operates a structured Employees celebrating 25 years at all aspects of progress, including and the Group’s overall performance. consultative and collaborative Marshalls are as follows: interactions with recognised trade unions and our broader Paul Andrews BLEADON Matthew Manley Ian Aspinall HALIFAX BROOKFOOT employee base. In 2013 a three year agreement, covering pay and So why is employee engagement key Robert Barlow RAMSBOTTOM Gary Marsland HALIFAX Mark Bell HALIFAX Fiona McLeay FALKIRK employment terms throughout to delivering our growth agenda? Kevin O’Donoghue James Binns HALIFAX BROOKFOOT the 2013 2015 period, was David Blackburn EAGLESCLIFFE George Parkinson HALIFAX successfully negotiated with Mark Blay LANDSCAPE Iain Pritchard RAMSBOTTOM elected representatives and full HOUSE Michael Quinn How do people become engaged? This year 39 employees are celebrating 25 years “We have seen the company change from a RAMSBOTTOM time officers. at Marshalls. Their hard work and commitment family run business to a PLC and survive through Nigel Buchan HALIFAX There are a number of key ingredients. Tracy Carney LANDSCAPE John Rawden LOGISTICS has been celebrated at the annual Long Service two recessions in the 1990s and the most recent HOUSE Neil Regan BROOKFOOT In particular, visible leaders who clearly presentation which took place at Bertie’s one. When speaking to people, one common Grant Davidson HALIFAX Lee Robinson communicate where we are going as a Restaurant near our head office in Elland. thought was that Marshalls had given them and Jonathan Gadd LOCHARBRIGGS STONE business and how we are performing, their families stability and a good standard of LANDSCAPE HOUSE Patricia Scott Patricia SANDY Anne Payne involving everyone in having a say in how The employees have accumulated an incredible living over the last 25 years.” Stephen Garside HALL INGS Gary Taylor WEST LANE Human Marshalls is run and ensuring our values Marshalls’ ‘Serious Concerns 975 years of service between them and were Christopher Gaukroger John Taylor WEST LANE Resources Policy’ provides a framework for BROOKFOOT and behaviours are understood and lived presented with a well deserved gold watch and John Thomas WEST LANE Manager – certificate by Chief Executive Martyn Coffey. Martyn Coffey said: “The long service awards Dean Gibson BROOKFOOT Lawrence Thomas Employee by each of us. Having managers who bring employees to raise any matters is a truly fantastic event as it gives us the Richard Goldspink EAGLESCLIFFE Engagement. out the best in their team members, listen of concern confidentially BROOKFOOT Stephen Garside, Software opportunity to thank in person all those John Topping LANDSCAPE to them and give them feedback on how and securely and ensure that Roy Gurney SANDY HOUSE Developer and Business Analyst individuals who have played such an important Many organisations recognise they are doing, is largely important in Gary Haigh HALIFAX Robert Truman STOKE HALL any matters raised are fully said: “We had a great day, with part in the success of our business, and who we that employee engagement influencing whether someone feels able to the chance to catch up with colleagues from hope will remain with us for many more years Richard Hooper MARKETING QUARRY investigated. SUPPORT Lee Whitton BROOKFOOT is a key business agenda perform at their best. around the business and the opportunity to to come. I would like to take this opportunity to reflect on our time at Marshalls. thank them all for their years of hard work and Gary Humphries SANDY Brian Young FALKIRK and that their efforts to Barry Leonard SANDY dedication.” engage their employees have created a So what are we doing about it? competitive advantage. I work alongside many management teams • Companies in the top 25% of and employee groups to help create an engagement scores grow sales much environment where people really do want Marshalls has fair and merit-based employment The high proportion of male employees is due more successfully than those in the to go the extra mile. Over the last year it policies and adheres to all relevant legislation, to the sector in which we operate, which has bottom quartile. has been great to hear people say they feel including measures for the effective prevention been traditionally male oriented. In striving for a • Almost two thirds of employees who they have been listened to and involved of discrimination against individuals with better workplace for all and sustainable business, protected characteristics under the 2010 Equality we are committed to making a positive impact feel engaged said their job brings out in making changes and improvements in Act. Full and fair consideration is given to all towards improving gender balance. It is also our their creative and innovative skills their own teams and that it is making a applications from individuals with recognised intention to complete a Women’s Empowerment significantly more than employees who difference. The team leader development disabilities and we ensure that all applicants Principles audit during 2015. programme is something that will feel disengaged. are provided with equal opportunity for particularly have a positive impact on our employment and career development. Training • Organisations in the top 25% of business performance. is offered and where possible, adjustments are employee engagement scores are far made to ensure that employees with disabilities, or those who become disabled whilst in our more productive than those in the employ, are not disadvantaged in the workplace. bottom 25%. 64 65 Best Companies Survey Best Companies Update and our Employee A fantastic Response and a Great Result Engagement Priorities for 2014 In 2014 Marshalls participated in the Best Companies The Best Companies Employee Engagement Survey helps Workplace Engagement Survey for the third time. us gauge how involved and engaged our employees feel in comparison with similar–sized businesses to our own. 70% of employees participated and the results showed continued progress against previous targets and provided valuable data and employee Having every team member fully engaged is The results from this survey were generally commentary on all areas of the business where focused action plans were critical for us to deliver our growth agenda more positive than the previous year with developed for the following year. across Marshalls. This overview of the key some really good feedback on the areas we messages employees have given us at Group have given most focus; visible leadership, Level and to communicate clearly what we will management style and personal growth. Your be focusing on over the forthcoming months. feedback is as valuable as ever, whether in terms of what you would like to see happening at Group level or closer to home in your own teams. So, what have you told us and what are we doing about it? In addition to these priorities we are also; • Developing our values framework so that You’ve told us... So what are we doing? everyone understands the behaviours we need to demonstrate to deliver our business in line Group-wide communications programme with the ‘Marshalls Way’. • Many of you would like to hear even more from our • One of our most important and ambitious priorities As ever, what happens closer to home always has leaders in the business in terms of the Company’s is to extend our existing internal communications the most effect, so please take the chance to get priorities and how we are performing. to as many of our 2,000 plus employees within involved in developing some actions that will make • You would like to know who the senior leaders the business as possible, to ensure that everyone a real difference to the team in which you work. are and know that they are interested in what is understands what we are trying to achieve as a Please look out for the posters on our Group notice I’m delighted that, thanks At Group level employees have told us happening in local teams at local sites. company and know how we are performing against boards giving you some further information over Kevin Hull to feedback from the that they feel more positive about every the objectives we set ourselves for 2014. the next few weeks. Group Human survey, Best Companies has category in the survey, including how they • Following the focus groups we ran to discuss how we Regards, Anne Payne Human Resources Manager – Resources Director accredited Marshalls as a see the leadership of the company, the can best communicate Group-wide information, we Employee Engagement have made changes to TalkBack and put more than ‘One to Watch’ company. management style of our managers and 30 notice boards up across our sites. Each site also team leaders and also that they have had has a number of media folders to promote projects This means we’ve improved our overall more opportunities to learn and grow and where we have created better spaces. score from last year (616.2 vs 599.1) and that this continues to be an area of real • More senior managers are regularly undertaking Visible Felt Leadership walkabouts to promote good equalled our original accreditation back at interest to many employees. health and safety practices and take the opportunity the end of 2011 – but with a higher score. to talk to team members across their sites. As always there are variances across the That’s a great result for everyone in the company, so we have started to feedback Focusing on our managers and team leaders company, particularly given we now have the headline results to business areas. This 74% of colleagues involved in the survey will give our people the opportunity to • More of you feel positive about your relationship • We will continue to support our managers with your manager; for others, there’s room for in further improving their management compared to just 43% the last time we get involved and have a say about what improvement in terms of managers listening skills with more than 95 team leaders on were classed as a ‘One to Watch’. action they would like to see in their local more actively and being a good role model for our manufacturing sites taking part in a teams. those around them. development programme. • We have also launched our Manager’s Learning Every time employees complete a survey Zone (MLZ) that has a range of materials they provide us with an opportunity guidebooks, tip sheets and e-learning modules to get ‘under the skin’ of Marshalls and – designed to provide support and information really understand what’s important to to both new and established managers. Regular bulletins signpost managers to relevant ‘bundles’. them, how they feel about the company, whatthey want to see more of and so on. Embedding performance and development reviews We pay real attention to what employees • More of you want to have constructive, • Continued focus will be given to ensuring tell us – good and bad. two-way conversations about work and everyone has the opportunity for a discussion your personal development. about their performance and development and • You want a good conversation with your managers are working hard to ensure any agreed manager where you feel listened to. actions are put in place. • We need to understand our skills and talents as a business and ensure everyone performs consistently at their best. 66 67 Training & Development Health & Safety Marshalls is committed to Investors in People and to Our internal Safety, Health & Incident Prevention supporting employees through NVQ accreditation. (SHIP) teams consist of employee representatives and managers and are the cornerstone of the safety management system at site level. The SHIP teams meet regularly to at the end of 2014 all but one site held Employee support and develop our safety this accreditation. The organisation’s programme. Marshalls’ operating sites Health & Safety Policy sets out the Manufacturing Diplomas have been progressively implementing principles regarding the health and Integrated Management Registration safety of employees and performance Stuart Bravington, Business Improvement systems accredited by the British is monitored by the Board on a monthly Manager and Stuart Brown, Site Production Standard Institution incorporating basis with (name) being responsible for Manager at Ramsbottom have been Stuart Bravington said: “The diploma enabled me the Occupational Health and Safety Health & Safety. awarded the Diploma in Manufacturing at to look at things through different eyes. Because Accreditation Standard 18001-2007; their graduation ceremony at Manchester the modules were work-based, most of them have University. had a direct impact on the business, which is fantastic. The people development skills I learned were a big win and I was able to apply that The diploma is quality assured by the Marshalls remains committed to meeting The headline target for 2014 was a 10% university and delivered by the prestigious back into the workplace.” the highest safety standards for all its reduction in days lost resulting from Manufacturing Institute. It is designed to employees, to reinforce and develop workplace incidents against 2013. The help manufacturers fast track their careers Stuart Brown said: “The diploma has proved invaluable to me. It has its safety processes, and to develop a actual reductions achieved were: and boost productivity and profits in their benefited me personally as I was promoted within the first six months competent workforce with a view to companies. Both have been able to apply of the course. We are now planning to implement my diploma project achieving long term improvement gains, • 29.6% reduction in days lost resulting their studies to improvement projects at and this remains a key priority for the from workplace incidents which will lead to a more cost-effective method of manufacturing one Marshalls. of our premium products and will enable us to extend this product business. Achievement of annual Health • 9.9% reduction in all incident range. The return on investment is expected to take less than three and Safety improvement targets is directly frequency rate linked to the remuneration of the Executive weeks. I couldn’t recommend the course highly enough.” Directors and senior management, as • 41% reduction in lost time incidents (LTI’s) recorded explained in the Remuneration Report. Also, congratulations to Jessica Judd, National Technical Assistant at Premier • 8.3% reduction in incidents reportable Mortars, Ramsbottom who has gained her university certificate in Concrete to the HSE under the Reporting of Technology. Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrence Regulations (RIDDOR) The primary target for 2015 will again be a 10% reduction year on year in days lost resulting from workplace accidents. Table 1 below shows the KPIs used by the Group to monitor performance, and progress against those KPIs over the last 5 years. Table 1 Incident Frequency and Severity 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Rates (per 100,000 hrs worked) All Incidents 9.49 8.32 6.95 6.56 5.91 All Lost Time Incidents 1.60 1.55 1.40 1.22 0.72 All RIDDORs 0.94 0.81 0.61 0.36 0.33 All Days Lost 14.76 20.44 13.45 11.46 8.07 Images: receiving their awards from left Stuart Bravington, Stuart Brown and Jessica Judd. Average UK headcount 2,391 2,456 2,252 2,055 2,132 68 69 Third Party Recognition Third Party Recognition and Awards and Awards Independent third party scrutiny and verification is a key Auditing Accreditation component to Marshalls’ approach to business, as is award In the past, Marshalls has worked with Marshalls only works with reputable and generally recognised auditors for its work reliable suppliers in terms of accreditation. recognition from external bodies. It is of great importance in India. Whilst working in India however, to Marshalls that the awards entered both showcase and Marshalls found it really needed to work challenge the company’s pioneering approach. with auditors with specialist knowledge of trade unions and ILO (International Ongoing Stakeholder Labour Organisation) standards. The auditing process for Marshalls is not just Consultation about hitting the baseline and doing the Marshalls would like to thank all of its minimum, it’s about going the extra mile stakeholders who had input into this and ensuring the process is as thorough third UNGC Communication on Progress, and rigorous as possible. Marshalls’ namely Marshalls’ employees, customers, PRECAST SECTOR SUSTAINABILITY CHARTER supply chain strategy follows the ETI Base suppliers, partnerss and NGOs. We congratulate Business in the Community Environment Index 2014 Code, which is based on the International MARSHALLS PLC Labour Organisation’s Conventions. In Marshalls plc embedding the Base Code in the supply 2014 COP Feedback For meeting the requirements of the chain Marshalls has implemented PRECAST SUSTAINABILITY CHARTER and being awarded the status of processes to ensure compliance and Survey Business in the Community congratulates improvement. As a valued stakeholder Marshalls would CHARTER MEMBER Marshalls very much appreciate your feedback and Valid until July 2015 Marshalls employs full time social auditors comments on its 2014 Communication For the achievement of in both India and China. Working on on Progress (COP.) You may be aware that .................................................. Andy Dix ................................................... Andrew Minson Platinum status & the ground alongside quarry & factory Marshalls became a signatory of the UNGC President Executive Director Significant Improver owners, managers, workers, unions and in January 2009. Our commitment to the .................................................. Sponsored by Asda Stores non-governmental organisations, the UNGC requires that we submit an annual Norman Richards auditor ensures all areas of the ETI Base COP to the UN office in New York. This and Sustainability Charter Auditor/Administrator DATE: 04 08 14 Code are upheld. all other COPs can be found in at Mark Price Stephen Howard Chairman Business in the Community Chief Executive Business in the Community www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability/ BITC CR Index Marshalls works with Just Solutions in publications order to gain a consistent approach to British PreCast BITC Environment Index auditing its supplier network and ensure Our 2009 COP received a ‘notable’ status Marshalls Going for Gold supply chains remain ethical and best from the UNGC, an acknowledgement For the third year running Marshalls has practice is shared where possible. Led by made to only a small percentage of achieved a Gold ranking in the BITC CR expert supply chain auditing specialist signatories. We will make this 2014 COP’s Index. The BITC CR Index is the UK’s leading Stirling Smith, Just Solutions is an SAI available for UNGC UK Network peer and most in-depth voluntary benchmark listed consultant who works to develop review again this year. We are particularly of corporate responsibility. Developed and extend the SA8000 standard and the keen to gain frank feedback from a range in consultation with business leaders, of our stakeholders as we further engage ETI Base Code. The company relies upon the first CR Index survey was launched the hard core of convinced companies to in a drive for corporate sustainability in 2002. In addition to it being a public exercise in transparency the Index was engage stakeholders and professionals leadership throughout 2015 and beyond. created as a robust tool to help companies together in an agreed programme. systematically measure, manage and If you wish to take part in our COP integrate responsible business practice. Audits are carried out at least annually, feedback survey please email: elaine@ It was Marshalls’ goal to attain a CR Index by a two-person team over two days. marshalls.co.uk Gold by 2012 which was achieved a A qualified Marshalls assessor goes to year early and it is a real achievement to India and China five to six times a year maintain this high ranking. to audit informally. If non-compliance is found, an action plan is agreed to ensure rectification takes place and this is followed up by an external audit. BES 6001 Reponsible Sourcing 70 71 GRI Performance GRI Performance Indicators Indicators GRI Indicator Indicator Description UNGC COP Element GRI 3.1 Disclosure Addressed EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other Governance, Profile Disclosure 4.1 – Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the Actions Taken to Implement community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Commitments highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational Principles 1-10 and Engagement oversight EC3 Coverage of the organisations defined benefits plan obligations. Profile Disclosure 4.2 – Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Profile Disclosure 4.3 – For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Profile Disclosure 4.4 – Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. Governance, Profile Disclosure 4.14 – List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Sharing the COP with the Company’s Commitments Profile Disclosure 4.15 – Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Stakeholders LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. and Engagement HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the Economic Disclosure on Management Approach – Economic Actions Taken to Implement effective abolition of child labour. Provide a concise disclosure on the following Management Approach items: goals and Principles performance; policy; additional contextual information. 1, 4, 6 and 7 HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. EC1 – Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, No Specific COP Requirement employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subjected to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. payments to capital providers and governments. EC3 – Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations No Specific COP Requirement UNGC Commitment Indicators Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach – Environmental Actions Taken to Implement Provide a concise disclosure on the following Management Approach items: goals and Principles performance; policy; organizational responsibility; training and awareness; monitoring and follow7, 8 and 9 UNGC COP Element up; additional contextual information. GRI 3.1 Disclosure Addressed Strategy and Statement of Continuing EN8 – Total water withdrawal by source Outcomes from Implementing Profile Disclosure 1.1 – Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or Analysis Support Principle 8 equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy EN18 – Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved Actions Taken and Outcomes from Organisational Profile Disclosure 2.1 – Name of the organization No Specific COP Implementing Principles 7, 8 and 9 Profile Profile Disclosure 2.2 – Primary brands, products, and/or services Requirement EN22 – Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Outcomes from Implementing Profile Disclosure 2.3 – Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, Principle 8 subsidiaries, and joint ventures Profile Disclosure 2.4 – Location of organization’s headquarters Profile Disclosure 2.5 – Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with Labor Practices and Disclosure on Management Approach – Labor Practices and Decent Work Actions Taken to Implement either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report Decent Work Provide a concise disclosure on the following Management Approach items: goals and Principles Profile Disclosure 2.6 – Nature of ownership and legal form performance; policy; organizational responsibility; training and awareness; monitoring and follow1, 3 and 6 Profile Disclosure 2.7 – Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of up; additional contextual information. customers/beneficiaries) Profile Disclosure 2.8 – Scale of the reporting organization LA1 – Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region No Specific COP Requirement Profile Disclosure 2.9 – Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership Profile Disclosure 2.10 – Awards received in the reporting period LA4 – Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Outcomes from Implementing Principles 1 and 3 Profile Disclosure 3.1 – Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided No Specific COP Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach – Human Rights Actions Taken to Implement Profile Disclosure 3.2 – Date of most recent previous report (if any) Requirement Provide a concise disclosure on the following Management Approach items: goals and Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 Profile Disclosure 3.3 – Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) performance; policy; organizational responsibility; training and awareness; monitoring and followProfile Disclosure 3.4 – Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents up; additional contextual information. Profile Disclosure 3.5 – Process for defining report content Profile Disclosure 3.6 – Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers) HR6 – Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor and measures to Actions Taken to Implement Profile Disclosure 3.7 – State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report contribute to eliminate child labor Principles 1, 2 and 5 Profile Disclosure 3.8 – Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between HR7 – Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Actions Taken to Implement organizations and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Principles 1, 2 and 4 Profile Disclosure 3.10 – Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subjected to human rights Actions Taken to Implement Profile Disclosure 3.11 – Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or reviews and/or impact assessments. Principles 1, 2, 4 and 5. measurement methods applied in the report Marshalls has endeavoured to ensure that all images contained within this publication adhere to its CRBP Universal Marketing & Advertising Policy and Code of Conduct. 72 73 For more information on Marshalls, visit www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability Marshalls plc, Birkby Grange, Birkby Hall Road, Birkby, Huddersfield, HD2 2YA Telephone: 01484 438900 www.marshalls.co.uk ©COPYRIGHT MARSHALLS APRIL 2015
