Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Report 2014 Message from the President Message from the Chief 3 4 6 LATAM Airlines Group of the Board of Directors Executive Officer (CEO) 12 Corporate governance 18 Financial results 23 Clients 27 Environment 37 Society 46 Our staff 52 Management 2014 Awards 55 GRI CONTENTS 62 LETTER OF ASSURANCE 63 Credits Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Message from the We at LATAM Airlines Group have our roots and our identity grounded in Latin America. Leaders Sustainability is built into our strategy, and we have defined three points for its management that will President of the and key players in the Latin American aviation help us to accomplish our growth objective. The industry, and the only group of airlines in the world first, governance, encompasses the implementation Board of Directors that operates in seven domestic markets within the of compliance and risk management policies. The same region – Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, second, climate change, involves setting up an Ecuador, Paraguay and Peru — we want to keep environmental management system and adopting expanding the flow and possibilities of passenger measures to reduce and control our impact on the G4-1, 2, 15, 16 and freight transportation on the continent, environment. And the third, corporate citizenship, facilitating its integration, economic growth and aims to steer our social investments towards cultural enrichment. projects with high impact results that have a direct bearing on our business. In 2014, we established the guidelines that we will be following in years to come. We have defined In 2014 we registered some outstanding Knowing that we are among the best and largest an ambitious aspiration for 2018: to be one of the achievements in sustainability. LATAM Airlines global airlines requires not just good business results, three biggest airlines in the world. To this end, we Group reached the world level on the Dow Jones but also a solid reputation and consistent sociohave built five strategic pillars, set forth in detail in Sustainability Index (DJSI), distinguishing itself with environmental practices that generate real value this report, and defined the principles of the the best performance in the industry in terms for all of our stakeholders. And this vision is fully Group Culture, creating a corporate identity of ecoefficiency and climate change. Another integrated with our goals. with unique values. very important advance was the reduction of approximately 300 thousand tons of greenhouse gas We are fully confident in both our growth as well emissions, the result of our efficiency programs. We as the development of the countries where we have also evolved in our management in this field, operate. Because of this, we maintain high levels increasing our transparency still further, as proven of investment, notable among them, our fleet plan, by our results in the Global Compact protocol, Global which calls for a contribution of over US$ 12 billion Reporting Initiative (GRI), Carbon Disclosure Program between 2014 and 2020. (CDP) and GHG Protocol. Mauricio Amaro President of the Board 3 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Message from the The consolidation of LATAM Airlines Group as the best aviation group in Latin America has been our Chief Executive priority focus in recent years, and we have worked towards this goal in a consistent and disciplined Officer (CEO) of fashion. We have achieved major advances on this path, and although it took longer than we expected to accomplish results, we also know that the merger LATAM Airlines of LAN and TAM was the most strategic decision we have made with a view to the long term. Beyond Group this, we have the firm conviction that LATAM Airlines Group is the best prepared airline group to confront a variety of scenarios, since we have a position in the region that is unique in the world. G4-1, 2, 15, 16 contact with passengers. Our goal is for passengers delivering a differentiated value to clients, constantly All this is the result of many years of work, and to be served simply, transparently and with total surpassing our competitors. demonstrates that we are on the right road to reach independence. Along the same lines, we are working our objective, which is to position LATAM Airlines to migrate to a new and unique brand, as well as As an organization, we have always worked to be Group as one of the three most important airline to develop a unified culture, product and value the best option for anyone traveling in, to or from groups in the world by 2018. To achieve this goal, proposal, which will enable LATAM Airlines Group to South America, striving unceasingly to upgrade our we have drawn up a strategic plan based on critical be perceived as a truly unique airline. connectivity and strengthen our network. At the success factors that make the most of our strengths global level, there is no other group of airlines that and our great potential. We are convinced that our people comprise the has a presence in seven domestic markets on one strongest differential for achieving these objectives. single continent, as we do, to which are added our Our strategy has as its fundamental focus constant We have a team of passionate people focused on regional, international and freight operations. To make improvement of the customer experience at every building a common culture, which is the basis for the most of this potential, we are working to increase stage of the journey, always seeking to differentiate all of our operations, and is centered on safety connectivity within South America and strengthen ourselves in terms of service. In this context, we are for the customer, in the work of our team and our hubs in the region, especially at Guarulhos approving investments of more than US$ 100 million in our experience in all spheres. This is how our International Airport in São Paulo – main entranceway to expedite the use of technology at all points of organization has aligned itself with the goal of to South America -as well as in Brasília and Lima. 4 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Add to this the redefinition of our cost structure, of pride, for it confirms our day-to-day commitment people who work in the different countries where we through which we endeavor to improve to all our stakeholders to build an airline that is operate, who have delivered their best to contribute competitiveness and streamline the organization, transparent and responsible in economic, social and to the consolidation of this historic Latin American increasing flexibility and speed of decision making; environmental terms. aviation project. And finally, I would like to encourage we have undertaken to work more simply in a culture you to keep on working with the same passion and of greater austerity. The goal is to reduce total We realize that the coming years will be complex commitment to make LATAM Airlines Group one of costs by approximately US$ 800 million by 2018, and challenging in our region, impacted by lower the three most important airline groups in the world. the equivalent of almost 5% of annual expenditures economic growth and steep currency devaluations. by LATAM Airlines Group, a savings added to the However, we are convinced that the strategic introduction of aircraft made with new technology. plan we have mapped out and are implementing We seek to adopt better technology and become will enable us successfully to fulfill our long term leaders in efficiency by reducing the number of objectives, getting past the difficulties that currently aircraft and increasing capacity as we introduce affect our markets and the volatility inherent to larger models. our environment. Knowing that we cannot remain at a distance from the realities of our industry and Today we have one of the world’s youngest fleets, the region where we operate, we have prioritized with an average age of seven years, which enables proactive risk management, considering all of us to run a safe, efficient and more environmentally our stakeholders, convinced that a broad and friendly operation, using equipment that consumes comprehensive vision of the risks we face, together less fuel and significantly reducing CO2 emissions. with management that is up to the task, are vital to long term success. In our effort to move forward in the domains of sustainability, I would like to underscore that in Although the integration of LAN and TAM has taken 2014 LATAM Airlines Group became the first airlines time, we are convinced that we have all gained from group in Latin America and second in the world to the merger of the companies LAN, TAM and LATAM be listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, the Airlines Group. This is why, in addition to thanking most important indicator at the global level in terms our shareholders for the confidence they have placed of sustainability. Today we comprise a select group of in this management, I would like to offer a special Enrique Cueto leading companies in this area. This is a great source acknowledgement of the more than 53 thousand CEO LATAM Airlines Group 5 LATAM Airlines Group Sustainability Report 2014 G4-3, G44, G4-5, G4-6, G4-7, G4-8, G4-9 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 LATAM Group profile and companies Airlines Group Comprised of LAN Airlines and TAM S.A., LATAM Airlines Group S.A. is a group of airlines that includes: LAN Airlines LAN CARGO TAM S.A. and its affiliates in Peru, Argentina, and its affiliates; and its affiliates, TAM Linhas Aéreas S.A., Colombia and Ecuador; including the business units TAM Transportes Aéreos Del Mercosur S.A. (TAM Airlines – Paraguay), TAM Viagens and Multiplus S.A. (frequent flyer points program). With 53,072 employees and a fleet of 327 aircraft, it is the largest airline group in Latin America and one of the biggest in the world in terms of aerial routes. The airlines comprising LATAM Airlines Group provide passenger transportation to 135 destinations in 24 countries, and freight transportation to 144 locations in 26 countries. They operate some 1,500 daily flights, transporting 67 million passengers annually. LATAM Airlines Group is the leader in South America, where it works in seven markets, accounting for more than 90% of the region’s traffic. Its network encompasses South America, the Caribbean, Europe, Oceania and North America. Its shares are traded on the stock exchanges of Santiago, New York and São Paulo. 7 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 LATAM Our aspiration provide a structure for the execution of this strategy, the Group has also released LATAM Code of Conduct The other three pillars are directly related to the business. Leadership of the network determines Airlines Group LATAM Airlines Group aspires to become one of and defined its focal points for sustainability. strengthening aerial routes, with more destinations the three best airline groups in the world. Given its and better connections at competitive prices. strategic position in the region, the multiplicity of The pillars of organizational power and risk The pillar of customer experience and brand markets in which it operates and the quality of its management provide the foundation for the leadership is geared towards offering services employees, the Group expects that this objective can development of this strategic combination. For that are increasingly attractive, seeking to ensure be accomplished in the next few years. LATAM Airlines Group, clear knowledge on the part a differentiated, quality travel experience. Cost of employees of each department’s objectives and competitiveness enhances the culture of operational To guide and sustain this growth, last year five goals, along with the ability to identify and manage efficiency at the companies comprising LATAM strategic pillars were defined: organizational power, risks, permeate the entire operation. Sharing Airlines Group. risk management, leadership in the network of the same values and vision of the business is a destinations, customer experience and brand necessary condition for teams to commit to the leadership and cost competitiveness. Seeking to same strategic objective. At the end of 2014, LATAM Airlines Group published of the organization. The document applies to all To disseminate the content of the Code LATAM Airlines Group its Code of Conduct, which addresses ethical issues in employees, who sign a Statement of Personal among teams, in December of 2014 an Code of Conduct the conduct and execution of company business. The Commitment when they are hired. It is the duty interactive training program was launched guidelines of this document are based on the codes of everyone involved with LATAM Airlines Group in an e-learning format for all employees. G4-56 of LAN and TAM, and provide unified guidance for to see to fulfillment of the Code’s guidelines, The course is mandatory, and ends with a all markets where the companies of LATAM Airlines immediately communicating through the test of knowledge in which the participant Group operate and for relations with stakeholders, appropriate channels any question or indication must achieve a score of at least 80%. If observing the legal provisions in each location. of possible violations. The document covers the score is lower, in-person training is actions by third parties, who also assume this arranged. All employees undergo retraining The Code was drafted by the company’s department commitment when they sign a contract to supply every two years. of Compliance together with the department of products or provide services to one of the Group’s Personnel Management, Security and other sectors companies. 8 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 LATAM Vision of sustainability G4-56 Accountability and transparency Policy, compliance and risk Airlines Group climate Value chain LATAM Airlines Group’s growth plan for the coming change Customers years exhibits sustainability as a core strategic Implementation, SGA and certifications sustainability element. In 2014, the Group delineated three focal Carbon footprint governance Sustainable alternative energy points of action based on the relationship between Eco-efficiency the five pillars mentioned above and the key issues defined by the organization the year before. sustainability In thus integrating sustainability with its strategic relationship plan, the company has brought about process with stakeholders corporate improvements, managing social and environmental and communication citizenship risks efficiently and identifying opportunities to OUR COMMUNITIES Sustainable tourism create value. It is also fostering dialogue among Social investment the companies in LATAM Airlines Group and their stakeholders, positively impacting their corporate EMPLOYEES reputation. Commitment Quality of work life and personal life Focal points of Sustainability: Sustainability governance: emphasizes  limate change: seeks initiatives such as the C C  orporate citizenship: commitment to sustainability strengthening accountability and transparency, adoption of an Environmental Management System inside and outside the company through programs adhering to clear commitments and establishing (SGA), calculation, verification and reduction of the promoting sustainable tourism, private social compliance and risk management policies involving carbon footprint, as well as actions in ecoefficiency investment in communities and projects geared the entire chain of value and clients; and sustainable alternative energy; towards personal and professional quality of life for employees of companies in the Group. 9 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 LATAM Materiality Key issues G4-19 Our approach G4-27 G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 Airlines Group Achieve levels of excellence in waste management I Management with ecoefficiency and the use of natural resources. n 2013, LATAM Airlines Group consulted key stakeholders with which it has ongoing relations to define key issues, that is, to find out which points Climate change mitigation Continuous reduction in the intensity of emissions, researching need to be worked on as priorities by management. new energy technologies and controlling our impacts on air quality. In Chile and Brazil, executives, employees, clients, suppliers, market analysts and aviation industry Permanently controlling the acoustic impact of aircraft in communities Noise reduction specialists were consulted in one-on-one interviews, near airports and investing in technology to reduce it. meetings, panels and online actions. The data obtained from this survey were used to draw up Investing in the quality of service, transparent and ethical Connectivity and relationship with client the Materiality Matrix of LATAM Airlines Group, with communication and in meeting new client demands. nine priority issues. These issues determine the indicators presented in this report. Health and safety in the air Managing potential risks and guaranteeing the highest safety and on the ground standards for our clients, employees and the community. Our relationship with our key stakeholders is stated in detail case by case in the following chapters of Acting to improve performance and career management Retention of talent and this report. at the different business units, with a view towards creation of control of staff turnover an integrated LATAM culture. Engaging in permanent dialogue with governments, Relationship with governments local authorities and industry associations, with the aim of arriving at and regulatory specifications responsible business solutions. Seeking synergies in the management of costs and assets, Economic-financial sustainability planning of current and future investments and focusing on creating value for the company and its suppliers of capital. Implementing management and monitoring of social Fostering sustainable tourism and economic impacts of our activities in communities. 10 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 LATAM This report G4-13, G4-22, G4-23, G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-31, G4-32, G4-33 The indicators proposed by the GRI – 71 in total – apply to the operating units classified as follows: Airlines Group International Business, Domestic Business Brazil (TAM), T his Sustainability Report covers the period Domestic Business in Spanish-speaking countries from January 1, to December 31, 2014. It is (LAN Chile, LAN Peru, LAN Argentina, LAN Colombia the first year in which LATAM Airlines Group is and LAN Ecuador), and Freight Business (LAN presenting its quantitative information in a unified CARGO, TAM Cargo, MasAir and LANCO). This report fashion, as compiled for the System of Sustainability covers all Group companies and contains data on Indicators (SIS). Reports are issued annually, and if direct company operations, including flights, ground there are questions, contact can be made via e-mail operations at airports and facilities maintenance, as at: investor.relations@lan.com. well as administrative activities. The information has been audited by Deloitte. The report adopts the GRI protocol, version G4, and takes into account the principles of the Global Compact, of which the company is a signatory. Pursuant to the recommendation of the GRI, the document reports the indicators on issues that are relevant in at least one respect. 11 Corporate governance Sustainability Report 2014 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Corporate Governance structure G4-34 Composition of the Board of Directors Pursuant to the terms of Chilean and U.S. law, a Committee of the Board of Directors of LATAM governance Airlines Group has been created, which also performs T he companies comprising LATAM Airlines Group the duties of the Audit Committee. This body is made have their own corporate governance structure, Mauricio Rolim Amaro up of three members of the Board of Directors, President of the Board of Directors executive boards and bodies, and they operate who are responsible, among other things, for the with autonomy following the strategic guidance of the following: Henri Philippe Reichstul Board of Directors. The CEO of the Group is Enrique (appointed to replace Maria Cláudia Amaro) Cueto. The leaders of LAN are CEO, Ignacio Cueto, E  xamining the reports of the Group’s external and the President of LAN Chile, Armando Valdivieso. auditors, balance sheets and other financial Juan José Cueto Plaza TAM S.A. was under the presidency of Marco Antônio reports, and issuing an opinion about them prior Bologna until April of 2015, and TAM Linhas Aéreas is to their presentation to shareholders for approval; headed by Claudia Sender. The person in charge of Georges de Bourguignon the Freight Business is Cristian Ureta. E  valuating and proposing external auditors and rating agencies to the Board of Directors; The Board of Directors Ramón Eblen Kadis Analyzing internal control reports on transactions with related parties; The Board of Directors of LATAM Airlines Group Ricardo J. Caballero was elected at the Ordinary General Assembly of E  xamining and drafting reports on all transactions Shareholders on April 29, 2014, for a term of two with related parties. years, pursuant to the Company By-laws. In the Carlos Heller Solari event of the resignation of one of its members, the Board must be entirely replaced at the Ordinary General Assembly of Shareholders scheduled Gerardo Jofré Miranda for April 28, 2015. The Board is made up of nine members, with Mauricio Rolim Amaro as its president. It meets once a month, and may hold Francisco Luzón López extraordinary meetings in response to the market situation and business needs. 13 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Corporate The Executive Board The rest of the Company’s capital is divided among a number of institutional investors, natural and juridical governance The Executive Board is made up of vice presidents persons, especially from Chile, that are holders of and directors, and it works through LATAM Airlines ADRs (American Depositary Receipts traded on Group or the structures of LAN and TAM business the New York stock exchange) and BDRs (Brazilian units. Its members are heads of the departments of Depositary Receipts traded on the São Paulo stock Finance, Personnel Management, Marketing, Legal exchange). LATAM Airlines Group closed 2014 with a Affairs, Auditing, Corporate Functions and Planning complement of 1,600 shareholders. and Management Oversight. TEP Chile S.A. holds stock with voting rights in TAM S.A., and the Cueto Group has control of LATAM Shareholder composition Airlines Group. (*) Mr. Marco Antônio Bologna left his position as CEO of TAM on April 1, 2015. The principal shareholders of LATAM Airlines Group are the Cueto Group (with a 25.49% share), represented by Costa Verde Aeronautica S.A, Inversiones Nueva Costa Verde Aeronautica Organizational Structure 2014 Ltda., Costa Verde Aeronautica SpA, Inversiones Priesca Dos y Cía. Ltda., Inversiones Caravia Dos Enrique Cueto Plaza Armando Valdivieso Jerome Cadier y Cía. Ltda., Inversiones El Fano Dos y Cía. Ltda., CEO LATAM Airlines Group President of LAN Chile Senior Vice President of Marketing Inversiones La Espasa Dos y Cía. Ltda., Inversiones Puerto Claro Dos y Cía. Ltda., Inversiones La Espasa Ignacio Cueto Plaza Cristian Ureta Juan Carlos Menció Dos S.A., Inversiones Puerto Claro Dos Ltda., and CEO LAN Senior Vice President of Freight Senior Vice President of Legal Affairs Inversiones Mineras del Cantábrico S.A.; and the Amaro Group (12.2%), through TEP Chile S.A. (TAM Marco Antonio Bologna (*) Roberto Alvo Emilio del Real Empreendimentos e Participações). CEO TAM Senior Vice President of Senior Vice President of Personnel Route and Fleet Planning Claudia Sender Andrés Osorio President of TAM Linhas Aéreas Senior Vice President of Finance 14 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Corporate Risk management With the support of the organization, the corporate risk manager in charge of this pillar is responsible At the start of 2014 a new Risk Management Team was set up, also led by the company’s Vice President governance S ince 2013, LATAM Airlines Group has had a for defining indicators, mapping risks, priorities, of Finance, with the mission of establishing a corporate risk manager, a position currently alignments and initiatives, taking stakeholders into common methodology, consolidating and reporting occupied by the Vice President of Finance. consideration. The focal points are strategic risks, to the Board of Directors the risks to which LATAM As one of the company’s strategic pillars, risk essentially those with a low probability of occurring Airlines Group is exposed. management entails overall involvement in the and with high impact. Among the objectives sought decision making process, based on a shared vision are the following: Given the diversity of risks, it is the responsibility of risk management. of each Vice President to identify, assess, mitigate and monitor each specific risk in his or her own 1 E  nsuring protection against events that could threaten the survival of the business, and seeing to their mitigation; department. The Risk Management Team, through active participation and involvement in various different departments, is able to correlate impacts in different departments, and thus develop a holistic vision of the company’s risk universe. 2 E  nsuring that the impacts of risks are kept within acceptable limits for the company; In cases of emergency, there is an Emergency Response Plan managed by the Emergency Committee, which reports directly to the CEO. 3 E  stablishing risk management as a practice that is integrated with decision making. 15 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Corporate Compliance and accountability G4-SO4, G4-SO5, G4-24 Training governance LATAM Airlines Group offers training in corporate The aim of the Compliance program upgrade in governance, compliance and its Code of Conduct 2014 was to raise the level of LATAM Airlines Group for all employees, as well as for third parties. The management to high levels of responsibility. New mandatory online course on the new Code of policies were drafted, and the Group’s belief in ethical Conduct is based on prevention, detection and conduct and respect for the law in all the countries response to problems and failure to uphold where it operates was strengthened. Internal the law, operational, corporate and information policies meet the prerequisites of law applicable to security, and on ethical, anticorruption and companies listed on the securities exchanges of New antitrust principles. York, Santiago and São Paulo, where the Group’s shares are traded. This online training began in December of 2014 and is to be offered to all who work with computers There is one representative for the Legal Affairs through the end of June 2015. For the operational department responsible for supporting LATAM’s staff that does not work with this equipment, Chief Compliance Officer in each country of operation an in-person training calendar was established (Brazil, Chile, United States, Mexico, Peru, Colombia, administered by instructors trained by LATAM’s Chief Argentina and Ecuador) and in Europe. Review and Compliance Officer. By December of 2015, the entire approval of new corporate policies are coordinated Group population should have taken the course in Compliance Officer, who visited all Group companies by LATAM Compliance team, which is distributed the Code of Conduct. and affiliates in all countries. The aim is to complete between Brazil and Chile. training of the entire executive staff on issues in the In addition, in 2014 the dissemination of mandatory Compliance program by March of 2015. courses in corporate governance for staff in executive positions of LATAM Airlines Group was The results of the training programs and monitoring intensified. Anyone with management responsibility of all program actions are presented periodically for teams and sensitivity to any operation involving to the Executive Committee of the TAM holding risk governed by strict laws was summoned for company, and to the Board of Directors of LATAM compulsory in-person training with LATAM’s Chief Airlines Group. 16 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Corporate Ethics Hotline tools used by LAN and TAM, respectively, were www.lan.ethicspoint.com and www.eticatam.com.br. case with the LAN and TAM channels. Incidents will be analyzed and forwarded to Committees governance Reporting of possible violations of laws and As of April, 2015, the two will be consolidated for investigation in each country, following a standards of professional conduct and co-existence into a single hotline for all companies in LATAM standardized internal procedure. If an irregularity will acquire a new internal hotline at LATAM in Airlines Group, and it will be able to receive both is confirmed, the Committee for Administration of 2015. Last year, the group had two channels for anonymous as well as identified communications in the Code of Conduct in that place, consisting of the reporting incidents, one for LAN companies and the accordance with applicable local laws. Human Resources, Compliance and Legal Affairs other for TAM companies. Through these channels, departments, among others, will discuss what Group employees could make reports concerning As a way of ensuring that 100% of reports measures are to be taken. The Committee can are analyzed and answered in a proper and decide upon a change of process to prevent repeat employment practices, discrimination, harassment confidential manner, this tool will continue to be occurrences, or propose disciplinary measures. of all kinds, fraud, corruption or failure to uphold any other law or internal policy. Up until 2014, the operated by an outsourced provider as was the 17 Financial results Sustainability Report 2014 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Financial Management of financial and operational performance results I n 2014, LATAM Airlines Group achieved operating profits of US$ 513,4 million, 20.3% below 2013. This slippage could be ascribed to the slowdown G4 EC1 in the region’s economies, the sharp depreciation of local currencies, specific economic circumstances in Venezuela and Argentina, the pronounced drop in the freight market and increased competition among operators in South America. The special operation carried out for the FIFA World Cup also had a negative impact of some US$ 140 million to US$ 160 million on the Group’s result, due to lower demand of business and tourism passengers while the event was under way. Operating margin came to 4.1%, representing a Operating costs stood at US$ 11,959 million, a drop 0.7 percentage point decline in relation to the year of 5.3% in comparison with 2013. This result was due before. Net revenues suffered a 6% reduction, to a reduction in fuel and salary costs, as well as the coming to US$ 12,471 billion, as a result of a 6.2% fall positive impact of the devaluation of the Real and the in passenger revenues and 8.0% in freight revenues, Chilean Peso on costs incurred in those currencies. partially offset by a 10.6% increase in other revenues. As for fuel consumption, there was a 3.7% decline These results include a 9.1% negative impact from in gallons consumed last year owing to the Lean the devaluation of the Real in 2014. Fuel and Smart Fuel efficiency and rationalization initiatives. 19 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Financial LATAM Airlines Group and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) industry currently listed on Dow Jones World. The company is not only recognized for its economic programs and the implementation of emissions management of polluting gases and noise. The results performance and capacity for growth and efficiency, company also distinguished itself in the categories of LATAM Airlines Group has become the first company but also for maximizing its investment in sustainable social action and economic performance. in Latin America’s aviation industry to enter the Dow development. In this way, becoming a member of Jones World Sustainability Index, chosen from among this index is indicative of a synthesis of responsible Rising to the level of the Dow Jones World index a select group of leading companies in sustainability, actions over the course of the years. demonstrates superior performance in terms of for their economic performance, social responsibility sustainability, not only as measured against its own and environmental management focusing on the long Last year, the company achieved leadership in the record, but also in relation to the world’s largest term. aviation industry’s ecoefficiency and climate change companies. In addition, it makes it possible to index with data for 2013. This recognition was due to generate higher levels of trust among the company’s With its entry into this index, the Group became the fuel consumption strategies of the Lean Fuel and various stakeholders: clients, employees, suppliers, one of two companies in the world aeronautics Smart Fuel projects, the establishment of efficiency society, regulatory authorities and shareholders. PERFORMANCE djsi 85 90 84 82 76 78 77 62 60 54 52 Best in the industry 45 Industry average LATAM TOTAL Social Environmental Economic 20 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Financial Value added statement (VAS) and revenue results 2012 2013 2014 Economic Value Created 10,008,989 13,340,884 12,555,191 Net Sales Revenues 9,710,372 12,924,537 12,093,501 Financial Receipts 77,489 72,828 90,500 Share of Gains (and Losses) of Associates 972 1,954 -6,455 Other Revenues, by function 220,156 341,565 377,645 Economic Value Distributed 9,264,350 12,045,669 11,405,947 Operating Costs 6,954,048 9,085,484 8,621,888 Employee Salaries and Benefits 1,908,915 2,492,769 2,350,102 Personnel Expenses 1,908,915 2,492,769 2,350,102 Payments to Suppliers of Capital 294,598 462,524 430,034 Financial Costs 294,598 462,524 430,034 Payments to Governments 105,535 3,834 Fines 3,149 3,834 Payment of Tax on Profit 102,386 Social Investment in the Community 1,254 1,058 3,923 Donations 1,254 1,058 3,923 Shareholder Economic Value Retained 744,639 1,295,215 1,149,244 21 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Financial 2014 FIFA World Cup G4 EC7 LATAM Airlines Group signed an exclusive partnership with the World Childhood Foundation results Brasil – an institution supported by TAM since 2011 – With the holding of the FIFA World Cup in Brazil, to conduct the campaign against child sexual tourism LATAM Airlines Group invested US$ 18,9 million to during the event. The companies of the group, the service new routes from June 12 to July 13, 2014. only airlines to support the project, showed the Prior to the start of the competition, the company campaign video on more than 20 thousand flights. established some 750 extra domestic flights, along with 350 international flights to serve the host The tournament also inspired a major sustainability cities. During the event, there were another 250 action: 100,000 tons of gases were offset, charter flights. In July, the second phase of the Cup, corresponding to more than 4,500 flights, through an additional 40 new regular domestic flights were the purchase of Premium carbon credits – originating introduced. In total, some 3 million passengers in emissions reduction projects located in the regions were transported in more than 20 thousand flights of the host cities. conducted during this period. These projects yield major socio-environmental Group companies achieved positive operating rates: benefits for the communities involved, such as 95% punctuality and 99.8% regularity on flights preservation of biodiversity, social inclusion, conducted during the tournament. An internal stimulation of culture and health care. Also campaign stimulated employee engagement and noteworthy are incentives to play soccer as an more than 100,000 resulted in a decline in the rate of absenteeism. instrument to promote socialization and quality of life for employees and the community. More than 300 people benefited from actions to encourage soccer in projects supported by companies of tons of LATAM Airlines Group. greenhouse gases offset 22 Clients Sustainability Report 2014 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Clients Value proposal Connectivity The investments made by Group companies in connectivity also take into consideration technologies T C he main strategic focus of LATAM Airlines onnectivity is an outstanding issue in the value that simplify and optimize employee tasks, with a Group is constant improvement of the proposal of LATAM Airlines Group. The group view to boosting the excellence of service offered G4-24 customer experience, which has led to the has invested US$ 100 million in technology directly or indirectly to passengers. The company definition of a value proposal that reflects our projects to optimize the quality of service, passenger has launched three projects for the management commitment to enhance company service every travel experience and employee tasks. Offering of information and operations by crew chiefs, pilots day. In deference to the customer and his needs, new systems and applications seeks to make the and maintenance bases using software especially the group has established a proposal incorporating traditional journey go faster, with less waiting time developed for tablets. This will make it possible to changes in the experience with respect to the in airports and between connections, more options reduce data processing time, costs and resources, product and service, always seeking to differentiate for on board entertainment and up-to-the-minute and increase levels of operational safety and the company in terms of service. information in case of contingencies. efficiency on the ground and in the air. To enhance customer service at the Group’s freight units, a plan is The challenge is to have a differentiated and Among new features, the company has developed under development to invest in systems that adds up sustainable offering in time to win customer applications for smartphones, allowing passengers to US$ 25 million in digital solutions. preference in the region and the world. These to manage elements of their flight before embarking, advantages translate into offering connectivity and and make use of an electronic boarding pass. During options for speed and simplicity, reducing waiting flights, a partnership with YouTube offers a selection time, saving time for clients, offering support and of content from the most popular channels of this solutions when the unexpected happens. In sum, video-sharing site. Finally, a wireless entertainment 100 the value proposal seeks to offer our customers system has been created that lets passengers watch the easiest and simplest solution with care and movies, TV series and videos on their own personal US$ special concern. devices (smartphones, tablets and laptops). The million aim is to let passengers serve themselves simply, transparently and with total independence. investment in technology 24 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Clients Frequent flyer programs T he companies comprising LATAM Airlines Oneworld Partnership Group operate two frequent flyer programs, LANPASS and TAM Fidelity, offering advantages In 2014, LATAM Airlines Group expanded its to more than 20 million passengers. participation in oneworld, one of the largest and most highly awarded airline alliances in the world. Created in 1984, the LANPASS lets its members With the entry of LAN Colombia and TAM into this accumulate miles and redeem free tickets from LAN, network in March, the Group has increased options in addition to offering other products and awards. At for the destinations it offers its clients. Passengers the end of 2014, the program had 9,8 million clients with other LAN units have been enjoying these in Chile, Peru, Argentina, Colombia, Ecuador and the advantages since 2000. United States, having registered substantial growth LANPASS TAM Fidelidade 15% greater than the year before. Last year LANPASS clients redeemed 800 thousand awards. 15 % 8 % TAM Fidelity – the first frequent flyer program created growth growth in Brazil in 1993 – seeks to reward travelers who fly over 2013 over 2013 on TAM often with a host of benefits and exclusive promotions. In December of 2014, the program had 11,7 million members, an increase of 8% in relation to 2013. Last year, 2,4 million awards were cashed in. TAM Fidelity is a part of Multiplus, the biggest customer loyalty network in Brazil, which lets clients accumulate points with companies in different segments. Multiplus is listed on BM&FBOVESPA and has TAM as its principal shareholder, with a participation of 73%. 25 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Satisfaction of Freight Customers Clients 2012 Customer relations 65% G4-SO11, G4-PR5, G4-24 2013 Excellence in customer service is a priority of LATAM Airlines Group, which 69% maintains a variety of channels for communication, to take in feedback and offer travelers the best possible service and relationship. By phone, electronic 2014 forms at company sites, Twitter, Facebook, letters, etc., the company takes in 71% communications that are recorded and evaluated by dedicated teams. All cases are answered and the information is used for processes of improvement, service modification and employee recognition. Complaints are given analysis and rigorous follow-up. Cases are forwarded to From December 2013 to December 2014, the NPS indicated a 2-point increase the Office of Customer Service, which undertakes to identify those responsible. in the level of satisfaction among customers of Group companies. The key When there is a need for process improvement, the management of the improvements come from better evaluations by passengers traveling on department in question is activated. The analysis of each incident enables the international TAM flights. Indicators for airport perception in Brazil and company to carry out an extensive evaluation of its operations and move quickly punctuality registered increases of more than 10 points of satisfaction. to correct possible weaknesses. This positive perception has been holding steady since the company began to The company also conducts surveys to assess the level of customer satisfaction. measure this element. Key areas detected for improvement are the handling of The Group uses the Net Promoter Score (NPS) method, which is administered contingencies, prices in Chile and the flight experience in Brazil. using an online questionnaire filled out by passengers, and customer satisfaction surveys administered at various service outlets, such as sales offices A survey conducted with freight clients indicated that in 2014, satisfaction and the call center. This indicator is managed at the company’s strategic, tactical stood at 71%, two percentage points above the evaluation for the year before. and operational levels. This upward trend is due to efforts at improvement in freight handling, billing processes and management of exceptional situations, items considered priorities in the 2013 survey. 26 Environment Sustainability Report 2014 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Environment T he principal objective of LATAM Airlines Group’s The Board of Directors is the body responsible for environmental strategy is to be one of the approving the company’s environmental guidelines world leaders in Climate Change, contributing and policies, as well as for reviewing indicators. It to company efficiency and competitiveness. These assesses the fulfillment of internal and external efforts were in evidence and duly recognized in the environmental commitments and, together with achievements logged in international initiatives, such its Audit Committee, analyzes the efficacy of as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). controls and risks associated with decisions and environmental performance. The company has To accomplish such results, the Group has been a Safety, Quality and Environment Policy as a a pioneer in the promotion of actions addressing comprehensive instrument for guiding its activities. the industry’s environmental footprint. It is one of The goals for the whole Group listed below are also in three companies in the world, and the first in Latin the process of being structured. America, closest to obtaining the IATA Environmental Assessment certification, an environmental IATA Objective nº1: improving efficiency  0% improvement in the energy efficiency 1 management system specifically for airlines. in the use of fuels of company infrastructure by 2020 The governance and management of issues relating IATA Objective nº2: Carbon Neutral S  avings of US$ 200,000 in energy consumption to environmental performance originate among growth by 2020 at facilities by 2020 senior management and focus on reducing risks and integrating this issue into company objectives. IATA Objective nº3: achieving a 50% 1  0% reduction in volume of waste by 2020 Climate Change is one of the Group’s Sustainability reduction in net CO2 emissions by focal points. 2050 compared to levels for 2005 C  omplete implementation of the Environmental Management System Carbon Neutral Ground Operations by 2020 at all main operations by 2016 28 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Environment Climate Change Strategy ENVIRONMENTAL AND CLIMATE CHANGE STRATEGY O ne of the main challenges to the sustainability of the industry and to LATAM Airlines Group is Climate Change, since it directly affects environment and climate change operations. Examples of this impact are increases in temperature and the volume of rain, changes in wind and extreme weather events that can influence earnings and operational performance. The company’s Climate Change strategy is supported by two pillars: Impact and Profitability, and Engagement impact and engagement and profitability recognition and Recognition. Environmental Governance Risk Management Internal Training Ecoefficiency Transparency Sustainable Alternative Energy Value Chain Environmental Management System Offsetting Emissions Projects for Recognition and Communication leadership 29 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Environment Environmental Management System G4-EN29 The company is implementing the IATA Environmental Management System (IEnvA), which meets the highest environmental standards Risk Management G4-EC2 L T ATAM Airlines Group has been a pioneer in the applicable to flight operations. The Group’s affiliate he process of identifying and monitoring risks implementation of an integrated Environmental in Chile is one of the world’s leading three airlines to enables the company to set up controls for Management System that encompasses both implement this system, which is currently undergoing prevention and mitigation actions, and report its flight operations as well as ground operations. approval. For ground operations, the company has general risks to management whenever they go In developing this system, the company surveyed developed an Environmental Management System beyond a predetermined level of probability or all relevant aspects of environmental performance, based on ISO Standard 14001. intensity. Because of this, the issue of emissions which are duly monitored to minimize and prevent was included in the Group’s risk matrix. associated risks. Both management systems are based on the study of the applicable environmental regulations, and Risk management has the following objectives: are used to ensure and maintain compliance with standards. LATAM Airlines Group did not register any E  nsuring and maintaining compliance with the law significant sanctions for failure to comply with the law by all operations of LATAM Airlines Group; in 2014. Developing and monitoring actions geared towards mitigating risks identified; Preparing the company to implement the IATA goal of Carbon Neutral Growth (CNG) by 2020. 30 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Environment Ecoefficiency G4-EN6, 19, 27 E coefficiency is considered an environmental performance criterion and a key part of the company’s strategic objectives. It seeks to demonstrate in environmental terms the financial impact of efficient management in the use of resources. Efforts by LATAM Airlines Group to achieve higher levels of ecoefficiency are based on three actions: These initiatives can be broken down into: savings and optimization of the distribution of weight 19 new aircraft 1,2 % efficiency in on board; optimization and planning of more direct routes with less turbulence; optimization of processes on the ground to reduce fuel in 2014 consumption consumption; and development of a maintenance A young fleet: : the company’s business model Fuel efficiency: LATAM Airlines Group improved panel to detect opportunities for fleet improvement. is based on the maintenance of a young fleet, its fuel efficiency by 1,2% as a result of savings One example of the investment in technological which allows it to operate with higher performance programs. The Lean Fuel (LAN) and Smart Fuel improvements is the addition of the Required engines, while contributing to air quality and a (TAM) programs combine technological and Navigation Performance (RNP) satellite navigation reduction of noise levels. In 2014, LATAM Airlines procedural improvements with optimization system, which allows for automated flight plan Group held to its strategy of a young fleet, with an and a consequent drop in CO2 emissions, guidance, making enhanced performance possible. average age of seven years, thanks to the addition encompassing 17 and 14 initiatives, respectively. Another initiative is the use of winglets on all Boeing of 19 new aircraft. In 2015, 28 new aircraft will be In 2014, these actions brought about a curtailment 767-300 aircraft, which diminishes aerodynamic added to the current fleet. in consumption of 31 million gallons of fuel resistance and reduces fuel consumption by 4%, and (approximately 6 million GJ), equivalent to a thereby cuts CO2 emissions. All of these initiatives reduction of 298,184 tons of CO2. are explained more fully in the section below. 31 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Lean Fuel and Smart Fuel Initiatives Environment 1 O  ptimization of weight on board: the amount and distribution of weight on board directly influence fuel consumption. A variety Use of the OSA navigation system, which calculates the best routes based on weather conditions verified in real time, fees for use of Minimization of use of the aircraft’s auxiliary power unit (APU) due to improvements in airport infrastructure. of initiatives seek to reduce the structural air space and fuel consumption. weight of flights, and distribute it in the best way possible within the aircraft. Use of RNP, a satellite navigation system that guides aircraft automatically with GPS. The 4  aintenance panel: development of M program to correct flaws affecting fuel yield. Improvement of freight factor: combining system allows for safer and more efficient Tasks to increase efficiency. passenger and freight flights, seeking to approach procedures. This system has been optimize an aircraft’s carrying capacity. fully implemented in Ecuador and Chile, and is Cleaning of engines, allowing for more in the process of implementation in Peru. efficient combustion and reduced emissions • Incorporation of lighter materials on board. of PM10 particles. Optimization of cruising speed to achieve • Optimization of freight distribution to greater fuel efficiency without delaying flights. establish the most suitable center of gravity for the aircraft. Standardization of approach and landing operations to increase efficiency. 5 I n preparing aircraft for passenger flights: 2  ptimization of routes, cruising and O landing speeds: planning routes that avoid adverse weather conditions or turbulence can 3  ptimization of use O of engines on the ground: Use of only one device for climate control and cabin pressurization instead of two, economizing fuel. improve fuel efficiency. Favoring direct routes and the continuous descent landing approach. Taxiing operations using only one engine. 6 A  ctivities of continuous improvement panel: allows for identification of opportunities for fuel efficiency keyed to improvements in maintenance. 32 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Environment Improvements in infrastructure: to identify issues and impacts in connection with introduction of the Environmental Management System, efficiency In recent years, the Group has moved forward with studies on alternative fuel technologies, collaborating with local distributors to promote the use of biofuels. Internal training Certain that capacity development and knowledge programs were developed for the use of energy and In 2012, in Chile, LATAM Airlines Group conducted its management are essential to company growth, water, as well as waste management and disposal. first commercial flight using biofuel in South America. LATAM Airlines Group is investing in training its It is important to underscore that operations on the In 2013, it was Colombia’s turn. The company is employees in these domains. The challenge is to ground account for a small fraction of the Group’s committed to increasing the number of these flights make environmental issues part of the company’s carbon footprint. Initiatives were implemented in the future, when the use of alternative fuels has organizational culture. 2012: such as the use of electric vehicles and replacing begun on a mass scale and prices are competitive. incandescent bulbs in hangars with more efficient In 2014, an environmental information platform first flight lighting, among other measures that resulted in a Despite these advances in research and the was launched, sent monthly by e-mail to all company powered by biofuel reduction of costs and emissions. existing evidence on sustainable alternative fuels, employees. The aim is to disseminate concepts and their implementation on a large scale depends on information on the environment for employees and developments to be pursued by producers of fuels clients. Sustainable Alternative Energy and manufacturers of engines and aircraft, as well as the formulation of public policies that promote their The air transport industry is strongly committed use. Transparency to the development of sustainable fuels. LATAM G4-24 Airlines Group supports the use of sustainable The Group continues to play an active role in forums alternative fuels that allow for reductions not only in on these issues, such as IATA, the International Civil Transparency is a key issue of vital importance the carbon footprint, but also limiting exposure to Aviation Organization (ICAO), Sustainable Aviation to company stakeholders. At present, there are a oil price volatility. Fuel Users Group (SAFUG), Brazilian Alliance for number of venues for dissemination of company Aviation Biofuels (ABRABA Aliança Brasileira para results in the field of Sustainability, including The company has supported research on emerging Biocombustíveis de Aviação) and Chile Bio Renewable environmental issues (the Sustainability Report, DJSI, technologies with biofuels, such as Hydro Carbon (Chile Bio Renovável). Global Compact), and others specifically concerning to Direct Sugar (HCDS) and Alcohol to Jet (ATJ), and the Environment: strongly believes in the potential for mass production of these technologies as a promising market opportunity. 33 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Environment Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Since 2011, the Group has been disclosing its carbon footprint on this platform, ascending to a During the World Cup in Brazil, 100 thousand tons of greenhouse gases emitted by flights connecting the 12 host cities were offset. It should be noted that LATAM Airlines Group is upgrading its data collection system to improve the coverage and calculation of emissions (chiefly higher category each year in the CDP ranking. Scope 2 and 3). Carbon emissions include CO2 equivalents resulting Environmental Support Document from the burning of fuel from fixed and moveable Emissions of substances that harm the ozone layer A public access document providing an in-depth sources (Scope 1), from electricity generation are restricted in the aviation industry to those used presentation of the company’s strategy and (Scope 2) and other emissions related to company for climate control in facilities on the ground. In 2014, environmental performance. activities (Scope 3). the gases HCFC-22, HFC-125 and HFC-32, HCFC-141b and Halon-1211 were used. Offsetting emissions In 2014, the company implemented the Neutravel Carbon Emissions G4-EN15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 21 program, which enables client companies to Emission Type Unit 2013 2014 determine their carbon footprint from corporate travel, and to offset it with initiatives that neutralize CO2 Scope 1 t CO2e 11,844,687 11,716,772 CO2 emissions. Through this action, LATAM Airlines CO2 Scope 2 t CO2e 18,597 18,003 Group generates benefits for communities and the environment. CO2 Scope 3 t CO2e 4,283 7,092 Intensity of GHG emissions in flight operations Kg CO2e/100RTK 81.09 80.14 A plan for offsetting ground operations for the entire company is under way. Operations in Peru have Gases that affect the ozone layer Kg CFC-11e 2,985 2,218 been offsetting their carbon footprint since 2011 Nitrogen oxides t NOx 40,752 40,022 in a strategic alliance with the company Bosques Nitrogen oxide intensity gNOx/RTK 2.68 2.64 Amazónicos. The operation in Colombia has offset its ground emissions for the first time by acquiring Sulfur oxides t SOx 1,850 2,800 carbon credits from the flagship Choco-Darién Sulfur oxide intensity gSOx/RTK 12,69 19,22 conservation project. RTK: revenues per ton kilometer 34 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Environment Materials G4-EN1 Fuels G4-EN3 Electricity and Water G4-EN3, G4-EN8 Although the company’s primary consumption is of In addition to fuel consumption for flight operations, One of the largest sources of consumption for fuel for flight operations, as shown below, a survey other kinds of fuels are used for ground operations. ground operations is electricity. Under normal is also conducted of the materials used most in conditions in the airline industry, water consumption maintenance activities and that are essential to is not among the most significant issues for operations. Material Type Unit 2013 2014 environmental management – however, the company does monitor its water use. Fuel consumed in GJ 212,551,956 183,161,882 flight operations Material Type [Tons] Consumption Cylinders of Aviation Oxygen (10m3) 331 Type Unit 2013 2014 Gasoline GJ 11,362 11,130 Nuts 188 Electricity kWh 60,565,783 63,433,332 2197 Motor Oil 60 Diesel in fixed GJ 274,731 514,580 sources Plastic Frames 51 Water m³ 229,099 335,961 Rivets 50 Natural Gas GJ 40 38 Wipes 48 TAM water consumption is estimated by measurement the cost in cubic meters and also by AA Batteries 33 LPG GJ 35,625 47,537 daily control of meters of water consumption. Aluminum Freight Unit Element 23 Antifreeze 21 Hydrated ethanol GJ 465 265 In Brazil in 2014, the state of São Paulo went through Others (various) 178 a serious water shortage. LATAM Airlines Group put Electricity GJ 218,035 184,190 in practice a contingency plan to minimize the impact TOTAL Reported 982 of this situation, which included refilling water on This information corresponds to the 100 materials most The increase in diesel consumption is due to the aircraft at airports in unaffected regions. The plan requested by LAN maintenance in 2014, which accounts for 66% of inclusion of TAM equipment used to service aircraft all units consulted. Materials used by TAM are not included. on the ground that was not reported in 2013. prevented disruptions of company operations. 35 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Environment Waste G4-EN23, G4-EN27 Waste generated by the Group in 2014 broke down as follows: Noise G4-EN27 LATAM Airlines Group implements waste LATAM Airlines Group has been adopting procedures Type of Waste Disposal [Tons] management through a process of classification, and implementing new technologies to reduce the with the aim of recovering as much as possible and Industrial Plant 379,51 noise caused by its operations. Currently, 100% ensuring its proper final disposal. Hazardous waste of the fleet complies with Chapter IV of ICAO, the Hazardous Recycling 122,91 is routed in accordance with legal requirements to world aviation industry standard on this issue. The receive recommended treatment. Unspecified 320,36 Group is incorporating a new fleet with B787 and A350 models that reduce noise by more than 50% Landfill site 748,43 The Group encourages offices and buildings to compared to aircraft with similar characteristics. It is minimize generation of waste such as paper, glass Industrial plant 20,42 also implementing the RNP (Requirement Navigation Non-hazardous and plastic, classified as non-hazardous. On flights, Recycling 1,125,55 Performance) system, that allows for programmed organic waste is separated from inorganic waste, to descents with lower noise emissions. expedite proper handling. Reusable utensils are also Unspecified 1,38 provided for on board service (forks, plates, etc.). Effluents Treated 155,85 In the operational field, the Group is implementing procedures such as continuous approach to landing, Overall total 2,874,41 taxiing on just one engine and curtailing the use of the auxiliary power unit (APU). LATAM Airlines Group is the exclusive regular airline to Easter Island. Considering the fragility and uniqueness of the location, a program has been drawn up to bring back to the mainland all waste generated on flights. In 2014, more than 250 tons of waste were transported, with the involvement of different public groups, authorities, private new models: procedures companies and employees. For 2015, the goal is 100 % 50 % reduce to go still further in the program of recycling and compliance noise reduction operating noise transporting plastic waste (PET) generated by this island that is farthest from the mainland. 36 Society Sustainability Report 2014 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Society L ATAM Airlines Group upholds the principle of Indirect economic impacts With the shared goal of bringing children close to generating value continuously in the different and local development the world of aviation, the Program Conociendo LAN regions and locations where it has a presence, G4 EC7, EC8, SO1, SO2 G4-24 [‘Getting to know LAN’] is conducted under various where it collaborates to cultivate sustainable names in Argentina, Chile, Ecuador and Peru. In G4-24 development together with local stakeholders. Social projects of LATAM Airlines Group Argentina, the program Todos Podemos Volar [‘We Due to the nature of its business, the company is can all fly’] enjoyed the participation of 164 children responsible for positive impacts, such as job creation LATAM Airlines Group supports socio-environmental in 2014, who had the opportunity to travel by plane and promoting tourism and the local economies, as actions that foster social development, connectivity for the first time in their lives. The Chilean version well as negative impacts, such as noise generation and care for the environment, as well as bringing begun 16 years ago, entitled Un Día em LAN [‘A and greenhouse gas emissions. These issues are the aeronautic world closer to the communities and Day with LAN’], involved more than 4,000 children important to the company, demanding appropriate institutions where it operates. As of 2015, actions last year. Visitors were given a chance to learn management to make it possible to identify risks and implemented in different countries will all be aligned about maintenance at the LAN center in Santiago, opportunities and helping to improve the company’s with the Group’s sustainability strategy. and 570 kids took their first flight. Also with a view overall long-term performance. towards bringing the world of aviation closer to the Among the organizations supported by the company community, two technology class rooms sponsored Aware of this situation, the companies comprising in 2014 are Um Teto para Meu País [‘A roof for my by LATAM Airlines Group were inaugurated at LATAM Airlines Group engage in community projects country’], América Solidária [‘Solidarity America’], Chilean institutions, offering programs of study for through direct investment, granting airline tickets Coaniquem, Ajuda Maria [‘Help Maria’], Corporação aeronautics technicians. and partnerships. These actions focus on local needs da Esperança [‘Corporation of Hope’] and the United relating to a variety of issues, such as sustainable Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF). Other noteworthy The Group also donated 1,412 computers, 56 tourism, transportation for humanitarian assistance programs that have been implemented or benefited printers, 14 projectors and 98 monitors to the in disaster situations, shipment of human organs by the company in 2014 and are described below. Chilenter Foundation. This institution, which fights for transplant, and financial support for institutions against digital exclusion, has enjoyed company with high-impact social and environmental projects, support since 2009. 281 computers were also among other things. delivered to provide equipment for educational units all over Chile. 38 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Society Chile allocated US$ 600,000 to the Telethon, a fundraising event for centers for the rehabilitation of children and youth with physical handicaps. In environmental causes of major scope, prioritizing locations where it operates. In 2014, 1,225 airline tickets were donated to 23 institutions – an increase TAM contributed tickets to the most important institutions protecting Brazilian biomas, such as the Associação Caatinga, WWF-Brasil, Fundação October, as it has done since 2012, the company of 9.5% in the number of institutions benefited, and Amazonas Sustentável and SOS Mata Atlântica. TAM G4-SO1 joined the world campaign for breast cancer of 4.1% in tickets donated as compared to the year has a partnership with IBAMA (Brazilian Institute prevention. US$ 33,454 was spent on a free before. In addition, it conducted a Christmas giving of the Environment and Renewable Natural mammography program for employees and women campaign at all bases in the country, collecting more Resources) and repatriated 134 wild animals that in the Chilean communities of Concepción, Puerto than 8 thousand different items and benefiting more were victims of illegal trafficking. Other institutions Montt, Valparaíso and Santiago. In Ecuador, where than 40 NGOs throughout Brazil. supported were engaged in income generation, the cause was supported for the first time, the child protection and humanitarian aid, among them, campaign served 120 patients per day. the Brazil Foundation, World Childhood Foundation Brazil, Amigos do Bem [‘Friends of Goodness’], MakeIn terms of humanitarian assistance, the Group A-Wish Brazil, Doutores da Alegria [‘Doctors of Joy’] made financial contributions to rebuild houses and Doctors without Borders. destroyed by the terrible fire that devastated the Chilean city of Valparaíso in April. In another critical situation, Avião Solidário [‘Solidarity Airplane’], a Degree of implementation of actions to manage social program run by the Freight unit that operates in impact in Social projects of LATAM Airlines Group 2013 2014 catastrophes, disasters and natural emergencies, Assessments of social impact 0% 0% 1,225 support transported 23,500 kilos of humanitarian aid items Assessments of environmental impact and continuous monitoring 100% 100% in the weeks following the earthquake in the north of Chile that also took place in April. Public disclosure of assessments of environmental and social impact 100% 100% free tickets in all Community development programs based on local needs 50% 100% were issued Latin America In Colombia, ten airfares were provided for the Plan for stakeholder participation based on mapping of priority stakeholders 75% 75% Flip Foundation, which supports the training of journalists in regions considered at imminent risk. Committees or (community) public research groups based in local communities, and 0% 0% processes that include at-risk groups Operation Smile was given 410 air tickets to take doctors to various parts of the country to arrange Occupational health and safety councils or committees and other agencies 100% 100% for treatments and surgery for cleft palate and other Formal proceedings for local community claims or protection 100% 100% illnesses. In Brazil, TAM has focused on social and 39 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Society Participation of employees in Social Responsibility actions E  cuador has a Social Action Program, which financed and made donations for more than 50 food baskets for Christmas 2014.  razil implemented a social project in partnership B with Make-A-Wish Brazil encouraging employees to help children with serious illnesses to make their Participation in social actions is encouraged among dreams come true. employees of LATAM Airlines Group. The Group encourages programs for the collection of clothes, foodstuffs and equipment for subsequent donation, Programs to support passengers and their families or collective efforts for improvement of public spaces. G4-24 Ten years ago, employees in Argentina began to The company has groups of employees specially In Chile, the department of Humanitarian Assistance support the Food Bank Network, which benefited 7 trained to provide support in aviation emergencies. and Emergency Management runs a program that thousand people in 2014. Families in distress as a The aim is to meet the immediate needs of passengers offers guidance on psychological first aid (PAP). result of four emergency situations that occurred in and their families, provide psychological assistance A team of actors and psychologists visit various the country were also given assistance. and information on the event and its ramifications. localities and supplement the training of staff with theoretical and practical workshops for the In Colombia last year, three Social Action Days were In Brazil, the Special Emergency Assistance Program community as a whole. These workshops facilitate held. Company staff planted more than 400 trees for Customers (PEACE) involves 2,415 employees psychological first aid for those involved in critical in cities surrounding Bogotá, repaired the façade of from a variety of departments, with 73 trained situations, and at the same time make it possible to the House of Culture in Bogotá and joined in giving leaders. Employees receive training that touches establish support networks in the community prior Christmas gifts to children in Operation Smile. on key concepts, legislation and behavior. PEACE to possible disasters. Various groups associated also attends programs of instruction given by the with emergency services are invited to attend, National Civil Aviation Agency (ANAC). such as local officials, fire fighters, the Red Cross, local police, as well as legal, aviation and health In other countries, employees working with the authorities, among others. Passenger Assistance Program for Passengers and their Families (APF) are trained by psychologists specializing in emergency situations. There are 2,090 people involved in the APF at the global level (not counting Brazil). 40 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Society Sustainable tourism EC8 Caring for My Destination Sustainable tourism is one of the sustainability focal points for LATAM Airlines Group, which works to The Project Caring for My Destination is the In Colombia, a meeting was held with the promote care for cultural and natural heritage on company’s principal project involving the concept authorities to decide which places should behalf of present and future generations. of sustainable tourism, and environmental benefit. As a result of this consultation, participation of awareness in particular, through intervention two places were restored in 2014, with the 2,600 The strategy seeks to encourage sustainable development among stakeholders in localities where in spaces for tourism. Since its beginnings five years ago, the program has involved more than participation of 78 volunteers from the community and 54 from the company. students and the company operates, in the following domains: 2,600 students and volunteers from companies in volunteers LATAM Airlines Group. In 2014, the Group invested In Ecuador, the project took up restoration of some US$ 332,000 in actions in 11 cities in five urban areas, focusing on El Panecillo, one of the Government: South American countries, with the participation of most outstanding tourist attractions in the city of Supporting national strategic plans for one hundred company volunteers. Caring for My Quito, and the main boardwalk in Puerto Ayora, sustainable tourism in these places. Destination will be implemented in Brazil in 2015. in the Galápagos. D  estinations: Last year, Chile concluded a 3-year Project in Three of the main tourism centers in Peru Measuring impacts and developing plans to Coyhaique and started up another one in Punta Iquitos, Lima and El Callao – have undergone address key issues. Arenas (which has completed the second stage). revitalization processes. In Iquitos, the most These communities have been endowed with a important tourist site in the city was restored, I ndustry: renovated space for tourism. the Malecón Principal shorefront promenade; Managing alliances with regional, national and local in Lima, the Pântanos de Villa, habitat of more stakeholders. In Argentina, 125 students and 15 volunteers than 208 species of birds; and in El Callao, took part in the program, divided into visits to the Colégio IE, a school that has earned an C  lients: the museum on the history of General Martin excellent performance evaluation in terms of Communicating the importance of sustainable Guemes and to the city of Tucumán, where the environmental indicators. tourism to clients and passengers. restoration of Percy Hill Park was undertaken. 41 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Society Contribution to tourism in the region G4-EC8; G4-24 chain together with key international network operators through visits to destinations where Group companies operate. The 10th edition of this program LATAM Airlines Group contributed US$ 4,6 billion to was held in June of 2014 in Peru, with the aim of the tourism industry in South America in 2014. This introducing partners to the charms and excellent figure includes the 4,7 million foreign passengers connectivity of the Southern Circuit: Cusco, Juliaca, transported to key destinations in South America Puno and Puerto Maldonado. during the year – 15% above 2013. The amount considers the average expenditure per tourist reported by the region’s tourism agencies, as The TAM Museum well as money spent on airports, lodging, food, transportation, excursions and purchases. The Located in the city of São Carlos (SP), Brazil, the TAM calculation is made on the basis of reports issued Museum hosts an important collection representing by agencies working directly with the industry or the history of Brazilian and world aviation. Since involved with its management, such as Sernatur 2010, the Museum has served more than 2,300 social (Chile), Mincetur (Peru), INDEC (Argentina), the organizations and educational institutions, as well Ministry of Tourism (in Brazil and Ecuador), the World as more than 75 thousand people free of charge, items now assembled in the pavilion of the Bank and ProColombia. including children and adults in a situation of social former Brazilian Tractor Company, next to TAM’s vulnerability. In 2014, it served 849 organizations Maintenance Hangar. In collaboration with government agencies, tourism and 38 thousand people. Last year, the institution operators and other industry partners, LATAM received more than 100,000 visitors, 38,000 of them An aeronautic collection of historical, artistic and Airlines Group is also working to promote tourism students. documentary value was created for the Museum 4,6 activities in the region, generating direct results that project, Wings of a Dream, managed by Eductam US$ raise revenue for municipalities, provinces and other The museum was founded in 2006 by the Brothers (Education, Assistance and Culture), a Civil Society locations in Latin America. One of the most important Rolim Adolfo Amaro, founder of TAM Linhas Organization of Public Interest (OSCIP). The collection million contribution to the initiatives along these lines is the Discover program, organized by the companies of LATAM Airlines Aéreas, and João Francisco Amaro. Inspired by the restoration of Cessna aircraft, the Brothers decided includes rare aircraft constructed from the 1920’s to the 1960’s. These items came to the museum Group in its main South American domestic markets. to preserve and disseminate the memory of aviation. through purchase, exchange, donation and loans tourism industry Discover seeks to bring the commercial hospitality They purchased aircraft and began to collect the from institutions and collectors. 42 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Society Relations with governments, regulatory agencies and institutions G4-24; G4 EC4; Associations and institutions with relations with LATAM Airlines Group G4-16 Market Main institutions Associação Brasileira das Empresas Aéreas (ABEAR) American Chamber of Commerce for Brazil (AMCHAM) LATAM Airlines Group has specific departments Associação Brasileira de Agências de Viagens (ABAV) engaged in maintaining relationships with Associação Brasileira de Franchising (ABF) Brazil Associação Brasileira de Relações Empresa-Cliente (ABRAREC) governmental agencies and authorities: Public Empresas pelo Clima / Centro de Estudos em Sustentabilidade da Fundação Getúlio Vargas (GVces) Affairs, Institutional Relations and Corporate Affairs. Junta de Representantes das Companhias Aéreas Internacionais do Brasil (JURCAIB) Sindicato Nacional das Empresas Aéreas (SNEA) These teams monitor debates on the civil aviation industry and take part in them, pursuing transparent Asociación Chilena de Aerolíneas (ACHILA) Cámara de Comercio Chileno-Peruana dialogue in a search for joint solutions in keeping Cámara de Comercio Chileno-Argentina with legal frameworks. Cámara Chileno Brasilera de Comercio (CBC) Cámara Chileno Norteamericana de Comercio (AMCHAM) Chile Cámara Oficial Española de Comercio de Chile Interchange with authorities in the countries where Instituto Chileno de Administración Racional de Empresas (ICARE) Sociedad de Fomento Fabril the Group operates seeks to enable the company Fedetur to grow in accordance with local legislation and Acción RSE government plans for the industry. As a result Consejo Empresario Argentino para el Desarrollo Sustentable (CEADS) of negotiations conducted with state agencies in Argentina Instituto para el Desarrollo Empresarial de la Argentina (IDEA) Cámara de Comercio Argentina Brasilera Brazil, last year TAM obtained US$ 24,033,957 Cámara Nacional de Turismo (CANATUR) in exemptions for the Tax on the Circulation of Sociedad de Comercio Exterior de Perú (COMEX) Peru Merchandise and Services (ICMS). In Colombia, Cámara de Comercio Peruano-Chilena Cámara de Comercio Americana del Perú (AMCHAM) there was an exemption of US$ 17,017,000 for the refueling tax in a number of locations throughout Asociación de Representantes de Líneas Aéreas del Ecuador (ARLAE) Ecuador Cámara de Industrias y Producción the country. Cámara Ecuatoriana Americana de Comercio Asociación de Transporte Aéreo Colombiano Colombia The company also has partnerships with civil society Asociación Colombiana de Viajes y Turismo (ANTAO) institutions to promote best practices in the industry, International Air Transport Association (IATA) Associação Latino-Americana de Transportes Aéreos (ALTA) develop joint projects and pursue common interests. Strategic Alliances World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) Global Compact Carbon Disclosure Project 43 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Society Suppliers G4-12, G4-24, SO9, SO10, EC9, PR1, EN27 that all relationships are subject to the company Code of Conduct. All employees in the Purchasing department sign this policy, assuming a commitment was undertaken in Brazil to identify critical issues and conduct a socio-environmental assessment of these partners. The idea is to extend this work in Chile in In 2014, the departments of Indirect Purchasing to it and to the documentation concerning conflicts 2015, and then, successively, to all other countries. and Technical Purchasing were merged under the of interest. The objective is to improve management of this office of the Vice President for Procurement and the relationship and identify risks in the value chain. Supply Chain of LATAM Airlines Group. In addition, A process was also inaugurated last year to a company Purchasing Policy was established to streamline purchasing standards in collaboration Currently, the potential negative social impacts streamline procedures and define responsibilities with the Legal Affairs and Compliance departments, identified in this chain are degrading work for each department. The document assembles which will take into account LATAM code of ethics, the conditions (potential risk for suppliers of apparel), the clauses and principles governing relations with anticorruption policy of LATAM Airlines Group and food health and safety (risk for suppliers of on suppliers and confers transparency, making it clear the legislation of all countries where the company board food), physical safety (risk of travel and hotel operates. As of 2014, suppliers signed a contract accommodations for crew members and passengers) containing clauses on anticorruption laws and the and product responsibility (risks in gifts and courtesy Group’s internal policies on Corporate Purchasing. items offered on flights). In 2015, they will receive the Code of Conduct, which must be signed to formalize commitment to its rules. Issues bearing on ethics, conduct, health, safety, human rights – including matters involving child and slave labor – work conditions, anticorruption practices and socio-environmental responsibility are addressed in the Code of Conduct. With the aim of establishing systematic and comprehensive management for this stakeholder, the Group has created a Management Manual for Suppliers. In order to adopt a sustainability strategy with suppliers, it is first necessary to have adequate knowledge of socio-environmental issues specifically associated with the value chain. In 2013, an effort 44 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Society LATAM Airlines Group conducts continuous monitoring of all critical suppliers, such as those Shareholders T for aircraft parts, aviation fuel, airport equipment, he relationship with shareholders of LATAM back up and passenger tracking systems. As far as Airlines Group and other agents in the capital outsourcers and sub-contractors are concerned, it market is the responsibility of the department conducts technical audits to oversee fulfillment of of Investor Relations. The Group adopts a policy of employment obligations, analyze issues such as over clear and transparent communication with them, time and equipment maintenance. It also devotes through specific channels. special attention to health and safety matters with food suppliers and catering services. Suppliers Financial and governance information are compiled considered most critical are those involving higher on the website www.latamairlinesgroup.net expenditures, those that can directly affect Group (available in English, Spanish and Portuguese). There operations in the short term, and those with zero or are also teleconferences held on quarterly results, a very low possibility of replacement. conducted by the director of Investor Relations and the company’s CFO (Chief Financial Officer). The LATAM Airlines Group prioritizes contracting local department also has an e-mail address for making companies or subsidiaries of international companies direct, personal contact. established in the countries where it conducts operations (Chile, Brazil, Colombia, Argentina, Ecuador and the United States). Nearly 85% of expenditures on indirect suppliers1 are transacted with local companies or affiliates of international companies, and they employ personnel from the country where they are contracted. 1 Indirect suppliers are those not involved with fuels, aviation fees, fleet and maintenance. 45 Our staff Sustainability Report 2014 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Our staff I n drawing up its strategic plan for coming years, Last year, Group companies invested US$ 39 million Employees by country LATAM Airlines Group has defined organizational in internal courses and US$ 430,000 in scholarships Country Number of employees % power as one of its fundamental pillars. The for its employees. Distance learning classes main challenge is to have the whole organization accounted for 16% of total class time with more than Brazil 28,428 54% G4 10, G4-24, LA1, EC4, EC6 sharing the same aspirations and priorities. To move 1.9 million hours of training. In Chile, the company Chile 12,458 23% forward, it will be necessary to ensure the alignment obtained tax exemptions for investment in training. of strategy and Culture, excellent motivation and Accordingly, the company was able to deduct US$ Peru 4,022 8% performance, and the capacity for innovation of 733,230 from taxes in 2014. Argentina 2,715 5% Group company employees. There was also a significant increase in the number Colombia 1,927 4% This process was initiated by the development of of Group employees who received performance Ecuador 1,636 3% standards and principles that came to comprise the evaluations in 2014 – 74%, compared to 33% in 2013. Group Culture after the merging of the operations The goal for 2015 is to reach 90%. Others 1,886 4% of LAN and TAM. This combination has the capacity Total 53.072 to bring about changes in staff performance, introducing new patterns and strengthening procedures. Employees by gender In order to drive the company’s organizational power Own staff Sub-contractors Total 2013 2014 towards established strategic objectives, focal points Full time 52,892 1,123 54,015 Male 32,384 32,838 for employee development were defined. Part time 180 223 403 Female 20,418 20,234 Training and performance assessment take on Total 53,072 1,346 54,418 Total 52,802 53,072 special force in this process, considering there is a team of more than 53 thousand people in South America and other parts of the world. The structure of LATAM Airlines Group is built around a core of senior executives who for the most part (80%) operate in their own countries of origin. 47 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Our staff Employment practices Company employees by age group all employees in the different geographic zones G4-11 and LA2 where the company operates, in order to steer the 2014 new growth strategy toward success. The issue of 18 to 30 17,845 LATAM Airlines Group’s remuneration policy provides sustainability is incorporated into this process. 31 to 40 22,296 for fixed salary, variable salary, and benefits. Meal vouchers, transportation vouchers, life insurance, a In addition, the training department oversaw the 41 to 50 9,073 retirement fund and daycare assistance are offered. project for Harmonization of Service Procedures 51 to 60 3,218 Of all employees at Group companies, 97% are in Brazil, which aims to provide a unique travel covered by collective bargaining agreements, and experience for all passengers. A program was created 61 or older 640 67.5% are unionized. to bring practices into alignment for all 5,500 cabin Total 53,072 crew members in Brazil. For TAM Mercosur crews in Paraguay, specific courses were developed to Staff development prepare them to operate LAN and TAM aircraft (flight interchange), and to assimilate LAN operating Employees by functional category Investment in training and upgrading skills patterns. 2013 2014 G4 LA9, LA10, LA11, HR7 One of the most significant training initiatives offered Operations 23,916 22,563 The corporate education strategy of LATAM in 2014 was the course, Celebrating Service, which Support (overhead) 3,936 5,612 Airlines Group aims to provide a complete learning gave tools to all staff coming into contact with experience. Training sessions are conducted passengers (sales, contact center, airports and on Operational support 4,436 5,042 following best practices in the market, with the goal board service). The comprehensive training format Commercial support 2,709 2,526 of preparing staff to achieve the company’s strategic enabled participants to develop customer service objectives. competencies efficiently, maintaining levels of Crews 13,387 13,375 excellence. Sales 4,418 3,954 In 2014, LATAM’s first corporate orientation was held, presenting not only the common characteristics Total 52,802 53,072 of the Group as a whole, but also the new LATAM Culture and its strategic pillars. This training plan standardized the orientation process for 48 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Our staff The course calendar offers an update on operational processes, mandatory training in compliance with legal aviation standards and programs in the domain In 2014, LATAM Airlines Group offered 306,634 hours of distance learning training, and 1,603,733 hours of in-person instruction, for a total of In 2014, 74% of the Group population took part in the Performance Evaluation process, whose purpose is to generate a formal venue for of behavior, addressing subjects such as customer 1,910,367.38 hours. evaluation and feedback for each member of the service and communication. Group companies have organization with respect to their achievements been making use of distance learning as a resource and progress over the course of the year. Of all Average hours of training for sharing knowledge with a larger number of per functional category company employees, 74% of the men and 73% employees in all areas. of the women (24,389 and 14,707 employees, 2013 2014 respectively) participated in the process. A Staff also receives training in human rights practices, Operations 34,2 41,5 significant increase was registered in the number of fulfilling the requirements of the civil aviation employees evaluated as compared to 2013, since authority in each country. In 2014, 94% of all LAN Support (overhead) 30,5 11,3 one group of TAM employees had not taken part in security personnel were given AVSEC (Aviation Operational support 28,2 19,9 the Performance Evaluation the year before. Security Service) training. Commercial support 48,9 29,4 The Performance Evaluation process is Crew 38,0 41,6 compulsory for all company employees with indefinite employment contracts, or with a fixed Sales 101,2 45,4 term contract with a date of admission prior to Total 40,7 36,0 or equal to June 30 of the same year. Excluded from this category are crew members, fixed term employees, interns, sub-contractors and people Average hours of training on leave for more than 180 days. by gender 2013 2014 Male 35,3 35,7 Female 49,4 36,4 Total 40,7 36,0 49 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Our staff Employees subject to performance evaluation and career development Number of employees subject Total employees to performance evaluation % of population and career development OPERATIONS 22,563 20,223 90% SUPPORT (OVERHEAD) 5,612 5,011 89% SUPPORT FOR OPERATIONS 5,042 4,564 91% COMMERCIAL SUPPORT 2,526 2,330 92% CREWS 13,375 3,371 25% SALES 3,954 3,597 91% Total 53,072 39,096 73.7% Employees receiving performance evaluations, by gender 2013 % 2014 % Male 10,237 32% 24,389 74% Female 7,005 34% 14,707 73% Total 17,242 33% 39,096 74% 50 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Our staff Staff turnover Hires and terminations of own employees by gender G4 LA1 2013 2014 2013 2014 S taff turnover in 2014 stayed within usual Hires % Hires % Terminations % Terminations % company levels, holding steady at an average Male 3,521 62.78 4,432 64.24 5,132 61.34 4,785 61.92 turnover rate of 14,56%. Female 2,086 37.20 2,467 35.76 3,235 38.66 2,943 38.08 LATAM Airlines Group offers employees additional compensation upon termination, taking into account Total 5,607 6,899 8,367 7,728 their age and length of service to the company. Hires and terminations of own employees by age group 2014 Hires % Hires Terminations % Terminations 18 to 30 4,435 64.28 3,582 46.35 31 to 40 1,963 28.45 2,944 38.10 41 to 50 396 5.74 842 10.90 51 to 60 92 1.33 251 3.25 61 or older 13 0.19 109 1.41 Total 6,899 7,728 51 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Our staff Health and safety Areas of focus encompass flight operations, incidents Health and safety indicators G4 LA6, LA7, PR1, PR2 involving facilities and equipment, flight incidents (with passengers, flight crews, ground crews and Number of injuries 1,234 T he purpose of the department of Job Safety airport facilities), critical activities (working at heights is to ensure the health and physical safety of or with electricity, for example) and occupational Rate of injuries 2.40 Group employees by identifying, assessing diseases. The company has staff engaged in activities and overseeing situations of risk. This policy with a high incidence or high risk of disease in Number of days lost 12,764 expresses the highest values of LATAM Airlines maintenance processes – exposure to particulate Group, which is extended to clients and society. matter, solvents, noise, UV radiation and vibration – Number of fatalities 0 In 2014 there were no cases of non-compliance as well as in airport processes (exposure to noise and with health and safety regulations and codes for vibration). products and services. This issue is directly related to the Group’s strategic plan in the pillar of risk Standards and procedures guide employees in management and stakeholders. their perception of potential risks and proactive correction of any departures from safe practice. Health and safety procedures are guided by five For every type of operational activity, there are approaches, encompassing operational safety, teams specializing in processes, safety systems and corporate and job security, emergencies and risk assessment. The procedures for one hundred audits. These approaches have the common percent of these activities undergo review, and both elements of mapping risk, prevention and internal as well as external audits are conducted, management so as to ensure security and safety at such as the one by IATA. all phases of operations. The companies of LATAM Airlines Group record the number of incidents in order to compile health and safety indicators among their direct employees. In 2015, this monitoring will also include subcontractors. 52 Management 2014 Awards Sustainability Report 2014 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Management T he airlines belonging to LATAM Airlines Group  1st World Travel Awards (WTA) 2 received more than 50 awards in a variety of LAN: Best South American Airline 2014 Awards settings: on board service (excellence of its wine list and menu), travel experience (VIP lounges Alas20 Company Award of LATAM Airlines Group, on board entertainment (Sustainable Leaders Agenda) magazines) and reputation, as well as rankings Best Among the Best Award measuring economic, environmental and social Best Relationship with Investors, Sustainability. management. Below are the most outstanding CEO Leader in Sustainability: Enrique Cueto awards for Group companies in 2014: Second place in Corporate Governance Dow Jones Sustainability Index 2014: Corporate Transparency Award / LATAM Airlines Group enters the World category Universidad del Desarrollo and Chile of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, becoming Transparente 2014 the first Latin American airline to achieve this LAN Airlines recognition. Best of 2014 Awards Gala / Skytrax 2014: Premier Traveler USA The aviation industry’s most coveted award. First place in the category for Best Airline in South LAN: First place in the category for Best South America American Airline. LAN: First place in the category for Best South Co-responsibles and Global Compact Award American Service. Taking care of my Destination Program  ravelers’ Choice Favorites TripAdvisor® T TAM: Second place in the category for Best South TAM: First place in the airline category American Airline. Wines on the Wing / Global Traveler Best White Wine International Executive Class: 20  ost Loved Brands – M Barrels, Sauv. Blanc 2013, Viña Cono Sur, Chile Centro de Inteligencia Padrão (CIP) TAM: First place in the airline category 54 GRI contents Sustainability Report 2014 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Global External GRI CONTENTS indicator description Page Compact Observations assurance Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Message from the senior management 3, 4 Yes G4-32 G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 3, 4 Yes Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization. 6 Yes G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 6 Yes G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters. 6 Yes Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with G4-6 either major operations or that are specifi cally relevant to the sustainability issues 6 Yes covered in the report. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 6 Yes G4-8 Markets served. 6 Yes G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization. 6 Yes G4-10 Employee profile 47 6 Yes G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 48 3 Yes G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply chain 44 Yes G4-13 Changes regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain 11 Yes 56 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Global External GRI CONTENTS indicator description Page Compact Observations assurance “All services of LATAM Airlines Group, including routes, itineraries, maintenance activities, and customer loyalty programs, are Explanation of whether and how the precautionary principle developed pursuant to the applicable legislation, G4-14 Yes is addressed by the organization considering the potential risks and impacts they may have on consumers and society. However, the company does not formally adopt the precautionary principle in its business planning” Externally developed economic, environmental, and G4-15 3, 4 Yes social charters, principles, or other initiative Membership of associations G4-16 3, 4, 43 Yes and/or organizations Material aspects and boundaries List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial G4-17 All companies were considered in the report. Yes, page 62 statements and other equivalent documents not covered by the report G4-18 Process for defining report content 10 Yes, page 62 G4-19 List of material aspects 10 Yes, page 62 G4-20 Materiality and boundaries of each aspect within the organization 10 Yes, page 62 G4-21 Materiality and boundaries of each aspect outside the organization 10 Yes, page 62 G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous reports 11 Yes, page 62 Significant changes in the scope and coverage of each G4-23 11 Yes, page 62 aspect in relation to previous reports Stakeholder engagement 10, 16, 24, 26, 33, 38, G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization No 40, 42, 43, 44, 47 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 10 Yes, page 62 57 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Global External GRI CONTENTS indicator description Page Compact Observations assurance G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 10 Yes, page 62 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 10 Yes, page 62 Report profile G4-28 Reporting period 11 Yes G4-29 Date of previous report 11 Yes G4-30 Reporting cycle 11 Yes G4-31 Contact point regarding the report 11 Yes G4-32 “In accordance” option and the GRI Content Index 11, 56 Yes G4-33 Organization’s policy and practice with regard to external assurance 11 Yes Governance Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the G4-34 highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making 13 Yes on economic, environmental and social impacts. Ethics and integrity Organization’s values, principles, G4-56 8, 9 10 Yes standards, and norms of behavior Economic Performance G4-DMA Management Approach G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 19 Yes 58 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Global External GRI CONTENTS indicator description Page Compact Observations assurance Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s G4-EC2 30 7 Yes activities due to climate change. G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 43, 47 Yes Proportion of senior management hired from the local community G4-EC6 47 6 Yes at significant locations of operation G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 22, 38 Yes G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts 38, 41, 42 Yes G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 44 Yes Enviromental Performance G4-DMA Materials used by weight or volume. G4-EN1 Energy consumption within the organization 35 7 Partially verified Yes G4-EN3 Reduction of energy consumption 35 7,8 Partially verified Yes G4-EN6 Total water withdrawal by source 31 8,9 Yes G4-EN8 Direct greenhouse gas emissions 35 7,8 Partially verified Yes G4-EN15 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions 34 7,8 Yes G4-EN16 Other direct greenhouse gas emissions 34 7,8 Yes G4-EN17 Current greenhouse gas emissions intensity 34 7,8 Yes G4-EN18 Reduction of greenhouse gas emission 34 8 Yes G4-EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 31, 34 8,9 Yes G4-EN20 Emissões de substâncias que destroem a camada de ozônio 34 7,8 Yes 59 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Global External GRI CONTENTS indicator description Page Compact Observations assurance G4-EN21 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 34 7,8 Yes G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 36 8 Partially verified Yes G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 31, 36, 44 7,8 Yes Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for G4-EN29 30 Yes non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Social Performace labor practices and decent work G4-DMA Management Approach 6 Total number and rates of new employee hires and average G4-LA1 47, 51 Yes employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Social benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary G4-LA2 48 Yes or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, G4-LA6 52 Yes and total number of workrelated fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 52 Yes G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year, per employee 48 6 Yes G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning 48 Yes Percentage of employees receiving regular performance G4-LA11 48 6 Yes and career development reviews Social Performance – human rights G4-DMA Management Approach Percentage of security personnel trained in the G4-HR7 48 1 Yes organization’s human rights policies or procedures 60 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 Global External GRI CONTENTS indicator description Page Compact Observations assurance Social Performance society G4-DMA Management Approach Percentage of centers with implemented development programs, G4-SO1 38 1 Yes impact assessments, and local community engagement Operations with significant potential or actual G4-SO2 38 1 Yes negative impacts on local communities G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 16 Yes G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 16 This indicator is confidential. Yes “No social criteria for screening suppliers were Percentage of new suppliers that were G4-SO9 used in previous years. The company´s current No screened using criteria for impacts on societ suppliers were screened during 2014.” Significant and potential negative impacts on G4-SO10 44 Yes society in the supply chain and actions taken Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, G4-SO11 26, 44 This indicator is confidential. No addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanism Social Performance product responsibility G4-DMA Management Approach 44, 52 Percentage of significant product and service categories G4-PR1 44 Yes for which health and safety impacts were assessed Incidents of non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes G4-PR2 44 Yes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services G4-PR5 Customer satisfaction 26 Yes 61 Message from Message from the President the Chief of the Board Executive LATAM Corporate Financial Management GRI LETTER OF of Directors Officer (CEO) Airlines Group governance results Clients Environment Society Our staff 2014 Awards CONTENTS ASSURANCE Sustainability Report 2014 GRI G4 Risk Contenidos Básicos Generales Rosario Norte 407 G4-1 G4-2 G4-3 G4-4 G4-5 G4-6 G4-7 Piso 8 Las Condes, Santiago G4-8 G4-9 G4-10 G4-11 G4-12 G4-13 G4-14 LETTER OF Chile G4-15 G4-16 G4-17 G4-18 G4-19 G4-20 G4-21 Fono: (56-2) 2 729 8281 Fax: (56-2) 374 9190 G4-22 G4-23 G4-25 G4-26 G4-27 G4-28 G4-29 e-mail: riskchile@deloitte.com G4-30 G4-31 G4-32 G4-33 G4-34 G4-56 www.deloitte.cl ASSURANCE Contenidos Básicos Específicos G4-EC1 G4-EC2 G4-EC4 G4-EC6 G4EC7 G4EC8 G4-EC9 Mayo 15, 2015 G4-EN1 G4-EN3 G4-EN6 G4-EN8 G4-EN15 G4-EN16 G4-EN17 G4-EN18 G4-EN19 G4-EN20 G4-EN21 G4-EN23 G4-EN27 G4-EN29 G4-LA1 G4-LA2 G4-LA6 G4-LA7 G4-LA9 G4-LA10 G4-LA11 INFORME DE REVISIÓN INDEPENDIENTE DEL REPORTE DE SOSTENIBILIDAD 2014 LATAM G4-HR7 G4-SO1 G4-SO2 G4-SO4 G4-SO10 G4-PR1 G4-PR2 G4-PR5 Señor Enrique Cueto Vicepresidente Ejecutivo √ Respecto de los indicadores verificados podemos afirmar que no se ha puesto de manifiesto ningún Presente aspecto que nos haga creer que el Reporte de Sostenibilidad 2014 de LATAM no ha sido elaborado de acuerdo con la Guía para la elaboración de Reportes de Sustentabilidad del Global Reporting Initiative De nuestra consideración: en su versión G4 en los aspectos señalados en el alcance. Hemos realizado la revisión de los siguientes aspectos del Reporte de Sostenibilidad 2014 de LATAM: Informe de Mejoras Alcance Adicionalmente, se presenta a la empresa un informe de oportunidades de mejoras orientadas a reforzar √ Revisión de seguridad limitada de la adaptación de los contenidos e indicadores del Reporte de aspectos de gestión y la capacidad de reporte de su desempeño en materia de sustentabilidad. Sostenibilidad 2014, con lo establecido en la Guía para la elaboración de Memorias de Sustentabilidad GRI en su versión G4, en cuanto al perfil de la organización e indicadores materiales surgidos del Responsabilidades de la Dirección de LATAM y de Deloitte proceso de materialidad realizado por la compañía en torno a los criterios establecidos en la guía GRIG4, relacionados a las dimensiones Económica, Social y Ambiental. La preparación del Reporte de Sostenibilidad 2014, así como el contenido del mismo es responsabilidad de LATAM, la que además es responsable de definir, adaptar y mantener los sistemas Estándares y procesos de verificación de gestión y control interno de los que se obtiene la información. Nuestra responsabilidad es emitir un informe independiente basado en los procedimientos aplicados en Hemos realizado nuestro trabajo de acuerdo con la Internacional Standard on Assurance Engagements nuestra revisión. Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000) emitida por el International Este informe ha sido preparado exclusivamente en interés de LATAM, de acuerdo a los términos Auditing and Assurance Standard Board (IAASB) de la International Federation of Accounts (IFAC) establecidos en la Carta de Compromiso. Hemos realizado nuestro trabajo de acuerdo con las normas de independencia requeridas por el Nuestro trabajo de revisión ha consistido en la formulación de preguntas a diversas unidades y gerencias de Código de Ética de la IFAC. LATAM que se han visto involucradas en el proceso de realización de este reporte, así como en la Las conclusiones de verificación realizadas por Deloitte son válidas para la última versión de Reporte aplicación de procedimientos analíticos y pruebas de revisión que se describen a continuación. en nuestro poder, recibida con fecha 15/05/2015. El alcance de una revisión de seguridad limitada es sustancialmente inferior al de una auditoría o √ Reunión con la Jefa de Responsabilidad Social Corporativa, Srta. María Loreto Silva. revisión de seguridad razonable, por lo que no proporcionamos opinión de auditoría sobre el Reporte √ Reunión con el equipo que lideró el proceso de materialidad. de Sostenibilidad 2014 de LATAM √ Reuniones con el equipo de la consultora externa responsable de la elaboración del Reporte de Sostenibilidad 2014 para conocer los principios, sistemas y enfoques de gestión aplicados. √ Análisis de la adaptación de los contenidos del Reporte de Sostenibilidad 2014 a los recomendados en la Guía GRI-G4 y comprobación que los indicadores verificados incluidos en este Reporte se corresponden con los protocolos establecidos por dicho estándar y que se justifican los indicadores no aplicables o no materiales. √ Comprobación, mediante pruebas de revisión de la información cuantitativa y cualitativa correspondiente a los indicadores GRI G4 incluida en el Reporte de Sostenibilidad 2014 y su adecuada compilación a partir de los datos suministrados por las fuentes de información de LATAM. Conclusiones √ El proceso de verificación se realizó en base a los indicadores establecidos a partir del proceso de materialidad realizado por la empresa. Una vez identificados, priorizados y validados los indicadores Fernando Gaziano. fueron incluidos en el reporte. Los indicadores reportados y verificados, se señalan en la siguiente Socio tabla: 62 Credits Sustainability Report 2014 General Coordination Directorate of Institutional Relations and Corporate Social Responsibility Bruno Ardito Loreto Silva Lavin Directorate of Institutional Relations and Sustainability Gislaine Rossetti Cristine Naum Sarita Severien Tais Brandão Editorial production, design and GRI consulting Visão Sustentável Team: José Pascowitch, Rafael Morales, Andrea Fumo, Carolina Besse, Carolina de Paula S+G Comunicação  inal editing F Art & Texts – Sandra Muraki Translation Kevin Mathewson
