1(20) Strategisk utveckling RAPPORT Ärende/Dok. id. Hållbar utveckling 2015-05-04 507034 Version Infosäk. klass K1 (Öppen) Handläggare Helen Maalinn Global Compact Communication on Progress report 2014 AB Storstockholms Lokaltrafik (Photo from metro station Tensta, artist Helga Henschen, 1975) Stockholms läns landsting Leveransadress: Telefon: 08–686 16 00 Säte: Stockholm Trafikförvaltningen Lindhagensgatan 100 Fax: 08-686 16 06 Org.nr: 232100-0016 105 73 Stockholm Godsmottagningen E-post: registrator.tf@sll.se www.sll.se 112 51 Stockholm Besök oss: Lindhagensgatan 100. Kommunikationer: Stadshagen/Thorildsplan 2(20) Strategisk utveckling RAPPORT Ärende/Dok. id. Hållbar utveckling 2015-05-04 507034 Version Infosäk. klass K1 (Öppen) Foreword In my role as CEO of AB Storstockholms Lokaltrafik (SL) and executive director of the Stockholm County Council Public Transport Administration, I would like to express our continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles within the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. It is my understanding that SL’s work within these areas is in accordance with the principles of the Global Compact. We will continue to address these important issues throughout our organisation and in our dialogue with stakeholders. Anders Lindström Stockholm, 15 April 2015 3(20) Strategisk utveckling RAPPORT Ärende/Dok. id. Hållbar utveckling 2015-05-04 507034 Version Infosäk. klass K1 (Öppen) Table of contents 1 Introduction ............................................................................................. 4 2 Principles 1-2 Human Rights ................................................................... 6 3 Principles 3-6 Labour ............................................................................. 10 4 Principles 7-9 Environment ................................................................... 14 5 Principle 10 Anti-corruption .................................................................. 18 4(20) Strategisk utveckling RAPPORT Ärende/Dok. id. Hållbar utveckling 2015-05-04 507034 Version Infosäk. klass K1 (Öppen) 1 Introduction In May 2009, SL signed the UN initiative Global Compact and thereby pledged commitment to its ten principles within the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. SL has for many years actively worked with all of these areas. Concretely, this has involved SL defining its short-term and long-term sustainability objectives and integrating these issues into its day-today operations. This report is SL‟s fifth executive communication on progress and is produced in accordance with the Global Compact guidelines for preparation of such reports (www.unglobalcompact.org). SL is since 2012 part of the Public Transport Administration within the Stockholm County Council. Please direct any questions regarding this report or concerning SL‟s sustainability work to hallbarutveckling@sl.se. 1.1 Organisation General public transport services in the Stockholm County are conducted under the brand SL. In January 2012, the responsibility for SL‟s operations was transferred to the Public Transport Administration of the Stockholm County Council. SL is today the collective name and brand of the procured general public transport service on land in the Stockholm County. Due to the Public Transport Administration‟s administrative and operational responsibility for activities performed under the SL brand, its appellation is henceforth used throughout this communication on progress report. The Public Transport Administration is an administrative organisation within the Stockholm County Council Traffic Committee. The Public Transport Administration has the overall responsibility for the public transport and mobility services on land and at sea. Both the public transport and mobility services are operated by private companies, following procurement by the Public Transport Administration, in a free and competitive market in accordance with the Swedish public procurement act. Apart from the SL brand, the Public Transport Administration is also responsible for the operations of Waxholmsbolaget, Färdtjänst, and Mälardalstrafiken. The Stockholm County„s regional transport provision programme determines goals, vision, focus and scope of the public transport services. The transport provision programme is affirmed by the County Council, the decision-making 5(20) Strategisk utveckling RAPPORT Ärende/Dok. id. Hållbar utveckling 2015-05-04 507034 Version Infosäk. klass K1 (Öppen) body which controls the Public Transport Administration‟s operations. More information about us and the regional transport provision programme can be found at www.sll.se. 6(20) Strategisk utveckling RAPPORT Ärende/Dok. id. Hållbar utveckling 2015-05-04 507034 Version Infosäk. klass K1 (Öppen) 2 Principles 1-2 Human Rights Through signing the Global Compact principles 1 – 2, the Public Transport Administration has pledged commitment to the following proclamations: Principle 1 Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Make sure that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. The Public Transport Administration shall, in its role as purchasing organisation and responsible for the public transport service in the Stockholm County, contribute to a well-functioning society. To us, working with the social dimension of sustainability (including human rights) means that the Public Transport Administration should promote social responsibility and human rights throughout the organisation, in its supply chain, and in contact with passengers and Stockholm County residents. A number of policy documents, including guidelines, routines and action plans, guide the decision making process at the Public Transport Administration. Listed below are those documents most relevant for our work with human rights: 2.1 Selected policy documents • Equal treatment plan 2012 2014 • Long-term accessibility plan 2011 2021 • Accessibility policy for the rights of children, elderly people and passengers with disabilities (RiTill) • Guidelines for SL‟s work according to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child (RiBarn) • Guidelines for equality in public transport planning (RiJäm) • Procedure for procurement and sourcing 2.2 Selected targets and results • Target: The proportion of buses with low-floor entrance shall be 100 per cent in 2014. Result: 99.8 per cent. Same high result as for the year 2013. • Target: The proportion of buses that kneel at bus stops, i.e. that can be lowered to make it easier to board the bus, shall be 70 per cent in 2014. Result: 56 per cent. Although results show that the Public Transport Administration does not achieve the set target, a notable improvement is seen compared to 2013, when the result was 39 per cent. In new supplier 7(20) Strategisk utveckling RAPPORT Ärende/Dok. id. Hållbar utveckling 2015-05-04 507034 Version Infosäk. klass K1 (Öppen) contracts kneeling buses are a requirement and as these contracts come into effect the percentage of kneeling buses in the fleet will increase. 2.3 Working methods Accessibility for children, the elderly and passengers with disabilities is a central issue in the public transport service. The Public Transport Administration is in constant dialogue with interest groups for disability issues and pensioner organisations, in the form of both consultation meetings and working parties. All service personnel at contracted public transport service suppliers have to partake in fair treatment and awareness training aimed to raise the competence level of the needs of passengers with disabilities. Contracted service suppliers are required to report to the Public Transport Administration the percentage of staff that has received training. Follow-up is led by the accessibility expertise group at the Public Transport Administration who work in close collaboration with the contracted bus service suppliers with the aim to increase the accessibility level of the general bus services. Through training and cooperation with staff at technical aid centres in the Stockholm County, the Public Transport Administration works to ensure that heavy mobility aids in the public transport are no hindrance in the event of a necessary evacuation. Since the beginning of 2014, the Public Transport Administration‟s accessibility guidelines also include specific guidance regarding accessibility for children in public transport. The accessibility guidelines are incorporated as supplier requirements into invitations to tender and are also used in order to perform a follow-up on supplier contracts. The work to develop specific guidelines for social sustainability in public transport began in 2014 and is expected to finalize during 2015. The new social sustainability guidelines are going to include among other things an upgraded version of the current Guidelines for SL‟s work according to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child (RiBarn). This means that procurement requirements regarding social sustainability become more pronounced and that the work on children‟s rights is strengthened. The new social sustainability guidelines provide assistance on how to implement social sustainability in procurement criterions, in public transport service contracts and how to carry out follow-ups. 2.4 Safety One highly important issue for the Public Transport Administration is to ensure that people feel safe while using public transport. SL‟s Security Centre and the safety helpline form the hub which passengers can contact if they feel unsafe or for any other reason want to summon help. The Security Centre then swiftly organises assistance to the scene in the form of SL‟s procured safety resources – 8(20) Strategisk utveckling RAPPORT Ärende/Dok. id. Hållbar utveckling 2015-05-04 507034 Version Infosäk. klass K1 (Öppen) public order officers, safety patrols and hosts from Lugna Gatan – depending on the severity of the situation. Apart from these procured safety resources, the Public Transport Administration is in close collaboration with transport operators, the police, municipalities, districts and volunteer organisations. Together with the Security Centre, they form a network for security on SL transport services. On an ordinary weekday, there are around 130 safety resources on SL transport services, and around 160 during evenings and weekends. Close to 64,000 cases were reported to the Security Centre in 2014, which corresponds to 175 cases per day, on average. All safety resources receive special basic training on working with the public, and about legislation, ethics and moral. Every 15 months, they receive further training on soft values and treatment. Agreements with safety resources are monitored regularly services through anonymous checks. 2.5 Equality In order to fully incorporate the equality perspective into the Public Transport Administration‟s operations, it is important for us to implement these considerations into the early planning and consultation stages of each new project. Therefore, the Public Transport Administration poses requirements in the procurement of new infrastructure regarding the inclusion of a description of evaluated social impact. This can be done in the form of a social impact assessment – a report describing how society is affected by the planned project. For example, a social impact assessment should be carried out before building new tram or metro lines, in order to evaluate the social effects of alternative routes for different districts and municipalities. Furthermore, the Public Transport Administration has begun posing specific requirements on service providers regarding compliance with international conventions and norms, including the rights of persons with disabilities. Service providers are expected to adhere to these conventions and norms throughout the supply chain and are also required to document the efforts made to ensure compliance. 2.6 Activities 2.6.1 Developing a method for social impact assessments The Public Transport Administration‟s work with social sustainability intensified in 2014, and resulted in a social impact assessment conducted in the early planning phase of the project Spårväg Syd; the establishment of a new tramway between Flemingsberg and Älsvjö. The aim of conducting such a social impact assessment is to locate social effects that generally lack recognition in a conventional socio-economic assessment report. The social impact assessment made for the Spårväg Syd project provides an overall description of the current 9(20) Strategisk utveckling RAPPORT Ärende/Dok. id. Hållbar utveckling 2015-05-04 507034 Version Infosäk. klass K1 (Öppen) social situation in the areas affected by the planned project and is meant to establish a fair, equal and socially sustainable public transport in the area. Moreover, the Spårväg Syd social impact report identifies plausible social effects of the project on both local and regional levels. Through analysis of identified social effects, the social impact assessment aims to influence choices made with regard to the chosen route of the tramway, in order to maximise its positive social impact. 2.6.2 Comprehensive social sustainability training A process to develop a comprehensive social sustainability training programme was initiated in 2014. The training programme will address equality and accessibility issues, as well as the UN‟s Convention on the Rights of the Child, and is developed in collaboration with stakeholders. Representatives from various interest groups for disability issues, pensioner organisations, transport service suppliers, the Stockholm County Council and the Public Transport Administration itself, have participated in developing the training programme. Once the training has been evaluated it will be mandatory and will replace the accessibility training currently offered. The Public Transport Administration continues to develop the content of the social sustainability training and will evaluate the programme in spring 2015. 2.6.3 Refurbishment of the Hallunda and Norsborg metro stations Yet another example of the Public Transport Administration‟s engagement to promote social sustainability is the on-going project of refurbishing the Hallunda and Norsborg metro stations, a pilot project with the aim to include social responsibility requirements into the invitation to tender for larger construction projects. Since January 2014, The Public Transport Administration is undertaking the refurbishment of the stations in cooperation with the municipality of Botkyrka, and is, at the same time, building a depot in proximity to the stations. The project aims to spur the incorporation of social sustainability requirements in procurement, as well as to achieve extended consideration for, and engagement of, the local community in such projects. 10(20) Strategisk utveckling RAPPORT Ärende/Dok. id. Hållbar utveckling 2015-05-04 507034 Version Infosäk. klass K1 (Öppen) 3 Principles 3-6 Labour Through signing the Global Compact principles 3 – 6, the Public Transport Administration has pledged commitment to the following proclamations: Principle 3 Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Effectively abolish child labour. Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The Public Transport Administration strives to be an attractive employer and ensure equal opportunities at the workplace. In order to reach these goals, the working culture and operational value-enhancement process which commenced in 2013 continued during 2014, and has included full employee involvement. A number of policy documents, including guidelines, routines and actions plans, guide the decision-making process at the Public Transport Administration. Listed below are those documents most relevant for our work with employee rights: 3.1 Selected policy documents • Stockholm County Council‟s staff policy • Guidelines on work environment • Guidelines on pay structure • Cooperation agreements with the unions (including collective, work environment and co-determination agreements) • Equal treatment plan 2012–2014 • Procedure for procurement and sourcing 3.2 Selected targets and results For the third executive year, the Public Transport Administration produced an Employee Engagement Index based on the annual employee survey. The index is used as a way to follow up on one of the Public Transport Administration‟s development goals, “Attractive employer”. Compared to 2012 when the Employee Engagement Index first was produced, the index results have increased from 72 to 76 (on a scale 0 – 100). 11(20) Strategisk utveckling RAPPORT Ärende/Dok. id. Hållbar utveckling 2015-05-04 507034 Version Infosäk. klass K1 (Öppen) 3.3 Working methods The Public Transport Administration systematically works with preventive measures to ensure safe and secure work conditions for all employees throughout the supply chain. All employees, regardless of their labour union status, should be treated equally. Four cooperation meetings are held each year with the two union organisations (Vision and Saco), with which the Public Transport Administration has entered into collective agreements. Operations, finances, work environment and staff issues are discussed at these meetings. In 2015, the Public Transport Administration will initiate a larger reorganisation and labour union representatives have been involved in the preparatory phase. Approximately 80 per cent of employees as the Public Transport Administration are unionised. Table 1 Number of unionised employees per union at the Public Transport Administration, including SL (2014) Vision 212 Saco 230 Other 48 Non-organised 146 Efforts to increase staffing levels at the Public Transport Administration were prioritised in 2014 and resulted in an 18-persons staff increase. New employees are recruited only based on competence. Gender, age, sexual orientation, ethnical heritage or disabilities must not influence the employee selection. The percentage of female staff has increased from 47 in 2012, to 53 in 2014. Table 2 Gender equality in management (2014) Number of County Council Traffic 20 Committee permanent members of which women 7 Number of members in the Public 7 Transport Administration‟s management group of which women 3 Number of managers on the Public 45 Transport Administration of which women 24 The Public Transport Administration has a longstanding tradition of addressing equality issues internally and the extensive efforts are described in detail in the 12(20) Strategisk utveckling RAPPORT Ärende/Dok. id. Hållbar utveckling 2015-05-04 507034 Version Infosäk. klass K1 (Öppen) equal treatment plan, which will be updated 2015. Both the equal treatment plan and the County Council‟s public health policy are documents that guide the internal work process. Managers continuously receive training on the subject of equal treatment and employees with concerns about discriminatory behaviour should bring these concerns to the attention of his or her manager in the first instance and the HR department in the second instance. In the third instance, confidential discussions with the company healthcare provider will be offered. The procedure for reports on discriminatory behaviour within the organisation has been updated and employees are now obliged to report any suspicions of such behaviour. Results from the latest employee survey show that the staff requests more information about support functions and reporting on discriminatory behaviour. The HR department is actively approaching these employee requests and the work will continue during 2015. 3.4 Employee contribution to the decision-making process Every year, employees get a chance to formally express their views on how issues related to work environment and work conditions are handled in the organisation. This is done through the annual employee survey and action plans are developed based on the survey results. A total of 94 per cent of employees took part in the 2014 survey, which is the highest response rate to date. In the survey, employees expressed a need for more frequent communication between staff and top management. The Public Transport Administration management group has therefore since held a number of so-called hall meetings and general assemblies to improve staff–top management interaction. Furthermore, the majority of people who responded to the employee survey hold that all staff is treated equally, irrespective of gender. Survey respondents also express the view that the Public Transport Administration actively works to prevent discrimination. Through a whistle-blower function on the organisation‟s intranet site, employees may anonymously report suspicions of maltreatment of any kind. All employees have access to the whistle-blower function. During 2014, the Public Transport Administration has specifically worked with the topic of diversity. Therefore, operational values and work-culture related issues have been in focus. Through a number of workshops, all employees have been involved in prioritising operational values and areas for development. The work will be assessed using an operational value index, derived from the employee survey. 13(20) Strategisk utveckling RAPPORT Ärende/Dok. id. Hållbar utveckling 2015-05-04 507034 Version Infosäk. klass K1 (Öppen) 3.5 Activities 3.5.1 Equality training All managers receive equality training with the aim to develop a norm-conscious organisational environment, in which both management and staff actions are driven by the notion of equality. The training is part of the Stockholm County Council‟s leadership development programme, aimed to support and ensure equal opportunities at the work place and in managing public transport services. Moreover, the County Council offers all employees more extensive training on equality issues directly related to the Public Transport Administration‟s operations. During the six-month training period, participants join five interactive seminars. Staff members appreciate the training programme and participants confirm that the training has improved their understanding of equality issues. 3.5.2 Supplier compliance audits To Public Transport Administration, labour rights do not solely address employee rights and wellbeing in the organisation itself, but also in the supply chain. Today, the Public Transport Administration poses requirements on suppliers, both Swedish and foreign, to respect the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. In 2014, the Public Transport Administration conducted, among other followups, two audits in China at the factory of a supplier of metro trains. The audits concerned quality, environmental and safety management, as well as social sustainability according to the principles of the UN Global Compact. One particular focus within the area of social sustainability included a revision of the supplier‟s systematic work to ensure the incorporation of its code of conduct into its sub-supplier‟s operations. Work on the Public Transport Administration‟s social sustainability guidelines was initiated during the year, with the aim to facilitate the inclusion of clear and transparent social requirements in the procurement process. The guidelines are to be affirmed in 2015 and will include requirements for supplier responsibility in terms of self-assessment, audits and supply chain management. 14(20) Strategisk utveckling RAPPORT Ärende/Dok. id. Hållbar utveckling 2015-05-04 507034 Version Infosäk. klass K1 (Öppen) 4 Principles 7-9 Environment Through signing the Global Compact principles 7 – 9, the Public Transport Administration has pledged commitment to the following proclamations: Principle 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. According to the common environmental policy programme for Stockholm County Council, target issues are climate and resource efficiency, and the promotion of good public health. This all-encompassing work includes the use of renewable resources, limiting greenhouse gas emissions, posing procurement requirements in order to limit negative environmental impact, as well as reduction and prevention of noise and vibrations from public transport, to mention a few. A number of policy documents, including guidelines, routines and actions plans guide operational decisions at the Public Transport Administration. Listed below are those documents most relevant for our work with environmental sustainability: 4.1 Selected policy documents • Environmental Challenge 2016, environmental policy programme for Stockholm County Council 2012–2016 • Environmental policy • Environmental targets and principles • Environmental handbook – Procedures for environmental control in SL‟s construction projects • Guidelines on noise and vibrations (RiBuller) • Procedure for procurement and purchasing 4.2 Selected targets and outcomes • Target: By 2016, travel with SL (general public transport) shall have increased by at least a retained market share, compared to 2011. Outcome: 7 per cent increase in the number of passengers compared to 2011. One of the most important contributions towards a better environment is the increasing use of general public transport instead of commuting in 15(20) Strategisk utveckling RAPPORT Ärende/Dok. id. Hållbar utveckling 2015-05-04 507034 Version Infosäk. klass K1 (Öppen) personal vehicle. In 2014, the number of SL passengers on a regular weekday during winter was 791,000, compared to 786,000 in 2013.  Target: By 2020, the percentage of renewable fuel for public transport in Stockholm shall be at least 90 per cent. Outcome: 80 per cent of fuel used for bus service and 100 per cent of energy used for rail service originated from renewable sources in 2014.  Target: By 2016, the proportion of renewable energy for heating, cooling and electricity for premises where County Council-financed operations are carried out shall be at least 95 per cent. Outcome: 92 per cent (concerns premises where SL operations are carried out). The outcome is affected by the fact that heating oil is still used for heating purposes, though in a decreasing number of facilities. Further, part of the district heating originates from non-renewable energy sources.  Target: County Council-financed operations shall pose relevant and measurable environmental requirements in all invitations to tender for goods and services, in both central and local procurements. The requirements in environmentally highly prioritised purchases shall be followed up over the course of the agreement. Outcome: The internal procedure for procurement and purchasing clearly states that environmental requirements always should be included in the invitation to tender. Environmental aspects are identified in the early stages of the procurement process, as templates for the decision on procurement and implementation are set up. Six environmental aspects are included in the templates and if any of these are identified as relevant for the purchase in question, the invitation to tender should include specific environmental requirements.  Target: By 2016, emissions of particles and other air pollutants to the environment from Stockholm‟s public transport shall have decreased by 10 per cent compared to 2011. Outcome: Emissions of particles per passenger-kilometre have decreased by 33 per cent, while nitric oxide emissions have decreased by 28 per cent compared to 2011. A large portion of the older diesel-run buses have been replaced by new buses with clean engines, which has influenced emission levels. 16(20) Strategisk utveckling RAPPORT Ärende/Dok. id. Hållbar utveckling 2015-05-04 507034 Version Infosäk. klass K1 (Öppen) Goal 2030 100% 92% 93% Goal 2020 90% 84% 80% 80% 74% 75% 73% 73% 70% Outcome 60% 50% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Figure 1 Renewable energy in public transport in Stockholm County 2007-2014 (bus & rail services combined) 4.3 Working methods The Public Transport Administration works according to a certified environmental management system (ISO 14001), which ensures that preventive, effective and systematic processes are in place in order to limit negative environmental impact. Based on the Stockholm County Council‟s environmental policy programme – Environmental Challenge 2016 – invitations to tender include relevant requirements in order to navigate towards meeting set targets. To ensure that targets are met, it is important to follow up on environmental requirements. For this purpose, we consider it important to have a dialogue with suppliers, something which has developed during the year through a vast mapping of transport service suppliers‟ ability to meet contracted environmental requirements. In 2014, the Public Transport Administration‟s environmental management system passed an external audit without objections. The Administration reports to the County Council annually on its work and progress within the environmental field. During the year, the Public Transport Administration has developed guidelines on environmental and energy issues, with the aim to ensure a uniform and costeffective work process throughout the organisation. In invitations to tender, environmental requirements will be posed in accordance with the new guidelines, which also safeguard a satisfactory self-assessment process in conformity with Swedish environmental law. The guidelines will enter into force in 2015. 17(20) Strategisk utveckling RAPPORT Ärende/Dok. id. Hållbar utveckling 2015-05-04 507034 Version Infosäk. klass K1 (Öppen) In order to ensure that all employees understand the Public Transport Administration‟s positive and negative environmental impact and find out how the business works with environmental issues, compulsory environmental training is carried out. This training is updated regularly based on the applicable environmental targets. By the end of 2014, 70 per cent of employees had completed the training. The Public Transport Administration actively shares its experiences, primarily in the field of renewable energy sources, and cooperates with other market actors in order to develop and diffuse new environmentally friendly techniques. One example is a meeting with a delegation of approximately 30 representatives from the Bangkok Transport Authority in August 2014, who visited a bus depot in Gubbängen in Stockholm to learn more about environmentally friendly public transport, especially transport powered by biogas. 4.4 Activities 4.4.1 Public transport and the transition to renewable energy Stockholm is at the forefront internationally, as regards the share of renewable energy used in public transport. For the Public Transport Administration in Stockholm, the targeted level of renewable energy to drive service operations is 100 per cent. SL‟s rail bound traffic is today 100 per cent powered by green electricity; that is, electricity generated from sun, wind, hydropower and biogas. In 2014, 80 per cent of the total energy used in the public bus service originated from renewable sources. 4.4.2 The future of public bus transport During 2014, the Public Transport Administration has continued its work to test new techniques in order to limit its operations‟ negative environmental and climate impact. Such efforts are essential in order to meet internal environmental targets, as well as targets set by the Stockholm County Council. Together with Volvo and Vattenfall, the Public Transport Administration has conducted a project with the aim to implement a comprehensive test with plugin hybrid buses. Since such buses are powered by biodiesel and renewable energy, they require 75 per cent less fuel than conventional diesel-powered buses, while their carbon dioxide emission levels are 90 per cent lower than those of buses powered by diesel. After the quiet and exhaust fume-free buses have been charged at the end stop of their route, they can run up to seven kilometres on a full battery. In December 2014, the first plug-in hybrid bus was brought into traffic. The pilot project, which will include a total of eight electric hybrid buses, will continue through 2015 and be evaluated in 2016. 18(20) Strategisk utveckling RAPPORT Ärende/Dok. id. Hållbar utveckling 2015-05-04 507034 Version Infosäk. klass K1 (Öppen) 5 Principle 10 Anti-corruption Through signing the Global Compact principle 10, the Public Transport Administration has pledged commitment to the following proclamation: Principle 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The Public Transport Administration aims to prevent corruption in the broader sense of the term and eliminate all types of behaviour that may damage the public‟s trust in our operations. A number of policy documents, including guidelines, routines and action plans guide operational decisions at the Public Transport Administration. Listed below are those documents most relevant for our work with anti-corruption: 5.1 Selected policy documents • Guidelines for the prevention of bribery and other types of corruption, which implements the Swedish Association of Local Authorities and Regions‟ “Information on bribery and bias” policy • The project handbook (including how consultants work in projects) • Procedures for procurement and purchasing 5.2 Working methods The Public Transport Administration works systematically and proactively to prevent any corruptive activities in its organisation or related to its operations. Zero tolerance prevails. Internal anti-corruption guidelines, staff training and information, contract requirements, a centralised procurement function, continuous support from internal lawyers and auditors, and the possibility of anonymous reporting of potential violations are all important tools which support our anti-corruption work. A few reports of suspected violations of anticorruption policies were submitted during 2014. Conducted investigations have not led the Public Transport Administration to press charges. Violations of anticorruption policies or guidelines may, however, be legally reprimanded. Suppliers are informed of the Public Transport Administration‟s anti-corruption guidelines and in the procurement process, there is the possibility to: • Terminate cooperation if supplier representatives have committed offences of a certain character. • Require suppliers to have an anti-corruption policy, code of conduct or the like to prevent corruption from taking place. 19(20) Strategisk utveckling RAPPORT Ärende/Dok. id. Hållbar utveckling 2015-05-04 507034 Version Infosäk. klass K1 (Öppen) • Include in the contract a clause concerning the right to wave or terminate a contract based on violations of anti-corruption policies. 5.2.1 SKL’s guidelines The Public Transport Administration‟s guidelines for the prevention of bribery and other types of corruption implement the Swedish Association of Local Authorities and Regions‟ (SKL‟s) “Information on bribery and bias” policy. It is the intention of the Public Transport Administration to use the web-based training course developed by SKL, as an extension of its anti-corruption guidelines. The web-based training – “Correct and Etiquette” – is mandatory for all new employees. The legal department at the Public Transport Administration follows up on participation, together with the employee and his or her manager. A reminder for participation is issued if needed and other internal training courses are continuously carried out. During 2014, the Public Transport Administration has continued its work to implement the project handbook and the procedures for risk analysis and risk management into its work processes. The work to develop routines and working methods as concern contract directory, policy documents and case handling has progressed over the year. Consequently, an enhanced level of internal control, as well as an increased transparency throughout the organisation, is expected. During 2014, the transport department has also continued the process to develop into a more business-minded purchaser, with the aim to establish a shared understanding of the meaning of business integrity. This process has resulted in common cross-sectional working methods, routines and templates. Subsequently, a supplier audit function has been established. 5.3 Activities 5.3.1 Suppliers received winter and summer greetings Over the last several years, the Public Transport Administration has sent a Christmas greeting to its suppliers and 2014 was no exception. In the letter, the Executive Director reminds suppliers of the guidelines for the prevention of bribery and other forms of corruption, and preventively declines any gifts or invitations directed towards the Public Transport Administration‟s employees. For the first time in 2014, suppliers also received a summer greeting with the same information. Although work to advance communication with suppliers is on-going, no decision has yet been made as concerns the possibility to engage suppliers in Public Transport Administration‟s internal anti-corruption training. 20(20) Strategisk utveckling RAPPORT Ärende/Dok. id. Hållbar utveckling 2015-05-04 507034 Version Infosäk. klass K1 (Öppen) 5.3.2 Presentation for the Board of Directors In spring 2014, the Secretary General of the Swedish Anti-Corruption Institute conducted a presentation for the Public Transport Administration‟s Board of Directors on the topic of the importance of the “tone at the top”. This initiative was part of the organisation‟s proactive work on the prevention of bribes and other forms of corruption.
