Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 1 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 2 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Table of Contents Statement of Continued Support and Analysis of Business Environment Agrokor Key Facts Agrokor Group Business Structure Agrokor Companies Report Scope and Boundary Economic and Social Impact Information and Analysis Economic Impact Social Impact Implementation of the UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Human Rights Labour Standards Environment Anti-Corruption Overview of GRI G4 Indicators presented in Agrokor’s 2014 COP Report parameters and contact person for questions regarding the report 3 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Statement of Continued Support and Analysis of Business Environment With pleasure I present to you our fifth COP which manufacturers and suppliers to enter new markets and covers the year 2014, as a sign of our commitment to the find opportunities for growth and sustainable business UN Global Compact principles, specifically outlining through a stronger and more competitive retail sales. activities of Agrokor Group companies in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We have reaffirmed the strategy that has been underlying Agrokor’s expansion and development since The year 2014 was another successful and significant the beginning, with a persistent orientation to business year. The merger of Konzum and Mercator is the central quality, high productivity and competitiveness, constant event and one of the historic business achievements modernization of technology, modern organization of for both companies, as well as for Agrokor as a whole. work, permanent investment in human resources and Agrokor has thus achieved one of its strategic goals and building trust with our business partners and customers. established a new position in the markets of the countries in which it operates and has opened new perspectives Conducting our business in a responsible manner and in South Eastern Europe, where it is already strongly focus on sustainability are postulates of our daily present, but also in Central and Eastern Europe, where operations. We systematically apply the UN Global it has found its place among the largest companies, in Compact principles in our activities, which also affects the retail sector as well as companies in general. New the business community we belong to and cooperate opportunities for Agrokor also carry new responsibilities. with. This COP is a summarized presentation of our sustainability reporting, which we provide in a more The leading retail chain, created by merging Konzum comprehensive and detailed form every two years, guided and Mercator, with more than 2,000 stores, is able to by the GRI Reporting Framework. monitor all of the strategic challenges in business and withstand strong competition. Data on the consumption To conclude: last year will be remembered by the fact that growth is certainly encouraging, but does not exempt us we have ploughed a large, so far the biggest, business from our own responsibility to continue to rationalize furrow, by merging Konzum and Mercator and activating our operations and reduce costs. In 2014 we have also rich synergy potentials resulting from this merger. So we faced different challenges that have largely stemmed from can rightly expect better yields in the coming years, based complex business conditions in the countries in which on Agrokor’s investment in its and our common future, our companies operate. However, once again we have which opens up completely unsuspected possibilities. I demonstrated our strength and ability to be stronger than would like to thank everyone who participated, starting all adverse circumstances we found ourselves in and to with my closest collaborators, as well as all our employees finish the fiscal year with the results with which we can be and end-users of our joint operations, our customers and completely satisfied. consumers. The synergy with Mercator opens a completely new perspective for all companies, starting with Mercator and Konzum, which have joined their forces to secure the leading positions in extremely fierce competition from well-known European retailers. It should be noted that the newly acquired market power of the merged companies also presents an opportunity for the partners local and regional Ivica Todorić President and CEO of the Agrokor Group 4 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 The Agrokor Group is the largest privately owned company in Croatia and one of the leading companies in Southeast Europe. Quality, sustainable growth, development and business responsibility are basic corporate values of Agrokor. Agrokor key facts Brands Diversified portfolio of wellestablished brands supported by market leading consumer Leading food awareness. manufacturer, distributor, retailer and wholesaler with robust market position. From field to table Vertically integrated business model with local strategic partnership. Innovation Continually strengthens R&D activities by developing new and improving existing products and processes. 5 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Agrokor Group Business Structure Agrokor Ownership in Subsidiary Companies BUSINESS GROUP BUSINESS GROUP OTHER RETAIL FOOD BUSINESS Angropromet a.d..................... 96.92% Agrokor Zagreb d.o.o. ........100.00% Agrokor AG ........................... 100.00% Euroviba d.o.o. ....................... 91.56% Agrolaguna d.d........................85.22% Agrokor Energija d.o.o........ 100.00% Idea d.o.o................................ 96.92% Belje d.d...................................67.92% Agrokor kft. ........................... 100.00% Frikom Beograd dooel............55.30% Dijamant a.d.............................73.08% Agrokor trgovina d.d........... 100.00% Jamnica d.o.o. Beograd.......... 80.44% Frikom d.o.o.............................55.30% eLog d.o.o................................ 96.92% Jamnica d.o.o. Maribor........... 80.44% Fonyodi kft...............................80.44% eLog plus d.o.o. ...................... 96.92% Konzum d.d............................. 96.92% Irida d.o.o.................................55.30% Kor Broker d.o.o.................... 100.00% Konzum d.o.o. Sarajevo.......... 96.92% Jamnica d.d.............................80.44% Kron d.o.o.............................. 100.00% Krka d.o.o................................ 79.87% Kikindski mlin a.d....................66.07% L.G. Moslavina d.o.o............. 100.00% Ledo d.o.o. Kosovo................. 55.30% Kor Neretva d.o.o. .................. 96.92% M-profil SPV d.o.o. ............... 100.00% Ledo d.o.o. Ljubljana.............. 55.30% Ledo d.d...................................55.30% mStart d.o.o........................... 100.00% Multiplus card d.o.o................ 72.69% Ledo d.o.o. Čitluk ...................55.30% PIK BH d.o.o. Laktaši ............. 96.92% Ledo kft. .................................55.30% Poslovni sistem Mercator d.d... 49.92% Ledo d.o.o. Podgorica.............55.30% Roto dinamic d.o.o.................. 80.44% Mladina d.d..............................48.98% Roto ulaganja d.o.o............... 100.00% Nova Sloga d.o.o. .................100.00% Super Kartica d.o.o................. 64.94% PIK Vinkovci d.d......................70.87% Tisak d.d.................................. 67.35% PIK Vrbovec d.d. .....................96.92% TPDC Sarajevo d.d.................. 51.00% Sarajevski kiseljak d.d.............80.98% Zvijezda d.o.o. Ljubljana......... 51.84% Sojara d.o.o.............................51.84% Zvijezda d.o.o. Sarajevo.......... 51.84% Solana Pag d.d........................96.68% Žitnjak d.d............................... 86.67% Vupik d.d..................................86.27% Zvijezda d.d.............................51.84% 78,9% Retail 16,9% Food and drink 4,2% Other Bisiness 6 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Agrokor Companies Retail, Wholesale and Distribution Edible Oils and Margarines Waters and Beverages Meat Production and Processing Ice-Cream and Frozen Food Agriculture Other Business 7 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Report Scope and Boundary This Report is based on the information and data collected from the following companies: • agriculture: Belje, PIK Vinkovci, Vupik, Solana Pag, Kikindski mlin • ice cream and frozen food products: Ledo, Irida, Frikom, Ledo Čitluk • oil, margarine and mayonnaise products: Zvijezda, Dijamant • bottled waters and beverages: Jamnica, Sarajevski kiseljak, Fonyodi, Mladina, Agrolaguna • meat and meat products: PIK Vrbovec • retail sales: Konzum, Mercator S, Mercator Slovenia, Konzum BiH and Tisak • other activities: Agrokor trgovina, Agrokor Energija Our Communication on Progress provides information for the indicators separately, this time per business sector and country entire Group, i.e. consolidated data for the economic, labor, emof operation, to provide a more concise overview of each busineployee, human rights, community, anti-corruption and product ss sector specifics, achievements and trends. responsibility areas. We continue to present our environmental Economic and Social Impact The year 2014 was marked by exceptionally bad weather, synergies within the Group. In addition, in the second half of especially during spring and summer. These adverse weather 2014, following the acquisition of Mercator, Agrokor’s strong conditions have resulted in severe flooding in the whole area focus was placed on the integration of Mercator’s business of our primary markets Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and operations with the operations of the rest of the Group. Serbia, and also have adversely affected the tourist season in Croatia. Moreover, macroeconomic conditions have remained unfavourable to the continuous downward trend of GDP, which The total revenue consists of income from sales, other has put additional pressure on consumption. Agrokor, regarincome, interest income, net proceeds from the sale of fixed dless of the above, has managed to maintain consistent sales assets and subsidiaries, the Group’s share of profit (or loss) revenues and profitability, while the consolidated results were from associates, dividend income and the excess of fair value mostly affected by the acquisition of Mercator. of acquired net assets over cost reduced by the write-off of goodwill. The direct economic value generated in 2014 grew At the consolidated level, total sales revenues increased from by HRK 5,120 million or 16.7 percent compared to 2013, HRK 30,144.8 million to HRK 34,969.1, which is an increase primarily as a result of the acquisition of Mercator. of 16 percent. EBITDA increased by 5.9 percent, reaching the amount of HRK 3,164.6 million, while the EBITDA margin Operating costs include the costs of materials, services, dropped from 10 to 9.1 as a result of the increased share of other costs (excluding the costs of salaries, taxes and contriretail sales in total revenues of the Agrokor Group. butions on salaries and depreciation expenses), impairment of investment value and a net foreign exchange loss). The During 2014, Agrokor’s companies continued the strategy increase in operating expenses of 17.4% and wages and of focusing on increasing and/or maintaining market shares benefits of employees of 21.9% is due mainly to the acquisithrough the implementation of proactive measures such as tion. Payments to the government include profit tax, which the implementation of effective marketing and promotional in 2014 decreased compared to the same period last year as a campaigns, investment in prices, continuous innovation, result of lower taxable profit. Payments to providers of capiextension of the product range and the private label offer. The tal include accrued interest and paid dividends. As a result of management team remained focused on the optimization of the above factors, in 2014 Agrokor recorded a drop of the ecocosts and business processes, increasing efficiency and profinomic value retained of 31.5 percent compared to the value tability through the continuation of the process of systemaachieved in the previous year. tization and reorganization and better utilization of mutual 8 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2012 2013 2014 2014/2013 (HRK 000) (HRK 000) (HRK 000) % Direct economic value generated 30,290,200 30,641,428 35,761,727 a) Revenues 30,290,200 30,641,428 35,761,727 16.7% Economic value distributed 29,362,866 29,675,925 35,100,623 18.3% b) Operating costs 24,819,647 24,941,379 29,313,101 17.4% c) Employee salaries and benefits 2,905,140 2,696,341 3,286,319 21.9% d) Payments to capital providers 1,422,073 1,785,775 2,276,007 27.5% e) Payments to the government 197,233 234,173 225,196 -3.8% Retained economic value (calculated as economic value generated minus 927,334 965,503 661,104 -31.5% economic value distributed) Source: Capital Strategy and Markets Agrokor Proportion of Spending on Local Having penetrated significant new markets such as Slovenia, Agrokor particularly attends to the existing local suppliers of Suppliers at Significant Locations the acquired companies by continuing to foster good business of Operation relationships and improving them both on the local market and by allowing them to penetrate other markets where Agrokor’s members are present. The Agrokor Concern including all its members presently obtains 70% of all products and services from local suppliers. Of course, there are certain exceptions in procurement – consiThe term ‘local’ refers to the entire region where Agrokor dering the high standards set for industrial equipment quality, obtains most of its revenues, including Croatia, Bosnia and Agrokor obtains 80% of such equipment from leading global Herzegovina, Serbia and, following the acquisition of Mercasuppliers. In addition, items not supplied on local markets are tor, Slovenia and Montenegro. Each supplier established in purchased on the global market. any of these countries is considered to be a local supplier. Agrokor’s long-term partnerships with local suppliers guaAgrokor specifically adapts to each of these markets, affecting rantee job security and a stable local economy, thus ensuring them directly or indirectly, depending on the size of each future growth. This also ensures sustainable development of market. It directly affects them by preferring local suppliers Agrokor and its members at significant locations of operation. for all types of supplies where they are competitive. This way, suppliers are given an opportunity to achieve stable business growth. It indirectly affects them by stimulating their development and new employment, thus boosting the local economies. Strong local suppliers are crucial for Agrokor Concern’s growth because their developed sales and aftersales networks provide constant support to Agrokor’s members. 9 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Sponsorships and Donations Understanding the needs of the community in which we operate is certainly one of the fundamental values on which the Agrokor Group is building its success. Through corporate social responsibility programs we have donations from the citizens and the Red Cross had at their supported humanitarian projects, cultural institutions and disposal several hundred trucks that delivered aid to flood hit projects, sports clubs in Croatia and the region, national areas on a daily basis. sports federations, local associations and individual projects that contribute to the improvement of community life. Children and young people Regarding the education of young people, the Agrokor Group Humanitarian activities also supports a large humanitarian project “Korak u život” The Agrokor Group pays special attention to the projects in(Step into Life) whose aim is to enable the continuation of tended to help the socially vulnerable as well as those aimed education for children without parental care. Among the at improving the lives and health of children. So this year we projects specifically aimed at children and young people, we have conducted a special holiday contest to support the promust point out that in 2014 Konzum continued its activijects aimed at improving the living conditions of children, ties under the project “Vratimo djecu na igrališta” (Let’s youth and families, education and training, and donations bring the children back to the playgrounds) which includes have been directed towards 30 projects selected through a equipping children’s playgrounds all over Croatia. Moreover, tender procedure. in 2014, Konzum and Henkel launched a joint action called “Donesite i Vi osmjeh u bolnice” (You can also bring smiles to the hospitals), with the aim of raising funds for the association of clown-doctors Red Noses . Jana – Water with a message During this year Jamnica has continued its campaign Jana Water with a message which aims to help needy segments of society. Jana Water with a message has been included in a number of humanitarian activities throughout Croatia. Culture Protection and promotion of Croatian cultural heritage is certainly an important part of corporate social responsibility of Agrokor. Accordingly, this year Agrokor has supported cultural projects such as cultural event “Vinkovačke jeseni” (Autumns in Vinkovci) and the traditional boat race on the Neretva river. Sport Sponsoring and supporting the development of Croatian sport is also part of a long-term strategy of socially responsible activities of Agrokor. The Agrokor Group has a successful long-term cooperation with many Croatian sports federations and supports many important sports clubs in Croatia and the region as well as numerous sporting events. This year, the Agrokor Group supported the umbrella organization of the Croatian sports, the Croatian Olympic Committee as well as the Croatian Football Federation to support the In 2014 Konzum continued its activities under the project Croatian national football team at the European and world “Vratimo djecu na igrališta” (Let’s bring the children back competitions. Also, through sponsorship Agrokor supported to the playgrounds) the organization of sporting events like the popular ATP tournament in Umag. As a socially responsible company, Agrokor performs activiIn a difficult situation caused by the flood, which in the ties in the community in which it operates to help create a spring of 2014 affected many areas of the eastern Croatia, as transparent and supportive business environment. It builds responsible members of the community, all companies of the on its relationship with the community through donation Agrokor Group got involved in providing assistance to the and sponsorship programs aimed at improving life in the residents of the affected area with donations worth more than environment in which it operates. Since 2000, Agrokor has six million Kuna. In over 200 stores Konzum was collecting invested more than 200 million Kuna in such projects. 10 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Integrated Management Systems Quality Management System Food Quality Control Education In accordance with the company-wide dedication to continuIt should be noted that 78 quality managers from almost all al improvement in the business year 2014 several certificaAgrokor’s regional companies successfully completed the tion processes were completed, ensuring Agrokor’s global course “Influence of Changes to the Existing Quality Managecompetitiveness.Agrokor’s Food Business systematically ment Systems” organised by the Agrokor Academy. ensures a company-wide approach to quality and efficient quality management as an imperative. We have focused on Results the facts and results and always strive to maintain high stanAt the end of 2014 the company had 106 certificates assuring dards and achieve excellence. its conformity to multiple global standards (ISO 9001, ISO 14000, ISO 22000, OHSAS 18001:2007, HACCP, GMP+, GloRecognisable premium products such as Agrolaguna wine bal G.A.P., BRC, IFS, etc.). With the joining of Mercator Grolabels, cheese, olive oil, Belje Baranjski kulen, Ledo ice cream, up, six Slovenian companies and eight companies in other etc. regularly earn the highest scores at the national and markets in South-Eastern Europe, Agrokor’s management international level. Last year the American Food and Drug system added ten valuable certificates to its compliance portAdministration (FDA) for the first time carried out a directed folio proving its adherence to well-implemented standards inspection focusing on food production facilities in Croatia and best global practices. manufacturing food products for export to the United States. The inspection was carried out in Agrokor’s Ledo and Belje Numerous certificates and organization facilities and the companies were awarded the highest stanmemeberships are proof of the quality of Agrokor's dards due to full compliance with the American regulatory business: requirements. Frikom Dijamant In line with the demands of specific customer segments and IFS Food GMP+ product placement and marketing, in 2014 Pik Vrbovec was (International Featured Halal standard inspected by the Russian inspection authority and visited by Standards) Agrolaguna delegations from the Russian Federation, China, Japan, and Irida Kosher certifikat the United States and, on several occasions, the European FSSC 22000 Jamnica Commission. Konzum NSF International Bottled HACCP sustav Water Certificate FDA Cooperation with Institutions ISO 22000 Regulations Through a concept of continual networking with prominent PIK Vinkovci Belje, Vupik, Pik-Vinkovci i domestic and foreign institutions throughout the world HACCP Codex Alimentarius Frikom (Faculty of Food Technology and Biotechnology, Croatian VeDijamant Agrar Global G.A.P. terinary Institute, Campden Association, NSF International, HACCP FoodDrink Europe, etc.) we follow well-thought-out educational techniques and programs and in 2014 the positive trend continued. Teams in the marketing and development departments of Agrokor companies, develop and launch large number of new and innovative products each year Recognisable premium products such as Agrolaguna that are attractive to wine labels, cheese, olive oil, Belje Baranjski kulen, customers. Ledo ice cream, etc. regularly earn the highest scores at the national and international level. 11 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Percentage of significant product and to product and service quality, consistence, stability, value system compatibility, and clean business and business comservice categories for which health munications. By developing such relationships, they become and safety impacts are assessed for partners to the company and are provided with a long-term improvement outlook for the demand expected to be satisfied by their manufacturing and distribution systems. Agrokor’s companies have accepted quality as a global postulate and imperatively set their management systems on As product quality and safety are key factors for establishing a platform guaranteeing food safety, compliance with legal and maintaining consumer confidence, we systematically requirements and internationally recognized standards, and invest in knowledge, equipment, technical skills, services, generation of extraordinary value for consumers. The quality marketing and consumer communication to ensure unquestimanagement systems in Agrokor’s companies are in conforonable safety and high quality of our products, and conmity to international standards (ISO 9001, ISO 14000, ISO sequently also the trust and satisfaction of our consumers. 22000, OHSAS 18001:2007, HACCP, GMP+, Global G.A.P., Agrokor’s companies use a huge database from which they IFS, BRC, etc.) and are constantly subjected to reviews by obtain information about customer satisfaction and their renowned certification bodies, which provide inputs for enresponses, placing them in a system of mutual communicahancement and support our striving for innovative changes tion and interaction. In this process, we sometimes obtain and improvements. services from third parties conducting anonymous customer surveys or use benchmarking processes to compare our Our systematic assurance of food safety is based on the products and services on the local and international markets. HACCP principles for preventively identifying, assessing Customer re-acquisition, retention, loyalty and delight levels and controlling potential risks. This is a systematic code of are the most reliable quality measures. technological process control aiming to identify all potential hazards at any stage of a product’s life, including input, product development, manufacturing, the logistic chain, and Total number of incidents of noneven waste disposal. compliance with regulations and voluntary The sustainability of our product and service quality is a recodes concerning health and safety sult of a high level of our employee’s motivation and loyalty impacts of products and services during on all levels of business. Such homogeneity in understanding their life cycle, by type of outcomes and managing risks is achieved by using numerous available tools obtained through specifically targeted and well-deIn this reporting period, we did not record any violations of signed training techniques and materials. By using such national or European regulatory frameworks in the area of methodology, cooperating with renowned domestic institutiproduct monitoring with an emphasis on potential health ons and other institutions across the world (Faculty of Food and safety impacts. Technology and Biotechnology, Croatian Veterinary Institute Campden BRI, NSF International, etc.) and by keeping track of best practices, we fulfil the key conditions precedent to Type of product and service information the security and sustainability of all Agrokor’s production required by the organization’s procedures resources in the long term. for product and service information and We extend our quality standards to our business partners labelling, and percentage of significant as well, and expect them to adhere to the same level. All product and service categories subject to Agrokor’s companies continuously select and evaluate their such information requirements suppliers in modern business conditions based on global manufacturing and business systems. This way, we often By accepting all transposed legislation and EU regulations, maintain long-term contracts with particular suppliers, all our companies have fully aligned and adjusted their thus establishing whole new relationships based on trust, product information provided on packaging, depending on openness and partnership. For this purpose, we design and the category and nature of each product. The new order of use appropriate integral evaluation methods according to specifying nutritional values, product use information, and product-specific criteria. other voluntary information, combined with modernized design and packaging materials, add value to the wide range of The evaluation of a selected supplier is based on several key our brands, especially Konzum’s store brands, thus ensuring requirements such as: competency, capacity, commitment more competitive market positioning. 12 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Considering the specific demands of our customers and Frikom supplemented their ice cream range by launching new consumers, four Agrokor’s companies, Belje, Dijamant, Ledo ice creams suitable for people with diabetes where the content BiH and PIK Vrbovec, have fulfilled the requirements of the of sucrose, now replaced by the natural sweeteners maltitol, Halal standard for a particular group of products that satisfy erythritol and steviol glycosides, was reduced by 55%. the relevant quality attributes and are as such permitted for food consumers of the Islamic confession. In addition, eleven In line with these activities, we conduct numerous marketing Agrokor’s companies are Kosher certificate holders for the campaigns through media, printed materials (brochures, learelevant product list, which means these products are made flets, and posters) and promotional tasting in our stores and according to Jewish food laws. at attractive outdoor locations, including interaction with visitors and involvement of the entire local community. We also aim to bring our products closer to special groups of consumers who select particular products for medical reasons. This in particular applies to consumers allergic to Results of survey measuring certain ingredients or having food intolerance problems. customer satisfaction For that purpose, many products from different companies include information such as soy-free, gluten-free, etc. On The Agrokor Concern and its members pay special attention our product packaging, we also communicate various other to the satisfaction of their customers. In this process, we information precious to consumers, such as natural aromas, distinguish between a corporate customer on the one hand preservative-free, no artificial colours, no added sugar, etc. and the final consumer of our products and services on the other hand. As regards market research in the Agrokor ConOur company mission requires that we opt for and remain focern system, customer satisfaction is measured in regular, cused on the highest quality standards in the production and predefined intervals using predefined mechanisms – standistribution of food and agricultural products and providing dardized instruments and objective measuring methods. our customers with the best value for money through our Such standardization of measurement allows us to collect retail network, guided by the principles of competitiveness and monitor results in a systematic manner, which provides and social responsibility. basic benefits for the Concern and its companies: evaluation is aligned for all our members and this allows for adequaWe improve the nutritional quality of our products on an te mutual comparisons of the companies’ performance. In ongoing basis. As a highlight in 2014, Dijamant launched addition, this enables us to monitor results over time. The its Dobro jutro Dijet spreadable margarine enriched with objectivity of collecting data is also high on our priority list functional ingredients, vitamins B6 and B12. The overall and is achieved by having data collected and interpreted by nutritional composition of the product is in compliance with renowned international research institutes and agencies. the European regulations concerning product quality, which allow the communication of approved health claims, so we Two basic customer satisfaction monitoring projects are in communicate on this product: “Vitamins B6 and B12 help place within the Concern: ongoing monitoring of compliance maintain a normal energy metabolism.” with the relevant retail service standards and a 2-year large customer satisfaction survey conducted by our manufactuAs regards Jamnica’s beverage range, we are increasing our ring companies. The first project relates to the assessment focus on natural ingredients – the Na-cyclamate, Na-saccof compliance with the relevant retail standards by using harine, Acesulfame K and Aspartame artificial sweeteners the mystery shopper method, conducted in several waves per in Jana Ice Tea Peach were replaced by sugar. The content of year for our retail chains in Croatia (Konzum), Bosnia and natural green tea extract was increased and natural roiboos Herzegovina (Konzum BiH) and Serbia (IDEA). The survey tea extract was added in the Green Tea launched on the is conducted by the Gfk research institute and the project Hungarian market. examines different service standard aspects: tidiness and cleanness of stores, staff’s communication with custoSarajevski kiseljak supplemented their product range by mers, inter-staff communication to satisfy customer needs, launching Sky Cola Green, a soft carbonated beverage with providing appropriate feedback to consumers, cash register herbal extracts and fewer calories. The calorific value was service… Survey results are monitored on a company level, reduced by 30% by replacing part of the sugar with the natuas well as on lower levels (regions and business areas) and ral sweetener steviol glycoside obtained from stevia leaves, allow us to respond in time for the purpose of improving which has no calorific value. particular elements of our retail services to increase final consumer satisfaction. 13 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Implementation of the United Nations Global Compact in the Republic of Croatia Global Compact – Communication on Progress HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 / Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within the scope of their influence; and Principle 2 / make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 14 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Agrokor is a business group that comprises companies active in several business sectors and in several countries of the region. As in the previous years, all our companies comply with legal regulations and company policies related to ethics, labour law and respect of human rights and social responsibility principles. The respect of human rights is also manifested in ensuring the adequate working conditions and safety at work for our employees. We act equally in all countries where our companies are present; including the provision of equal possibilities and policies of non-discrimination on all grounds, and respect the law and other provisions that regulate business operations. Protection of Employee Dignity In accordance with the relevant laws, Agrokor uses primary regards the reported case of discrimination, it involved perprevention, informing, education and training to systematimanent impairment of relations as a result of a disagreement cally foster a climate where care for employees is a profesregarding the job description and business procedures. Based sional responsibility of both the individual and the entire on the statements collected from the witnesses regarding organization. Where a violation of labour or human rights, the griever’s allegations, the Commission examined the discrimination or mobbing is reported, appropriate mutually grievances and concluded that the dignity of the employee acceptable solutions are found by using adequate procedures, concerned had not been violated. intermediation mechanisms and professional participation of authorized persons, witnesses and other persons involved. Based on the allegations of the grievers and statements given by the persons named in the grievances, it was found by Systematic planning and implementation of measures to performing the relevant procedure in all three cases that the prevent psychological abuse and reduce workplace stress, as employer had ensured the continuity of business processes well as timely and appropriate handling of conflicts, provide and tasks and that no actions had been taken to impair their our employees with working conditions where employees’ dignity. dignity is protected. Not a single case of forced or compulsory labour or child During the past period, 1 case of discrimination and 2 labour was recorded within the Concern, or any other form disputes concerning human rights and employee dignity of violating the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) were recorded and resolved within the reporting period. As Convention. 15 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Implementation of the United Nations Global Compact in the Republic of Croatia Global Compact – Communication on Progress LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3 / Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 / the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 / the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 / the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 16 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 We are proud to be able to say that the Croatian companies belonging to the Group are the first private companies to incorporate collective bargaining in their employee and union relations business models. We follow the same practice in other countries of the region, in accordance with local laws and regulations. Through workers’ councils, the unions participate in the process of passing decisions by the Management Boards and the supervision of business operations through their membership in the Supervisory Boards of the relevant companies. The Agrokor Group supports and finances charity, educational and sporting activities based on union initiatives. Human Resources is a business function primarily oriented petencies, respect for values and fostering culture that recoon competencies, values and corporate culture and on making gnises and rewards results. Equally important is openness to Agrokor employees successful and proactive leaders, while learning, which applies equally to employees and the organisetting the environment suitable for creating new value. sation as a whole. The environment encourages leadership and Agrokor’s long-term strategy that includes investing in the our managers are ready to make decisions and act on them, development of individual and professional potential of every which is of crucial importance for identifying key challenges, employee has made the company’s employees its present and opportunities and for human resources management. Human future key competitive advantage. Education and professional Resources functions have continued working on optimising development are the key elements in this approach applicable organisation and business processes and further harmonisatiat all levels and across all areas of business. Equally important on with other strategies and available Group resources, all in is the workplace environment and the atmosphere of appreorder to drive growth and achieve good performance. ciation of dedication, hard work, growth, development and innovative thinking. The focus is on the development of com17 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Freedom of Association and the right to a paid leave of up to 7 days per year in case of a special need regarding the birth of a child, family member’ Cooperation with the Unions death, moving, training, etc. In 2014, we continued to pursue our practice of maintaining good relations and social dialog with the unions both on the In the autumn of 2014, we launched an intensive process of Concern level and on the level of each company. As in earlier integrating Mercator, so we approached the unions operating years, the Agrokor Concern communicates with higher union within Mercator and established contacts and communication levels to agree upon common activities. Policies and practiwith them. ces regarding the implementation of companies’ decisions relevant to the economic and social position of employees and In conclusion, in 2014 we maintained good relationships with requiring appropriate forms of unions’ or elected employee the 40 unions active in all countries of the region where Conrepresentatives’ involvement are actively managed on a cencern’s companies operate. We have no unresolved issues and tralized basis. have valid collective bargaining agreements in place in all our companies, elected employee representatives in addition to According to the principles we are guided by in practice, emthe union, ongoing communication and dialog, and a publicly ployees are free to become union members at their sole discrerecognized status of an employer that treats unions fairly. tion and unions are free to undertake their activities. Regular meetings were held with union representatives in all companies and financial aid was provided for union activities for the Minimum notice period regarding purpose of training union representatives in each company in significant operational changes, including the area of workplace safety and employee organization. whether these are specified in collective We were invited to attend two major election congresses in Serbia: the congress of the Serbian Commerce Unions and agreements the PPDIV (Agriculture, Food, Tobacco & Water Management Our employees are regularly notified on time of any signifiIndustries) Union as honorary guests and representatives of cant operational changes and are duly involved and prepared an employer that fosters good relationships with the unions. for them by joint activities. Our companies are required to We were also invited to the Croatian Commerce Unions’ conprovide information to the works council and/or employee gress where we were the only representatives of an employer. representative about any decisions relevant to the economic We were introduced at all congresses and gave speeches and social status of employees. addressing the topic of cooperation and relationships with the unions, which received approval from the attendees to our pleThe minimum notice period regarding significant operaasure. Agrokor and each company within the Concern’s system tional changes is 8 days (1 week), but this further varies definitely reinforced their positions as an employer that is a depending on the country and type of business, being 2, 4 or friend to the unions and elected employee representatives. 6 weeks. The periods are defined by the applicable regulations, collective bargaining agreements and internal corporate The novelties relevant to our companies’ business in Croatia documents, depending on the country and type of business. and Serbia related to amendments to the Labor Act made Unless defined by the collective bargaining agreement, the halfway through last year. According to the new Labor Act in notice periods are defined by the relevant regulations conSerbia, all collective bargaining agreements were terminated cerning labour and labour relations and their provisions for and new ones needed to be signed within the statutory time consultation and negotiation. limit of 6 months. In late 2014, collective agreements in all our companies in Serbia were concluded for a term of three years. We did not need to amend our collective bargaining agreements in Croatia or align them with the Labor Act Number of grievances about labor because we decided to retain a somewhat higher level of practices filed, addressed, and resolved rights, which was well received by the unions, especially through formal grievance mechanisms the Croatian PPDIV Union because plenty of changes had occurred in their industries. We renewed the annexes to Total number of grievances about labor practices our collective bargaining agreements that are regularly filed through formal grievance mechanisms 111 signed for a term of one year and retained the same level of during the reporting period employees’ substantive rights as in earlier years. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, we renewed the existing annexes to the Addressed during the reporting period 223 collective bargaining agreements and retained the same level of substantive rights as in earlier years. Resolved during the reporting period 56 Pursuant to the applicable collective bargaining agreements, Total number of grievances about labor practices the employees of our companies are entitled to occasional filed prior to the reporting period 70 that were resolved during the reporting period rewards: Easter bonus, annual leave allowance, Christmas bonus, children’s Christmas gifts, jubilee rewards, retiring allowance, private health insurance, reimbursement of transport expenses incurred by travelling to work, the right to Disputes concerning labour relations are normally employees’ one-time aid for a sick leave of up to 90 days, financial aid in demands for compensation of damage or other employcase of a family member’s death, meal allowance, increased ment-based monetary claims, as well as disputes arisen from wages for overtime work or work on a Sunday or holiday, and disciplinary actions taken against employees. 18 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Systematic planning and implementation of measures to preWe defined all issues concerning the protection of employee vent psychological abuse and reduce workplace stress, as well privacy and dignity, workplace safety and health, election as timely and appropriate handling of conflicts, provide our or appointment of employee’s workplace safety representaemployees with working conditions where employees’ dignity tives and coordinators, training for safe work, participation is protected. in hazard assessments, selecting and providing personal protective equipment, periodical medical examinations for Based on social partnership, our longstanding dialog with ememployees working in special conditions, protection of partiployee representatives and unions within the Concern has procular employee categories, the right to refuse to work in case vided the relevant rights to our employees, while our assertive employees’ lives are endangered, proposing measures for imand collaborative strategy continues to require that we work provement of workplace safety and health, ongoing cooperation achieving our common goals, finding the best solutions on with employer’s authorized representatives and workplace and improving the quality of our working environment safety experts, etc. Agrokor supports the promotion and preservation of employees’, their family members’ and general community’s Workplace Safety and Health health. More favourable terms of health insurance and use of general and special medical examination services at healthThe joint responsibility and all stakeholders’ high awarenecare institutions were arranged for Concern’s employees and ss of the significance of ensuring healthy, safe and humane their family members. working conditions are primarily based on the relevant laws To the extent possible, the Concern uses its internal corporate and regulations of each country where we operate, but are documents and activities and encourages a positive climate also contained in other corporate documents and collective and culture to promote gender equality and, in particular, the bargaining agreements. rights of our female employees and the taking of maternal leaves. Concern’s companies attend to the health and safety We have organized Workplace Safety Committees in accordanof pregnant women and new mothers. We aim to enable new ce with the provisions of the collective bargaining agreements mothers to return to work as comfortable as possible, take and the regulations of each country where Agrokor Concern’s additional days off or work reduced hours if necessary. There companies operate. We continuously review the situation and are also an increasing number of fathers taking paid parental undertake measures to effectively implement and organize leave for the purpose of encouraging responsible parenting by workplace safety and health for the purpose of taking prevenboth female and male employees, without compromising their tive actions, reducing the number of all types of injuries, and further professional growth and development. preventing the most serious workplace injuries. We plan and monitor the implementation of workplace safety rules, propose measures to prevent workplace injuries and occupational Return to work and retention rates diseases, and encourage ongoing improvement of workplace after parental leave, by gender safety. In practice, all issues concerning employees’ health and safety are resolved through cooperation between the Management Board or its designee and the employees’ workplace Return to work rate 92.45 safety representative (appointed by the union). Retention rate 93.41 Rates of Injury, Occupational Illness and Days Lost Injury rate 4.47 Male Female Occupational disease rate 0.016 Total number of employees that were Lost days rate 124.91 1100 4815 entitled to parental leave Absentee rate 10,823.56 Total number of employees that took parental leave 143 2539 As the number of employees across the region (61.58 percent) is growing and the business is expanding, the increase of indicators related to the parameter for lost work days and lack Total number of employees who of employees according to the AR parameter (excluding the returned to work after parental leave 132 1833 following categories of absence: approved leave of absence, ended annual leave, study leave, maternity leave, leave due to a death Total number of employees who in the family) was recorded. At the level of the entire Group returned to work after parental leave one death was recorded, where a deceased worker acted outside ended who were still employed twelve 104 1844 the prescribed procedures and rules which led to an accident months after their return to work with fatal consequences. 19 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Training and Education Average hours of training Male Female Some of our Human Resources activities are focused on per year per employee improving employee competencies to allow them to realize their personal and professional potentials, while continuously 16,33 14.45 17.68 implementing the defined strategy, mission and vision of each company and responding to constant changes in job requi2014. rements and business processes. Training and development are key elements of this approach, while lifelong learning is a basic concept that creates sustainable competitiveness of Top Management 22.34 employees and provides opportunities for working and being promoted in several positions in different companies within Middle Management 21.37 the Concerns on all levels and in all business areas. Line Management 14.01 In 2014, different types of training and development programs were attended by 94.187 employees and 64% of these proOther employees 4.50 grams were organized through internal academies, trainings and workshops. As the topics, structure and duration of retail education and internal training are very specifically defined, they conInternal training sequently reduce the average number of employee training and development ... 64% hours. These trainings are short and focused on our sales staff. They are necessary to learn about new services, operations, technologies and systems and train a population accounting External training for 79% of the Concern in a very short period of time. and development.... 36% Performance Evaluation By achieving our business targets using clearly defined on the type of business a company engages in, employees are individual and group targets, regularly monitoring and rewarded according to the business targets achieved and the evaluating employees’ key performance indicators and attainment of their personal development goals. This kind of rewarding them appropriately, we enhance their motivation rewarding is also implemented through the Annual Interand productivity and improve their performance. Depending view system where the immediate supervisor discusses with the employee his/her business and development goals on an annual or half-year basis. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category Other employees Other employees Seasonal Top Management Middle Management Line Management Temporary Temporary workers Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female 30,60 33,33 49,51 92,49 9,12 9,80 47,13 68,27 10,80 6,38 29,66 14,44 In addition to monetary rewards, our employees also receive ces, postgraduate studying, etc.), providing opportunities for different forms of tangible and intangible rewards: enabling promotion, and other types of benefits and privileges both professional development through additional education for them personally and for their family members (employee (Agrokor’s internal academy, internal academies within recreation, supplemental healthcare, etc.). companies, internal training, specialized seminars, conferen20 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Youth Employment Initiative Data on Employesss In addition to continual and regular recruitment, The Agrokor In 2014 the key business function Human Resources successGroup offers great work experience opportunities for young fully executed the acquisition and integration of Mercator and people of various profiles, including postgraduates, graduates their staff and today Agrokor employs almost 60,000 people. and engineers and trained salespersons, butchers, drivers, etc. Agrokor employees have enabled the accomplishment of mulin a variety of fields, including sales, logistics, finance, martiple goals the company has set to achieve and they are the keting, retail, food industry and agriculture. In February 2014 ones carrying out present and future ambitious and dynamic The Agrokor Group implemented its second youth employment development projects. United through activities and processes, initiative by employing several hundred young people without they show flexible thinking and openness to change, while prior work experience and out of 16,527 candidates Konzum, focusing on achieving long-term growth and development. Jamnica, Ledo, Zvijezda, PIK Vrbovec and PIK Vinkovci hired over 600 persons. Over a hundred of them are still employed Presented below is information about our employees and their by Agrokor. numbers classified by the type of employment contract, age, qualifications and gender and presenting their shares by type of business and country. Agrokor Employees from 2000 until 2014, as of December 31 6000 5000 4000 3000 2000 1000 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Agrokor Employees, Shares by the Country of Operation, 2014 Croatia .......................................49% Serbia.........................................20% Slovenia......................................20% Bosnia and Herzegovina...............9% Montenegro..................................2% Hungary......................................... % Around 49% of our employees are employed by companies in The greatest increased in the number of employees was the Republic of Croatia, an increase of 9.71%, 20% are employed recorded in Slovenia where they now account for 20% of our in the Republic of Serbia, an increase of 68.21%, while the numemployees, and in Montenegro where the local employees ber of our employees in Bosnia and Herzegovina increased by now account for 2% of Concern’s human resources. 55.10% and they now account for 9% of all our employees. 21 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Most of our employees (79%) work in retail, followed by food Agrokor Employees and beverage production and distribution (13%), agriculture by Type of Business Operations, 2014 (6%), and other sales and service activities accounting for 2% of our business. Retail ........................... 79% An analysis of our employees by the type of employment contract as of the last day of the reporting period showed Food............................. 13% that 77% of our employees were employed on a permanent Agriculture...................... 6% basis, 20% were employed on a fixed-term, basis, and 3% were employed on a temporary or occasional basis (agencies, Other Business............... 2% cooperatives (Republic of Serbia), vouchers (Republic of Croatia), student service contracts, specific-service contracts). As regards the gender structure of our employees, women account for 61%, being an increase compared to the previous reporting periods consistent with the increase in the number of our retail employees. Secondary education degree prevails (54%) in the qualification structure and employees aged 30-50 years old prevail in the age structure. A deeper analysis of the age structure showed an almost even distribution of all ages among employees. Agrokor Employees by Gender 70 60 50 40 30 20 61% 39% 10 0 2000 2004 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Agrokor Employees by Agrokor Employees by Age, 2014 Level of Qualification, 2014 < 19............... 1% Secondary ........................... 53% 20 24 .......... 4% 40 -44 ......... 14% Elementary........................... 20% 25 29......... 11% 45 49......... 15% BA, MA, PhD........................ 15% 30 34......... 16% 50 54......... 14% 35 39......... 17% 55 59........... 8% 22 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Our activities undertaken in the past period towards finding New employment rates optimal employment models contributed to strategic expanby the Country of Operation, 2014 sion of our business and efficient use of resources by type of business and country of operation. Croatia................................65% In addition to a significant increase in the number of employees Serbia.................................15% (61.58%) following the integration of Mercator Group, the rate of new employment in 2014 was 33.94, with newly employed Bosnia and Herzegovina.....19% men and women represented almost equally (50.37 : 49.38). Slovenia, Montenegro.......... 1% The highest new employment rates were recorded in the Republic of Croatia (65%), Bosnia and Herzegovina (19%), and the Republic of Serbia (15%). The rates and numbers of new and departed employees in the Concern are directly related to our companies’ types of business, especially in those companies that largely rely on seasonal workforce. The average monthly number of our fixed-term employees, defined as seasonal workforce, is 1072, their numbers peaking in Q3 and reaching up to 5531 employees across the Concern. The men-to-women ratio within the seasonal workforce is 50:50. Agrokor Seasonal Employment, 2014 Structure of Seasonal Employees, 2014 6000 5000 4000 3000 2000 1000 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 < 30 30 50 > 50 Consequently, most employee departures relate to employees employed on a fixed-term basis (53.97%), while the turnover rates for temporary and occasional employees are constant. In 2014, the Concern employed 27,473 persons on a temporary or occasional basis, recruited via temporary employment agencies and cooperatives. This number includes persons employed under student contracts, vouchers or specific-service contracts. 23 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 In 2014, the total employee turnover rate irrespective of 16.63%, and employees older than 50 account for 11.31%. the type of employment, region and gender was 14.78, and 55.24% of the employees who departed Concern’s companies The Concern recorded a turnover rate of 20.87 among women did so to retire. All employees in this category were duly and 25.90 among men. In 2014, this rate was 21.58 in the informed of all their rights and options in connection with Republic of Croatia, 15.46 in the Republic of Serbia, and 9.75 the end of their working lives, supported by the relevant proin Bosnia and Herzegovina. fessionals in their companies, and paid appropriate retiring New and departed employees in the Concern also reflect allowance in accordance with the relevant laws and internal the natural outflow of labour and continuous employment corporate documents and collective bargaining agreements of persons of all profiles, qualifications and ages depending of each company. on the requirements of our business activities, reorganizations, investments, implementation of new technologies and Employees younger than 30 years old account for 47.97% of products, but also on the optimization and improvement of all departures, employees aged 30-50 years old account for particular business segments and processes. Employee Departures and Turnover Rates, 2014 5000 4500 4000 3500 3000 2500 2000 1500 1000 500 0 2014/1 2014/2 2014/3 2014/4 2014/5 2014/6 2014/7 2014/8 2014/9 2014/10 2014/11 2014/112 Structure of Seasonal Employees, 2014 7000 6000 5000 4000 3000 2000 1000 0 < 30 30 50 > 50 24 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Implementation of the United Nations Global Compact in the Republic of Croatia Global Compact – Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 / Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 / undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 / encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 25 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Integrated Management Systems Environmental Management System Twenty Agrokor companies in four countries: Croatia (12), Serbia (4), Bosnia and Herzegovina (3) and Slovenia (1) have been awarded the world's most popular standard for environmental management ISO 14001:2004. Accomplished goals Agrokor’s environmental management systems, certified as compliant with the requirements of the world’s most imporKarisma Hotels Adriatic is a tant standard for environmental management ISO 14001, company co-managed by Karisma have shown major improvements in 2014 as well. The improResort International, TUI Travel vements enabled accomplishment of set goals and implemenPLC and Agrokor d.d. Last year tation of environmental protection programme, specifically: the Kalamota Island Resort hotel reduction of negative effects on the environment, reduced on the island of Koločep was pollution, reduced amount of waste and use of raw material, reopened after detailed refurbishment and now it parwater and energy and raising awareness, responsibility, safety ticipates in the UNIDO project “Sustainable Tourism and preparedness in daily operations and in crisis situations. Development in SEE”. The system has set preconditions for recognising all of the important aspects and professional planning of improvements. In the upcoming period we will focus even more on the quality of new goals and our environmental protection In Mladina the construction of bundwall was completed in programme. the pesticide storage facility. Environmental Protection Programs and Awards The industrial Belje complex in Mitrovac in Baranja is a In cooperation with the Croatian Cleaner Production centre good example of synergy, as the milk farm provides feedand UNIDO’s consultants Jamnica completed the Low stock for biogas production in the Agrokor energija biogas Carbon Technologies project. The aim of the project is to set plant enabling the production of electricity and heat energy, examples of the best practices for Low-Carbon (LC) technolowhile the greenhouse uses heat for year-round growing of gies in selected SEE companies. vine tomatoes. In addition to the above, the farm also has a solar power plant. Belje Dairy Factory is also part of the In Sarajevski kiseljak a new lye regeneration facility was complex. An equalising basin was put into operation and built and put into operation, enabling lower use of lye and gasification of five pig farms was completed as well. water and reducing industrial pollution. PIK Vrbovec has expanded its EMS to include locations in Osijek and Rijeka. In PIK Vinkovci in Sopot the sustainable energy source are eco-friendly pellets. Zvijezda implemented a highly successKikindski mlin a.d. ful project for fuel pellets. ISO 14001 Mercator d.d. Dijamant has introduced a great initiative to organise ISO 14001 (2009. godine) regular meetings with the people living in the factory area, PIK Vinkovci d.d. enabling their neighbours to see first-hand how the company OHSAS 18001 practices its environmental protection policies. Konzum d.o.o. Sarajevo has shown is corporate social responsibility by participating in “Let us plant a million seedlings in a day” and “let us clean the Earth in one day” activities. Nova Sloga actively worked on implementing EMS, now pending certification. Agrokor’s environmental management system is expanded Ledo d.d. has won the CSR award at the 5th National Confewith ten valubale certificates with rence on Corporate Social Responsibility. Owing to its high well guided standards and best quality standards and innovation in manufacturing and equworld practices. ally successful environmental management, Ledo joined the prestigious list of companies practising social responsibility and environmental protection. 26 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 GRI G4 Environmental Indicators Edible Oils and Margarines Croatia Serbia Materials used by weight or volume kg 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % MATERIALS EN1 Raw materials 46,165,750 46,985,390 1.78% 196,226,039 203,075,241 3.49% Ancilliary process materials 860,527 910,559 5.81% 1,026,644 1,048,120 2.09% Packaging materials 5,562,039 4,569,161 -17.85% 3,593,179 3,788,901 5.45% Energy consumption within 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % the organization (GJ) LPG no LPG in use 5,856.87 Fuel 40,487 24,739 -38.90% 36,481.91 37,146.15 1.02% ENERGY EN3 Gas 128,487 103,888 -19.15% 185,351.14 95,354.51 -48.55% Electricity 27,022 24,410 -9.67% 99,237.34 92,725.93 -6.56% Sunflower shell 218,400 282,260 29.24% Steam 157,044.66 76,926.77 -51.02% Total water withdrawal by source 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % From wells 79,474 55,596 -30.05% 418,260 350,507 -16.20% WATER EN8 From a public supply water system 42,694 29,868 -30.04% 350,507 103,305 -70.53% Total water withdrawn by source (m3) 122,168 85,464 -30.04% 579,969 453,812 -21.75% Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % production facilities EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 6,271 5,068 -19.18% 36,969.05 17,712.67 -52.09%1 EMISSIONS Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions LPG 2,449 1,757 -28.26% 275.5 202.35 -26.55% NOX, SOX, and other 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % significant air emissions EN21 SO2 5,968 5,106 -14.44% NO2 5.99 2.84 -52.59% 39.15 6.36 -83.75%2 CO 0.36 0.28 -22.22% 50.07 11.67 -76.69% Total water discharge by quality and 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % WASTEdestination EN22 WATER Total water discharge by quality and destination 115,800 81,191 -29.89% 397,475 262,915 -33.85% m3 Total weight of waste by type 2013 2014 0 2013 2014 % and disposal method (tons) WASTE EN23 non-hazardous waste 891.86 697.54 -0.22 992.19 2727.54 174.90%3 hazardous waste 13.46 14.16 0.05 2.22 7.43 234.46%4 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % materials for the organization’s operations, and TRASNPORT transporting members of the workforce EN30 transport fuel (GJ) 2,449 1,757 -28.26% 30,827.20 37,639.80 22.10% Gross CO2 emmissions 0.12 0.095 -20.83% 2.23 2.77 24.22% Tons of CO2 equivalent for fuel Croatia (Zvijezda) Serbia (Dijamant) 1 diminished due to sunflower shell usage 2 reduction is a result of improvements in combustion 3, 4 improved collection and waste sorting 27 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 GRI G4 Environmental Indicators Meat and Meat Products Croatia Materials used by weight or volume kg 2013 2014 % MATERIALS EN1 Raw materials 82,181,299 84,389,619 -1.90% Ancilliary process materials 804,300 772,428 14.73% Packaging materials 2,538,611 2,526,866 5.82% Energy consumption within the organization(GJ) 2013 2014 % Fuel 1,589.43 1,961,35 -12.00% Gas 4,274,015 4,063,323 -4.93% EN3 Electricity 35,644,016 36,270,179 1.76% ENERGY Extra light heating oil 7.50 3.90 -48.00% PropaneButane 4,111.11 3,370.37 -18.02% Energy intensity 2013 2014 % Gas per product unit 2.60 2.43 -6.54% EN5 Electricity per product unit 2.00 1.96 -2.00% Fuel per product unit 0.90 1.09 21.11% Total water withdrawal by source 2013 2014 % Mini-accumulation Lake Bajer 116,193 103,193 -11.19% WATER EN8 From a public supply water system 606,704 593,122 -2.24% Total water withdrawn by source (m3) 722,897 696,663 -3.63% Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 2013 2014 % Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Boiler room 8,319.67 7,877.34 -5.32% EN15 Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Vehicles 4,248.35 5,243.24 23.42% Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Cooling equipment 290.74 330.76 13.76% EMISSIONS Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Forklift trucks, Furnaces 6.62 5.42 -18.13% Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 2013 2014 % EN18 CO2(t) gas emissions per product unit 0.64 0.63 -1.56% NOX, SOX, and other 2013 2014 % significant air emissions EN21 NO2 7.09 4.63 -34.70% CO 0.45 0.01 -97.78%1 Total water discharge by quality and destination 2013 2014 % WASTEEN22 WATER Total water discharge by quality and destination m3 450,869 539,832 19.73% Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (tons) 2013 2014 % WASTE EN23 non-hazardous waste 1,285.64 1,496.25 16.38% hazardous waste 20.17 17.32 -14.13% Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and 2013 2014 % materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce TRANSPORT transport fuel (GJ) 57,644.12 71,143.43 23.42% EN30 Propane-butane (GJ) 98.57 80.81 -18.02% Gross CO2 emissions Tons of CO2 equivalent for fuel 4,248.35 5,243.24 23.42% Gross emmissions CO2 Tons of CO2 equivalent for propane-butane 6.62 5.42 -18.13% Croatia (PIK Vrbovec) 1 resulting from a diminished consumption of gas 28 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 GRI G4 Environmental Indicators Frozen Food and Ice Cream Croatia Bosnia-Herzegovina Serbia Materials used by weight or 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % MATERIALS volume kg EN1 Raw materials 22,720,316 25,420,044 11.88% 1,746,844 1,540,772 -11.80% 21,688,670 23,047,696 6.27% Ancilliary process materials 0.239 0,315 31.80% 477,031 366,717 -23.13% Packaging materials 1,532,676 1,243,811 -18.85% 159,840 134,094 -16.11% 2,813,500 3,153,883 12.10% Energy consumption within 0 0 % 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % the organization Diesel 56,840 60,554 6.53% Fuel 1,585 267 -83.15% 27,629 25,556 -7.50% 1,670,287 1,336,552 -19.98% Heating oil 2,210 1,969 -10.90% ENERGY EN3 Gas 73,771 68,062 -7.74% 2,396,766 2,286,738 -4.59% LPG 440,216 435,858 -0.99% Electricity 48,245 45,489 -5.71% 8,944 8,304 -7.16% 75,554 74,269 -1.70% Steam 6,211 5,878 -5.36% Ammonia 0.840 1,700 102.38% Liquid nitrogen 701.29 772,02 10.09% Total water withdrawal by source 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % From wells 591,910 700,450 18.34% For process purposes 65,972 61,436 -6.88% WATER EN8 Cooling water 16,138 16,836 4.33% Sanitary water 4,226 3,093 -26.81% From a public supply water system 22,071 21,495 -2.61% 13,207 12,314 -6.76% Total water withdrawn by source (m ) 3 108,643 106,104 -2.34% 13,207 12,314 -6.76% 591,910 700,450 18.34% Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % emissions Gross direct (Scope 1) 130 120 -7.19% 1,804 1,675 -7.15% GHG emissions production facilities Gross direct (Scope 1) 3,561 3,704 4.00% 1,692 1,565 -7.51% 1,054 987 -6.36% GHG emissions transport fuel EN15 Gross direct (Scope 1) 176 174 -1.14% GHG emissions LPG EMISSIONS Gross direct (Scope 1) 169 151 -10.65% GHG emissions heating oil Gross direct (Scope 1) 1,975 1,555 -21.27% GHG emissions gas NOX, SOX, and other 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % significant air emissions EN21 SO2 0.438 0.390 -10.96% NO2 0.389 0.255 -34.45% 0.136 0.121 -11.03% 5.5 7.27 32.18% CO 0.103 0.022 -78.64% 0.85 0.049 -94.24% Total water discharge by quality and 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % WASTEdestination EN22 WATER Total water discharge by quality and 103,196 62,644 -39.30% 8,076 6,023 -25.42% 559,916 757,916 35.36% destination m3 Total weight of waste by type and 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % disposal method WASTE EN23 non-hazardous waste 1,039 1,197 15.20% 187.37 178.51 -4.73% 8,089 7,919 -2.10% hazardous waste 59 47 -19.34% 0.249 0.249 0.05% 50.01 148.18 196.33% Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % TRANSPORT operations, and transporting members of EN30 the workforce transport fuel (GJ) 58,426 60,822 4.10% 27,629 25,556 -7.50% 63,655 55,691 -12.51% Gross CO2 emmissions Tons of CO2 3,561 3,703 3.99% 1,692 1,565 -7.51% 1,678 1,706 1.67% equivalent for fuel Croatia (Ledo, Irida); Bosnia-Herzegovina (Ledo Čitluk); Serbia (Frikom) 1 resulting from a diminished consumption of gas 29 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 GRI G4 Environmental Indicators Water and Beverages Croatia Bosnia-Herzegovina Hungary Materials used by weight or 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % MATERIALS volume kg EN1 Raw materials 662,667,138 648,253,243 -2.18% 8,726,722 9,570,398 9.67% 25,827,330 25,266,663 -2.17% Ancilliary process materials 4,081,173 4,682,442 14.73% 390,001 401,921 3.06% 24,501 25,071 2.33% Packaging materials 33,122,118 36,919,009 11.46% 5,568,067 4,464,353 -19.82% 321,686 290,744 -9.62% Energy consumption within the 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % organization Fuel 122,184 128,379 5.07% 13,224 13,832 4.60% ENERGY EN3 Autogas 115 167 45.22% Gas 5,399 4,275 -20.82% 2,943 3,300 12.13% 752 550 -26.86% LPG 14,447 17,763 22.95% 2,943 3,300 12.13% 417 474 13.67% Electricity 80,213 84,787 5.70% 17,359 19,203 10.62% 1,821 1,341 -26.36% Total water withdrawal by 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % source From source 340,036 369,795 8.75% 46,180 43,143 -6.58% 24,965 24,420 -2.18% WATER EN8 For process purposes 156,627 134,461 -14.15% 147,957 195,265 31.97% 465 752 61.72% From a public supply water system 204,280 171,127 -16.23% 1,625 1,767 8.74% 1,460 859 -41.16% Total water withdrawn by source 700,943 675,383 -3.65% 195,762 240,175 22.69% 27,190 26,031 -4.26% (m3) Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % emissions Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG 9,080 8,698 -4.21% 1,030 1,078 4.66% 8 7 -12.50% emissions production facilities EN15 Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG 3,377 4,049 19.90% 1,337 1,330 -0.52% 108 109 0.93% emissions transport fuel EMISSIONS Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG 560 619 10.54% 129 144 11.63% 17 18 5.88% emissions LPG NOX, SOX, and other 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % significant air emissions EN21 SO2 27 27 2.59% 13.16 13.77 4.64% NO2 10 7 -35.16% 1.40 1.47 5.00% 0.0019 0.00176 -7.37% CO 2 1 -67.03% 0.14 0.15 7.14% 0.00089 0.00081 -8.99% Total water discharge by quality 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % WASTEand destination EN22 WATER Total water discharge by quality 355,559 291,090 -18.13% 85,800 121,900 42.07% 2,225 2,117 -4.85% and destination m3 Total weight of waste by type 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % and disposal method WASTE EN23 non-hazardous waste 3,227 5,164 60.03% 405 573 41.27% 51.7 36.28 -29.83% hazardous waste 150 64 -57.70% 1,040 1,186 14.04% 0.14 0.08 -42.86% Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % operations, and transporting members of the workforce TRANSPORT transport fuel (GJ) 64,631 84,438 30.65% 18,688 18,592 -0.51% 1,509 1,455 -3.58% EN30 LPG(GJ) (* without Mladina) 3,820 5,041 31.96% 2,943 3,300 12.13% 416 474 13.94% Gross CO2 emmissions Tons of 13,570 14,908 9.86% 1,337 1,330 -0.52% 108 109 0.93% CO2 equivalent for fuel Gross CO2 emmissions Tons of CO2 equivalent for LPG 560 619 10.54% 129 144 11.63% 17 18 5.88% (*without Mladina) Croatia (Jamnica, Mladina, Agrolaguna) Bosnia-Herzegovina (Sarajevski kiseljak) Hungary (Fonyodi) 30 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 GRI G4 Environmental Indicators Agriculture Croatia Serbia Materials used by weight or volume kg 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % MATERIALS EN1 Raw materials 471,112,742 493,281,081 4.71% 29,219,415 33,439,840 14.44% Ancilliary process materials 68,143,680 61,275,403 -10.08% 702 752 7.12% Packaging materials 6,073,224 4,250,176 -30.02% 280,616 274,395 -2.22% Energy consumption within the organization 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % Fuel 360,601 266,732 -26.03% 3,263 3,449 5.70% ENERGY Gas 100,324 176,123 75.55% 7,292 8,619 18.20% EN3 LPG 36,295 25,235 -30.47% 82 94 14.63% Electricity 367,660 359,971 -2.09% 11,819 12,639 6.94% Biomass 117,750 99,000 -15.92% Total water withdrawal by source 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % From source/sea 1,647,127 1,386,770 -15.81% Cooling sea 1,582,234 1,188,630 -24.88% WATER EN8 From wells 1,095,429 759,264 -30.69% 1,834 1,957 6.71% For process purposes 5,148 7,894 53.34% From a public supply water system 1,197,806 846,234 -29.35% 468 466 -0.43% Total water withdrawn by source (m ) 3 2,048,989 1,815,965 -11.37% 2,302 2,423 5.26% Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions production 19,860 17,971 -9.51% 409 484 18.34% facilities EN15 Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions transport 6,359 1,358 -78.64% 253 267 5.53% fuel EMISSIONS Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions LPG 2,712 1,823 -32.79% 5 6 20.00% NOX, SOX, and other 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % significant air emissions EN21 SO2 36 5 -85.05% NO2 423 10 -97.62% 0.73 0.86 17.81% CO 83 1,271 1424.90% 0.07 0.09 28.57% Total water discharge by quality and WASTEWA2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % destination EN22 TER Total water discharge by quality and destination 2,099,284 1,647,541 -21.52% 953 951 -0.21% m3 Total weight of waste by type and disposal 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % method WASTE EN23 non-hazardous waste 256,745 228,843 -10.87% 11,440 90,640 692.31% hazardous waste 31,475 14,749 -53.14% Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce TRASNPORT transport fuel (GJ) 97,837 117,045 19.63% 3,263 3,449 5.70% EN30 LPG(GJ) 82 94 14.63% Gross CO2 emmissions 6,848 1,689 -75.33% 253 267 5.53% Tons of CO2 equivalent for fuel Gross CO2 emmissions 5 6 20.00% Tons of CO2 equivalent for LPG Croatia (Belje, PIK Vinkovci, Vupik, Solana Pag) Serbia (Kikindski Mlin) 31 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 GRI G4 Environmental Indicators Retail Croatia Bosnia-Herzegovina MATERIALS Materials used by weight or volume kg 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % EN1 Raw materials Ancilliary process materials 12,234,317.00 11.672.391,00 -4.59% 2.012.759 2.818.140 40.01% Energy consumption 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % within the organization (GJ) Fuel 75,145 91.399 21.63% 18,238 26.290 44.15% Diesel ENERGY Gas 3,604,952 3.352.934 -6.99% EN3 LPG 52,000 100.700 93.56%3 Electricity 231,039,283 249.497.090 7.99% 150,253 210.720 40.24% Heating oil Steam 880.00 460.00 -47.73% Total water withdrawal by source1 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % From wells WATER EN8 From a public supply water system 372,600.36 416,859.53 11.88% 97,900 140.011 43.01% Total water withdrawn by source (m3) 372,600.36 416,859.53 11.88% 97,900 140.011 43.01% Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 EN15 Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions production 2,331.00 3,234.00 38.74% 1.33 2.40 80.50% facilities EMISSIONS NOX, SOX, and other 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 significant air emissions2 SO2 1,637.99 1,301.35 -20.55% EN21 NO2 3,671.51 2,719.89 -25.92% 0.157 0.426 171.34% CO 0.48 0.23 -52.08% 1.359 -100.00% Total water discharge by quality and 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 WASTEdestination EN22 WATER Total water discharge by quality and destination 260,820.25 291,801.67 11.88% 97,900 140,011 43.01% m3 Total weight of waste by type and disposal 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % method (tons) WASTE EN23 non-hazardous waste 49,640.97 43,335.38 -12.70% 1,152 1,667.97 44.80% hazardous waste 35.30 92.96 163.37% 4 0.437 0.830 89.93% Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % materials for the organization’s operations, and TRASNPORT transporting members of the workforce EN30 transport fuel (GJ) 75,145 91,399 21.63% 11,388 26,290 130.86% Gross CO2 emmissions Tons of CO2 equivalent 2,059 2,504 21.61% 0.83 1.95 134.34% for fuel Croatia (Konzum, Tisak) Bosnia-Herzegovina (Konzum) 1 without Tisak, as no water is installed in kiosks 2 without Tisak, no process related emissions 3 Konzum, higher # of facilities using LPG 4 increase resulting from collection of faulty electronic products from end customers (previously not Konzum’s obligation) 32 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Serbia Slovenia MATERIALS Materials used by weight or volume kg 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % EN1 Raw materials 11,635,735 11,890,490 2.19% Ancilliary process materials 2,597,920 4,348,500 67.38% 17,187,014 15,990,457 -6.96% Energy consumption 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % within the organization (GJ) Fuel 50,000 51,033 1.02% 1,481 1,641 1.12% Diesel 60,372 63,168 4.63% ENERGY Gas 219,682 256,778 16.89% 95,860 84,533 -11.82% EN3 LPG 12,471 10,828 -13.17% Electricity 80,335,979 182,323,910 126.95% 6 737,462 728,592 -1.20% Heating oil 76,070 59,853 -21.32% Steam Total water withdrawal by source1 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % From wells 1,721,088 2,776,091 61.30% WATER EN8 From a public supply water system 226,583 181,818 -19.76% 618,088 673,976 9.04% Total water withdrawn by source (m ) 3 226,583 181,818 -19.76% 2,339,176 3,450,067 47.49% Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % EN15 Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 180 180 0 4,478 4,688 4.69% production facilities EMISSIONS NOX. SOX. and other 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % significant air emissions2 SO2 1,9 1,7 -10.53% EN21 NO2 0,55 0,15 -72.78% CO 341,26 207,5 -39.20% Total water discharge by quality and 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % WASTEdestination EN22 WATER Total water discharge by 96,734 94,836 -1.96% 1,704,100 2,758,691 61.89% quality and destination m3 Total weight of waste by type and disposal 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 0.05% method (tons) WASTE EN23 non-hazardous waste 490,653 1,047,162 113.42% 98,118 101,146 3.09% hazardous waste 1,861 6,435 245.78%5 80,59 91,41 13.43% Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and 2013 2014 % 2013 2014 % materials for the organization’s operations. and TRASNPORT transporting members of the workforce EN30 transport fuel (GJ) 78,631 80,206 2.00% 61,159 64,015 4.67% Gross CO2 emmissions 42,160 42,190 0.07% 4,478 4,688 4.69% Tons of CO2 equivalent for fuel Serbia (Mercator-S) Slovenia (Mercator) 5 Mercator Serbia IT equipment write off 6 Mercator Serbia data includes all Idea and Mercator stores for 2014; previously only Idea 33 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Implementation of the United Nations Global Compact in the Republic of Croatia Global Compact – Communication on Progress ANTICORRUPTION Principle 10 / Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 34 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 The Agrokor Group is one of the largest business subjects Our anti-corruption activities have been specifically reinforin Adria region. Being one of the key factors of economic ced by the implementation of practice concerning compegrowth and development in the entire region, we believe that tition. The management structures of the Group and the we are responsible for the practice and behavior promoted companies belonging to the same have improved the applied by our companies and employees. Clearly stated, we demand standards of conduct by adopting the Mandatory Instructions from our employees to perform their work in an honest and for the Application of Competition Regulations. This docuresponsible manner. ment was specifically developed with the goal of promoting the observance and respect of the competition rules. In 2014 Therefore, our Corporate Responsibility Code explicitly states we have no record of corruption incidents or allegations. the expected behavior in situations of possible conflict of interest, forbids bribery and demands the execution of data As a rule, Agrokor Group Companies provide no financial or protection procedures and information security maintenance. in-kind political contributions. However, employees are free Each of our companies additionally specifies these requireto do so per their own decision in their free time and from ments in Labor Regulations, with special reference to social their own resources. responsibility principles. No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for noncomAgrokor Group’s companies listed at the Zagreb Stock Excpliance with laws and regulations were recorded during the hange all adopted and are regularly implementing the Zagreb reporting period. Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Act. 35 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 Overview of GRI G4 indicators presented in Agrokor’s 2014 COP Introduction Statement of continued support Organization profile Strategy and analysis REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY G4–EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction HUMAN RIGHTS G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken LABOUR G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 9 G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 10 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category 36 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labour practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms ENVIRONMENT G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures G4 SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary G4 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations 37 Agrokor GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2014 This report is available on the UN Global Compact website and website of Agrokor d.d. Report Parameters Reporting period: 2014 Date of last report: September 2014 Reporting cycle: for sustainability reporting every two years; for GC COP annual Date of publishing: September 2015 Publisher Agrokor d.d., Trg Dražena Petrovića 3, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia www.agrokor.hr Contact Marta Bogdanić, marta.bogdanic@agrokor.hr 38
