Our COP design incorporates the perfectly formed hexagon of the honeycomb. By working together, bees remind us to put aside our own desires in order to serve the needs of others and benefit the entire community. UN PRINCIPLES MOBILITAS STAGE ACTIONS FOR 2014 ACTIONS FOR 2015 AFRICA54 1st year: Communicate Launch Africa54 campaign Planned opening of new branches as per Africa54 project Decentralized model to continue, informed by the guidelines Communicate on selected initiatives worldwide CSR ACTIVITIES >5 years communicate contained in Ethics Charter and Code of Conduct HUMAN RIGHTS Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone branches operational OPERATIONS DURING Crisis management in throughout, daily counselling, cleaning kits available, travel Dependent upon scale of continued crisis EBOLA OUTBREAK affected countries restrictions to minimize risk Set up Social Ethics Committee for LTG Implementation of new updated company policies on: Ethics, the Green Economy and the Environment, Whistle Blower Share booklet on social ethics guidelines for all employees of Protection, and Occupational Health and Safety LTG LTG SOCIAL ETHICS 1st year: Implement and Policy determination, training and awareness seminars and COMMITTEE communicate All LTG employees to sign an Employees’ Pledge outlining their workshops on protection and security of information commitment to ethical behavior Overhaul of company policies and procedures incorporating Roll out of confidential reporting UN adopted conventions LABOUR VIE PROGRAM >5 years Continued active participation in the program Continued active participation in the program Greater reach of staff for security training program (Goal: 90%) Roll-out of training program for Personal Security Policy in TRAINING INITIATIVES >5 years Executive Relocations in Africa Improved communication with staff and clients regarding security hotspots and flare-ups Improve the information available when making packing material orders BUSINESS IMPACT 3rd year: Action to reduce ISO 14001 Environmental Quality Management System adopted ASSESSMENT & ACTION environmental impact in Paris and London Set up a group-wide procurement strategy based on Environment environmental impact PLANÈTE URGENCE >5 years Commitment to continued working with Planète Urgence Commitment to continued working with Planète Urgence Develop an assessment questionnaire for our suppliers’ 3rd year: Internal training adherence to key principles in the Supplier Code Send out supplier questionnaire and evaluate results Anti Corruption CODE OF CONDUCT and communicating with suppliers Anti-bribery & corruption training presentation developed for Develop Anti-bribery & Corruption training for AGS ERA overview overview The AGS Group has been present in Africa for more than 20 years. Our strong commitment to long-term growth, sustainable business practices and support of local communities in Africa has become manifest in the “Africa54” project: By October 2016, the Group will be physically present in each of the 54 African countries and thus be the first private company to cover the “ entire African continent. In late 2014, AGS was already Within the next two 2014 has been a pivotal year for the MOBILITAS Group, one in which present in 45 countries years, new AGS branches despite very real global challenges, we have been able to set concrete throughout 84 locations – will follow in the remaining plans for future continued development guided by the principles of the in addition to three new six African countries branches being opened in United Nations Global Compact. More than ever, MOBILITAS employees São Tomé and Príncipe, the Eritrea, Djibouti, Ethiopia, have engaged with our company’s values of Quality, Performance, Seychelles, Somalia and Comoros and Guinea Bissau South Sudan. Innovation, Respect, and Solidarity, to make a difference in the by the beginning of communities we operate in. 2015. Highlighted in our report this year are the following key projects: Responding to the Ebola crisis in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone: our branches in the affected region remained operational throughout the crisis and provided additional support to the local communities. Africa54: our project to be present in every country in Africa was launched and new branches opened in São Tomé and Príncipe, the Comoros and Guinea Bissau. Social Ethics: The Laser Transport Group in South Africa launched a new initiative to encourage every staff member to embrace ethical awareness and practices at work. Quality certification ISO 14001: Two European branches have become the first in our Group to be awarded the international environmental quality certification, driving global procurement planning throughout our company globally. As chairman of the MOBILITAS group I wish to confirm our commitment both to the principles of the UN Global Compact, and to continuing to take action to uphold these values in our activities. QUALITY PERFORMANCE INNOVATION RESPECT SOLIDARITY MOBILITAS subsidiaries continue to positively engage with the communities in which they operate. For 2014 please find a selection of activities undertaken by the different branches, in line with MOBILITAS’ commitment to protect human rights: AGS PARIS AGS GLOBAL FACT-FINDING EXECUTIVE RELOCATIONS FRANCE AND AFRICA AGS participated in the ‘Trophées des As a member of a MEDEF corporate delegation on Français de l’étranger’ (‘Trophies for French a week-long mission in Myanmar, AGS Executive Continuing the annual tradition to assist a charity through its Expatriates’) as the awards’ Environment Director Joëlle Castro participated in her capacity presence at the Worldwide ERC’s Global Workforce Symposium, Category sponsor. After a speech as a French Foreign Trade Advisor. This was an Executive Relocations opted to support the Leopard Conservation presenting the AGS Group’s commitment opportunity for delegates to partner with each Project. Adding an interactive element to 2014’s Symposium, to environmental sustainability, Benoît de other and government authorities through local which was hosted in Chicago, Executive Relocations increased their Moncuit (AGS France’s CEO) presented the development projects aimed at supporting the donation with all business cards left by visitors to their stand. Environment Trophy to Jérôme Chanson region. Joëlle’s fruitful investigation led to AGS for the development of an ecological announcing that it will be opening two new carwash in the Netherlands. branches in Myanmar and Cambodia in 2015. AGS FRASERS SENEGAL Use new communication technologies in order to promote health in the working environment – this was the objective of a free SMS awareness campaign, launched in Senegal by L’association Santé En AGS FOUR WINDS MALAYSIA Entreprise, SEE (the French Association for Corporate Health) in collaboration with Lafarge Paris and CIAN, a French business association in Africa. “Be Healthy, Be Mobile” is a joint global initiative by AGS Four Winds’ Malaysia branch offered its support to a unique the World Health Organization (WHO) and the International Telecommunication Union (ITU). education initiative, sponsoring the Lighthouse Club of Kuala Lumpur’s Commencing on the World Diabetes Day on 14 November 2014, the campaign focused on Benevolent Fund through the club’s annual Charity Climb. Hikers for the prevention and non-communicable diseases, a major reason for absence at work. club summited Low’s Peak on Malaysia’s Mount Kinabalu, carrying AGS’ Seven staff members at AGS Frasers Senegal participated in the program by providing their mobile logo on their shirts and banner. Funds raised went towards university phone numbers. For 6 weeks, they received an SMS once a day including advice on nutrition, bursaries for two Malaysian students. exercise or lifestyle. Further information was available on a dedicated website and specific advice was provided for diabetics. AGS FRASERS MADAGASCAR AGS FRASERS GUINEA Two MOBILITAS subsidiaries worked in unison to facilitate the transfer of educational equipment AGS Frasers Guinea received a letter of appreciation from South worth €38,500, donated by France’s Aquitaine Africa’s ambassador to the country. This letter thanked AGS for the Region to several high schools in Madagascar. The charitable donation received from the branch while commemorating 45 items of heavy-duty equipment – including International Mandela Day. Demonstrating further commitment to wood-turning and milling machines – were the cause, AGS also transported all donations received to the South collected and packed in France by DÉMÉPOOL; and African Embassy. then shipped by AGS’ branch in Bordeaux to AGS’ branch in Madagascar. AGS Frasers Madagascar also conducted the physical delivery to local high schools. AGS PRIMARY HEALTHCARE STUTTAFORD VAN LINES SOUTH AFRICA In 2014 AGS laid the foundation for a new campaign to support primary healthcare, aiming Several Stuttaford Van Lines branches across South PICKFORDS PORT ELIZABETH to raise funds for South Africa’s Desmond Tutu Africa took up the Mandela Day challenge to HIV Foundation (DTHF). The DTHF operates donate at least 67 minutes of their time in service Pickfords’ Port Elizabeth branch participated in the Radio Algoa Charity a ‘Tutu Tester’ mobile clinic – selected as the of others. While SVL’s branch in Port Elizabeth Golf Day, which benefited a local Non-Profit Organization: Masifunde focus for donations – which delivers point-ofdonated blood to the South African National Blood Learner Development (MLD). The Charity Golf Day saw corporates in care testing and screening for a range of chronic Service, the brand’s Johannesburg and Durban the Eastern Cape joining hands in a spot of friendly competition for illnesses to rural communities on the outskirts of branches joined together to collect blankets. a good cause, supporting MLD’s quest to bring education and the Cape Town. This far-reaching campaign was set SVL’s National Sales Trainer also spearheaded required tools to underprivileged communities. to unfold through www.agsmovers.com/connect the collection of 144 teddy bears, which were donated to the Teddy Bear Clinic of South Africa. December 2013 “ With more than 20,000 reported cases and an estimate of 7905 deaths by the end of 2014 (WHO Ebola Situation Report, 31 December 2014), the largest Ebola epidemic in history has been devastating West African countries for a year. The outbreaks in the most affected countries of Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia have evolved into humanitarian disasters Ebola outbreak in West Africa that will have long-term and incalculable consequences for Outbreak distribution map as of 4 February 2015 public health, economic development and education. As part of our commitment to the local communities, the West African AGS branches in the Ebola hot spot areas of Conakry, Guinea, Freetown, Sierra-Leone and Monrovia, Liberia, have stayed operational throughout the crisis. The main objectives are to protect our staff and assets, ensure access to information, assure job security for our employees and provide support for local aid projects. AGS Frasers Liberia joined forces with eight other French companies operating in Liberia, to support the Red Cross. ‘Le club d’Affaires’ (‘The Business Club’) collectively donated USD 80,000 funding Liberian Red Cross’ local actions as well as a car to support their official ‘Ebola is real’ campaign. • Ebola is real and can kill you • DO NOT wash, touch or kiss dead bodies An awareness and prevention program was implemented at AGS Frasers Guinea. Illustrative information leaflets are • Ebola is spreading in communities now • DO NOT wash hands in the same bucket as others who • To become sick, you must have DIRECT CONTACT with a have touched the body displayed at the company entrance and all staff members have to sign an agreement on avoidance of certain risky practices sick person or their body fluids (e.g. consumption of bush meat, attending open casket funerals, washing of deceased bodies, performance of sacrifices). • Antibiotics do not kill Ebola Most at risk are: Additional precautionary measures include daily temperature checks for staff and visitors as well as chlorine solution added • Get immediate treatment at an Ebola centre. This to the water filter system. A WHO bulletin is sent to the key agents of the company weekly to keep them up-to-date on recent increases the chance of recovery • Family members developments. • Contact with dead bodies can cause infection. BE • Healthcare workers CAREFUL (Bury carefully. Keep away) • People attending funerals To emphasize our strong solidarity with the affected West African countries at group level, MOBILITAS has signed the UN Action Pledge on Ebola elimination. In 2015, we will pursue our efforts in the fight against the epidemic and continue to raise local and international awareness. Another main objective will be the mobilization of our resources to support post-outbreak recovery and sustainable development. FEVER MUSCLE PAIN HEADACHE WEAKNESS VOMITING DIARRHOEA RASH, RED EYES BLEEDING Trustworthiness Respect Responsibility By implementing formal structures and policies, the of the LASER management board with the oversight of social • We are honest and loyal, we • We will treat others with respect • We will do what we’re supposed don’t deceive • We will be tolerant of differences to do MOBILITAS Group strives for greater ethical awareness and ethical matters relating to the Company. The Board’s • We are reliable, by doing what • We will be considerate of the • We will persevere and consistent application of ethical principles within our responsibilities include the building of an ethical company we promised feelings of others • We will always use self-control Group. culture, setting ethics standards, measuring adherence and • We have the courage to do the • We will deal peacefully with and be self disciplined right thing anger and disagreements • We will think before we act, and incorporating ethics into its risk management, operations, • We strive to continuously build be accountable for our choices Against this background, The Laser Transport Group (Pty) performance management and disclosure. good relationships Limited (LASER), part of the MOBILITAS family, formed a Social Ethics Committee in 2014. It is constituted as an In 2014, the focus was put on the implementation of the independent committee of the board of directors, in line Social Ethics Committee and the communication to our Fairness Caring Citizenship with the regulations of the South African Companies Act stakeholders. The members of the Social Ethics Committee 71 of 2008. will meet at least quarterly to assess compliance and • We will play by the rules • We will be kind • We will share to make our progress. • We will take turns and share • We will be compassionate and community better • We will be open-minded and show that we care • We will get involved in The Social Ethics Committee’s main function is the assistance listen to others • We will express our gratitude community affairs • We won’t take advantage • We will forgive others, and help • We will obey laws and rules of others, or blame others those in need • We will protect the environment carelessly Compliance Areas Covered by the Social and Ethics Committee Broad Based Black Equality & Unfair Economic Empowerment Act Discrimination Employment Equity Act Contribution to communities Environment Health and Reduction of Corruption Public Safety United Nationas Global Compact Ten Principles Consumer Relationships SOCIAL ETHICS COMMITTEE OECD recommendations Labour & Employment regarding corruption BOARD The Laser Transport Group Doing the right thing when no one else is watching – this is true ethical behaviour Code of Ethics Furthermore all employees have to sign the Employees’ Pledge, which is also part of the Social Ethics Booklet, In addition to the advisory body, LASER created a Code of outlining their commitment to ethical behavior. “ Ethics in form of a comprehensive Social Ethics Booklet which was distributed to all staff. Every employee of the The Code of Ethics is underpinned by the following six Laser Transport Group is expected to uphold the Code’s pillars: principles and at the same receives guidance on handling Trustworthiness, respect, responsibility, fairness, caring ethical problems inherent to the company’s business. and citizenship. In 2014, MOBILITAS actively continued its commitment to the VIE (Volunteer for International Experience) program. This program offers a structured entry level program for young French graduates for international positions from 6 to 24 months. Candidates are recruited and managed through UBIFRANCE, the French Agency for International Business Development, which falls under France’s Ministry for the Economy, Industry & Employment. “ I started working as a deputy manager for our Port Gentil, Gabon branch as of 1 January 2015, following a 15 month stint Gabon distinguishes itself from most African countries, with a small population (1,672,597 inhabitants), a small size (267,667 square kilometers) and many natural resources: oil, manganese, wood. as a sales representative in the Unfortunately, infrastructures (roads, harbors, railways) are not VIE candidates in MOBILITAS were based mainly in Africa, with some candidates in Europe and Asia, to gain international business Libreville branch. In addition to developed enough. Traveling by road within the country is difficult experience. In addition to creating a talent pool within MOBILITAS, the VIE program continues to offer a structured approach to addressing my further responsibilities as a and most transportation operations take place by plane or by boat. the employment of youth and giving candidates global corporate experience. branch manager, international For our removals activity we are forced to organize our operations removals is a traditionally male between Libreville and Port Gentil by boat, which lengthens activity. I have found I have had the transit times and the costs. Other operations within the “ to redouble my efforts to put country usually take place by train. As derailments are frequent, changes into effect, especially transportation between Franceville and Libreville (728 km) can Current job role: Deputy with the operations team which take up to 3 weeks. Branch Manager, AGS is mainly male. Frasers Port Gentil Wherever you are, change is 3 AS 7 often accepted with difficulty, but the main priority is to manage IA to communicate. Once the dialogue has been created, and when 1 1 EUROP E ASIA the team understand that the idea has been thought-out and will lead to an improvement, whether in the short, medium or long run, the gender doesn’t matter, the team will take it on board and work 20 23 AFRICA EUROPE together to improve. AFRICA I enjoy living in Gabon and have found it to be a peaceful and safe country. Port Gentil is a much smaller town compared to the capital Libreville, with few traffic jams, which makes moving around and daily life easy. Gabon’s main characteristic is that there are 5 ethnic groups with many sub-groups; there are also many expats, mainly in Libreville and Port-Gentil, which further increases the different groups of people living together. Johanna (centre) and the AGS Port Gentil team VIE WORKFORCE 2009-2014 28 28 30 27 27 25 Number of VIE candidates We make sure our personnel only works in the Waste recycling 20 17 best possible conditions and has all the equipment 17 that is necessary to their safety during operations Packing material sorting (helmets, shoes, glasses, gloves). 15 Limiting the use of paper: we increase our We assist our employees daily with financial help personnel’s awareness so that they only print when Environmental Human Rights for medical treatment or when facing a death in the 10 necessary actions family for instance. 5 We offer training to our employees: our drivers 0 have once again been made aware by a specialized 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 consultant of the basic rules of safety on the road In Port Gentil, we work with many oil companies and on our premises (e.g. respect of the traffic who tackle corruption on a daily basis. Our role as rules, handling of the equipment in our warehouse, a supplier is to assist and support them in this fight. danger and drinking and driving). Our secretary and our logistics specialists were awarded their drivers’ Labour licenses. Our logistics specialist is currently getting Anti-Corruption trained in English. Current job role: Project Manager, ARCHIV SYSTEM Cape Town your bearings to feel at ease. You must adapt yourself to a new A Personal Security training program was rolled out in 2014 and resources in place. In addition, they are briefed on steps to “ environment by changing your habits and understand the culture for our employees delivering relocation services for Executive reduce the risks in order to protect themselves, the clients in their I started working as a VIE beginning of January 2014 and I and the people you encounter. Relocations in Africa. The program was a natural progression to care, as well as the company. Topics covered include office safety, the development of the Personal Security Policy for Staff and Subpersonal safety, vehicle safety, carjacking, checkpoints, hotel am currently leading a 5 year imaging project for an intellectual Contractors Working Off-Site the year before. stays, general travel guidelines, and additional safety measures property service provider at ARCHIV SYSTEM in Cape Town. In particular, I have taken care about my security and safety here for women. in Cape Town. There has been recently an increase of petty crime Our staff work within several unstable regions with the additional “ Imaging is labour intensive and dealing with staff absenteeism among the VIE community; it is very useful and important to keep risks of accompanying expatriates who are more likely to be the To date 10% of field staff have been reached, with a target of 90% hasn’t been easy so far, especially when you don’t expect it. in mind the safety tips from the French Consulate at all times targets of security incidents. Relocation managers often work by the end of 2015. Moreover, it is not unusual that staff come late to work because anywhere. alone to assist the expatriates and their families who are arriving public transportation in South Africa can be very poor. in a new country for work and require a home, school for their In the year ahead we are also looking to improve the information children, orientation programs and general settling in assistance. our staff receive with regards to potential security hotspots due to On a technical aspect, we started running the project in a removal political upheaval, natural disasters and conflict. Communications warehouse before moving to offices afterwards. Before the move, I The personal security training is being delivered mostly online, will go out by email from the Head Office’s operation team with managed to protect as much as possible scanners from dust intake and directly face-to-face in some cases where risks or needs alerts to all affected staff and clients, offering advice and caution might be higher. Staff are given the tools to manage risks in to those working and living in the affected areas. and overheating to avoid equipment breaking down. order to be proactively prepared with realistic plans, procedures The work I’m overseeing is very technical, so we have implemented a specific workflow and tracking system to make sure no file/ information is lost or destroyed before being imaged. Also, I have been trained for a week by our partner to fully handle the application on a daily basis. On the Management side, I rely on my skills acquired during my studies at IESEG School of Management where this discipline is given special emphasis. The challenges don’t end when you finish your work day. When you arrive in a new country and city you don’t know, you need to find Romain Belaud with his imaging team at their new offices ARCHIV SYSTEM is already participating in a tree plantation campaign with Planète Urgence in Africa. For every 15 boxes stored, the company plants a tree to help with reforestation. We ensure that our staff work in good conditions. We receive tons of paper and plastic wrap. After Due to the nature of the activity, it demands long all the files being imaged, cartons, cardboards and spans of deep concentration so it is imperative paper are sorted, shredded and recycled according that staff are well rested and take proper breaks to international standards by a recycling specialist. throughout their shift. Environmental Human Rights actions We reuse the wooden pallets the files are delivered on and dispatch them through all our African branches. All our staff has signed confidentiality agreements due to the type of documents being handled. This imaging project has created at least 15 jobs for local people, who we have trained to be able to do We use specialist waste recycling/disposal experts accurate, technical work. to ensure the confidential documents are destroyed Labour Anti-Corruption once they have be imaged. As a leader of the international removals industry, MOBILITAS is committed to sustainable and environmental-friendly business practices The way forward and constant enhancement of our ecological standards. In 2015, MOBILITAS will take advantage of the experience and learning success gained at our London and Paris branches in order to ISO 14001:2004, an International Standard designed to support environmental protection in balance with socio-economic needs, is improve the environmental performance at Group level. becoming an increasingly important element of our Group’s environmental strategy. MOBILITAS’ subsidiary DEMEPOOL is ISO 14001:2004 certified since 2011. In 2014, AGS London was the first branch of the AGS Group to achieve the renowned accreditation. AGS Paris has also implemented the ISO 14001 standards and is currently going through the certification process, with the audit taking place in April 2015. The implementation of ISO 14001 standards facilitated the development of an environmental policy and the establishment of objectives Improve the information available when making packing and processes to achieve the policy commitments at our branches. Action will be taken as needed to improve the performance and material orders via the Group Intranet demonstrate the conformity of the system to the policy. Publish a packing material catalogue including information on the technical characteristics of each item, data on the environmental impact and available certificates Set up a group-wide procurement strategy based on environmental impact Assurances of the ISO 14001:2004 certification • Our compliance to environmental legislation is accredited. • We are identifying ways to save “ water, electricity and reduce waste. • Our employees are environmentally aware. Waste management system at AGS Paris highly successful The implementation of an efficient waste management system in the context of the aspired ISO 14001:2004 certification, accompanied by raising awareness amongst staff members, has already led to a significant waste reduction at AGS Paris. The amount of OIW (Ordinary Industrial Waste, non-hazardous) has almost cut half since 2012: it decreased from 836 tons in 2012 to 442 tons in 2014. Significant improvements have also been made in the amounts of recycled paperboards. The tonnage increased from 95 tons in 2012 to 306 tons of recycled paperboards in 2014. Furthermore, AGS Paris has drastically increased the amount of recycled wood products (from 7 tons of recycled wood in 2013 to 125 tons in 2014). The 2014 figures clearly show the necessity of improved waste sorting routines and set a good example for all AGS branches. overview As part of committing to and embedding the principles of the UN Planète Urgence has put in place actions to rebuild residential areas after the devastating earthquake of Global Compact, MOBILITAS has developed and rolled out initiatives 2010 and leads a large reforestation project in the south and the south-east of Haiti. to reduce the environmental impact of our business and promote environmental awareness. “A roof, a future” MOBILITAS’ major green initiative, “One move one tree” in partnership with the NGO Planète Urgence, has been a fruitful One International Move with AGS cooperation for more than five years. In 2014 the Group decided = One Tree Planted Building and repairing houses for disadvantaged to further extend its activities and joined the organization in families their efforts to create a sustainable future for Haiti. Since 2009, MOBILITAS and Planète Urgence have planted more than 124,000 Supporting economic development by micro-credits for trees in Mali, Indonesia and Madagascar and as of 2014, in Haiti. small agricultural businesses Both employees and customers share the Group’s enthusiasm for the initiative which has become an inherent part of MOBILITAS’ social and environmental activities. Both the AGS and PRO 15 boxes stored with PRO ARCHIVES SYSTEMES Restoring degraded land by planting forest trees (targeting soil erosion) and trees for economic use ARCHIVES SYSTEMES (formerly ARCHIV SYSTEM) subsidiaries are part of the project. = 1 TREE Our partner 200 rural houses have been built and renovated so far, all meet para-seismic and anti-cyclone constraints. Most of the building work is carried out by the beneficiary families and by this, the project transfers sustainable construction skills and know how to the local artisans. The association Planète Urgence provides technical and financial support for local organizations in countries that are particularly vulnerable to climate disturbances. In Indonesia, Haiti, Madagascar “PRESS” reforestation project and Mali, they team up with local partners to develop sustainable Since mid 2014, Planète Urgence is running a reforestation project in the south and the south-east of Haiti, accompanied by training of 600 incomes for the populations and a more protected environment. “ small farmers to sustainably cultivate their land. Our commitment Three wood production lines are supported: “One move one tree” is in line with our social and environmental Raw material for construction of buildings using traditional techniques commitments. With the planting of trees, the MOBILITAS Group is compensating for its environmental impact, at the same time the projects contribute to local economic development. Fruit tree planting for staple food production and sale at local markets Energy source (e.g. for food preparation) Actions planned in 2015 PRESS will be maintained throughout the year 2015. Actions are targeted on training and awareness for permaculture and the protection of biodiversity. The “Green Mopti” project aims to fight against desertification and support local families in creating In 2014, the focus was put on the restoration of degraded tapia forests, the development of the local sustainable income sources and food security. In 2015, a new project of the same model will be silk industry and wood energy sector as well as the funding of women micro-businesses. established in the Ségou region, creating 80 new family plots. In the Mahakam Delta on the island of Borneo and in the Province of East Kalimantan, Planète Urgence concentrates its activities on the conservation and restoration of mangrove forests, accompanied by training of local people in sustainable aquaculture. As part of the MOBILITAS Group’s continued commitment to anti-corruption we aim to unite our strengths with our suppliers. In 2014, we actioned the development of an assessment questionnaire for our suppliers’ adherence to key principles in the As leading relocation provider, Executive Relocations in Africa (ERA) works with numerous local organizations and government Supplier Code. The online survey of 26 questions covers the four areas of the 10 UN Global Compact principles: officials. Concerned about insufficient regulation and companies turning a blind eye facilitating opportunity, the local branches see a growing need for action. Strict policies and staff training have become increasingly important, especially since ERA is mainly operating with field workers, who are more likely confronted with bribery. As part of the action plan, ERA has rolled out a comprehensive antibribery and corruption staff training. It is obligatory for all staff at commencement of the employment. become aware of corruption in their environment, achieve a better understanding of bribery and corruption, identify corruption, know risks and consequences, deal with corruption appropriately if confronted with it. Furthermore, participants receive training on the ERA Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy and the Code of Conduct, and get an insight into the international legal framework. Facts and figures Actions planned for 2015 As the anti-bribery and corruption training has proved a success at the ERA branches, the training will be implemented by the To improve the rate of participation, we have designed the questionnaire to be completed within 10 minutes. The survey AGS Group in 2015. It will be communicated to the branches, will be available on the intranet, and will become an inherent results will enable the MOBILITAS Group to better assess which of its suppliers follow responsible business practices. part of the AGS training schedule. In 2015 we aim to send out the supplier questionnaire and evaluate results, which will be taken into consideration during the organization’s future supplier selection processes. We also hope to create awareness and encourage our suppliers to follow the UN Global Compact principles. In support of the United Nations Global Compact www.mobilitas.org
