DLA PIPER UN GLOBAL COMPACT: COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 www.dlapiper.com | 01 REPORT I. INTRODUCTION II.  RESPECTING AND SUPPORTING HUMAN RIGHTS (INCLUDING LABOUR RIGHTS) 1. Our People 2. Our Suppliers 3. Our Clients 4. Our Communities i. Human rights ii. Access to justice iii. International development III. CONTRIBUTING TO A SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT 1. Within the Legal Sector 2. Within our Firm 3. In our Supply Chain 4. Through our Advice to Clients 5. Through our Pro Bono Projects IV. WORKING AGAINST CORRUPTION V. FURTHER INFORMATION STATEMENT I am delighted to submit DLA Piper’s second annual Communication on Progress. This report describes the on-going and innovative steps we have taken during 2014 to embed the Global Compact and its ten Principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption into the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our firm and I am delighted that we have made significant improvements in the last 12 months. It also includes our objectives for 2015, as the Global Compact and its Principles are further integrated into our business. The Global Compact Principles provide our firm with a clear framework for action on sustainability and DLA Piper is committed to continuous improvement in all of the key impact areas. Aligning our business with the Principles and reporting against them on an annual basis enables us to ensure we remain focused on the issues most relevant to us as a global business and to playing our part in the crucially important transition to a sustainable future. Yours sincerely, Sir Nigel Knowles Global Co-Chairman nigel.knowles@dlapiper.com www.dlapiper.com | 03 I. INTRODUCTION As a dynamic, innovative and leading global pro bono work that advances human rights, business law firm, DLA Piper is committed including access to justice, environmental to the highest standards of honesty, sustainability and the UN Millennium openness and accountability. Our approach Development Goals. to the United Nations Global Compact 2014 saw us continue to receive positive (UN Global Compact) is implemented external recognition for our strategic throughout our global business, which approach to innovative legal work. Amongst operates through two partnerships, other accolades, we were named as Who’s DLA Piper International LLP (‘DLA Piper Who Legal’s Pro Bono Law Firm of the Year International’) and DLA Piper LLP (US) in recognition of the firm’s commitment to (‘DLA Piper US’). Each of the partnerships maintaining a leading pro bono practice and has an appropriate governance and executive the ground breaking work it has undertaken. structure, and the two partnerships are bound together by a Swiss Verein with The diversity within our firm, in terms of a Global Board appointed by and from nationalities, cultures and expertise is at the DLA Piper International and DLA Piper US. heart of our values and allows us to serve as valuable partners in furthering the needs and As part of the legal services industry, we view interests of all of our clients. the foundation of our profession to be service to our clients, individuals, organizations, and Our formal commitment to the Global private and public entities, but also crucially Compact and its ten Principles of human supporting the rule of law. Thus, we not only rights, labour, environment and antistrive to achieve excellence in everything we corruption was made in February 2013. do for our fee-paying clients, but also use The following report covers the 2014 calendar our legal knowledge and our resources to year and reflects actions we took during the meet our social responsibilities and to deliver year, as well as our objectives for 2015. 04 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact: Communication On Progress 2014 II. RESPECTING AND SUPPORTING HUMAN RIGHTS (INCLUDING LABOUR RIGHTS) HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES LABOUR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ■■ Principle 1: Businesses should support and ■■ Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the respect the protection of internationally freedom of association and the effective proclaimed human rights; and recognition of the right to collective ■■ Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit bargaining; in human rights abuses. ■■ Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; ■■ Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and ■■ Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. DLA Piper is committed to respecting and supporting international human rights throughout our business operations and ensuring that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. DLA Piper International was one of the first law firms to express these commitments in a Human Rights Policy statement. The policy also expresses our commitment to uphold the Principles outlined in the UN Global Compact and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. During the course of 2014 we also played an active role in sector-wide discussions on steps to encourage implementation of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights by lawyers and law firms, as a member of the Business and Human Rights Advisory Group of the UK Law Society. DLA PIPER’S HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY IS CONSISTENT WITH: ■■ the International Bill of Human Rights Universal Declaration of Human Rights ■■ International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ■■ International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights ■■ the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work ■■ the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights www.dlapiper.com | 05 1. OUR PEOPLE In 2014 we rebranded and re-launched our approach to flexible working as ‘Agile Working’. We have put a DLA Piper is a diverse firm, with a powerful mix of number of tools in place to support this programme, in nationalities, cultures and expertise. We are committed particular the development of two new Agile Working to diversity and inclusion within the firm and have Guides – one for those thinking about requesting developed a strategy which underpins the firm’s an agile working arrangement and one for partners values of mutual respect, responsibility and teamwork. managing the process within their team. We have We believe it enables us to hire the best talent, build also partnered with an industry leading specialist the most effective teams, deliver the highest level of organization to help us implement and embed agile client service and be effective contributors to our local working, part-time and job share practices, with a communities. specific emphasis on senior roles. We have also adapted As our organization of over 8,000 employees operates our workspaces and invested in new technology to across 30 countries throughout the Americas, Asia support remote working, from new video conferencing Pacific, Europe, Africa and the Middle East, our facilities, to instant messaging and digital collaboration Human Resources policies in each jurisdiction tools. Additionally, we have joined the Agile Future are tailored to the legal, regulatory and cultural Forum, a group of around 30 organizations and firms requirements of each territory. We value every one focussed on the business benefits of agile working. of our people on their merits as individuals and their The firm’s strategy for diversity was developed by the ability to carry out their work to the highest standards Executive and overseen by the governance bodies of and strive to ensure that everyone at DLA Piper has full DLA Piper International and DLA Piper US with access to career development and training opportunities implementation carried out across global offices by in line with their abilities and skills. local teams responsible for ensuring the firm-wide We are also committed to creating a safe working diversity objectives are met. environment for all employees, providing training and We recognize that one size does not fit all when it supervision when necessary. Everyone in the firm is comes to diversity and inclusion. Each of our regions expected to take reasonable care of their own safety operates within different demographics, culture, social/ and that of others, and co-operate fully with health and political and legislative frameworks so our approach safety arrangements. We were internationally certified centres around Regional diversity and inclusion action to OHSAS 18001, an internationally recognized plans. Each action plan is developed locally, focusing occupational, health and safety management system on gender and at least one other under-represented series standard, again in 2014, for the sixth year in group in that particular geography. a row. The plans focus on five key areas: We actively promote a culture that is inclusive of all, where everyone has the opportunity to grow their ■■ Regional data review career and where pathways to career progression are ■■ Recruitment and Selection transparent. Managing diversity and inclusion means valuing and utilizing the differences our people bring ■■ Development and Retention to the business and that no one is disadvantaged. ■■ Engagement ■■ Corporate Responsibility and Community 06 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact: Communication On Progress 2014 As well as an Equality and Diversity Policy, we have diversity and inclusion within the legal profession is a also developed a diversity and inclusion training significant global priority for DLA Piper and Break into curriculum, currently being rolled out at all levels Law enables us to achieve a collective impact on this across the International firm via our Career Academy key issue within our sector. training programme. Break into Law begins with projects that improve We actively welcome and value the ideas and access to education for young people, moving through contributions of all of our people. In some cases, to initiatives that provide insight into and experience people with common interests or backgrounds wish to within our industry, directly linking into our firm’s form resource groups to share insights and different diversity priorities. The projects offer guidance and perspectives with each other and with the firm. opportunities to talented, bright, young people who may not otherwise be able to access employment We currently have three Resource Groups within the opportunities in the legal sector. In 2013 Break into International firm: Law was recognized by the Financial Times Innovative ■■ The Leadership Alliance for Women (LAW) Lawyers Awards for the initiative’s approach to ■■ Family Network – for parents (including foster encouraging talent into the profession. The initiative parents and adoptive parents), grandparents and also received the first All About Law ‘Social Mobility those with caring responsibilities Award’ and was shortlisted as a finalist at the British Legal Awards for Best Diversity Initiative. ■■ LGB and T Network – for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender colleagues We recognize that our diversity initiatives have a long-term time horizon, but we believe that we are on a The key objectives of these resource groups include: journey and while we still have some distance to travel, –– Information sharing – access to useful with strategic approaches in our geographic regions, we information and specific information sessions are already making progress. –– Support – buddy and mentoring schemes 2. OUR SUPPLIERS –– Networking opportunities both within the firm and externally Our global Sustainable Procurement Policy provides a high-level framework for ensuring our suppliers uphold –– A platform for sharing ideas and experiences – our respect for human rights, as well as pursuing including focus groups responsible management of environmental issues and –– A forum to provide input into regional diversity anti-corruption measures. and inclusion action plans DLA Piper is committed to utilizing suppliers who The Leadership Alliance for Women now has over respect human rights through, among other actions, 500 members and won Euromoney’s Best Diversity promoting safe and fair working conditions and Initiative for an International firm in 2014 and Best ensuring respect for the four key rights and Principles Mentoring Scheme in 2013, as well as the Australasia in the International Labour Organization’s Declaration Women in Business Law ‘Best Mentoring Programme on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work: by an International Firm in 2014’. freedom of association and the effective recognition Yet, we recognize that diversity in the legal profession of the right to collective bargaining; elimination is a systemic issue, with roots that extend beyond our of all forms of forced or compulsory labour; firm and reach back through university studies and effective abolition of child labour; and elimination even access to basic education opportunities. Therefore of discrimination in respect of employment and one of our global projects is ‘Break into Law’, an occupation. initiative focused on removing barriers to the wide All new strategic suppliers sign up to our Sustainable range of legal and non-legal careers within the legal Procurement Policy and we are working with our sector. In every region around the world, we are using existing major suppliers to ensure they sign up to the our resources and the skills of our people to ensure policy and complete a self-assessment questionnaire to underrepresented young people have the opportunity to enable us to appraise their performance. gain access and insight into the legal sector and career progression within it. In a significant step since our last annual Communication on Progress, we have also begun the The Break into Law initiative involves a variety of roll-out of a new Supplier Portal, initially targeting projects including mentoring, work experience, CV our largest suppliers, which will enable us to capture and interview skills workshops, research, thought detailed and consistent information on sustainability leadership events and scholarships. Improving equality, performance going forward. www.dlapiper.com | 07 As a global business law firm, DLA Piper recognizes Programme companies. In 2014 lawyers from several of that, within our supply chain, there are many different our European offices assisted the UN Global Compact national cultures, with their own laws, norms and in training the boards of multi-national corporations, traditions. As some suppliers will face more complex including many of our clients, on Business and issues than others in implementing our Sustainable Human Rights and Sustainability. Working with the Procurement Policy, we are committed to working UN Global Compact we will continue to enhance with our suppliers to assist them in understanding this sustainability training programme through 2015 human rights and adopting best policies and practice to to facilitate the engagement with a larger number ensure respect for such rights in practice. In doing so, of LEAD Programme companies in this innovative, we not only strengthen respect for human rights, but strategic knowledge-building initiative. also improve the quality of life of persons working for entities within our supply chain. 4. OUR COMMUNITIES We believe in active participation in the wider 3. OUR CLIENTS community as individuals and as a firm. One of the Our clients are at the very heart of our business, we most important ways DLA Piper can contribute to strive to achieve excellence in everything we do for our communities locally and globally, is through the them. Consistent with this approach, we are taking provision of pro bono services. Our pro bono work not steps to further develop our expertise to support our only furthers our relationships with the communities clients’ respect for human rights, through our advice we serve, but also supports the promotion and on client matters, training and the pro bono projects advancement of a range of human rights. We believe we carry out collaboratively with them. that pro bono work provides personal and professional development for our people and raises their awareness During 2014 we provided further Business and Human of human rights issues. Rights Training for our clients and the broader business community. Using bespoke training tools developed DLA Piper’s culture and policies encourage pro bono by DLA Piper we work with businesses to help them work because community involvement is an essential to understand and respond to the expectations of the element of who we are. We expect every lawyer United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and and staff member to make a serious and sustained Human Rights, which outline the responsibilities of commitment to pro bono and our communities. We business in relation to upholding human rights. are one of very few firms that have dedicated pro bono partners, as well as more than a dozen pro bono Our ground-breaking work to introduce a free counsel, managers and staff around the world to fulfil professional indemnity insurance scheme for the this commitment. In 2014, we carried out over 202,500 National Pro Bono Resource Centre in Australia has hours of pro bono legal work globally. enabled in-house lawyers to participate in the delivery of free legal services to the community for the first Our commitment to global issues and supporting time. It had not previously been possible for most community needs through pro bono is underpinned by in-house lawyers to provide pro bono services to the our Pro Bono Policy. A key aspect of the policy is the community due to the lack of professional indemnity principle that pro bono work should be treated the same coverage. We also played a role in reforming regulatory as all other work undertaken by the firm. Pro bono regimes in Australia and Singapore to allow in-house clients should receive the same high standard of service lawyers to give pro bono advice and have amended our as commercial clients, and lawyers time on pro bono own professional indemnity insurance so that we can matters should be recognized in the same manner as enable in-house counsel from any of our international billable time. clients to partner with us on pro bono work around We are seeking to consistently expand the reach, scale the world. and engagement of our pro bono and sustainability Following the establishment of a partnership with programmes and in 2015 we will be working with our Harvard Business School and the Boston Consulting colleagues at every office across the international firm Group, we have developed sustainability training to further improve participation and the adoption of materials for the UN Global Compact’s LEAD proactive practices. 08 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact: Communication On Progress 2014 New Perimeter is our unique nonprofit organization A core element of our partnership is supporting a which focuses on high impact pro bono projects in less ‘Justice for Children’ project in Bangladesh, a key aim of developed and post-conflict countries. Founded in 2005 which is to address the legal reforms necessary to align as a result of our firm’s commitment to support legal the country’s legislation with international child rights advancement worldwide, New Perimeter draws on standards. In 2014 our Senior Partner Tony Angel visited the skills and talents of more than 4,000 DLA Piper Bangladesh to see first-hand how our pro bono support lawyers globally. and financial donations are contributing to UNICEF’s work. A team of lawyers from across our European DLA Piper pursues pro bono work in a collaborative offices worked intensively over a number of months on manner, with our lawyers cooperating with a law reform project with UNICEF Bangladesh to help their international colleagues, clients, nonprofit align the draft Children Rules with the Convention on organizations, governments and academic institutions, the Rights of the Child and other international human to accomplish our collective goals. Partnering with rights standards. Through this project, we provided inothers enhances the results that can be achieved and country technical support to UNICEF Bangladesh and helps to build a pro bono culture in the legal profession the Ministry of Social Welfare to draft the rules which around the world. will help implement a new juvenile justice system and New Perimeter is currently partnering with Bridges alternative care framework. Key changes introduced by Across Borders Southeast Asia Community Legal our team include greater emphasis on diversion from the Education Initiative, an international nonprofit criminal system, emergency removal protections and that supports university-based and communityhigher standards of care in institutions. based clinical legal education programs; law The Bangladesh government, with UNICEF’s support, firm Herbert Smith Freehills; and the Australian has made real progress to improve children’s lives Government to develop a curriculum for South East by reducing mortality rates, achieving high levels of Asian law students on legal ethics, pro bono and access immunization and improving girls’ access to education. to justice. However, it now faces problems that are far more The team will develop, test and deliver up to 16 course complex and intractable like child labour and child modules using a clinical legal education framework that marriage. High levels of extreme poverty continue to encourages participation through practical scenarios, push many children onto the streets, where they often case studies, active discussions and debate. They will get caught up in an inadequate and inappropriate justice be tested and delivered at a number of law schools in system. South East Asia over the coming months. The goal of With more than 65 million children in Bangladesh, the the curriculum is to help students develop their ability scale of these challenges is enormous. The projects we to identify, evaluate and respond to ethical concerns, to are supporting are helping to put in place the legal, explore issues related to access to justice, and to social and organizational frameworks that will better help encourage pro bono among future generations protect these children. of lawyers. This project is an extension of a number of New Perimeter projects, including our work promoting the practice of pro bono in Colombia and in Mexico and Justice for children in Bangladesh teaching ethics in Kosovo and Russia. “The support of DLA Piper has been priceless. The following are highlights of the pro bono activities This is a terrific partnership which we hope will we carried out in 2014. gradually expand in Bangladesh and in other countries around the world.” i. Human Rights Dr. Pascal Villeneuve, Representative, UNICEF DLA Piper and UNICEF are working together on a Bangladesh ground-breaking child justice partnership, focused on improving justice for children throughout the world. Over three years, DLA Piper is providing pro Other examples of work with UNICEF in 2014 include: bono assistance to the value of US$5 million towards ■■ DLA Piper lawyers undertook a global comparative UNICEF’s global child justice programme and a research project looking at legislative frameworks US$1.5 million donation to support this work. In year relating to the social service workforce for one we donated US$530,000 to fund vital UNICEF 18 jurisdictions around the world. This research will projects in Bangladesh and we have already contributed contribute to the first annual “State of the Social $2.1 million in pro bono hours. Service Workforce Report” produced by the Global Social Service Workforce Alliance, with support www.dlapiper.com | 09 from UNICEF and other partners. This Report will A legal review of children’s inheritance laws in this support global, national and local advocacy around region has been requested by UNICEF, to inform the protection of the rights of social service workers programmatic responses (such as advocacy and policy and also to assist in the planning and implementation work) in order to strengthen and protect the rights of of effective programs for children and families. children orphaned by HIV/AIDS. ■■ DLA Piper has worked on an inheritance rights In addition to our work with UNICEF, our lawyers took project preparing country reports for Zimbabwe and part in a wide range of high-impact pro bono work to Cote d’Ivoire and is expanding this work to cover a support positive human rights developments around the number of additional jurisdictions in Africa, Asia world. Selected examples of this work include: and South America. ■■ Partnering with The Public International Law & ■■ DLA Piper has worked with the UNICEF advocacy Policy Group (PILPG) to complete a project on child team in Australia on a variety of matters including citizenship rights in Libya. A legal memorandum universal birth registration and inter-country providing comparative state practice and international adoption and opportunities around the 25th standards produced by DLA Piper was used by PILPG anniversary of the Convention of the Rights of to petition the Libyan Government to address this the Child. human rights issue within their constitution. ■■ Lawyers in Australia co-drafted UNICEF’s ■■ Authoring an extensive report for the Ministry of submission to the Australian Government inquiry Justice in China on Penal Reform. This project involved regarding inter-country adoption. interviews with the Howard League and other leading human rights organizations. The report has been used Birth registration and inheritance rights are topics that by the Ministry of Justice to implement changes to the we are prioritising with UNICEF in 2015. use of community service and to provide rehabilitation The lack of birth registration affects children’s access alternatives to divert offenders from lengthy prison to protection, to basic services such as health and sentences and capital punishment. education and ultimately, it affects children’s ability to ■■ Partnering with UNAIDS and UNDP to enhance be recognized as subjects of rights in their countries access to health care and prevent forced sterilisations of and participate actively in their societies. women living with HIV in South East Asia. Birth registration is essential to government planning ■■ Representing a number of individuals in complaints to and governance. Yet, 230 million children under five the UN Human Rights Committee on rights relating to are not registered, and 290 million do not have a birth privacy, freedom from arbitrary detention, procedural certificate, the proof of registration. More than half of fairness and discrimination based on gender identity these unregistered children live in Asia and another and religious beliefs. 37 per cent live in sub-Saharan Africa. In the latter region, only 44 per cent of children under five have ■■ Drafting shadow reports to the UN Human Rights been registered. Birth registration stands at only Committee on various countries’ performance under 39 per cent in South Asia, the region with the largest the ICCPR in relation to sexual orientation and gender overall number of births and children under five. identity, in conjunction with Kaleidoscope Human Rights. The lack of universal birth registration is one of the key ■■ In response to a request from the Australian Human factors affecting the implementation of a child-friendly Rights Commission we undertook a cross-jurisdictional justice system in Bangladesh, a serious protection issue study of legislation around self-harm and suicide in that UNICEF is addressing with authorities with the children and young people. We are also representing support of DLA Piper. In order to be able to assess the Indigenous Australian clients in relation to systemic consistency of the law for birth registration, UNICEF legislated racial discrimination. needs an overview of existing legislation in order to be ii. Access to Justice able to target advocacy efforts and identify key areas for change. Access to justice is an issue that resonates powerfully with us and our global pro bono practice supports a It is estimated that in Sub-Saharan Africa over 18 million wide range of programmes and projects to support this children have been orphaned as a consequence of crucial issue. HIV/AIDS and the legal framework surrounding inheritance rights for these children is often unclear. 10 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact: Communication On Progress 2014 Selected examples of this work include: ■■ Our Signature Project on Pacific Island Nation Development seeks to improve the legal skills ■■ A team of lawyers in the Middle East developed a and rule of law knowledge of some of the most memorandum on the obligation to prosecute atrocity vulnerable countries in the world. In 2014 we crimes under international law for the Public provided training to government lawyers in Fiji, International Law & Policy Group (PILPG). The Papua New Guinea, Samoa and the Cook Islands on memorandum explored whether an obligation exists case management, litigation and substantive law. under customary international law to investigate and prosecute atrocity crimes. In Syria, violations of the norms of international law have been alleged on all sides of the current conflict. In order to provide examples relevant to the Syrian context, our memorandum examined the applicable laws on atrocity crimes, the history of their development and how they have been applied in various post-conflict situations. The information and advice provided in this memorandum will assist in Syria’s transitional justice process. ■■ Through the Article 8 Asylum Project, DLA Piper has provided assistance to a number of applicants who were seeking leave to remain in the UK. DLA Piper lawyers assisted in drafting client and witness statements and applications for these appeals to the immigration tribunal, based on Article 8 of the European Convention of Human Rights. These applicants did not qualify for Legal Aid and thus this assistance, in partnership with the local Law Centre and BPP Law School, was invaluable to ensure proper access to the legal system. ■■ We partnered with the International Center for Advocates against Discrimination to improve access to justice for victims of gender and sexual based violence in the Pacific Islands. Over 30 of our lawyers have analysed sentencing practices in the Pacific and we will be providing medico-legal training to address barriers to the prosecution and conviction of perpetrators. ■■ We partnered with UN Women to compile a resource on legal frameworks and practices related to gender and sexual based violence in South East Asia. ■■ For three consecutive years we have convened an annual visit for officials from the Ministry of Justice of China to visit the UK to assess the court system, prisons, NGOs with expertise on prison reform and The Law Society to gain a better understanding of the functioning of the UK system and the concept of “separation of powers”. iii. International Development ■■ In 2014 we delivered training to numerous NGOs throughout the Asia Pacific to increase their legal skills and knowledge, including with youth legal clinics in Myanmar who work primarily with victims of domestic violence. www.dlapiper.com | 11 ■■ We continue to support the Timor-Leste Government. ■■ In 2014 our Dubai office led a week-long training Since 2008 we have provided lawyers on a secondment workshop in Istanbul along with legal experts from basis to the Ministry of Finance, as well as providing the US and Turkey for Iraqi officials focused on advice on matters relating to business, finance, human international arbitration and drafting arbitration rights and foreign affairs. clauses. Delivered in partnership with the US Department of Commerce’s Commercial Law ■■ For the last five years we have led a training project Development Program (CLDP), this legal training for rural teachers in China to gain a first-hand project was aimed at helping to develop legal experience of international education systems. Each certainty and promote the process of standardizing year we invite 25 teachers from rural provinces to arbitration clauses across the Government of Iraq. visit international schools in Beijing for a one week Attendees included representatives from the Ministry cultural exchange program. We have also recently of Planning, Ministry of Oil, Iraqi State Shura established a group of five additional corporate Council and the National Investment Commission. donors to support the program which has enabled us to initiate an additional summer training program for 90 headmasters from rural China. 12 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact: Communication On Progress 2014 III. CONTRIBUTING TO A SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. DLA Piper strives to be a leader in environmental We work to reduce our environmental impact in four sustainability. We undertake initiatives to reduce our own strategic focus areas: energy, procurement, travel and waste/ operational environmental impact and we believe that resource use. our greatest contribution to a sustainable environment is Our Global Sustainability Initiative (GSI) is governed by a the advice and support we provide to our clients – both in committee of senior leaders from across the international managing their own environmental impacts and assessing firm that meets quarterly to discuss progress against and responding to climate-related risks and opportunities. the strategic focus areas. In addition to senior partner We also make an active contribution to international climate representatives and environmental attorneys, the GSI policy discussions and the development of an investment in includes representatives from the most relevant functions low-carbon technology and infrastructure. of our business for implementing change – Corporate Our strategic approach to the environment is embedded Responsibility, Procurement, IT, Risk and Facilities across our firm with our two joint CEOs responsible for Management. setting environmental expectations, a Global Sustainability In 2014, we continued our efforts to reduce our Initiative and the day-to-day running of our environmental environmental footprint and made impressive progress – approach implemented by two Chief Operating Officers with we have already surpassed our three-year reduction targets. the support of our Procurement, IT, Risk and Facilities teams. We were re-examined and certified to ISO 14001, the international standard for environmental management, which 1. WITHIN THE LEGAL SECTOR we have now held for seven years. We remain one of very We have maintained a leadership role within the legal few global law firms to achieve this worldwide certification. sector on addressing environmental issues. Our Global The GSI committee has determined that in addition to the Co-Chairman Sir Nigel Knowles serves as Chairman of the on-going focus on the four strategic focus areas, the firm Legal Sector Alliance (LSA), an inclusive movement of over will prioritize energy reduction and sustainable procurement 300 law firms committed to working collaboratively to take globally as part of a review of exiting environmental targets, action on climate change, of which we were a founding firm. with a view to making significant positive progress in these This leading example of corporate collaboration on climate key impact/influence areas. change is now firmly established in the UK and Australia In 2015 the GSI committee will also be making and in the US through our partner organization the Law Firm recommendations on new three-year (2016-2018) Sustainability Network. Going forward we hope to establish environmental performance targets for the global firm. additional chapters of the Alliance in other key regions. 2. WITHIN OUR FIRM We have a global Environmental Policy that applies to all of our offices and requires every employee to take reasonable care of the environment. Our employees also receive training on our environmental approach as part of their induction when joining the firm. www.dlapiper.com | 13 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT – KEY GOALS ACHIEVEMENTS 2014 TARGETS 2015 Travel 22% increase in the number of Telepresence/ Further increase the firm’s use of IT video conferences between 2012-2014. communications systems as an alternative to travel. Energy Reduced energy consumption by 12%. Further reduce energy consumption (we have already exceeded our target of 5% reduction by Increased green energy procurement to 21 of 2015 against 2011 baseline and will publish a new 27 offices (where green energy is available). 3 year target later this year). Increase number of offices using green energy on a year on year basis. Waste Reduced use of paper by 16%. Further reduce paper consumption (we have already exceeded our target of 15% reduction by Carried out recycling of: 2015 against 2012 baseline and will publish a new ■■ Paper in 97% of our offices +1% on 2013. 3 year target later this year). ■■ Toner cartridges in 96% of our offices +1% Increase the level of recycling taking place across on 2013. our global offices. ■■ Plastic & glass bottles in 93% of our offices +1% on 2013. ■■ Cardboard 94% of our offices +1% on 2013. Procurement Initiated roll-out of a new Supplier Portal Appraise suppliers sustainability performance enabling us to capture detailed and consistent and identify key areas for engagement and information on sustainability performance. improvement. Further roll out of Supplier Portal across key suppliers. 3. IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN environmental planning through our Energy sector and our Regulatory and Government Affairs practice. We are committed to achieving the highest standards of sustainable procurement throughout our extended supply We are at the forefront of the renewable energy market, chain and our newly implemented Sustainable Procurement advising companies and financiers across the renewable Policy and concomitant roll-out of our Supplier Portal energy spectrum, including hydro, energy-from-waste, (described above in section II.2) have provided us with the solar, on and off-shore wind, biomass and biofuels. tools to enhance oversight and engagement on this issue. DLA Piper is a also leader in understanding and advising Environmental sustainability is a core focus of our on legal liability and the legal risks associated with the sustainable procurement strategy. Capturing performance impacts of climate change. Adaptation to the natural hazard data on key issues such as carbon emissions and impacts of climate change is not only about increasing environmental management systems and governance is resilience to the physical impacts but about ensuring that a fundamental part of understanding the potential risks the associated legal risk is minimized or avoided. and opportunities for proactive engagement through our Assessment and management of climate legal risk is procurement processes. becoming an inherent part of decision making. Legislation As we increase the scope of our data capture and dialogue in many jurisdictions, directly or indirectly, requires across our supply chain we can make a significant positive climate change to be taken into account when making difference in minimizing environmentally detrimental decisions about use of the built or natural environment. practices and encouraging a move towards more sustainable There is also increasing pressure to regulate corporate practices. governance by requiring more detailed reporting on a corporate sustainability, particularly how corporations 4. THROUGH OUR ADVICE TO CLIENTS have regard to economic, social and environmental We advise our clients on all environmental aspects of responsibilities, each of which are affected by climate their business, from climate change, carbon trading and change. regulation to renewable energy projects and strategic 14 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact: Communication On Progress 2014 The following recent project examples illustrate this work: produced a report: “Empty Threat: Does the Law Combat Illegal Wildlife Trade?”. This report was commissioned ■■ DLA Piper advised on a project to construct a by the Royal Foundation of the Duke and Duchess of £110 million combined heat and power biomass plant Cambridge and Prince Harry on behalf of the United for (CHP plant) in the UK. The project will be the largest Wildlife partnership. The report explores the legislative waste wood renewable energy plant in the North West of and judicial challenges relating to wildlife trade in England. 11 countries: Botswana, Cameroon, China, Democratic ■■ DLA Piper’s “Towards a Greener Future” report – based Republic of Congo, Kenya, Malaysia, the Philippines, on findings of a survey of more than 100 international Tanzania, Thailand, Uganda and Vietnam. DLA Piper real estate investors – explored the growing market for is now undertaking further research to produce similar sustainable real estate and provided an appraisal of key reports for an additional 15 jurisdictions in Africa and drivers and certification mechanisms. Additionally, Asia, as well as working with organizations such as the our “Life-Cycle” report is a new comprehensive guide Asian Development Bank (including a secondment) to to developing, investing in and managing buildings offer more targeted support to these jurisdictions on sustainably. implementing legislative change and enforcement. ■■ In the US, we continue to work closely with policy ■■ Through our nonprofit organization New Perimeter, makers at the Environmental Protection Agency, we assisted Conservation International Foundation in Department of Energy and the White House Council on conceptualizing, negotiating and drafting key legal Environmental Quality and represent clients affected by agreements required for the implementation of two forest all the major environmental statutes. carbon conservation, REDD (reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation), projects – one in the CASE STUDY: UK TIDAL LAGOON – Democratic Republic of Congo and the other in Peru. SOUTH WALES ■■ DLA Piper continues to provide on-going assistance According to the UK Government, tidal lagoons alone to Georgia’s Ministry of Environment and Natural could provide up to 8% of the nation’s power needs. Resources Protection to support their participation at the UNFCCC international climate changes negotiations. As DLA Piper has been promoting the development, with part of this project, New Perimeter provides Georgia with a value of £910 million, of a ground-breaking 240MW both international legal expertise to better understand tidal-powered electricity generating station in Swansea the complex legal and treaty texts and personnel to more Bay, South Wales. The plans for the tidal lagoon could effectively navigate the policy landscape of UN climate provide power for 120,000 homes for 120 years. negotiations. Our support focuses on issues surrounding The firm has advised on all aspects, from funding the Green Climate Fund, climate finance, Nationally the project, to Environmental Impact Assessment, to Appropriate Mitigation Actions, Low Emission leading the application for development consent. Development Strategies, national communications, and possible developing country commitments. The tidal lagoon is an incredibly complex project and will take two years to build, creating around 2000 jobs ■■ DLA Piper Beijing has become a hub for environmental and it is hoped it could be operating by 2018. It will NGOs in China tackling the issue of pollution. Key also play a significant role in local redevelopment, clients have included Earthwatch and The Nature creating extensive new art and recreational facilities – Conservancy. We have assisted Earthwatch in setting including international standard boating, sailing and up as a legal entity in China and have helped the triathlon facilities. organization to work more effectively with corporate partners in the region by providing legal advice and government relations expertise. 5. THROUGH OUR PRO BONO PROJECTS ■■ DLA Piper was a key pro bono research partner in the As with our pro bono work on other key sustainability production of an Animal Protection Index (API) by World issues, DLA Piper has made a significant positive Animal Protection. Led by our UK pro bono practice, an contribution to a wide range of high-impact projects. This international team of 70 of our lawyers supported the work addresses crucial environmental issues such as climate API project by reviewing and assessing animal welfare change, deforestation, air quality and wildlife conservation. policy and legislation, enabling the performance of Signature environmental pro bono projects include the individual countries to be ranked, and influencing following: governments to improve animal welfare performance. ■■ Our Illegal Wildlife Trade Project with United for ■■ Our firm is also represented at the new high profile 2015 Wildlife and the Royal Foundation. In 2014 a team of Conservation Taskforce, chaired by The Right Hon. 55 lawyers from 15 DLA Piper offices around the world William Hague MP. www.dlapiper.com | 15 IV. WORKING AGAINST CORRUPTION ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. As a global business law firm we adhere to the highest We also have a Whistleblowing Policy and associated regulatory and professional standards in order to protect procedures which may be used for reporting breaches on a our business, our reputation and our clients. confidential or anonymous basis. We are known as thought leaders on issues of anti-bribery Our publicly stated policy on Anti-Bribery and Corruption and corruption and have hosted events for our clients and is reinforced through Board sponsorship and commitment other stakeholders outlining and promoting best practice to the policy and related procedures. These procedures on this subject. include: Our global anti-bribery and corruption policy states: ■■ training and communication “DLA Piper has a strict anti-bribery and corruption –– mandatory e-learning which must be completed by policy which applies to all our people globally. We will all of our people and forms part of our new-starter not directly or indirectly engage in bribery or corruption induction programme; in any form and have a zero tolerance approach to breach –– training delivered to members of the Board and whether it involves private individuals or public officials. Executive; We will never accept, solicit, agree to receive, promise, –– training incorporated into the firm’s management offer or give a bribe, facilitation payment, kickback or academy and other formal training programmes; other improper payment. ■■ incorporating consideration of bribery and corruption For this purpose ‘bribe’ means a financial or other risk into our new client due diligence and on-going advantage, intended to induce a person to give improper monitoring processes and procedures; assistance in breach of their duty, or to otherwise influence someone with the underlying purpose of ■■ a clause in our standard terms of business with clients obtaining/retaining business, or an advantage in the which sets out our anti-bribery and corruption policy course of business, and ‘facilitation payments’ are small and our expectations of our clients; bribes made to government or public officials to speed up ■■ supplier due diligence processes operated by our routine administrative processes or other actions. central procurement team, and a clause in all our All of our activities are managed in full compliance with supplier contracts setting out our anti-bribery and this policy and with all applicable legal and regulatory corruption policy and expectation of our suppliers; anti-bribery and corruption obligations. We expect our and business partners to have similar policies which apply to ■■ procedures and controls which address: all dealings with, on behalf of, or involving DLA Piper.” –– working with Governments and public officials; This policy is an integral part of the International firm’s –– the giving and receiving of gifts and hospitality; risk management and compliance framework, which –– the giving of political and charitable donations; and incorporates policies, procedures, guidelines and a Compliance Handbook covering a wide range of issues, –– working with third parties. including anti-money laundering, sanctions and ethics. 16 | DLA Piper UN Global Compact: Communication On Progress 2014 V. FURTHER INFORMATION For additional information about DLA Piper’s approach Additionally, we welcome any queries or comments you and activities related to the UN Global Compact may have on this report. Please address them to: Principles, please refer to the following: Nicolas Patrick Break into Law Partner, Head of Pro Bono and www.dlapiperbreakintolaw.com Corporate Responsibility – International nicolas.patrick@dlapiper.com Corporate Responsibility www.dlapiper.com/global/corporate_responsibility Diversity www.dlapiperdiversity.com Environmental Sustainability www.dlapiper.com/global/corporate_responsibility/ environmental_sustainability/ New Perimeter initiative www.newperimeter.org Pro Bono www.dlapiperprobono.com UNICEF child justice partnership www.dlapiper.com/unicef www.dlapiper.com | 17 If you have finished with this document, please pass it on to other interested parties or recycle it, thank you. www.dlapiper.com DLA Piper is a global law firm operating through various separate and distinct legal entities. Further details of these entities can be found at www.dlapiper.com Copyright © 2015 DLA Piper. All rights reserved. | APR15 | 2913165
