1 Our company We reaffirm that our commitment is to promote the development of our employees, their families and communities, we do apply the ten internationally recognized principals from Human Right Areas, labor standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption measures because we are convinced that this is a mechanism for building a better world for future. And we know that any action however small it is. It will continue to support our commitment. Metalia MS S.A. de C.V. reports every year the progress on the Compact’s ten principles. This is the Communication in Progress for 2014. 2 Message from CEO Today we reaffirm our commitment to the Global Compact again and show our determination to further progress on actions that seek the welfare of our employees, customers, consumers, suppliers, the community and the environment in a respectful way, conscious and committed to the purpose be sustainable along our way through dedication and teamwork. We are confident that under the guide lines and compliance with the principles in the áreas of human rights, labor rights protection for the environment and the fight against corruption are contributing to a better society. Attentively Ing.Alfredo de la Peña CEO 3 QUALITY,SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT POLICY 4 THE 10 PRINCIPLES Human Rights Principle 1: Principle 2: “Businesses should support “Businesses should make sure and respect the protection of that they are not complicit in internationally proclaimed human rights abuses” human rights” Labour Principle 3: Principle 4: “Businesses should uphold “Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the elimination of all forms of the effective recognition of the forced and compulsory labor” right to collective bargaining” Principle 5: Principle 6: “Businesses should uphold the “Businesses should uphold effective abolition of child the elimination of discrimilabor” nation in respect of employment and occupation” 5 THE 10 PRINCIAnti-Corruption Principle 7 Principle 10 “Businesses should support a “Businesses should work precautionary approach to enagainst corruption in every vironmental challenges” single way, including extortion and bribery” Principle 8 “Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility” Principle 9 “Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.” 6 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT 7 ORGANIZATIONAL CULTURE With our values and code of ethics, we meet our commitments to our customers, our employees and the communities and societies in which we operate. VALUES *We encourage work teams with the highest possible authority *We foster an environment of participatory work. *We appreciate the diversity of opinions, debate and agree enriches the decisión making to be encountered in seeking consensus. *We maintain our sense of humor and optimism in our interactions. *We measure and recognize the results of the teams and their members. *Work with programs and development techniques for team work skills. 8 VALUES CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT PROACTIVITY  We search to be better at  Is when the person is expected what we are and do. to perform an activity or  We recognize that action, although it hasn’t been everything we do is a requested. process that can be eliminat Being proactive means not ed, simplified or improved. only take the lead, but to  We are convinced that the always decide, at any moment quality of the process what we do and how we do it. ensures the quality of the re Being proactive means not to sult. act quickly, disorganized,  We implemented systems or carried away by the impulse and methods that promote of the moment. continuous improvement  People who have the habit of and productivity. proactivity are not aggressive, arrogant or insensitive, but are  We Promote the selfmoved by values , know what development of the whole they need and act accordingly. individual. implies to be creative to generate improvements. 9 VALUES  We aim to be better at what we do and how we act.  We strive to support our staff with knowledge, experience and skills necessary to meet the company's strategic goals and challenges of each employee.  Establish personal development commitments by the employee and the company. ENVIRONMENTALLY FRYENDLY  We care about the environment, meeting and exceeding the regulations in this area.  Establish development programs and family activities.  We contribute to the social development of the communities where our businesses are located.  We support educational institutions and social welfare that share our principles and values. 10 WORKING ENVIRONMENT During the month of January 2014 Metalia MS was held the “working environment” course, to be improved in Metalia MS. This survey was conducted in May in order to identify and analyze the state of job satisfaction, identify sources of conflict, assess behavior, to be able to take corrective measures, correct behaviors of the leaders, among other things. Performing well and working on our weaknesses as a company. This according to the first principal: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally recognized human rights“. 11 PROJECT IMPROVEMENT The Toyota Production System (TPS) The main objectives of the TPS are to design a system that allows us to carry out the reduction of: Overload (muri), stress in employees, customers and suppliers inconsistency (mura), in the realization of products, processes and services. And eliminate residues or waste (muda), anything that increases costs and does not create value. 12 PROJECT IMPROVEMENT With the approach of the objectives of the TPS during 2014 was working on 15 projects to improve production efficiency, reduce costs, reduce risk to staff and the environment Redeveloped area of quality Increased level 5's Increased quality Tool damage Security 13 VIVE LA EXPERIENCIA Highest grades rated children were invited to meet the workplace and activities of their parents. 14 VIVE LA EXPERIENCIA For them it was a great pleasure to know where his father works and about the activities that take place in the squad. 15 TRAINING PROGRAM In 2014 , were given in the training áreas: Safety, Environment,Continuos Improvement and operator training,giving a total of 2,622 man hours. Every day is continuously seeking to improve the training because we know the importance that helps the staff to do their jobs properly, prevention of accidents and can bring improvements for the company, continuing the TPS projects 16 EDUCATION In 2014 grants were given to the children of workers seeking excel in education, and a financial contribution as school support for each child who is a student worker, in addition to English courses to workers who request it. Metalia supports his staff want to continue getting ready for this reason the worker can request special timetable for further 17 TEAM INTEGRATION SPORTING EVENTS SOCCER TOURNAMENT Each year there are two soccer tournaments, one internal and one external, where everyone can participate, in these tournaments we deliver awards for 1st, 2nd and scoring champion and promote coexistence among the finalist teams. 18 HEALTH & FAMILY LIFE Metalia concerned by the employees health encourages staff to attend a race organized by some organizations in order to donate the cost of registration to foundations that promote family ties. RACE FAMILY LIFE 19 RECOGNITION FOR SENIORITY In December, we delivered seniority recognitions to workers who turned 5,10, 15, 20, 25 and 30 years of service of working in our company, followed by a meeting in order to recognize his career within our company our company. 20 In December 2014 we held our traditional Christmas Party on “GRAN PALACE , people had fun dancing and taking photos on photo party cabin and enjoyed healthy fellowship, within the same was held a raffle of household items such as televisions, Blue rays, stereos, tablets, household items and electronic money cards. 21 HELP OTHERS •Makes donations to foundations that help disadvantaged people, as well as children with disabilities. •Metalia. All of this based on a nondiscrimination principle. •Bazaars Caritas have as mission support Monterrey Caritas resources economic, which they obtained through a quota recovery of certain donations in kind. 22 HELP OTHERS Also Metalia let CEAA sell their products in the company, that people with Down syndrome, make this functions, with support of people with Down Syndrome aims to provide a significant learning, trough a functional instruction, an appropriate development in personal, educational, social and labor areas. 23 SCHOOL LOTERY 24 Metalia continues to consider the participation of staff and development of females participating in different areas there by strengthening equality and prevent gender and sexual discrimination. Promotion staff: Search always begins Internally, so if there is no adequate staff to office, launch an external search. 25 AGREEMENTS In 2014 added one new route Financial aid is granted for at carrier service, this is for every live born child of the helping workers living long worker. distances from Metalia, providing them with boarding The scholarships to be awarded passes and discounts with includes all the student need public transportation rate, during school year. trough the FERIA card, which is a prepaid public We have a Health and Safety Commission who is responsible for reviewing the working conditions of staff and also to When a decease occurs in the look that the Rules and immediate family of the Security Policy are met in full employee two financial aids and look for improvement are granted: one for the continue. company and another by the Union. 26 REAFIRMING Reaffirming our Commitment to compliance with the Guidelines the laws dictate our Mexican legal framework, Metalia not hire under 18 for any of its positions in the organization. It is also stated in writing in our induction , staff procedure ISO PRH01-01. 27 ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION Metalia think about people with different disability so have access ramps to enter our offices and lunch areas. Every one who visited Metalia suppliers, workers . Principle 6 “Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation” 28 29 ENVIRONMENT environment Metalia has a commitment to the Authority, the Community and contributors Preserving the Environment. As every year the company focuses on reducing year by year waste considered hazardous waste, including storage and disposal in accordance with the guidelines of the General Law of Integral Waste Reduction (LEPGIR). 30 INTEGRATED MANAGEMENTT SYSTEM We have an Integrated Management System qualified by a certifying agency called Det Norske Veritas (DNV) who conducts audits every year for recertification, We should mention that there are three Re-Certifications currently approved.  Quality Certificate No.158640-2014-AQ-MCI-RvA  Environmental Certificate No.158641-2014-AE-MCI-RvA  Occupational Health and safety Certificate 158642-2014-HSO-MCI-DNV 31 ENVIRONMENT ENERGIA ELECTRICA 600.00 500.00 400.00 Metalia is concerned 300.00 about the preservation 200.00 KW/TON of the environment in 100.00 0.00 which every day along with the growth we had with sustainable proAGUA jects that we audited 4.500 4.000 year for year our 3.500 certification 3.000 2.500 M3/TON ISO 14001 . 2.000 1.500 Here are the parameters 1.000 2014 0.500 0.000 Enero Febrero Marzo Abril Mayo Junio Julio Agosto Septiembre Octubre Noviembre Diciembre GAS 350.00 300.00 250.00 200.00 150.00 M3/TON 100.00 LIMITE 50.00 0.00 32 ENVIRONMENTAL CARE PROYECT •In 2014 he invested in a new paint booth, improving efficiency and recovery of paint annually 33 COMMUNICATION Periodically communication boards are made to all staff of Metalia, which reports: *Productivity *Quality *Improvements *Security 34 ENVIRONMENTAL 35 ENVIRONMENTAL During 2014 sent 21 kg of alkaline battery to the municipality of Escobedo, who are responsible for conducting their confinement cells. 36 SECURITY Metalia work every day to reduce such accidents OSHA Indicador OSHA METALIA 7.00 6.67 6.51 6.00 5.69 5.71 5.00 4.92 4.94 5.03 4.89 4.60 4.55 4.00 4.10 3.79 2014 3.00 OBJETIVO 2.00 1.00 0.00 ENE FEB MAR ABR MAY JUN JUL AGO SEP OCT NOV DIC 37 SECURITY For Compliance with Mexican Official Standard security conditions, prevention, protection and fire fighting the workplace, met in order to safeguard the security of the personnel and property, Metalia has a plan of emergency. Committee the following Emergency Brigades: *Evacuation Brigade, composed of 20 brigade members. *First Aid Brigade consists of 10 brigade members. *The Fire Brigade Team consists of 10 Brigadiers. *Search and Rescue Brigade made up of 10 Brigadiers. For the formation of the emergency brigades were trained 38 ENVIRONMENTAL During 2014 continued the preventive maintenance project started in 2012 where, thanks to daily, weekly or monthly activities can be scheduled oil changes in machines every 6 to 12 months, with positive results as optimal conditions for machines operation, the savings in oil consumption and continue, reducing environmental impact. 39 ANTICORRUPTION During 2014 we had a bribe by a service provider where our staff reported the incident, according to the principle no. 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery problem was followed to resolve . This by doing the necessary in order to avoid it happens again 40
