Successful new launch of Danimex Academy A new training division within Danimex sharing the WBN agenda to spread knowledge and information www.danimex.com Global responsibility Communication on Progress June 2015 Statement by the CEO Danimex Communication A/S has been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2008 and this year’s COP will be our 6th annual report stating the continued support of the Global Compact principles of human rights, labor rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. We take responsibility for our work and our actions, and will conduct our business in a socially responsible and ethical manner. Continued support of the UN Global Compact as part of our commitment to the United Nations reflects the goals and values already set and followed at Danimex Communication. 2 Our achievements of the past year are numerous. We launched our Danimex Academy, educating our local partners and resellers to a larger understanding of the technical products we supply. Another milestone is the success of the ”Trade in” program was ensuring environmentally correct disposal of the electronic waste and enabling the digitalization at an affordable price at the same time. We also launched our online support system, allowing first aid to be fast and easy, when communication is crucial. Being a member of the UN global Compact has given us the opportunity to reassess and confirm our values on a regular basis and to sum up our annual CSR progress. I would like to invite you to read our Communication on Progress 2015, explaining our approach to issues in focus, our progress and our way ahead. Jytte Kaufmann Thomsen CEO Danimex Communication A/S Contents Page 2 Statement by the CEO Page 4 Danimex Communication in brief Page 6 UN Global Compact the 10 principles Page 7 About “Communication in Progress” Page 7 Danimex core values Page 8 Danimex code of conduct Page 9 Principles 6 Labour and Human rights Page 11 Principles 10 Anti Corruption Page 14 New Danimex UN Reseller Programme Page 19 Overview: Actions implemented or planned for the next year Page 21 Principle 7 Environment Page 26 The World’s Best News 3 Danimex employee installing communication network in Africa Danimex Communication in brief Danimex Communication A/S is a global distributor of communication solutions and equipment with more than 30 years of experience in deliveries to humanitarian organizations, NGOs, defence, security and government organizations as well as modern industry. The head office is located in Denmark, with offices in UAE, Nigeria, Kenya and South Africa. Radio based communication The core expertise of Danimex is to set up local, radio-based digital networks. Digital Mobile, handheld or fixed installations. Anything from small and nimble to extensive networks, serving all communication needs. Danimex delivers basic hardware as well as customised, integrated systems for special purposes. Danimex is a certified Motorola distributor, but handles other brands as well, such as Vertex, Damm and Thrane & Thrane. Satellite based and high capacity communication solutions Satellite phones from Iridium, Thuraya and Inmarsat are available along with BGAN and VSAT solutions. Where high capacity over medium ranges is called for, mobile troposcatter solutions are at hand. Danimex Solar Power Kits 4 These kits were desgined to give service crews the perfect panel kits to work with, when doing field work where electrical power is unavailable or unreliable. It has been designed to provide trouble free service for years. A partner to be trusted Danimex has many years of experience working in the developing part of the world, where people trust us to deliver communication solutions tailored to local needs, funding and infrastructure. We are committed to building good and lasting partnerships with our customers. Good ethics, cultural insight and skilled employees are the tools of our trade. Resources • Customer service. Educated, forthcoming and responsive • Large stock. Rapid deliveries worldwide • Dedicated emergency stock. Equipment reserved for LTA holders for instant deployment • Turnkey solutions are conceived, designed, built, implemented and serviced worldwide • Skilled technicians. Manufacturer-approved, combine theory and experience • On-site support delivered by field engineers via local offices under the label DanimexSupport™ • Technical training in the field or at one of our offices Your partner in times of need Danimex responds quickly and effectively when sudden demands develop as disasters erupt. Both temporary setups and permanent solutions are handled. There is a firm focus on instant priorities. Hot fixes are presented instantly, but a strategic decision involving durability, serviceability and ease of continued operation is always made in the process. Ready for action Danimex has the capability to make a difference and is a dynamic and flexible partner trusted by our humanitarian and other customers worldwide. We work with empathy and passion, and know our business to the core. Our organisation has a flat structure, allowing skilled personnel to take action in places and situations, where speed and decisiveness can be a life saving factor. A long-time humanitarian partner Danimex holds Frame Agreements regarding delivery of communications equipment with all major UN organizations and has price agreements with the largest NGOs. Memberships Danimex Communication is a member of The UN Global Compact and the WGET ICT Humanitarian Innovation Forum. World Food Programme partner In 2015 Danimex has started negotiations with the United Nations World Food Programme on launching a partnership with a focus on training and capacity building with the new digital radio trechnology. 5 UN Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Launched in July 2000, the UN Global Compact is a both a policy platform and a practical framework for companies that are committed to sustainability and responsible business practices. The 10 Principles Human Rights ___________________________________________________________ Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 6 ___________________________________________________________ Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment ___________________________________________________________ Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmen tal challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption ____________________________________ Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. About “Communication on Progress” Since Danimex Communcation A/S joined the UN Global Compact in 2008 we have carried out many approaches and initiatives to enforce the commitment towards the ten principles of the Global Compact in respect to human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. Our annual COP demonstrates our commitment to the UN Global Compact and it’s principles, as well as reflects our transparency and openness towards our stakeholders regarding our activities within the ten principles. Core Values of Danimex Communication Danimex received its ISO 9001 certification in 2012. The core, ethical values are stated within the ISO documentation. Re-certification was done in 2015. These values are appreciated by all staff within our company, and we demand they are practiced by our offices and dealers worldwide. We take responsibility for our work and our actions, and conduct our business in a socially responsible and ethical manner. Customers We are committed to being a good partner, focused on delivering the expertise 7 and solutions that support our promise of enabling people to communicate without limits, and strive to build collaborative, trusting relationships with organizations and customers. Communication and Learning There are two great equalizers in Danimex: communication and learning. Our employees have the knowledge and skills critical to achieving our goals and providing customer solutions. We are committed to constant learning and communicating new ideas about communication for the benefit of customers. Diversity We work around the world and often in underdeveloped countries where people trust us to deliver sound communications solutions. One of our most important values is respecting the diversity of cultures in which we work and the way in which they enrich our lives professionally and personally. Accountability We are accountable as individuals and as a company for our work and our actions. We will be transparent, develop clear, measurable objectives and be responsible for the results we set out to achieve. Growth Through constant innovation and by delivering the best customer support in the markets we serve, Danimex will meet its goals for growth and competitive advantage. Code of Conduct for Danimex Communication Equal rights of women and men It is the responsibility of Danimex Communication to work for equal rights to women and men. Valuing multicultural influence Danimex Communication values the every day influence we get from other cultures and respects the rights of all individuals regardless of ethnic, cultural, religious or sexual background. Child labour Danimex Communication do not use, nor approve of the use of child labour. Environment Danimex Communication is committed to work in a way that does not harm the environment. International laws Danimex Communication is committed to fulfill our obligations to local as well as international laws, regardless where we operate. Working against fraud and corruption Danimex Communication is committed to avert fraud and corruption. 8 Freedom of association and protection of the right to organise Danimex Communication is committed to respect the individual right of labour protection. Occupational health and safety Danimex Communication is committed to avoid risks on occupational health and safety. Working against forced labour Danimex Communication will work against forced labour and slavery of all kinds. Human rights Danimex Communication is committed to work in accordance with the UN Human Rights Declaration. Labour/Human rights Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation With offices in the Middle East, Africa and Europe, Danimex is working in a multicultural environment. For us the competences required for the specific positions matter more than for example nationality and sex. This is reflected in the first two rules in our Code of Conduct which are also part of this report. Equal rights of women and men: It is the responsibility of Danimex Communication to work for equal rights to women and men. Valuing multicultural influence: Danimex Communication values the everyday influence we get from other cultures and respects the rights of all individuals regardless of ethnic, cultural, religious or sexual background. Danimex is thus committed to work for elimination of discrimination that is founded on race, colour, sex, age, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. This commitment applies to hiring, employment opportunities and promotion decisions. 9 Policies, programmes and management systems to support our commitment Danimex’ company policy in regards to non-discrimination is clearly stated in our code of conduct. All managers are instructed to focus on the applicants’ competences during job interviews, and not the applicants’ race, colour, sex, age, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. All employees have minimum one yearly formal meeting with their managers. At this meeting notes are taken on performance and competences. All managers are instructed to base all promotion decisions on the stated outcome of these formal meetings and not on the employees’ race, colour, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. If a case of discrimination is identified, complaints will be handled by the top management. Furthermore, Danimex complies with the laws and regulations in the country of the local office. The latest approach towards our commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact is the implementation of the Code of Conduct and the Danimex core values into the ISO 9001 certification, thus imprinting the principles throughout the whole value chain. Inspired by our commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, the implementation of the Code of Conduct and the Danimex core values were written into our ISO 9001 certification. With the latest external audit carried out in 2015 the principles were once more inprinted and re-confirmed throughout the whole value chain. Actions implemented in the last year and planned for the next year Until now we have implemented the following in regards to principle 6: • Policies implemented into ISO 9001 certification (as stated in our code of conduct). • Instructed our managers to follow the policy • Yearly formal meetings between employees and their managers in our offices in Europe, Africa and the Middle East. • Evaluated the policies by the board of directors at board meetings. For 2014/2015 we continue our work in: • Continued instruction of our leadership team to follow the policy • Identify and support organizations in the area where our offices are located, that support the elimination of discrimination that is founded on race, colour, sex, age, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. It is our goal to develop and implement firm politics and procedures to be used as guidance for employees, who discover discrimination among business partrners and resellers. • Continued evaluation by the board of directors at board meetings. 10 Performance indicators 2011-2015 The table below is a summary of our activities and steps in regards to principle 6 – The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Performance indicators 2012 2013 2014 2015 goal 1 Number of incidents of discriminazero zero zero zero tion 2 Continued instruction of operationyes yes yes yes al management to secure implementation 3 Implementation of yearly formal yes yes yes yes meetings between employees and their managers with focus on performance and competences at the subsidiaries in Europe, Africa and the Middle East 4 Identify and support organisanone South South South tions in the area where our ofAfrica Africa Africa fices are located, that support the elimination of discrimination that is founded on race, colour, sex, age, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. 5 Evaluation by the board of yes yes yes directors at board meetings. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Working against fraud and corruption Danimex Communication is committed to avert fraud and corruption. As stated in Danimex Code of Conduct rule no. 6, Danimex works against fraud and corruption: Danimex complies with all applicable laws and regulations all the places we do business. Furthermore, Danimex complies with the anti-corruption treaties and laws of the countries in which we do business. Corruption is unfortunately more common in some of the areas, where Danimex is working, and thus it is consequently even more important for us to have focus on anti-corruption. Danimex is thus committed to work for elimination corruption in all its forms. 11 Policies, programmes and management systems to support our commitment: Danimex’ company policy in regards to corruption is clearly stated in our code of conduct. Work in Progress All employees in the head office in Denmark have signed an anti-corruption clause in connection with their employment contract. This clause has been added to all employment contracts, including those for our local offices. Starting in the year 2010, all employees in Danimex subsidiaries worldwide have signed an anti-corruption clause. From January 2011 and forward all Danimex certified dealers have had to sign an anti-bribery pledge in order to become a certified Danimex channel partner. Each certification is valid for a year, where after the dealer has to renew the anti-bribery pledge. Performance indicators The table below is a summary of our activities and steps in regards to principle 6, which deals with the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Performance indicators Achieved Achieved Achieved Goal in 2012 in 2013 2014 for 2015 1 Number of incidents relating to corruption. zero zero zero zero 2 All employees at the Danish HQ have signed an anti-corruption clause in conyes yes yes yes nection with their employment contract. 3 All employees at Danimex’ offices have signed an anti-corruption clause in conyes yes yes yes nection with their employment contract. 4 Number of Danimex dealers who have signed the anti-bribery pledge. 36 45 49 47* 5 Evaluation of policies and results at the annual board meeting. yes yes yes yes * Due to a re-evaluation of resellers, only selected resellers who meet the requirements are represented in this performance indicator. 12 Actions implemented Until now Danimex have implemented the following: • Policies, as stated in our code of conduct. • All employees at the Danimex offices worldwide have signed an anti-corruption clause in connection with their employment contract. • All new employees of Danimex have signed an anti-corruption clause in connection with their employment contract. • Evaluated the policies by the board of directors at the annual board meeting. • All Danimex certified dealers have signed an anti-bribery pledge which has to be renewed once a year. • New Danimex certified dealers must sign an anti-bribery pledge before the co-operation is started. • Identify and support organisations in the area where our offices are located, that support the work against corruption. • Co-operate with our suppliers on their work against corruption. • All reseller contracts have been updated to include an anti bribery pledge. General actions monitored continuously: • Policies as stated in our code of conduct. • All new employees at the Danimex offices worldwide have to sign an anticorruption clause in connection with their employment contract. • Evaluated the policies by the board of directors at the annual board meeting. • Increase the number of dealers who sign the anti-bribery pledge. • Identify and support organisations in the area where our offices are located, that support the work against corruption. • Co-operate with our suppliers on their work against corruption. 13 Danimex employee after a long day of installing communication networks in Africa New Danimex UN Reseller Programme As per January 1, 2015, Danimex has launched a special UN Reseller programme, assigning one reseller with the right capacities to serve the requirements of the local humanitarian organizations within the areas of our operations (Africa, Middle East, Afghanistan). Danimex is committed to conducting business ethically, honestly, and in full compliance with applicable laws and regulations. To that end, Danimex requires all its UN Resellers worldwide to adhere to a special UN Reseller Code of Conduct (CoC). Danimex conducts due diligence and periodic monitoring of Resellers to ensure compliance with the CoC, and with other Danimex policies including (but not limited to) its FCPA/Anti-Bribery & AntiCorruption policy, and Export Compliance policies. As a condition of doing businesses with Danimex, the UN reseller consents to such due diligence and monitoring. Any violation of the CoC or Danimex policy will constitute the basis for the immediate termination of the reseller’s agreements with Danimex. The Reseller Code of Conduct is a fixed part of the Danimex UN Reseller contract and a binding document. RESELLER Code of Conduct Danimex Communication A/S (hereafter called DISTRIBUTOR) is committed to conducting business ethically, honestly, and in full compliance with applicable laws 14 and regulations. To that end, DISTRIBUTOR requires all its Resellers worldwide to adhere to this Reseller Code of Conduct (“Code”). DISTRIBUTOR conducts due diligence and periodic monitoring of Resellers to ensure compliance with the Code, and with other DISTRIBUTOR policies including (but not limited to) its FCPA/Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption policy, and Export Compliance policies. As a condition of doing businesses with DISTRIBUTOR, you consent to such due diligence and monitoring. Any violation of the Code or DISTRIBUTOR policy will constitute the basis for the immediate termination of your agreements with DISTRIBUTOR, pursuant to applicable laws, and without liability to DISTRIBUTOR. The Reseller Code of Conduct is stated under Annex III in this Amendment to Contract. DISTRIBUTOR’s Principles of Business Conduct Equal rights of women and men It is the responsibility of Danimex Communication to work for equal rights to women and men. Valuing multicultural influence Danimex Communication values the everyday influence we get from other cultures and respects the rights of all individuals regardless of ethnic, cultural, religious or sexual background. Child labour Danimex Communication do not use, nor approve of the use of child labour. Environment Danimex Communication is committed to work in a way that does not harm the environment. International laws Danimex Communication is committed to fulfill our obligations to international laws regardless of where we operate. Working against fraud and corruption Danimex Communication is committed to avert fraud and corruption. Freedom of association and protection of the right to organise Danimex Communication is committed to respect the individual right of labour protection. Occupational health and safety Danimex Communication is committed to avoid risks on occupational health and safety. Working against forced labour Danimex Communication will work against forced labour and slavery of all kinds. Human rights Danimex Communication is committed to work in accordance with the UN Human Rights Declaration. Your Responsibilities DISTRIBUTOR’s RESELLER Code of Conduct applies to authorized resellers, distributors, carriers, and service providers of DISTRIBUTOR (“Resellers”). It is a RESELLER’s obligation to comply with this Code. Resellers are responsible for establishing policies and monitoring practices so that all your employees, 15 independent contractors, consultants and all others who do business for or on your behalf understand and comply with all provisions of this Code. 1. Ethics and Legal Compliance Resellers must be committed to high standards of ethical conduct in all business dealings and must comply with all applicable legal requirements. Resellers must demonstrate integrity in every business interaction. DISTRIBUTOR expects Resellers to avoid engaging in any activity that involves even the appearance of impropriety. Corruption, Extortion, Bribery or Embezzlement Corruption, extortion, bribery or embezzlement, in any form, is strictly prohibited. It may result in the immediate termination of the Reseller’s business relationship with DISTRIBUTOR and possibly additional legal action. Without exception, Resellers worldwide must conduct their activities in full compliance with the anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws of the country, or countries, in which they are operating. Expediting/facilitation payments are not permissible and strictly prohibited by DISTRIBUTOR except in limited circumstances (e.g. imminent threat to health or safety). Money Laundering Resellers may not engage in or assist others in concealing illicit funds or money laundering activities. The following are sample indicators of money laundering that merit further investigation of Resellers: • Attempts to make large payments in cash • Payments by someone who is not a party to the contract • Requests to pay more than provided for in the contract • Payments made in currencies other than those specified in the contract • Payments from an unusual, non-business account Trade Restrictions, Export Controls and Customs All transactions must comply with EU/U.S. export and customs laws and additional export and customs laws in the countries where business is being conducted. Resellers whose business activities involve the sale or shipment of DISTRIBUTOR products, technologies, or services across international borders must understand and ensure compliance with all laws or restrictions that apply in connection with those activities. 2. Fair Business, Advertising, and Competition Practices Resellers must uphold fair business standards in advertising, sales, and competition. Competition and Sales Practices DISTRIBUTOR is committed to adhering to the applicable antitrust or competition laws. Unfair methods of competition and deceptive practices involving DISTRIBUTOR products are prohibited. Laws regulating competition and trade practices vary around the world, but certain activities, such as price fixing or agreeing with a competitor to allocate customers, are almost always illegal. Resellers must understand and ensure compliance with all competition and trade practices laws or restrictions that apply in connection with their business activities. Obtaining and Using Business Intelligence Resellers who collect information on customers and markets in which they operate must do so only through legitimate means. Resellers must not seek business intelligence by illegal or unethical means. 3. Records Accuracy and Information Protection Accuracy of Records and Reports Accurate records are critical to meeting legal, financial, and management 16 obligations. Resellers must ensure that all records and reports that they provide to DISTRIBUTOR, or to any government or regulatory body that reflects business with DISTRIBUTOR, are prepared in reasonable detail to accurately reflect the operations of its business and dispositions of its corporate assets; and are full, fair, accurate, timely, understandable, and compliant with applicable legal and financial standards. Resellers must never misstate facts, omit critical information, or modify records or reports in any way to mislead others, or assist others in doing so. Privacy DISTRIBUTOR is committed to ensuring the privacy of the end-user customers of DISTRIBUTOR products and services. Resellers are required to comply with all privacy laws and regulations. Minimally, Resellers must take appropriate precautions — including administrative, technical, and physical measures — to safeguard customers’ personal information against loss, theft, and misuse, as well as unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction. Failure to protect customer private information may damage DISTRIBUTOR’s relations with its customers and may result in legal liability for Resellers. Confidentiality of DISTRIBUTOR Information One of DISTRIBUTOR’s greatest assets is information about our products and services, including future product offerings. Resellers must strictly abide by all Non-Disclosure Agreements and other agreements regarding the confidentiality of information. Resellers must not comment on DISTRIBUTOR business matters, including any programs, policies or contract terms. Protection of Intellectual Property Resellers must respect the intellectual property rights of DISTRIBUTOR and other third-parties and may not knowingly use the intellectual property of any third-party without permission or legal right. 4. Labor and Human Rights Resellers must uphold the human rights of workers, and treat them with dignity and respect as understood by the international community. Discrimination Resellers may not discriminate against any worker based on race, color, age, gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, disability, religion, political affiliation, union membership, national origin, or marital status in hiring and employment practices such as applications for employment, promotions, rewards, access to training, job assignments, wages, benefits, discipline, termination, and retirement. Resellers may not require a pregnancy test or discriminate against pregnant workers except where required by applicable laws or regulations. In addition, Resellers may not require workers or potential workers to undergo medical tests that could be used in a discriminatory way except where required by applicable law or regulation or prudent for workplace safety. Harsh Treatment and Harassment Resellers must be committed to a workplace free of harassment. Resellers may not threaten workers with or subject them to harsh or inhumane treatment, including sexual harassment, sexual abuse, corporal punishment, mental coercion, physical coercion, or verbal abuse. Wages and Benefits Resellers must pay their workers at least the minimum wage required by applicable laws and regulations and provide all legally mandated benefits. In addition to their compensation for regular hours of work, Resellers’ workers must be compensated 17 for overtime hours at the premium rate required by applicable laws and regulations. Resellers may not use deductions from wages as a disciplinary measure. Workers must be paid in a timely manner, and the basis on which workers are being paid must be clearly conveyed to them in a timely manner. Resellers must maintain accurate records of employee hours worked and wages paid. Child Labor Child labor is strictly prohibited. Resellers must comply with all applicable child labor laws, including the minimum age for employment in all countries where it does business, or the age for completing compulsory education in such countries, whichever is higher. This Code does not prohibit participation in legitimate workplace apprenticeship programs that are consistent with Article 6 of ILO Minimum Age Convention No. 138 or light work consistent with Article 7 of ILO Minimum Age Convention No. 138. Health and Safety DISTRIBUTOR recognizes that integrating sound health and safety management practices into all aspects of business is essential to maintain high morale, produce innovative products and provide high quality services. Resellers must be committed to creating safe working conditions and a healthy work environment for all of their workers, and must comply with all safety regulations. 5. The Environment At DISTRIBUTOR, environmental considerations are an integral part of our business practices. Resellers must have a similar commitment to reducing the environmental impact of their operations. Resellers must endeavor to reduce or eliminate waste of all types, including water and energy, by implementing appropriate conservation measures in its facilities and by recycling, re-using, or substituting materials. 6. Ensuring Compliance with This Code Process to Receive and Investigate Reports of Violations Resellers must have in place a process whereby their employees, independent contractors, consultants, and others who do business for or on behalf of Resellers can safely and confidentially report violations of this Code to the Reseller’s management, and to do so anonymously (subject to local legal restrictions on anonymous reporting). Resellers must promptly investigate any observed or reported violations of this Code. 18 Overview: Specific actions being implemented Implementation of Responsible Sourcing Careful selection of our suppliers is one of the best ways to ensure continuity and long-term efficiency of the global supply chain as well as enduring brand support. When choosing our suppliers, in addition to making a final determination on cost, we need to evaluate a range of supply chain issues: product quality and safety, continuity of supply and speed of delivery, and intellectual property protection. Criteria such as working conditions, environmental practices, safety standards, and human rights policies are now also being factored into the selection process. Currently, Danimex is working on preparing a Key Supplier Code of Conduct incorporating the major principles of the United Nations Global Compact: Human Rights and Labor Environment Anti-Corruption 1. Forced labour 15. Material toxicity 23. Conflict of interest and chemicals 2. Child labour 24. Gifts, meals and 16. Raw material use entertainment 3. Working hours 17. Recyclability and 25. Bribery and kickbacks 4. Wages and benefits end of life of products 26. Accounting and 19 5. Humane treatment business records 18. Greenhouse gas 6. Nondiscrimination emissions 27. Protecting information 7. Freedom of association 19. Energy use 28. Reporting misconduct and collective bargaining 20. Water use and 8. Occupational safety waste water treatment 9. Emergency preparedness 21. Air pollution 10. Occupational injury and illness 22. Biodiversity 11. Fire safety 12. Industrial hygiene 13. Physically demanding work 14. Machine safeguarding Environment Status for 2014/2015 Altough a formal code of conduct for suppliers is still in the making, the spirit of the above principles is present in the way we deal with suppliers. Our practice is to ask a new supplier for their formal code of conduct. If they have one, it is scrutinized. If not, the supplier will be asked to honor the Danimex code of conduct. In 2014, one of our main suppliers has initiated a program in Colombia to support transparency in that nation’s gold, tantalum, and tungsten sectors in tandem with peacebuilding and economic development efforts. “Pilots will focus on testing validation approaches with local refineries; supporting formalization programs; providing a sourcing opportunity for artisanal scale miners and cooperatives meeting conflict-free standards; and capacity building at all levels of the supply chain. Solutions for Hope tantalum, CFTI, and these new pilots are examples of the benefits of proactive development-oriented intervention in supply chains. They have now established Solutions for Hope as a global platform for supply chain initiatives designed to promote transparency, responsible sourcing, and local community development. The Solutions for Hope model starts with small-scale, pilot projects. Once tested, we will share learning and cross-pollinate across Solutions for Hope projects, and we will support policy initiatives to scale up and maximize impact.” 20 Global Compact Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. In the course of 2014, Danimex has been hiring some more employees and has completed the start-up of in-house production. Hence an increase in power consumption is expected. It is our goal to maintain status quo, despite new activities. Power consumption Work continued in 2014 1) Installed timers on most electrical equipment like copying machines, printers, coffee-makers, the PCs, screens and printers of the warehouse. 2) Installed lamp sensors in the warehouse at workshop: by this, one can omit switching on all lights in the warehouse when entering or exiting the workshop which is connected to the warehouse. 3) Installation of a light switch in the warehouse for turning on/off the last row of lights, which are not necessary under normal conditions. 4) Outdoor lighting: the operation time of the outdoor lighting was reduced by three hours and a light sensor was installed. 21 5) New printers installed, replacing older ones with larger power consumption. New initiatives for 2014/2015 Consumption is pretty much trimmed and largely relies on weather conditions. However, a change of attitude among employees to avoid unnecessary use of artificial light in the daytime is being induced. Performance kWh 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 indicator Power Goal 76,028 71,000 71,000 77,000 consumption Achieved 87,061 80,029 71,413 75,319 77,405 per day 239 219 196 206 212 Recycling Concluded efforts and ongoing issues 1. The Danimex warehouse recycles and re-uses all packaging received from suppliers and in addition packaged goods is always being organised so there is no wasted space, thus saving CO2/kerosene by utilizing space efficiently. Additional packaging materials are environmentally friendly and made of recycled materials. 3. We use and purchase only ECO-labeled printing paper (http://www.eco-label.com/default.htm). For the next years we have planned to reduce the amount of prints and copies, thus reducing the amount of paper used. A corresponding KPI is now established below. 4. We only use ecological cleaning agents (http://www.cleancare.dk/Miljoe/Svane-produkter.aspx) 5. For 2012 and onward we have been working on a reduction of paper and copies made. A corresponding KPI has been set up below. Performance Sheets 2012 2013 2014 2015 indicator of paper Consumption of white Goal 190,000 160,000 125,000 150,000 paper, A4 Achieved 172,000 130,000 179,000 22 Consumption of letterhead Goal 19,000 19,000 19,000 19,000 paper, A4 Achieved 21,700 20,000 19,000 Due to increased consumption of white paper we will carry out regular “Save the trees” campaigns to create awareness and prevent unnecessary printouts. Save the trees Because of the increased usage of white paper and also to avoid unnecessary printouts in the future, we have initiated regular campaigns addressing this issue. We have placed flyers on every printing station with a reminder to conserve the general usage of white paper, whenever possible and also a reminder to print on both sides of the paper. A guide has has also been sent to all Danimex personnel, with directions on how-to print directly to screen. Facts about paper One tree is equivalent to around 8333 pieces of A4 paper, 1 Ton of paper is the equivalent to 24 trees. One tree takes 25-40 years to grow to full size. 23 New initiative progress report on Danimex trade-in programme The Danimex trade-in program offers our clients a return of old, outdated equipment which we after receipt recycle in the most environmental-friendly way. For doing so, Danimex has partnered with two renowned companies: EnviroServe Situated in Dubai, EnviroServe is a company specialized in recycling and wastehandling of electronic equipment. Our partner has a long experience in handling the equipment and was awarded several prices for its outstanding performance. By choosing to responsibly recycle our outdated equipment, we are joining a movement that will protect the environment we live in. EnviroServe has a global network of partners who have adopted the international standards established by the United Nations Environment Programme, and the WEEE (Directive 2002/95/EC). Their work falls under Directive 2002/96/EC, which promotes the collection and recycling of electrical equipment. Their partner factories use processes regulated under ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001, with these accreditations being audited by global industry bodies. So our choice to secure the environment is fully supported by their dedicated team. 24 Nord-Schrott Flensburg, Germany Our partner takes on the logistics for us in the context of disposing of old electronic equipment, as well as the environmentally correct recycling of the material. QM certified to DIN ISO 9001:2000-12 Environment certified to DIN ISO 140012005 Disposal specialist (ESN-no. 100012) Our partner’s treatment processes are state of the art and are constantly updated. They recycle and dispose as per the guideline 2002/96/EC on Waste and Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) and the nationally enacted regulations for its implementation. Their tasks include the dismantling of old appliances and the extraction of fragments for further processing in smelting and metallurgical plants. EVGE certification criteria for e-scrap (2nd revision) as per paragraph 11 Electric and Electronic Appliances. Environmental Protection and Recycling There is hardly a branch of production which can work without secondary raw materials. Its use saves energy and raw materials, thus sustainably contributing towards environmental protection. In our country the lack of natural resources makes secondary raw materials more and more important. Secondary raw materials only cost a fraction of the manufacturing costs using ore or crude oil. For example aluminium recycling only requires about a tenth of the energy as the extraction from bauxite. In steel production scrap has been used for many years as a raw material. Today the proportion is has already reached around 50%. Consequently it is clear that recycling is ecological as well as being increasingly economical. But it is not just our recycled products, but also our everyday environmentally compatible actions which make us an important cornerstone in the area of environmental protection and saving of resources: • Reducing air and noise emissions and immissions • Optimal drainage protection to prevent leakage into the ground or ground water • Minimal use of raw materials and natural resources • Reduction of CO2 emissions through regular adjustments or • replacement in the vehicle fleet and machines to correspond 25 Waste Management In Denmark we have a close interplay between EU regulation and national regulations on waste. EU regulations lay down overall frameworks and principles, whereas the Danish Parliament decides on organization and legislation in the area of waste. In contrast to many other countries – we have chosen to manage industrial and commercial waste in a comprehensive waste management system, covering both packaging waste and hazardous waste. The principle of source separation at Danimex is a key element of the Danish model. For some types of waste, e.g. paper, cardboard, glass, metal, wood, etc. we have collection systems with source separation. This method enjoys widespread acceptance and is used extensively, also by our employees. Concluded improvements in 2014 There has been no further initiatives, but our carefully trimmed routines have become everyday practice in a consistent and natural fashion, involving the entire workforce. This in itself is a major achievement. Danimex waste management routines Cardboard Used as packaging material for new shipments. 26 Paper To be recycled (see new approach below) Confidential papers To be destroyed and removed according to regulation Plastic foil To be recycled Iron and Metal To be recycled Glass To be recycled Wood Mainly for pallets – used for new shipments IT equipment To be recycled on local recycling center Bulbs, batteries To be recycled on local recycling center Organic waste Collected for municipal waste treatment “The World’s Best News” Campaign formed by the UN, Danida and more than 80 Danish aid organisations. Danimex Communication is a partner both in 2014 and 2015 Since 2009, Danimex has supported “The World’s Best News” campaign. The goal of this campaign is to boost awarenes of the fact, that aid programmes and support of projects in the developing countries matters. With the right incentives, poverty can be reduced considerably. The World Bank predicts that two out of three developing countries will meet the UN’s ambitious Millenium Development Goals. Poverty has already been cut by half and over the years there has been series of other important improvements. Governments all around the world as well as NGOs and many companies actively support the cause and thanks to the joint efforts, real progress is being made. Many challenges still remain – and many people are still in need. But if we want to, we are in fact able to end extreme poverty within a couple of decades. Promoting these facts and promoting awareness about the opportunities, which exist, is what the project “The World’s Best News” is all about. Equality in education 27 90 percent of children in developing countries now start in first grade, but up until now these statistics were divided in two. Now an equal number of boys and girls start in school, without pre-dispositions and prejudice, the right to an education is equal to all. In an environment where resources are valuable, everyone is needed to contribute with their ideas and knowledge to secure the future. Development of instruments essential for ensuring childrens learning-environment, NINE OUT OF TEN CHILDREN IN DEVELOPING products such as the COUNTRIES NOW START IN SCHOOL menstrual cup and school Today 90 percent of children in developing countries start in first grade. In 2000 the world’s countries promised each other that all children shall have the opportunity to go to school. Since then the number lunches have helped of out-of-school children has almost halved, and equally many boys and girls sit in the classrooms. This is an important progress because education paves the way out of poverty. But we still need the last 10 all children to get more percent, so the struggle continues. involved and interested in We can end poverty attending an education, Read more on www.worldsbestnews.dk DANIDA, UN and the Danish development organizations: without needing to worry about their health. ADRA Danmark, AC Børnehjælp, Agricultural Development Denmark Asia (ADDA), AIDS-Fondet, Aktion Børnehjælp, Amnesty International, Art of Living, Axis, BØRNEfonden, Børn uden grænser, Cafe Retro, CARE, Care4You Association, Caritas, Center for Kultur og Udvikling, CICED Community for International Cooperation in Education and Development, CISU Civilsamfund i Udvikling, Concord Danmark, Cross Cultures Project Association (CCPA), Crossing Borders, Cykler til Senegal, Danmarks Lærerforening, Danmission, Dansk Flygtningehjælp, Dansk Folkehjælp, Dansk Indisk Børnehjælp, Dansk Missionsråds Udviklingsafdeling (DMR-U), Danske Handicap-organisationer (DH), Dansk-Vietnamesisk Forening, Denmark Lesotho Network, DFUNK, DIB Dansk International, Bosætningsservice, DUF, Efterskoleforeningen, Fair Trade Danmark, Farming 4 Life, FIC Forum for International Coorperation, FN Forbundet, Folkehøjskolernes Forening i Danmark, Folkekirkens Nødhjælp, Fonden til Fremme af blivende Økologisk Balance, Foreningen Den Tredje Verden, Foreningen Hammershus Fairtrade Concert, Frivilligcenter Tønder, GAMES, Gambia Media Support, Ghana, Venskabsgrupperne, Globale skolepartnerskaber, Hjerteforeningen, HopeNow, IBIS, ICYE, Ingeniører Uden Grænser, International Aid Services (IAS), International Hjælpe og Udv.gruppe i Syd Somalia, IMS International Media Support, IWGIA, Kvindernes U-landsudvalg (KULU), Landsforeningen Levende Hav og fiskerinetværket, Livets Lys, Maternity Worldwide, Mellemfolkeligt Samvirke, Mission Afrika, Mission Øst, Momentum Trust, Morsø U-Landsforening, Moyo kwa Moyo Danmark, NGO Fontana, Nykøbing Mors Y’s Men’s Club, Operation Dagsværk, Oplysningscenter om den 3. verden (O3V), Plan Danmark, Play 31, PUGAD, Radio Hormuud, Red Barnet, Red Barnet Ungdom, Remedy Foundation Architecture, Røde Kors, Seniorer uden Grænser, Sex & Samfund, SOS Børnebyerne, Stairway Danmark, Støtteforeningen til projekt ’Nenkashe Education Centre’, Tandsundhed Uden Grænser, Terre Des Hommes Danmark, TYHCG Tamales Youth Home Cultural Group, UFF (Ulandshjælp fra folk til folk), U-landsforeningen Svalerne, UNDP’s Nordiske Kontor, UNFPA’s Nordiske Kontor, Ungdommens Røde Kors, UNICEF Danmark, Vedvarende Energi, Verdens Børn-International Børnehjælp, Verdens Skove, WFP’s Nordiske Kontor (FN’s Fødevareprogram), WWF Verdensnaturfonden, 100% til børnene and a large number of engaged Danish companies. We at Danimex would like to help WBN reach the next 10 percent. Danimex is prepared and ready to serve when crisis strikes Facts This report was published on June 14th, 2015 by Danimex Communication A/S Elholm 4 DK-6400 Sonderborg Denmark www.danimex.com Contact: Jytte Kaufmann Thomsen, CEO Phone: +45 73 42 56 00 Editor: Tina Lund, UN Partnership Manager UN Global Compact membership date: 18 July 2008 Number of employees: 60 Sector: Telecommunication Distribution: www.danimex.com, UN Global Compact, Danimex board of directors, financial partners, Danimex offices ao.
