Microsoft Communication on Progress THE TEN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Page 2 THE TEN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page 3 Foreword Oleg Holban as the Chairman of BC “EuroCreditBank” S.A. has committed to Sustainable Development, and as a result has always integrated responsibility in its business approach, on both environmental and social aspects with an objective of continuous improvement. In this context, it was natural for our bank to become a member of the United Nations Global Compact in 2014, committing to align and develop its corporate strategy within the Global Compact’s ten universally accepted principles in the areas of the Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anticorruption. That same year, the Bank decided to create a platform to focus on its strategy and be even more effective in its respect to fulfill each of the 10 principles of Global Compact. The ECB platform is aligned with the 3 values of our company: entrepreneurial spirit, mutual trust and sense of ethics. It represents the five priorities of the ECB System: respect our stakeholders, invest in the continuous development of our clients and employees, protect the environment, endorse all entrepreneurship area and share the best our culture has to offer. It would be good to mention that to date our development strategy was intensive and not extensive, with our 5 branches and 39 agencies. The bank brought its services to the clients not only in person, but also from the distance by means of modern services like internet banking (www.telebank.md) and PC banking “Client Bank”. Page 4 Foreword Our strategy will be to continue developing technological products and banking services (Hi-Tech) as well as investing in the continuous development of our employees. The Bank focused on servicing Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SME) and individuals. In 2015, the Bank had enough liquidity that allowed us to promote attractive crediting products geared towards these clients segments. At the end of 2014 the bank joined United Nation Global Compact – UNGC, which is an international global contract, representing a basis for representatives of different business spheres, who are committed to line up their activity and strategy to the 10 general principles recognized by the human rights, work relationships, protection of the environment and fight against corruption domains. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our Bank and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. BC “EUROCREDITBANK” S.A. will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. Page 5 General INFORMATION ON THE BANK'S ACTIVITY BC “EuroCreditBank” S.A. is a financial institution with foreign capital. BC ”EuroCreditBank” S.A. was founded on September 30, 1992 by the decision of the General Shareholders’ Meeting. The Bank’s shareholders are foreign investors from Greece (57.6% of shares with voting rights) and from Iraq (41.2% of shares with voting rights); individuals and legal entities from Republic of Moldova. Throughout its overall activity, BC EuroCreditBank S.A. has recorded 7 issues of shares, as a result the Bank’s share capital on December 31, 2014 was 138,0 million lei. The Bank's major goal, since the very moment of its foundation was to provide highly professional banking services to the clients conducting industrial and commercial activity in the Republic of Moldova. Thus, BC “EuroCreditBank” S.A. has become a universal financial institution. At the moment, the Bank is a dynamic and professional participant to the financial market of the Republic of Moldova. In its activity, the Bank pays a great attention to foreign investors, leading to increasing the efficiency of their investments in the national economy. The Bank is oriented towards maintaining and increasing the performance indicators and its market position. The Bank's policy is aimed at increasing the value of shareholders' investments in the Bank’s social capital by a profitable activity and dynamic development in a way that would insure the protection of the Bank's assets against depreciation and would increase its market value. Page 6 General INFORMATION ON THE BANK'S ACTIVITY BC „EuroCreditBank”S.A. Management: The Board of Directors The Management Board Audit Commission Main BC „EuroCreditBank”S.A. Divisions: Foreign Exchange Operations and Correspondent Accounts Division; Anti Money Laundering and Conformity Division; Risk Administration Division; AML Conformity Division; IT and Development Division; Investments and Monetary Markets Division; Accounting and Controlling Division. Page 7 Human Rights Principles BC “EuroCreditBank” S.A. takes great care to ensure that our people, business partners and suppliers adhere to the highest ethical standards, policies and practices. Our Code of Business Ethics sets the foundation for the conduct we expect of employees at every level of our organization. We are diligent about doing business with companies and governments that share our common values. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Diagnosis. BC “EuroCreditBank” S.A supports the protection of Human Rights in the different aspects related to its own activity, and in relation with the interest and alignment with the groups of interest since some years already identified. The Bank has continued since 2011 in submitting and sharing important documents to the interested parties, paying special attention to the suppliers and subcontractors, entities which receive the anti-money laundering procedures and applicable documentation. The Annual Reunion with all the personnel and collaborators held yearly since February 2011 is the event where the philosophy of the organization (mission, vision values and policies) are commented. In this reunion it has been summarized the results of the previous year and the advance of the objectives for the starting one. Page 8 Human Rights Principles We understand respect for human rights to be a minimum standard for conducting business with legitimacy and acknowledge that the private sector, as a member of society, can play an important role in protecting and promoting human rights. Specifically, BC “EuroCreditBank” S.A can contribute by promoting fulfillment of the right to health globally through our business. As a world leader in diabetes care, we have a global responsibility and play a role in the development of sustainable healthcare solutions. Developing innovative biological medicines and making them accessible globally is a key contribution as ‘we provide innovation to the benefit of our stakeholders’. Page 9 Labour Principles Based on a labour condition assessment in the workplace conducted within the bank against the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, a set of Global Labour Guidelines for employees have been developed and implemented globally. The Global Labour Guidelines cover the first 6 principles of the UN Global Compact relating to human and labour rights and encompass all employees in BC “EuroCreditBank” S.A. The internal audit team provides assurance through facilitation meetings that the organization is living up to the Labour Guidelines. The team has been trained in how to safeguard the Global Labour Guidelines. Through facilitation it is possible to detect potential ‘adverse impacts’ or other issues raised by employees during facilitations. Findings or patterns from facilitations will be tracked and reported and any findings will support BC “EuroCreditBank” S.A in acting appropriately. Gender Equality as a Human Right Gender inclusion is an important global focus for BC “EuroCreditBank” S.A. we believe that increasing the opportunities for women to succeed economically is one of the most powerful ways to promote human rights and community stability. We have concentrated efforts on achieving greater inclusiveness of women-owned businesses in supply chains. As BC “EuroCreditBank” S.A’s footprint expands, we are extending our supplier inclusion and diversity efforts across a growing number of emerging markets, as well as strengthening our commitment in more-developed economies. Page 10 Labour Principles Our employees took part and backed up different conferences held by the Women Entrepreneurship Association from Moldova. Thus, we found out that an increasing number of women entrepreneurs choose small business. For the vast majority of women the small business is a forced activity and, in most cases, this activity requires neither education nor the expertise. However, at the economic crisis, lack of social guarantees, this activity was the only alternative to poverty for many. Consequently, the main motive for contributing to the entry of women in entrepreneurial activity is a sense of responsibility for themselves and their relatives. Thus, if we talk about the occurrence of women in business, we can say that the emergence of women's business has forced character in most cases. In fact, a new economic policy has put women faced with the need to fill the free zones in the labor market. Women are less active than men in including in the new market economic forms, such as entrepreneurship. They are much more careful and responsible than men in starting their own business, less risky, preferring to focus on sustainable business relationships. Statistical data fully confirm that the Moldovan business keeps traditionally masculine traits. The proportion of men engaged in business is up to 72.5%. The share of women entrepreneurs is 27.5%. “The number of male entrepreneurs is 2.6 times higher than the number of women entrepreneurs. The proportions do not correspond to the distribution of Moldova's population by gender: the proportion of women employed in business, much lower than the proportion of women in the economically active population (49.4%) and a total population of Moldova (51.9%)”. Page 11 Labour Principles The Bank worked hard in issuing several lines of credits for medium and small businesses that would allow both men and women the same access to European funds in creating jobs and developing the existing economy, assisting in opening women's own businesses, in obtaining affordable sites, in the transfer of technology, equipment, organization, and support of new jobs. Our Bank is always involved in people’s life, making sure that through every project, through every new service offered by the Bank everyone will be included and supported. Last year, we offered material support to the Association of War Veterans from Moldova, which was meant to ease their integration back into society upon retiring. “Mega Trade” Association for disabled and orphan children was also helped with a specific sum of money that was intended to ease and help the children’s transportation to and from their medical checkups. „SOS AUTISM” Association was backed up by our bank in an attempt to empower the children with autism that so aften are marginalized due to their condition not being fully understood by the rest of the Moldavian people. We strive to always make everyone feel included, regardless of their impairment or disabilities. Page 12 Environment Principles One of the explicit commitments that a company makes when it participates in the Global Compact is to produce an annual public COP. A COP is a public communication to stakeholders (consumers, employees, organized labour, shareholders, media, government…) on the progress the company has made in implementing the ten principles in their business activities and, where appropriate, in supporting broader UN goals through partnerships. The purpose of the COP requirement is to ensure and deepen the commitment of Global Compact participants and to safeguard the integrity of the initiative. It also aims to create a rich repository of corporate practices that serves as a basis for continuous performance improvement. For companies, it is a tool to exercise leadership, facilitate learning, stimulate dialogue and promote action. We incorporate environmental performance goals throughout our operations and regularly report on our progress, seeking continuous improvement in energy efficiency, emissions reductions, resource conservation, and waste reduction. We strive to minimize the environmental impact of our products— from design through disposal—and we collaborate with others to develop innovative ways that technology can help address long-term sustainability challenges. Page 13 Environment Principles The greatest impact on the environment is indisputably created by the traveling of our consultants. However, we aim to keep our carbon footprint small. Our travel guidelines are intended to encourage cost-conscious, environmentally aware and efficient travel. As possible modes of transportation our employees can choose between plane, train, lease car, rental car, car-sharing options or public transportation. Despite these varied options employees are encouraged to always select the most costeffective, time-efficient and environmentally friendly transportation. In addition, the number of weekly flights is limited and travel above that limit requires the supervisor's approval prior to booking. For travel routes with high-speed connections, the train is our preferred means of transport. The bank also implemented several remote distance services that would help not only to protect the environment, but also help our clients with their time management skills. For example, ECB-Onlineis a programmed complex designed to prepare and exchange electronic documents between the Bank and Client. ECB-Online system allows the BC EuroCreditBank S.A. client to transmit and receive financial information in electronic form, using computer in your office or home, printing paper copies of the documents in conformity with the requirements regarding relevant documents of the National Bank of Moldova, and also documents evidencing, and archiving. Page 14 Environment Principles ECB-Online system is equipped by multi-stage protection and information authentication system designed on the basis of safety cryptographic algorithms and protocols which guarantees confidentiality and safety of information exchange providing that the Client respects the rules of ECB-Online system maintenance. What can you obtain installing ECB-Online system? • You can minimize your visits to the Bank; • Possibility to manage your account in EuroCreditBank from any place of the world; • Possibility to obtain rapidly information regarding state of your account, form request about accounts flow and resources for any period of time, obtain annexes to the abstracts regarding accounts, and the whole in the real time mode all day long and for 365 days per year; • Obtaining of currency rates of the NBM, confirmation of the international transfers via SWIFT system and other financial information you may need; • Documents processing system developed and convenient which allows rapid introducing payment documents and forming their paper copies; Page 15 Environment Principles Here disappears the necessity to trace correspondence of content layouts and payment documents print forms with the requirements of the legislation of Republic of Moldova taking into account its modifications. It is the Bank's concern now; • Reducing of number of errors when forming payment documents on account of verification of documents requisites by bank reference manuals; • Possibility to trace all stages of the document life-cycle from its introducing until execution by the bank; • Registration of accounting information regarding document (date and time of introducing, operator's name, etc.) which allows in case of necessity restoring the whole history of creation of the document; • Adjustment of evidence and carrying out the archive of the bank documents, performing of search and selection of documents for a determined period; • Acceleration of your documents' processing in the Bank; • Communication means developed and convenient which will presume you to exchange documents with the Bank by single push of the mouse button; • Guaranteed protection of documents (encoding and use of electronic digital signature) from forgery and unauthorized access; Page 16 Anti-Corruption Principles The programs on prevention and combat of money laundering and terrorist financing represent policies, procedures and other rules, including know-your-customer rules, which promote ethical standards and professionalism in the banking sector and prevent the use of bank for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing, intentionally or unintentionally, by criminal elements. These programs shall provide banking operations in a safe and prudent way. Banks shall develop programs on prevention and combat of money laundering and terrorist financing in accordance with the provision of the legislation in force, also taking into account the generally accepted practice in this field, including documents of the Basel Committee and of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). BC “EuroCreditBank” S.A. updates, whenever it is necessary, the programs for prevention and combat of money laundering and terrorist financing, at least annually, taking into account the provisions of legislation in force. Our Bank has also weekly meetings with its AML Division as well as the Risks one where subjects at matter are being discussed as well as think about how to implement new ways to protect our clients from different attempts at forgery and money laundering. Recently, within our bank was held the “Anti-Corruption” Week, where our employees were instructed in different policies and laws and regulations that would help our banking system to fight against corruption, bribery and terrorist financing. Despite the abovementioned efforts on the legislative, administrative and private sector fronts, global and local studies and surveys indicate that Republic of Moldova has not yet reached its goals in the field of anti-corruption. Page 17 Conclusion With BC “EuroCreditBank” S.A.’s continued support to Global Compact and our ongoing commitment to transparency and action, we are committed to and believe that we will continuously improve our ability to make a positive contribution to our customers, employees, and the society we operate in as we continue to work for a more sustainable world. Our sustained approach encompasses strategy, design and execution to increase revenue, reduce cost, manage risk and enhance brand, reputation and intangible assets. We also help clients develop deep insights into sustainability issues based on our on-going investments in research, including recent studies on consumer expectations and global executive opinion on corporate sustainability. Page 18 Page 19
