A NEW LOOK TO THE 2014 REPORT INTRODUCTION This Report contains Fibria’s main achievements The process of reducing and renegotiating the in 2014 and focuses on the process of net debt existing at the time of its inception generating value for society. Through this in 2009 places Fibria as a strong company report, Fibria brings clear, transparent, and prepared to walk the path of growth focused complete data to its stakeholders. In addition on innovation. Today, even in the midst of a to this document, the company makes more challenging economic scenario, the company information available through links to the turns its eyes toward opportunities for organic infographic, references, and other corporate and sustainable growth, strongly positioning reports. itself as a forestry company. From a market perspective and focus on a “A In its five-year history, the company has New Look to the Future,” on the following remained focused on and steady toward its pages Fibria presents its business model, main goals. On the following pages, you will learn risks and opportunities, strategies adopted, about the result of this work in 2014 and its operational and business developments, prospects and possibilities for the future. and how it generates value inside and outside the company. Enjoy your reading! INFOGRAPHIC Along with the 2014 Report, you will find an Fibria’s business strategy to reduce its social infographic that shows the entire Fibria Value and environmental impacts while improving Chain from the search process for innovative the quality of their products and increase the productivity solutions and planting, to the perceived value. arrival of products to customers worldwide. Divided into two parts, the infographic briefly presents all the information on the strategy, performance, the landscape of Long Term targets and the highlights of 2014 in the areas of forest operations, industrial and shows For more information, visit www.fibria.com.br/r2014/infographic 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 8 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 10 ABOUT THE REPORT 12 EXTERNAL READERS 16 EXTERNAL AUDIT 22 profile MAP OF OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL AND ABROAD FIBRIA IN NUMBERS VALUE CHAIN MISSION, VISION AND VALUES 28 OUR STRATEGY STRATEGICS PILLARS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT OMBUDSMAN OFFICE FINES AND LAWSUITS CERTIFICATIONS 36 innovation FROM THE FOREST TO THE CONSUMER NEW BUSINESSES CLIMATE CHANGE 54 6 our stakeholders EMPLOYEES AND OUTSOURCED WORKERS COMMUNITIES SUPPLIERS INVESTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS CLIENTS GOVERNMENT PRESS 68 our operations FOREST MANAGEMENT FOREST PLANNING FOREST LOGISTICS INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS WATER SALES 98 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 128 CONSULTATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS 136 GLOSSARY 140 CORPORATE INFORMATION 146 CREDITS 148 7 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future www.fibria.com.br/r2014/ceo/ MESSAGE FROM THE CEO READY TO GROW AND DIVERSIFY A STRONG COMPANY PREPARED TO consolidation. We reevaluated the company’s WALK THE PATH TOWARD GROWTH, position, conducted a comprehensive FOCUSED ON INNOVATION. LEARN assessment of market megatrends, and ABOUT THE MAIN HIGHLIGHTS gained understanding of the concepts of our OF THE YEAR IN THIS INTERVIEW business in order to reposition ourselves at this WITH THE PRESIDENT OF FIBRIA, new moment. Today we have a 9% share of MARCELO CASTELLI. the global pulp market. I believe that in 2015 the market will be more balanced in terms of supply and demand, and the currency better 1. In 2014, Fibria announced to the market adjusted for exporters. Consequently, our that it was ready to resume growth. What main challenge is to maintain a path of growth are the main challenges for the company and consolidation focused on our strategic when following this path? pillars – operational excellence, growth, and We closed 2014 with a strengthened image diversification – in order to maximize business of Fibria and much more credibility in the value, generate value for our stakeholders, capital market. This crowns a five-year and bring the expected profit to our investors process of seeking financial soundness, and shareholders. an instrumental factor for the sustainable growth of the company. Presence on the 2. The year was also quite turbulent, both Dow Jones Sustainability Index, remaining on internally and externally. Did these factors BM&FBOVESPA’s Corporate Sustainability Index interfere with the company achieving its (ISE), and the rise in the credit score from Fitch goals? Ratings to BBBthe first level of the investment As exporters, we are less influenced by the grade, were factors that favorably contributed reduced growth of Brazil’s GDP and the to greater credibility with shareholders and unfavorable currency exchange, and as a selfcreditors. Fibria dedicated the last five years to sufficient energy company, we are less impacted paying off debts and regaining its investment by the energy rationing affecting this country. 8 grade. Now, the company has cash available for growth, either organic or through Thus, Fibria is in a strong position at a tough time in Brazil. This encourages shareholders, creditors, and the communities that depend reevaluated the company’s position in order on Fibria. We also have good prospects for the to define the best strategic avenues based on price of pulp, since the international demand operational excellence, market consolidation, remains stable which should continue to be and business diversification. To this end, we strong in Europe and the United States – and the recently announced price readjustments. look for different ways of doing things and From an operations standpoint, it is important we already have several initiatives within the to also mention a fatal accident that occurred company based on bio-strategy, nanocellulose, in Espírito Santo, a fact that left us in dismay. real estate development projects all under an In response to this, we expanded further our umbrella for maximizing value and creating focus on procedures regarding the health and safety of employees and contractors, a matter admirable profit from our stakeholders of utmost importance in all of our operations. perspectives. 3. How do you carry out austerity-oriented 5. Among Fibria’s opportunities for growth management while seeking growth and are bio-energy and real estate projects. innovation? How did Fibria prepare for this path in We need to maximize our value on the fronts where we already operate through continuous 2014 and what are your next steps? actions for improvement and seeking Diversifying the business requires caution transformational initiatives which allow the in terms of strategy. We can’t go around company to begin a new cycle of growth. To doing just anything. We need to evaluate this end, we are going to pursue possibilities our opportunities and risks, strengths and within the forestry business, investing in weaknesses. Based on this, we secured a innovation, and also in new business, always thinking of ways of doing more with less. The partnership with the Canadian company Zero-Based Budget enters our continuous Ensyn in 2012 for the production of bio-oil, improvement front with the objective of combining their over 30 years of experience bringing excellence to our processes while in that area with our vast knowledge of reducing costs. It is an innovative approach the eucalyptus. The other aspect of our that reverses the traditional logic of the budget building process. With this, all areas diversification is real estate. The idea here is to of the company are going through a stage of generate value for one of our greatest assets revising the budget and designing the plan for – the forest. Tied in with the operational 2015 from scratch, in order to reduce its cost excellence pillar is the project that foresees the and investment base. transformation of areas previously intended for eucalyptus plantation and near several 4. Diversifying business is one of Fibria’s communities in planned districts, created growth pillars. How does the company within the concept of sustainability and wellposition itself and seek new paths as a being. This does not compete with Fibria’s forestry company which today operates in commitment to sustainability, because we a commodities market? seek to collaborate with the orderly growth We have greatly advanced our process of of cities, leaving the area structured so that it bio-strategy analysis, seeking new ways to approach research and innovative and/or does not negatively impact the environment. disruptive projects. Innovating in a forestry Today, growth and diversification are key company such as Fibria requires a change in issues in the pulp industry. We are part of an mindset with a lot of planning, discipline, and extremely fragmented commodity market in connections within the business. And this is which there is a continuous search for low what we’re doing; working towards having 9 a versatile company, where cost reduction costs. Fibria is prepared and this growth is a is directly associated with innovation and question of evaluating the best opportunities. sustainable growth. As I mentioned, we The road has been paved. 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future www.fibria.com.br/r2014/chairman/ MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN GOVERNANCE AND INNOVATION ON THE AGENDA Transparency, innovation, solid governance, and planning focused on business sustainability. Today, this is the recipe for maintaining its reputation and generating value for its stakeholders. José Luciano Penido, Fibria’s Chairman of the Board, talks about how the company faces this reality. 1. Besides transparency and the search for 2. How is sustainability associated with Fibria’s admirable profit, corporate governance is one business strategy and financial results? of Fibria’s main values. What is the importance Our history has been marked by several of this factor to the success of the company? achievements, mainly related to sustainability. In 2014, we had many governance-related As a forestry company, the balance between gains, such as the approval of internal economic, social, and environmental gains is policies based on anti-corruption law and something that permeates Fibria’s corporate the publication of our risk management and culture and is directly linked to all our compliance policy. Our risk management tool business decisions. In industrial operation, has already become a reference for other we work with cutting-edge technology. In companies. In addition, the company, both our forests, we invest in forestry certifications in the Executive Board and in the Board of and management innovation. In addition, Directors, expanded its discussions about the we may cite initiatives involving other parts fact that the future we want to build for Fibria of society, such as including social programs is directly linked to its ability to innovate. Based for land development to generate revenue on this concept, one of the company’s main and engagement in movements that fight initiatives is the Innovation Committee, which for land rights in southern Bahia. All of this advises the Board, lending a strategic market is the result of a corporate vision centered view to its ongoing projects. The result is that, on the search for admirable profit, seeking in the last two years, work in innovation has not only to bring return to our shareholders, changed focus from incremental to disruptive, but also bring benefits to our stakeholders, 10 creating new paths and possibilities. This leaves me convinced that we are on the right consequently improving the company’s reputation. I normally say our sustainability track for designing the future. team has over 17,000 people today – our own employees and contractors who are engaged to develop innovation. Today, we are the and work within a corporate culture with only Brazilian industrial company with an interdependence and co-authorship towards Innovation Committee as part of the Board, the best result for our business. which reinforces our conviction that we are at a time to rethink the pulp industry. In 2011, 3. Have the projects being developed today we defined a new governance strategy for proved to be effective in countering the our innovation process, and, through this impacts caused by drought and excess rain? change, we are at a turning point in the work We have worked hard with our Innovation in this area. We have decreased the focus on Department to prepare ourselves for the incremental innovation and we use this energy possible impact caused by extreme climate in two other areas: radical innovation, which events. One aspect is selecting clones that seeks leaps in the current business, pulp, and tolerate environmental stress, such as the disruptive innovation, which works on new physiological disorder in the eucalyptus in business alternatives in other market niches. southern Bahia. This is a new problem and With this, we have greatly advanced toward this is why our classic genetic improvement developing products that allow us to generate program is focused on identifying clones gains for the client and across the production increasingly better adapted to new recorded chain. In 2015, we will be able to consolidate environmental conditions, such as frequent revenue through differentiated pulp products, alternating between excess rain and drought. and we should advance even more in our Another very interesting project was the radical and disruptive innovation actions. development of a map of the places where physiological disturbances have occurred. 5. In your opinion, how have the actions Today, we have much deeper knowledge developed by Fibria taken into account the of all the affected areas in southern Bahia concerns and expectations of its stakeholders? and northern Espírito Santo, and we know For us, reputation is a real value, and because how to distinguish which areas are more or of this, it should be an issue present in all less susceptible to the problem. This way, dimensions of the business. At Fibria, we plantation planning is safer, since we have adopted the concept of admirable profit, been able to better define which clone will be and through our actions over the last five planted in each region, decreasing exposure to years, we have managed to gain recognition events related to climate change. In addition, and generate value for stakeholders. We are the network of weather stations and other leaders in an important sector of the renewable existing next-generation equipment, such industry and one of the companies in that as flow towers, monitoring environmental sector with the lowest cost of production in the conditions as well as their effect on the world. Today we are working on implementing growth of our plantations, offering a better new technologies and processes which analysis for company decision making, will help redesign the industry. All focusing allowing us to better prevent and mitigate the on developing people, generating value risks associated with climate change. for neighboring communities, formatting products according to the needs of the clients, 4. How can the shifting of innovation projects and with a strengthened ability to position and the search for new business opportunities itself in the face of market opportunities. beyond pulp help in the sustainability of the business? In both the Executive Board and the Board of Directors, we increased our conviction that the future we would like to build for 11 Fibria is directly associated with our ability ABOUT THE REPORT www.fibria.com.br/r2014/about-the-report/ Prepared according to the G4 guidelines between January 1 and December 31, 2014. of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) – Comprehensive level – and the framework of The information in this report updates the data the International Integrated Reporting Council found in the 2013 report, covering all company (IIRC), the 2014 Report of Fibria Celulose S.A. units in the country: Aracruz (ES), Jacareí (SP), presents the company’s main achievements and Três Lagoas (MS); the forestry units and and challenges in the areas of strategy, offices in Bahia (Posto da Mata), in Espírito corporate governance, economic and financial, Santo (Conceição da Barra and Aracruz), in social and environmental responsibility, and Mato Grosso do Sul (Três Lagoas) and in Sao their interrelations, during the reporting period Paulo (Capão Bonito and Vale do Paraíba), 12 ABOUT THE REPORT and the pulp shipping operation in the Porto materiality processes, updated at the end of Santos (SP), as well as its three commercial of 2013, and shows the moment of Fibria’s offices outside Brazil. Since the companies challenges and opportunities in view of its Veracel (BA) and Portocel (ES) are jointly held main stakeholders (employees, communities, with other companies, they are not included suppliers, investors and shareholders, clients, in this material. civil society, government, and the press). The following are the topics identified and most The structure of this publication is based on commonly mentioned by stakeholders: the most relevant topics in the company’s Certifications, Local development Business Financial Social and industry voluntary and impact on expansion. management. environmental commitments, and communities. management of the regulations. supply chain. Value generation Forest Government Transparency Water use. through innovation management: relations. and stakeholder . biodiversity, engagement. 13 land use. 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future In addition to these topics, the report handles, in greater depth, the impact of climate change and how it affected the business scenario in 2014. The subject was highlighted by the organization’s leadership due to the challenges and opportunities generated by climate instability. The Materiality Matrix was built based reliability of the information (learn more in the on interviews with Fibria executives, Letter of Assurance). No significant changes representatives from stakeholder groups were found in terms of scope, boundaries, or (clients, NGOs, academia, government, media, methods of measurement. Fibria followed the communities, suppliers, employees, investors, methodologies of the International Integrated sponsored suppliers, wood suppliers), internal Reporting Council (IIRC) and of the GRI, version material (such as the risk matrix), industry G4 Comprehensive level, when preparing its studies, and online questionnaires. report. Besides accounting for Fibria’s actions and Besides the printed version, a more concise challenges throughout 2014, the objective of and visual online version contains detailed the Report is to describe, with transparency, information about company performance. It is future projects and actions involving the available on the website www.fibria.com.br/ governance of sustainability, evaluating the r2014 – which may be accessed on any mobile issues most relevant to business continuity device. This report also includes an infographic from the point of view of stakeholders with updated information about (internal and external). Material topics are part of the strategic planning built by the company Send questions or suggestions by e-mail to in 2014 and will be strengthened throughout comunicacaofibria@fibria.com.br. 2015. The Bureau Veritas Certification, as well as internal auditing processes and other management mechanisms, assures the IN THE FOLLOWING SECTION YOU WILL LEARN MORE ABOUT OUR EXTERNAL READERS AND WHAT THEY THINK ABOUT THIS REPORT. 14 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future www.fibria.com.br/r2014/external-readers/ To keep evolving in the preparing of reports and in the accountability for their stakeholders, every year Fibria submits this material to the reading and evaluation of important figures in the area of sustainability. These opinions contribute to the constant evolution of the company in its business and its form of communication with the various stakeholders. The assessments are published in full, without interference by Fibria of any kind. EXTERNAL READER Roberto S. Waack Founder of Amata S.A. and Chairman of its Board of Directors. Board member at GRI, IBGC, Ethos Institute, WWF-Brazil, and ISE Bovespa. He was a member of the Board and Chairman of the FSC® Forest Stewardship Council®, and of other organizations related to sustainability, climate change, and forests. He was the President of Amata, Orsa Florestal, and an executive of pharmaceutical companies. A biologist with a Master’s degree in Business Administration from FEA-USP. FIBRIA’S REPORT IS EMBLEMATIC. integrating the pillars of the new economy NOT ONLY FOR ITS CONTENT, BUT (to avoid directly using the worn out concept FOR WHAT THE COMPANY HAS COME of sustainability), are arranged in an edifying manner. TO REPRESENT IN BRAZILIAN AND INTERNATIONAL SOCIETIES. The emblematic nature of the company is audaciously illustrated in the infographic, One of the prerogatives of this image is its ability which integrates the organization’s various to represent a synthesis while maintaining dimensions. They also appear in the different its enigmatic, provocative, and mobilizing sections of the Report. The introductory characteristics. In Fibria’s case, it indicates a very words of the President and the Chairman of complex corporate concept and does not fall the Board expose how much the concept of into the temptation of oversimplification. The integration is rooted in organizational culture. foundations of the company’s business model A broad spectrum of seemingly contradictory are clearly exposed in the Report. Concepts concepts is mentioned, such as austerity 16 such as generating value in society, looking to the future, innovation, the commitment to and the ability to innovate, focus and true relationships with the large number of needs transparency, operational excellence, and truly of various stakeholders. As the company’s profile, strategy, and operations are described, it relates to the company’s reputation is these concepts are continuously revisited in addressed openly and honestly without a natural, as opposed to compartmentalized difficulty. One emblematic point is the vision of manner, indicating that the true integration the supply and value chains, extended to land of economic, social, and environmental management and a wide spectrum of capital, values are foundations sustaining the vision following the instructions for the framework of of shareholders and day to day operations. It an Integrated Report. is a testament to the coherence between the company’s discourse and its practice. The text is quite instigating in that, as a company producing a classic commodity, it Main management tools are covered in deals with the search to “decommoditize” via a balanced manner, such as the role of disruptive and collaborative innovation. It is certifications, sustainability indexes, as well evident that the company plays a leadership as reporting instruments and their derivatives, role in the technological field by incorporating such as the materiality matrix. The Report natural capital such as water, biodiversity, describes the effective use of these tools climate, and social capital, such as the when managing forests, factories, and their inclusion of diverse communities with which surroundings. They do not appear to be the company interacts, into the worlds of corporate tools merely mentioned for show. finance, production, and competitiveness. The iterant balance, like a swinging pendulum, between short-term demands and the “look to However... (always this provocative word!) the the future” is present in the various sections of wealth of information brought to the public the Report. The relationship between what is creates a new expectation: that there should done today and the long-term consequences be more forceful treatment of externalities and are clearly described. The Report seeks to align their effects on the value of the organization tangible and intangible assets to the extent and society. The quality of what Fibria does that they hover about the company’s diverse and the inspiration that the corporate vision activities. It handles positive and negative entails demand this step. This is the level of externalities with transparency and courage, expectation that such an emblematic enterprise describing the company’s willingness to learn provokes. Could this be the missing piece of from both painful and victorious experiences. Fibria’s puzzle? The pursuit of admirable profit and how 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future www.fibria.com.br/r2014/external-readers/ EXTERNAL READER Professor Pavan Sukhdev Founder and president of GIST Advisory, a consulting firm that helps between 2011 and 2014, he was a visiting professor at Yale University (USA), and was awarded the 2011McCluskey Fellowship. In 2012, he was named Goodwill Ambassador of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), where he coordinated two projects on green economy: the TEEB report (The Economics of Ecosystems and Biodiversity) and the Green Economy Initiative. He chaired the Council Agenda Ecosystems and Biodiversity for the World Economic Forum in Davos between 2009 and 2011 and today sits on the board of the Conservation International (Washington), Global Reporting Initiative GRI (Amsterdam), Gulbenkian Oceans Initiative (Lisbon), TEEB (Geneva) and Stockholm Resilience Centre (Stockholm). FIBRIA’S 2014 REPORT BEGINS Holistic performance in terms of its direct and WITH A CLEAR STATEMENT FROM indirect impacts has been measured by Fibria TOP MANAGEMENT THAT THEIR since 2009. This report for a year of good revenue growth and strong profit growth takes GOAL IS “ADMIRED PROFIT”: this emerging tradition of holistic and integraTHAT WHICH NOT ONLY BRINGS ted reporting a step further, with a focus on inRETURNS TO SHAREHOLDERS BUT novation as a driver for both sustainability and ALSO BENEFITS TO STAKEHOLDERS. profitability. AND THROUGHOUT THIS REPORT, WE OBSERVE A RICH TAPESTRY OF Fibria sets high standards across business maEXAMPLES OF HOW FIBRIA SEEKS nagement, governance and risk management. TO INTEGRATE SUSTAINABILITY These risks include third-party risks: social and CONSIDERATIONS IN THE environmental issues and impacts, the health and safety of employees, and the quality of COMPANY’S BUSINESS’S STRATEGY products and services. Fibria’s good governanIN ORDER TO DELIVER HOLISTIC ce and risk management is further reinforced PERFORMANCE BEFITTING WHAT by an active and effective Ombudsman. I CALL “CORPORATION 2020”, A Three important business threats faced by the CORPORATION FIT FOR THE FUTURE. company are from commodification, concen18 tration and climate change. A new ‘Technology gory, valued, integrated and presented more and Innovation’ unit was set up in 2014, resuccinctly in the form of an “Integrated Profit cognizing and addressing the business threat and Loss” or an “Integrated Value Added” refrom commodification in an industry in which port in future. Fibria already has a dominant market share, at The “Infographic” in Fibria’s 2014 report is a 9% of the global pulp market. Many examples useful device, but it needs to be made easier to in this report illustrate Fibria’s journey “from viread and absorb. I believe it needs to be segsion to action”, both in its strategy (eg: radical mented according to high-level topics (business innovation driving leaps in the current pulp buareas, strategies, priorities) with each of these siness, and disruptive innovation for new busihigh-level topics linked together in an overarness alternatives in other market niches), and in ching and simplified ‘summary’ infographic, its operations (eg: 90% of energy used in pulp which then telescopes down one or two layers production at Fibria’s industrial units is renewain separate sheets with detailed commentary. ble, from wood and liquid biomass). This could make the “infographic” communicate with more power and ease to investors, Climate change threats to productivity are media, and the general public. The approach being addressed with genetic improvement of of identifying “materiality issues” based on sureucalyptus, identifying the best species adapveys is good in principle, but surveys should be ted to worsening climate conditions. designed to identify and align with stakeholder expectations and priorities, including those of Fibria understands that today, growth is still shareholders. a key issue in the pulp industry. Based on this assessment, the company has worked meticuFibria’s integrated annual report could also lously to define and invest in pillars that drive benefit from a ‘dependencies’ analysis which growth – innovation, operational excellence, evaluates and positions Fibria’s business straeconomies of scale, diversification. At the same tegy in the context of all major risks from the time, six major goals are clearly laid out in the complex and changing global environment. Cliarena of sustainability, including related corpomate change risk has already been evaluated rate targets for reforestation, improved carbon and responded to well, as stated above, but sequestration and reduced land-use for pulp some other global megatrends (eg: changing production. demographics and lifestyles, increasing urbanization, consumer awareness and increasing In terms of Natural Capital impacts, Fibria has value chain accountability, and ecological scarretained an impressive record: a positive carcities & disruptions especially in freshwater subon balance, starting with a net sequestration pply) need to be sized, evaluated and responof 3.3 million tCO2eq from forestry operations. ded to as well. Fibria has also evidenced, in this 2014 report, several examples of nurturing and building HuFibria today has become a large and important man Capital and Social Capital. For example, its link in a long global value chain which begins at Forestry and Industrial Learning program trains the local forest and extends all the way to conprofessionals in partnership with Senai and dusumers of various types of paper used in educaring 2014, a total of 119 young people began tion, hygiene, and health all around the world. the program, 86 graduated, and 18 were hired. Its integrated report for 2014, “A New Look to Fibra has diverse income generating programs the Future” is a commendable step towards the and social actions serving over seven thousand company’s goal to generate “admired profits” families. I believe Fibria’s large inventory of into the forseeable future and to report them impacts on natural, human and social capital transparently and in an integrated manner to could perhaps be aggregated by capital cateall its major stakeholders. 19 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT BUREAU VERITAS CERTIFICATION INTRODUCTION Bureau Veritas Certification Brazil (Bureau same with regard to the year 2014. The Veritas) was engaged by Fibria Celulose S.A. information published in the Report is the (Fibria), to conduct an independent assessment sole responsibility of Fibria’s management. of its Sustainability Report (hereinafter referred Our responsibility was to provide independent to as the Report), encompassing assessment verification, in accordance with the scope of of the content, quality, and boundaries of work defined below. SCOPE OF WORK A reasonable level of assurance1 was provided • Activities outside the defined assessment and conducted according to the Guidelines period; and Principles2 of the Global Reporting • Statements of position (expressions InitiativeTM GRI-G4 (2013). of opinion, beliefs, goals, or future intentions) on the part of Fibria; Excluded from the scope of this work was any • Economic and financial information assessment of information related to: contained in this Report which has been taken from financial statements verified by independent financial auditors. METHODOLOGY The Assurance covered the following activities: 1. Interviews with the personnel responsible 4. On-site visits to Fibria’s Units at Aracruz for material issues and involved in the (Espírito Santo State), Jacareí (São Paulo Report content; State), Três Lagoas (Mato Grosso do Sul 2. Traceability of data published, searching State) and the Central Administration the its sources of the same and the office located in the city of São Paulo; reliability of management systems 5. Analysis of Fibria’s stakeholder involved; engagement activities; 3. Verification of performance data 6. Evaluation of the method used to define relateding to the principles that ensure material issues included in the Report, the quality of the information, pursuant taking into account the sustainability to the GRI G4 guidelines; context and the scope of the information published. 22 The Fibria Report verified by us is composed Additionally, Fibria developed a condensed of two publications: one in electronic means version of the Report as an infographic that, and one physical (paper), which focuses on in our opinion, demonstrates on a reliable the narrative and the performance data way the company´s processes. associated with the material themes; and the other, only in electronic means, contains With regard to the verification principles of more comprehensive performance data and Accuracy and Reliability of Data, we clarify information on non-material themes. Both that our scope was limited to the data related are available on the Report 2014 website to the ten most material issues as shown in (www.fibria2014.com.br). the index of the Report. TECHNICAL REPORT • Fibria presents its Report based on • With regard to the data related to material issues that reflect the study Human and Organizational Development, “Review of material issues of December information regarding personnel is also 2013”. In our view, the study remains restructured in the SAP platform, making valid in the light of the GRI Principle of reliable data collection possible, and Materiality, as it continues to develop the so reducing the need for manual data ten major material topics, which enables handling and manipulation; the reader to compare it with information in the previous Report; • We evaluated the work of the Sustainability Committee, associated to the Board of • The Report provides a consistent Directors, including recommendations account the internal initiatives of related to biotechnology, the Rural related to promotining, training and Environmental Register (CAR), models implementatining the anticorruption and of regeneration Legal Reserve (RL) and antitrust policies of the company; water; • The set of qualitative and quantitative data • In its work in the supply chain we concerning the company’s performance evaluated a project (Value Chain) begun indicators was carried out for the third in 2014 with the aim of diagnosing year through a system called “Gestão suppliers in a range of matters related to On Line” (GOL), which standardizes and sustainability performance; ensures historical consistency of the datadisclosed; • Concerning the development and impact of investments in infrastructure and • Fibria developed a tool to enhance its services offered in local communities communication and engagement with and economies (GRI-EC7 indicator), suppliers, the “Suppliers’ Portal”; this information contained in the Report is structures suppliers’ data, making it limited to investments in infrastructure, more reliable and accurate. The Portal there being no data related to the services was recently launched and is still in directly offered or supported by Fibria; implementation. 1. The Bureau Veritas independent assessment protocol is informed by the ISAE 3000 International Standard Assurance 2. Engagements and the reporting requirements set out in the GRI G4 guidelines Materiality, Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context, Completeness, Balance, Comparability, Accuracy, Periodicity, Clarity, and Reliability 23 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future • In 2014, wereviewedFibria’s Code of • Fibria presents indicators for long term Conduct, which now extends to its supply targets, providing increasing clarity to the chain. We acknowledge the extensive readeron their performance; work undertaken to disseminate the new Code to suppliers of the company; • The Report provides a satisfactory account of expectations that were • Very little information was found in the generated in the previous Report. The Report around the measures of control presentation of the achievement against and monitoring of the impacts in the targets published in 2014, enables the communities (material issue), caused by reader to analyze Fibria’s evolution in the forest stewardship; management of the commitments made; • During our assurance, we witnessed a • We note that recommendations made limited role of the Internal Sustainability in our previous Statement are partially Commission (CIS); addressed by Fibria, and maintain those recommendations not yet carried out, whilst also presenting some new recommendations for the company. RECOMMENDATIONS • Discuss the role of the Internal • Make efforts to report in a clear manner Sustainability Commission (CIS), created the investments offered or supported to work on internal processes regarding by Fibria in local communities and/or sustainability (recommendation from the economies, pursuant to the GRI-EC7 previous cycle); indicator. • With regard to the impacts of forest stewardship in communities, we recommend that the Report enhances accounts for measures taken and the methods of monitoring these impacts; CONCLUSION Inconsistencies identified through the As a result of our assurance, we conclude that assurance have been satisfactorily corrected, the Report meets the criteria set out for ‘In so that the data and information presented in accordance’ reporting with the GRI-G4 at the the Report adhere to the principles of content Comprehensive level. and quality of the Guideline GRI-G4. 24 DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE AND IMPARTIALITY Bureau Veritas Certification is an independent Bureau Veritas has implemented a Code of professional services firm specializing in Quality, Ethics throughout its business, in order to Health, Safety, Socialand Environmental preserve high ethical standards among its staff Management, with more than180 years’ in the performing of their activities. experience in independent assessment. At the end of the assessment, a detailed report No member of the assessment team has any was drawn up, showing all the topics verified, commercial links with Fibria. We performed any deviations found, corrective action taken this assessment independently and understand and opportunities for improvement. This that there was no conflict of interest. Report ensures the traceability of the process and is kept as a Bureau Veritas management system record. CONTACT Bureau Veritas Certification is available for further clarification on www.bureauveritascertification.com.br/ faleconosco.asp or by telephone (55 11) 2655-9000. Alexander Vervuurt Lead auditor Assurance Sustainability Reports (ASR) São Paulo, April 2015. Bureau Veritas Certification – Brasil 25 PROFILE www.fibria.com.br/r2014/profile/ Brazilian company and world leader in Its industrial mills are strategically located in eucalyptus pulp production, Fibria focuses its Três Lagoas (MS), Aracruz (ES), Jacareí (SP), operation on forest plantations in the states and Eunápolis (BA), where Veracel is located, of Bahia, Espírito Santo, Mato Grosso do Sul, which is a joint operation with Stora Enso. In Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do addition, in partnership with Cenibra, Fibria Sul, and São Paulo. operates the only Brazilian port specializing in shipping pulp, Portocel (Aracruz, ES). With over 17,000 workers (own employees and outsourced workers), 846,000 hectares Present in the main consumer markets, the of forests – 284,000 of which are intended company exports to over 40 countries through for environmental conservation – today Fibria distribution, commercial and representative has a production capacity of 5.3 million tons offices in North America, Europe, and Asia. of pulp per year. Besides its own forests, 28 the company uses wood supplied by 2,148 contracts, corresponding to 71,272 hectares of eucalyptus plantations. PROFILE All Fibria units are certified by the Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®), and by BA CERFLOR®/Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC). The company is part of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (Global and Emerging Markets categories), Veracel of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), and of BM&FBOVESPA’s Corporate Belmonte Sustainability index. Caravelas Posto da Mata Conceição MG da Barra Portocel Três Lagoas Aracruz ES MS SP Vale do RJ Paraíba Jacareí Capão São Paulo Bonito Santos RS Forest Office Capão do Leão Industrial Units (Pulp) Port Distribution Centers 29 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future CENTRAL ADMINISTRATION DISTRIBUTION CENTERS São Paulo Brazil Europe Flushing The Netherlands REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE Sheerness UK Hong Kong China La Pallice France Tarragona Spain SALES Livorno Italy AND DISTRIBUTION SUBSIDIARIES Monfalcone Italy Miami USA Lustenau Austria Asia Changshu – China Kaohsiung – Taiwan FIBRIA IN NUMBERS www.fibria.com.br/r2014/fibria-in-numbers/ SALES DISTRIBUTION 83% 42 NUMBER OF BY REGION IN 2014 COUNTRIES CLIENT WHERE THE 10% Latin America COMPANY SATISFACTION 41% HAS CLIENTS Asia North America PRODUCTION 2014* Jacareí 1,085 25% Europe Três Lagoas 1,276 Aracruz 2,356 24% 50% Veracel 557 5,274 *in thousand tons (t). Numbers rounded TOTAL SALES BY END OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE USE IN 2014 Votorantim Treasury Market Specialty paper BNDESPar 18% Industrial S.A. Stock Free Float Printing and writing Tissue 29.42% 30.38% 0.06% 40.14% 31% 51% 30 VALUE CHAIN www.fibria.com.br/r2014/value-chain/ Fibria is an important link on a long value harvest, transport, production, and sales of its chain which begins at the forest and extends products, the company works constantly on all the way to end consumers of various types consolidating the concept of admirable profit of paper used in education, hygiene, and heand recognition in society. To this end, during alth. Present in global markets, where there is the entire process, the company concerns a growing demand for social and environmenitself with indicators covering the responsital responsibility along the production chain, ble use of natural resources, valuing human Fibria seeks to relate to all of its stakeholders, including countless rural communities surrouresources, concern for client prosperity, and nding operations. producing products valuable to the client, all within strict ethical standards and on a path Beginning with research seeking improveoffering contributions to society. ments in inputs, moving on to the plantation, 31 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future MISSION, VISION, MISSION AND VALUES • Develop the renewable forestry business as a sustainable source of life. We believe in constructive relationships based on bonds of partnership and trust, commitVISION ment and respect. We are moved by vital ener• Consolidate the planted forest as a produgy, determination, and a passion for making cer of economic value. Generate admiraviable products which are essential to quality ble profit, associated with environmental of life, health, education, and culture. We seek conservation, social inclusion, and the recognized admirable profit that generates beimprovement of quality of life. nefits for everyone, beginning with the sustainable use of resources. VALUES • Soundness: Seek sustainable growth while www.fibria.com.br/r2014/mission-vision-values/ generating value. • Ethics: Operate responsibly and with transparency. • Respect: Respect for people and willingness to learn. • Entrepreneurship: Grow with the courage 34 • to do, innovate, and invest. Unity: The whole is stronger. RECOGNITION In 2014, Fibria received important recognition, such as the “Most Sustainable Company of the Year,” on the Exame de Sustentabilidade guide, and the best company in the Paper and Pulp Industry on the Época Negócios 360° and Melhores da IstoÉ Dinheiro guides, and the best company in Production Chain Management in the As Melhores da Dinheiro Rural yearbook. Access the online version IN THE NEXT SECTION, LEARN MORE of Report 2014 to see a ABOUT THE STRATEGIC PILLARS FOR complete list of Fibria’s FIBRIA’S BUSINESS. awards in 2014. 35 OUR STRATEGY GOVERNANCE www.fibria.com.br/r2014/our-strategy/ STRATEGIC PILLARS www.fibria.com.br/r2014/strategic-pillars/ As part of a fragmented sector, where the company worked meticulously to define low-cost production scale is an extremely pillars that drive growth, analyzing both the important factor, Fibria understands that global and external scenario and the scenario today, growth is a key issue in the pulp where it operates. 36 industry. Based on this assessment, the OUR STRATEGY Fibria is a company that is always looking for innovation and new business opportunities: characteristics which are very important to our strategic value. We live in a very volatile world today and Fibria needs to stay flexible and always be ready to make decisions. Vinícius Nonino, Director of Strategy and New Businesses Every company’s strategic line of thinking as its competitors), and assessment of the should be to seek the best ways of combining company’s own strengths and weaknesses. strengths with market opportunities, creating business leverage, because this will be the Fibria is part of an industry based on the combination that builds the best strategy for forestry business. This is why its strategic that company. pillars should take into account social and environmental issues that can influence Contrary to how it may seem, the definition of these pillars is not based on an abstract productivity, reduction in operating costs to concept, but rather on a set of analyses ensure the financial appeal of its commodity, and connections that bring together and an ongoing search for new ways to market trends, the scenario of threats and opportunities in the sector (for Fibria as well diversify its business. 37 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future THE PILLARS OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Directly related to the need to keep costs reducing the asset base, etc.), a vision of an low, the production scale, and the product’s “industry of the future” (which seeks the best competitiveness, this strategic pillar helps the practices around the world for reusing waste company look constantly at the efficiency and maintaining operational stability), as well of its industrial and forestry operations, and as reducing negative externalities generated by different ways to keep the cost of the product its operations. as low as possible. It includes actions in the forests (projects for mechanizing harvesting, GROWTH Fibria is embedded in a fragmented commodity market, where the need for competitive costs Decisions toward growth via organic is vital. Growth and consolidation is required expansion, mergers, and acquisitions to achieve this. Growing organically includes depend on market conditions and building a forest base which, in the future, windows of opportunity created in the will have consolidation value and create challenging and fragmented market opportunities for new businesses. Another in which Fibria operates. The project important point is decision-making flexibility expanding the Três Lagoas* (MS) – a very important characteristic in a relatively unit, which is in the technical study volatile market. and evaluation phase, lies within this concept. On May 14th , 2015, Fibria announced the construction of new pulp production line at Três Lagoas Unit (MS). 38 DIVERSIFICATION This pillar is linked to innovation projects Today, the company has established business and the search for new opportunities for maps and plans – all embedded under a value expansion. Fibria is working hard to diversify maximizing umbrella with effective benefit for its business and deliver solutions outside the Fibria. Among these plans are bio-strategy, concept of commodity, for its current products diversification in logistics, and real estate as well as new products and markets. But development projects. diversifying business requires strategic focus, therefore, it is one of the goals guiding Fibria. Among the initiatives in progress worth noting is the establishment of an alliance with the American company Ensyn Corporation (Ensyn), as well as other prospects on the routes defined as priorities in Fibria’s bio-strategy studies. In port development, the studies which stand out are those toward expanding Portocel, the private terminal specializing in pulp shipment and located in Barra do Riacho (ES). 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future LONG-TERM TARGETS In order to guide the business strategy and ensuEstablished by the Sustainability Committee and re the company’s continuity and sustainability, in with the support of the Board of Directors, these 2011 Fibria instituted a set of long-term targets six targets are directly associated with the straindicating the paths to be taken by the company tegic pillars and the material topics identified by through 2025. Fibria in 2013. TARGETS ACTIONS BENEFITS Target 2025 • Less land concentration Conventional genetic improvement 1. Reduce by one third the • Greater availability of land for other of eucalyptus, improvement of Target 2014 amount of land needed for pulp uses. environmental management and 2014 production. • Increased competitiveness and greater increased productivity. return for shareholders. Baseline (2011) Target 2025 Increase in forest areas and in the recovery of degraded areas with native species. In 2014, there was an 2. Double carbon sequestration • Reduce concentration of greenhouse increase in greenhouse gas emission Target 2014 from the atmosphere. gases in the atmosphere. due to increased diesel consumption Baseline (2011) in forestry logistics and therefore reduced net carbon sequestration. 2014 Target 2025 • Increased availability of habitat for wildlife and flora 3. Promote environmental Planting native forest species • Biodiversity conservation, especially of restoration of 40,000 hectares of and stimulation of natural forest Target 2014 endangered species its own areas between 2012 and regeneration. In 2014, a total of 2,933 • Expansion of environmental services 2014 2025. hectares were recovered. • Carbon sequestration, availability and Baseline (2011) quality of water, among others. Valuation of waste, producing forestry inputs, and optimizing the Target 2025 energy matrix by replacing fossil • Reduction of impacts and risks caused fuels with waste. In 2014, Fibria 4. Reduce by 91% the volume by industrial landfills. expanded the reuse of solid waste Target 2014 of solid industrial solid waste • Increased eco-efficiency. and reduced the volume of waste disposed in landfills. • Reduction of cost of waste disposal disposed in landfills. The Três 2014 and replacement of inputs. Baseline (2011) Lagoas unit began reusing 62.6% of its industrial solid waste, compared with 23.2% in the previous year. Target 2025 Increase in the approval rate 2013 from neighboring communities • Amicable coexistence with by improving the quality of 5. Achieve 80% approval in neighboring communities, creating Target 2013 the relationship, inserting the neighboring communities. suitable environment for local community in the company’s development. value chain, and expanding local Baseline (2011) development projects. Target 2025 • Social inclusion of the communities, reducing social and economic 6. Help the community render Expand the Rural Land Development vulnerability. 70% of the income-generating Program (PDRT) model, promoting Target 2014 • Community taking a role in its own projects self-sustaining with the technical and management training development. support of the company. and attracting partner support. 2014 • Increased management and technical Baseline (2011) qualification of the population. 16 15 15 cellulose ton per hectare / year 14 EXPECTED 13 12.1 EVOLUTION IN PRODUCTIVITY 12 10.6 10.9 PRODUCTIVITY 11 10 9 40 8 0 2010 2015 2020 2025 PLANTING YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE www.fibria.com.br/r2014/corporate-governance/ Objectives To reinforce sustainability in the company’s corporate governance • Transparency and stakeholder engagement Material topics • Finance management • Finalize roadmap for Long-Term Targets, indicating KPIs and Targets for 2014 Medium-Term Targets. Target achieved: the medium-term targets were mapped. Fibria has a corporate governance structure based on transparency, clearly defined roles, Learn more at administrative independence, high quality http://fibria.infoinvest.com.br, technical and managerial staff, fair treatment tab Corporate Governance of shareholders, and accountability. It is the responsibility of Fibria’s Board assessment and possible approval. All members of Directors to establish and update the of the Board of Directors undergo a continuing company’s mission, vision, and values, as education process, which includes an annual well as its strategic guidelines. Based on visit to operations, semiannual lectures about these guidelines, senior management works scenarios, markets, and corporate governance, on policies and goals that are brought to as well as workshops on strategy. the Board and its Advisory Committees for Is composed of nine members, two independent (no links with shareholders signatory the shareholder agreement, according to the regulations in effect), and an equal number of alternates. Its members meet at least four times a year BOARD OF and should participate in all Board meetings and those of DIRECTORS the Committees to which they belong. The minutes of the Board of Directors meetings, as well as those of the Audit Committee and the Executive Board are available on Fibria’s Investor Relations website (http://fibria.infoinvest.com.br/). Composed of three members and an equal number of alternates, elected by General Assembly. Its main objective is AUDIT to oversee administrative action, in addition to other duties COMMITTEE provided for in Article 163 of Brazilian Corporate Law. Its members meet at least four times a year, at the end of each quarter. Oversees the quality and integrity of financial reports, as well as compliance with legal, statutory, and regulatory STATUTORY AUDIT requirements, the adequacy of processes relating to risk COMMITTEE management, and the activity of internal and independent auditors. 43 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future Assists the Board of Directors and the Executive Board in analyzing the Brazilian and global economic scenario, its FINANCE potential effects on the financial position of the company, COMMITTEE as well as the preparation of scenarios and trends when evaluating opportunities and risks and defining strategies to be adopted in financial policy. Assists the Board of Directors in analyzing initiatives related INNOVATION to research and technological innovation in the forestry, COMMITTEE industrial, and management areas, concerning new products and processes. Analyzes the policies, structures, and practices of human resources proposed by the Executive Board, taking into account the best practices adopted by national and foreign PERSONNEL AND companies. The Committee also evaluates strategies and REMUNERATION the context of the opportunities and risks to which the company is exposed, as well as proposes the remuneration COMMITTEE policy for directors and members of the Board of Directors, considering shortand long-term, regular and extraordinary salaries and benefits. Advises the Board on all aspects involving sustainability, in identifying, approaching, and handling issues representing risk or that could have an impact on business, on long-term results, on stakeholder relationships, and the company image. The Sustainability Committee is composed of five external SUSTAINABILITY members and three directors, as well as the Chairman of COMMITTEE the Board of Directors. In 2014, this committee played an important role making specific recommendations based on discussions with internal and external specialists, related to opportunities and necessary adjustments concerning the Forestry Code and stakeholder engagement related to genetically modified trees. For more information about boards and committees, see the online version of the report or http://fibria.infoinvest.com.br, tab Board and Committees 44 FIBRIA RISK MANAGEMENT www.fibria.com.br/r2014/fibria-risk-management/ Appetite for risk and company’s approval purview are defined by the Board of Fibria’s risk management process was defined Directors. The Board assigns to the Executive based on the ISO 31000:2009 standard Risk Board responsibility to manage economic, Management – Principles and Guidelines, and environmental, and social issues and its has the following objectives: operation involving the Board in issues that • Involve all agents in the structure in a given require official evaluation and approval from phase. the highest governance level. • Standardize concepts and practices. • Influence decision making. Also, there are economic, social, and • Ensure that Fibria’s Corporate Governance environmental issues that are evaluated by is followed and critically analyzed. advisory committees, which recommend • Provide a dynamic and efficient flow of strategic guidelines to the Board of Directors. information. Additionally, the area of Governance, Risk, and • Increase Fibria transparency with Compliance (GRC) represents a link between stakeholders, market analysts, and credit strategies and policies defined by the Board and agencies. by the committee and the activities executed by each business area, under the responsibility of the directors and general management. Establishing context Communication and consultation Monitoring and critical analysis Identification of risks Risk analysis Risk assessment Addressing risks For more information about Fibria Risk Management, see http://fibria.infoinvest.com.br >Corporate Governance > 45 Codes, Policies and Internal Regulations Critical concerns are brought to the Advisory In order to make it more structured and more Committee by the Executive Board or by the robust, in 2014, at the request of the Board advisers. The items evaluated are those that of Directors, Fibria revised its Compliance have a potential impact on business results Program by grouping its obligations into and do not have a short-term solution. seven pillars: Laws and Regulations; Licenses; Currently, there are six topics covered: Permits and Certifications; Contracts and strategy, marketing, logistics, tax, judicial Agreements; External Reporting; Support to processesand investments in innovation. Competition / Antitrust; Prevention of Losses and Fraud; and Anti-Corruption. 46 FIBRIA’S COMPLIANCE PROGRAM The new booklet was distributed to employees management were created. The entire and cont outsourced workers, which are being monitoring process and environmental review trained through compliance workshops about is properly documented and reported to senior the importance of the items reviewed, as well management on a quarterly basis, with the as to strengthen their knowledge about the annual sign-off of the control chart rated by all internal and external rules of organizational governing bodies through a specific tool, GRC compliance, following Values, Beliefs, and Process Control, which increases adherence to Fibria’s Code of Conduct. The focus of the best governance practices. training course was based on the Corruption Prevention and Antitrust pillars, with on In compliance with section 404 of the classroom and e-learning training, review Sarbanes-Oxley Act1 and CVM Instruction and publication of the Anti-Corruption Policy 480/092, the effectiveness of internal controls and preparation and dissemination of the of the company’s financial information is based Compliance Defense Policy to Competition Law on criteria established in Internal Controls (Antitrust). Integrated Framework (2013), issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations Also in 2014, specific controls and compliance Treadway Commission (COSO)3 FUNCTIONS PILLARS INSTRUMENTS Identification of Laws Compliance and Regulations Observatory LICENSES, PERMITS AND CERTIFICATIONS DEFENSE OF COMPETITION / ANTITRUST Management of Critical Policies and PREVENTION OF LOSS AND FRAUD Documents Procedures CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS PREVENTION OF CORRUPTION LAWS AND REGULATIONS EXTERNAL REPORTS Knowledge Education and Management Training Communication Manager and/or Lines Ombudsman Channel Monitoring Obligations Monitoring Systems Result Disciplinary Guidelines Management and Corrective Measures MANAGEMENT CONDUCT VALUES BELIEFS CODE 1. It states that an annual evaluation of all internal controls and procedures for financial reporting issued must be made. In addition, the external auditor must issue a report where it attests to the veracity of the information of internal control. 47 2. It provides for the registration of securities of issuers admitted to trading on regulated markets of securities. 3. Private organization established in the US in 1985 to avoid scams in the financial statements of the company. 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future Based on this assessment, the design of In addition to consolidating the culture of control processes is adequate and deficiencies ethics and compliance, Fibria developed a or recommendations that could compromise training program that includes all employees Fibria certification have not been identified. above the first management level (coordinators Adherence tests were carried out in connection and supervisors). In 2014, 19 groups (a total of with the audit of the financial statements of approximately 250 people) underwent training Fibria controls on 31 December 2014 by the in all units covering topics such as harassment independent auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers. and discrimination. For 2015, an e-learning system geared toward senior management is Updated every two years, the company’s Code being developed, focusing on issues such as of Conduct was also revised, including a topic corruption and supplier relationships. on corruption. With this renewal, all employees need to reconfirm their adherence to the Code action that should happen in 2015. The full text of this set of norms is available on www.fibria.com.br CRISIS MANAGEMENT In 2014, Fibria advanced in its crisis groups are better prepared to act in case of management process. Through simulations need to trigger the NCP for crisis management. with the regional commissions, there has Another important step for the preparation been a significant increase in the performance of the teams will be to establish constant and of the teams. Today, all Fibria Units have Crisis periodic dynamics, capable of putting NCPs Management Committees in place and with effective capacity to the test in order to contain good coordination capacity. or reduce the impact of crises generated by the implementation of the key risks mapped. The teams conduct quarterly meetings in order to prepare Business Continuity Plans In 2015, examples of continuous improvement (BCP) to risks assessed and prioritized in the of the crisis management process include ERM matrix that have potential for crisis. enhanced interaction of the committees with These plans are shared among the members the Corporate Units, in addition to establishing of the Committees for greater alignment and the roles and responsibilities of the members interaction between the teams. As a result, of each group. 48 MANAGEMENT www.fibria.com.br/r2014/management/ Fibria’s management policy is developed 4. Ensuring business soundness and by integrating all areas and with the agility sustainability, through the mastery and needed to identify and manage business risks, control of processes, acting toward the social and environmental issues and impact, prevention and reduction of operational risks the health and safety of professionals, and the and environmental and social impact, and quality of products and services. according to strict criteria for maintaining health and safety, promoting human and social To this end, Fibria is committed to: development. 5. Acting in an enterprising and innovative manner, promoting the continuous 1. Acting ethically and respectfully with people, improvement of the management model and open to dialogue and in compliance with all processes, products, and services. laws, regulations, and commitments. 6. Guaranteeing excellence in practices and 2. Cascading strategic guidelines in a results by training and valuing its professionals, balanced manner according to the needs and combining internal and external efforts, and expectations of clients, suppliers, professionals, exercising responsible leadership. society, government, shareholders, and other stakeholders. 3. Building long lasting relationships with select suppliers and clients, according to demand, and offering differentiated products, business services and skills, with perceived value. OMBUDSMAN OFFICE www.fibria.com.br/r2014/ombundsman-office/ The channel for reporting breach of the were applied to the entire first leadership Code of Conduct, the Ombudsman Office, is level reinforcing the company’s Conduct accessible to employees, former employees, Code assumptions, especially those related to residents of communities surrounding human rights issues, integrity and compliance. company operations, suppliers, clients, partners, and other stakeholders. All reports Initiatives such as these, coupled with are treated confidentially and recorded in a a broad leadership development work system that maintains a history of all cases. performed by different areas, contributed for a better alignment and had a positive impact In 2014, Fibria Ethics Program, deployed throughout the organization. A reduction in in 2013, originated several new actions: te incidence of inadequate communication an extensive internal awareness campaign in the workplace reported Ombudsmanship about business ethics was held throughout was also perceived, consequently, decreasing the company, contemplating including the the total number of reports the channel 277 application of lectures by expert in all units. In reports received in 2014 compared to 331 addition to the campaign, classroom training reports in 2013. In 2014, Internal Audit examined 21 suspected irregularities: three pending from 2013 and 18 new received throughout 2014. Of the claims investigated, seven referred to cases of corruption or misuse of assets (four in Aracruz, two in Três Lagoas, and one at the Jacareí unit). Two occurrences resulted in termination of contracts with suppliers, one resulted in taking disciplinary action with the employees involved, and four required creation or change in policy and procedures. 51 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future CLAIMS BY CATEGORY % COMMUNICATION Human rights 20.9 CHANNELS WITH THE Consultations 18.4 OMBUDSMAN’S OFFICE Business relations and contracts 13.7 INTERNET Labor 21.3 www.fibria.com.br > Institucional > Ouvidoria Lack of adherence to standards 6.9 TELEPHONE Community relations 2.2 (for Units abroad, there are specific channels Conflicts of interest 3.2 listed in the website: www.fibria.com.br) Fraud/corruption 2.5 MAIL Environmental 4.3 Ouvidoria Fibria Celulose S.A. Other issues 6.5 P.O. Box # 72.632 FINES AND LAW SUITS www.fibria.com.br/r2014/fines/ Administrative labor suits of losing the case a possibility. There is still no The company has 201 administrative suits in provision recorded for this suit. progress, six of them filed in 2014. Among the major issues are outsourcing and compliance Environmental lawsuits with the quota for hiring apprentices, people Fibria is a party in seven environmental actions with disabilities, and rehabilitated individuals. and procedures considered relevant. Of these, In this period, Fibria presented documents five are Public Civil Actions questioning the proving compliance with its labor obligations. licensing of eucalyptus planting in the states of Sao Paulo and Espírito Santo. Another action refers to a Conduct Adjustment Term signed Public civil action for excess cargo with the Public Ministry of Bahia, through the In June 2012, the Federal Public Attorney’s Regional Prosecutor’s Office for Environmental Office filed legal action determining that Fibria Justice in Teixeira de Freitas, due to may not travel on any federal highway with development agreements with owners of land excess cargo weight, under penalty of fine. with environmental irregularities. The liabilities The suit, claiming the payment of pain and assumed by the company in the Conduct suffering and material damage to the Federal Adjustment Term are R$12,535,000.00. The last Public Ministry due to alleged losses to federal procedure concerns a fine of R$1,500,000.00 highways, the environment, and economic (the only action initiated in 2014) authored order, was approved at the first instance by by the environmental agency of Mato Grosso the judge. Fibria filed an appeal to the decision do Sul, which argues the alleged discharge of that prevented the traffic of company trucks effluents outside the parameters established in on these highways. Today this process is in its the legislation for the Parana River. initial phase and Fibria considers the likelihood 52 Agreements All agreements signed by the company have control systems and are being fulfilled on time. entered into the company’s monitoring and There were no new agreements signed in 2014. MONETARY VALUE 2012 2013 2014 OF FINES PAID 0 0 0 PENDING DECISION R$ 1,263,548,671.73 R$ 1,087,582,335.90 R$ 1,186,367,204.30 TOTAL R$ 1,263,548,671.73 R$ 1,087,582,335.90 R$ 1,186,367,204.30 CERTIFICATIONS www.fibria.com.br/r2014/certifications/ Fibria is in compliance with all requirements for all regulations and certifications applicable to the industry. Chain of Custody ABNT NBR 14.790 NBR ISO 9001, NBR ISO 14001 (CERFLOR®) OHSAS 18001 implemented at the Santos Standards for Suppliers and the Certified Port Terminal (T13, T14 and T15) Product Industry FSC-STD-40-004 (Forest Forest Management Principles and Criteria Stewardship Council®). This is the main FSC® FSC-STD-01-001 (Forest Stewardship chain of custody standard. Since Fibria also Council®). International Standard of processes forest development wood and FSC®. The certification agency uses the purchases in the non-certified market, the FSC® Certification Standard for Forest company applies the Standards for NonManagement, Forest Plantation Assessment Certified Wood (Controlled) FSC-STD-40-005 in the Federal Republic of Brazil: Standard (Forest Stewardship Council®) and has only Harmonized between Certifications Agencies one certification. Then, it applies the FSC(FSC-STD-BRA-01-2014 V1-0 PT) STD-40-003 Standards for Certification of Forest Management Principles and Criteria Custody Chain in Multi-Site Operations NBR 14.789 (CERFLOR®) (Forest Stewardship Council®) IN THE NEXT SECTION, LEARN ABOUT HOW FIBRIA WORKS WITH INNOVATION IN SEARCH OF NEW BUSINESSES AND USES ITS KNOWLEDGE TO FACE THE EFFECTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE. 53 INNOVATION GOVERNANCE www.fibria.com.br/r2014/innovation/ With the challenge of exploring innovation as From this strategic point of view, since its leverage for generating value through intelligent inception the company has worked in terms and competitive work that takes into account of incremental (continuous improvement), events inside and outside of the company, radical (performance leaps in current business), Fibria closed the year 2014 establishing a new and disruptive (technological development for 54 Technology and Innovation Department. new business) innovation. Without neglecting incremental innovation, Fibria recently INNOVATION Innovation has been part of Fibria’s DNA since its inception, making a strong contribution to generating value for our stakeholders. But this success, in a changing world, requires constant questioning. Consequently, the company recently repositioned its innovation strategy and began focusing more on radical and disruptive innovation. Fernando Bertolucci, Director of Innovation repositioned its innovation strategy and began When positioning itself as an ambidextrous to direct more resources allocate radical and company – one that has great control over its disruptive innovation in order to generate commodity production routine while keeping competitive differentiation in current processes an eye on new business possibilities in forestry – and products and create opportunities for Fibria grows and invests in its ability to innovate diversifying our business through forestry and stand out in the market. Just in the year capabilities. Along these lines, current studies 2014, the company invested approximately are focused on seeking a significant increase in R$48 million in research projects involving forest productivity, improving the quality of our genetic improvement, forest management, and fiber to supply the most demanding markets, the development of products and technologies increasing the efficiency of our production which help the company enter into new processes, and developing high quality markets. innovative products. INVESTMENTS IN Disruptive innovation INNOVATION – 2014 18% 23% Radical innovation Incremental innovation 59% NUMBER OF PATENTS GRANTED: 71 55 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future GENETIC IMPROVEMENT Through a better understanding of In biotechnology, there was an evolution in the causes of a physiological disorder results related to studies about genetically occurring in eucalyptus, it was possible to modified eucalyptus. In 2014, new genes identify clones which tolerate the disorder, were identified that could potentially be a breakthrough in genetic improvement involved with the forest’s ability to adapt in 2014, offering a solution to a new to different environmental conditions problem caused by climate change and improvement in wood quality, which perceived mainly in southern Bahia. The may be introduced in Fibria’s elite clones work identified two new clones tolerant within the coming years. The work, still to extreme climates (mainly drought and in the research phase, is being conducted excessive rain), which have become part in three areas: gene identification, of the company’s cloning renovation improvement of the efficiency of genetic portfolio in that region. transformation process, evaluation of transformed plants, and the bio-safety of field experiments. THE THREE FRONTS DRIVING INNOVATION In 2014, the Executive Board also advanced in three subjects which are very important to the process of managing innovation: • Structuring in the area of competitive intelligence, encouraging sharing knowledge and intelligence in the Intelligence Center format. • Valuing the company’s intellectual property through wide dissemination of policies concerning the subject, as well as identifying new opportunities for patents and creating rules for maintaining industrial secrecy. • Engagement processes concerning regulatory issues and updating policy related to genetically modified eucalyptus. INNOVATIONS MADE IN PARTNERSHIPS In 2014, Fibria’s first major open innovation • Technique to physically characterize a third experience took place with the launch of a order microcatchment drainage related public notice for research on biodiversity. to its hydrology and resilience capacity Approximately a third of Fibria’s areas are (ESALQ/USP). covered by native forests which are of great • Seed technology and installation of importance to society and arouse the interest progeny tests in pequi fruit (UNESP Ilha of various institutions for the development of Solteira). scientific studies. As a result of this initiative, • The importance of limiting nutrients in the company received 40 project proposals the conservation of plant diversity in the prepared by universities, NGOs, and research Brazilian Cerrado (UNESP Ilha Solteira). institutions. Of all the candidates, four projects • Use of artificial neural networks for were chosen based on Fibria’s innovation estimating biodiversity, population size, strategy and will be implemented in 2015: volumetric stock, and carbon in forest fragments (Institute of Engineering and Environmental Innovation – Ambinova). 57 THE PATH OF FIBER The fibers from the wood from renewable eucalyptus plantations are the essence of the company’s business. With them, Fibria produces high quality pulp with characteristics meeting the needs of several different paper industries around the world, generating value for all of its stakeholders. CROSSSECTION VIEW VIEW OF THE OF EUCALYPTUS WOOD SURFACE OF FIBERS ZOOM 50X ZOOM 1.000X CROSS SECTION VIEW OF INDIVIDUAL EUCALYPTUS EUCALYPTUS WOOD CELLULOSIC FIBERS Harvesting occurs when the tree ages The short fibers form a more connected, closed between 5 to 7 years and its fibers reach network. They are excellent for generating good approximately 0.8 mm in size. uniformity and volume in a wide variety of paper. ZOOM 150X ZOOM 2.000X WOOD PRODUCTION PULP PRODUCTION After cultivating and harvesting the The wood is chopped into small chips and eucalyptus, the wood is brought to chemically processed to seperate its different the industrial units responsible for components, mainly the pulp from lignin. Then producing the pulp. it is bleached, dried, and baled for transport to the client. CROSS SECTION ZOOM 500X EXAMPLES OF TYPES OF PAPER TISSUE (51% of sales) TISSUE • Toilet paper Main advantages of using bleached eucalyptus: • Paper towels excellent softness, pleasant • Tissues to the touch,greater • Napkins paper volume, and high whiteness. ZOOM 300X P&W (31% of sales) • Paper for printing and writing: ZOOM 3.000X Notebooks Books Magazines Advertisements Envelopes Office OUTROS (18% of sales) • Packaging paper • Photographic paper PAPER FOR • Decorative paper PRINTING AND • Thermal paper (invoices, WRITING credit card receipts) (P&W) Main advantages of using bleached eucalyptus: excellent uniformity, volume,and printing quality. ZOOM 500X PAPER PRODUCTION SALES CHANNEL Sheets of paper are formed over screens Among the main sales channels are CONSUMER through a pulp suspension providing the retail paper vendors, printers, and desired characteristics. The sheet will supermarkets. then be dried and cut into the desired shape. 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future NEW BUSINESSES www.fibria.com.br/r2014/new-business/ In a decision aligned with the strategic pillar paths defined as priority in Fibria’s bio-strategy for diversification, in 2014 Fibria created the studies, this project proves to be promising Department of Strategy and New Businesses. and is already being tested in partnership with Responsible for outlining the paths to be potential clients. taken by Fibria and with a fresh look at trends in the pulp market, this departments Another asset with recognized operational works in conjunction with the other company efficiency which is ready for expansion is departments, the Presidency and the Board of Portocel, a private terminal specializing in the Directors in search of new uses for the forest shipment of pulp, located in Barra do Riacho – today one of the company’s greatly valued (ES). Controlled by Fibria in partnership with assets. Cenibra (Nipo-Brazilian Pulp), the company is studying how to expand its operation with Seeking diversification, Fibria brings soundness cargo other than pulp, maximizing value and to something that could become a weakness: the competitive advantage with diversification being a part of the forestry sector, which is of port logistics. affected by climate change. Evaluating this scenario within the three parameters regulating The forest is among the company’s main the business, the company chose to use its assets. With its long-term goal to reduce by ability to innovate the development of solutions one third the amount of land required for the and projects that could help redesign the pulp production of pulp, Fibria has been seeking industry, and obtain a percentage of its income solutions to maximize the value of the land from other sources. that will become available in the future. Among the projects is real estate, which In this new business pillar, Fibria continuously focuses on building planned neighborhoods, searches to identify initiatives complementing implemented in a manner that is structured to the value chain with activities such as bring development to the region. The project biobusiness, biomaterials, real estate, port does not compete with Fibria’s commitment to development, among others. environmental sustainability, and the purpose is – in partnership with companies specializing in Among the main plans is the strategic alliance real estate – to support the organized growth with the American company, Ensyn Corporation of cities without losing sight of environmental (Ensyn) in order to develop technology in the conservation. bio-oil market, which uses forest biomass as its raw material. Besides other prospects on the 60 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future CLIMATE CHANGE www.fibria.com.br/r2014/climate-change/ Objectives Develop actions associated with the process of climate change. • Transparency and stakeholder engagement • Forest management: biodiversity, land use • Social and environmental management of the supply chain Material topics • Value generation through innovation • Business expansion • Government relations 2. Double carbon sequestration from the atmosphere Long-Term Targets 3. Promote environmental restoration in 40,000 hectares of its own areas between 2012 and 2025. Targets for 2014 There was no target established for 2014. and results Reduce in 0.5% the CO2 emissions in industrial processes (0.2% of Targets for 2015 Fibria’s total emissions), representing an absolute reduction of 4,060 tCO2eq As a forestry company, Fibria recognizes that • Mapping the areas presenting risk of climate change is relevant to its business. conflict related to water use. Physical risks are mainly associated with • Projects for energy efficiency and climate variations and the availability of water, improvement of the stability of the directly impacting on company activity and industrial process. possibly suppliers, clients, and neighboring • Reuse, recycling, and efficient use of water. communities. For this reason, the company has • Development of the inventory of assessed its vulnerability due to climate change greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) related from the entire value chain standpoint and has to company activity, focusing on pulp’s taken precautions in management, operations, carbon footprint. and industrial and forestry activities. • Conservation practices when building highways and resilience in the construction Fibria’s primary measures for preventing of bridges. physical risk are: • Classic genetic improvement of the Fibria’s eucalyptus plantations and conservation eucalyptus, identifying the best species areas absorb a volume of carbon from the adapted to climate conditions in the atmosphere which is substantially greater than regions where Fibria operates, including the volume released in all company operations, restrictions related to natural resources. including transporting activities carried out by • Wood productivity forecast according to third parties, contributing to the sustainability climate effects using a eucalyptus growth of the forestry business and to a low-carbon model with climate change scenarios from economy. This positive balance, which in 2014 the IPCC. was 3.3 million tCO2eq, has been successfully • Monitoring the volume and quality of confirmed in Fibria’s annual inventory of water in forest areas. greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs). 62 Calculation follows the guidelines of the World and Jacareí units, as well as the logistics Resource Institute (WRI), and those of the World operations of pulp exports. Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), adapted by the International Council If we consider the total balance, including fossil for Forests and Paper for the pulp and paper fuel and biomass emissions, Fibria’s carbon sector. The survey considers the industrial and footprint equals the sequestration of 0.79 tons forest operations of the Aracruz, Três Lagoas, of CO2 per ton of pulp produced. INTENSITY OF GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) SEQUESTRATION AND EMISSIONS 1 AND 2 2012 2013 2014 Capture (tCO2eq/adt3) 3.86 3.93 3.65 Emissions: industrial, forestry, and logistics operations 0.38 0.36 0.39 (tCO2eq/adt) Emissions: biomass (tCO2eq/adt) 2.47 2.46 2.50 Balance (capture – emissions) (tCO2eq/adt) 1.01 1.10 0.76 1. Includes scopes 1, 2, and 3. 2. Gases considered: CO2, CH4 and N2O. 3. adt – air dried tons. Among the main measures taken by the company to increase capture and reduce emissions of greenhouses gases are: • Restoring conservation areas • Projects for energy efficiency and • Conservation practices in soil improvement of the stability of the management industrial process • Genetic improvement • Reduction and reuse of waste • Reuse of biomass residue and sewage • Exploration of different modes of sludge for energy transportation • More precise recommendations and use • Actions with the supply chain to evaluate of fertilizers practices and policies regarding climate change (Value Chain Project) 63 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future RISK MAP In 2014, the company developed a detailed risk • Six flow towers that measure climate and map showing the areas where physiological growth of plantations, second by second, disorder occurred in eucalyptus, making it with balances of carbon, water, energy, possible to identify the areas which are more and efficient use of these resources. or less susceptible to the problem, more • Seven microcatchment drainage which are specifically defining the most adequate clones intensely monitored regarding the main and forest management actions depending components of water, carbon, and nutrient on the plantation area. Among the greatest cycles. threats are increases in prolonged droughts • 55 automated meteorological stations with and flooding. specific sensors for measuring climate, carbon, and water. In all its units, the company is already developing test clones with the ability to withstand extreme climates such as drought and excess rain. The company also has: Value generated for the organization and its stakeholders: more information on the infographic attached to the 2014 Report IN THE NEXT SECTION, LEARN ABOUT THE HIGHLIGHTS OF THE WORK DEVELOPED WITH OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS. 66 OUR STAKEHOLDERS SOCIAL www.fibria.com.br/r2014/our-stakeholders/ EMPLOYEES AND OUTSOURCED WORKERS www.fibria.com.br/r2014/employees-and-outsourced-workers/ Fibria believes in the development of its development policies seek to make a direct 68 internal talents and in the continuous search for productivity and high performance of its connection between business strategy and corporate culture. employees. To this end, all of its organizational OUR STAKEHOLDERS We are a growth-oriented company, and to achieve this we continuously seek to develop our professionals. Through a high-performance culture, based on our management beliefs and organizational strategy, we prepare our employees to achieve their own best performance and also help Fibria to reach its goals. Luiz Fernando Torres Pinto, Executive Director of Human and Organizational Development In 2014 the company began a diagnostic company’s results and their own professional project aligned with Fibria’s strategy and growth. growth plan. Known as Project to Manage Culture and Intangible Assets, it aims to support The process involves improvements in leaders in understanding and improving the management tools and should last until 2018. high performance organizational culture, in line with the company’s strategic planning for However, much more than simple tools, one of Fibria’s Long-Term Value Maximization. the main points for the success of this project is the development of a sense of ownership For Fibria, culture works as a foundation of the and leadership in management, especially company and this is why it is important that all the first line of leadership (coordinators and professionals are aligned and working towards supervisors), in order to disseminate this the same goal. Based on this diagnostic, concept throughout the staff and ensure that Fibria developed and improved already everyone has a clear vision of their individual existing programs focusing on creating a high performance culture which strongly connects goals and more easily understand which 69 the management model with the company’s results need to be delivered for the company strategy, and has among its main goals an to reach its objectives. increase in people’s commitment to the 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future The Culture Project is based on the the improvement and maintenance of the development and improvement of Organizational Climate. Performance Management tools, and on ORGANIZATIONAL CULTURE Mission Vision PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT OF INDIVIDUALS AND TEAMS Values Performance Assessment ORGANIZATIONAL CLIMATE Management Leadership Beliefs Development Meritocracy Strategy Succession Attraction Engagement Retention Process Career Aspiration Technical/Professional Development Based on this new line of thinking, the company operations and invests in labor training and continually invests in training and development of development. As an example, in 2014, of the its entire staff. Fibria prioritizes hiring professionals employees hired, 63% were local hires. who live in the communities surrounding its FIBRIA’S PROFILE DIRECT JOBS 2012 OWN OUTSOURCED WORKERS* 2013 OWN OUTSOURCED 2014 OWN OUTSOURCED WORKERS* EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES WORKERS* EMPLOYEES 3,827 13,343 3,889 13,193 4,004 13,064 total total total 17,170 17,082 17,068 *These are services for continuous and uninterrupted activities, preferably with a contract equal to or exceeding 12 months, with monthly invoices, executed within or outside of FIBRIA areas, with constant attendance of the employee/contractor. Example: forest and property security; cleaning and conservation of buildings, landscape maintenance, electrical maintenance, and factory instrumentation. BREAKDOWN % OWN EMPLOYEES BLACKS OVER PEOPLE WITH 2014 WOMEN AND 50 YEARS 13.5 DISABILITIES MIXED RACE OLD MEN WOMEN 3.9 30.2 13.6 86.5% 13.5% 2013 13.3 30.2 14.4 4.0 AVERAGE AVERAGE TIME AGE: WITH FIBRIA: 70 2012 13.1 29.9 13.6 4.2 38.11years 10.31years TURNOVER RATE 2012 2013 2014 MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN 11.15% 18.39% 9.61% 21.72% 7.07% 9.83% total total total 12.10% 11.22% 7.70% INTERNAL RECRUITMENT RATE EXECUTIVES – GENERAL SUPERVISION/ MANAGERS AND 78% 68% OPERATIONAL 13% ADMINISTRATIVE 35% TECHNICIANS MANAGERS 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future ORGANIZATIONAL CLIMATE MANAGEMENT Every two years, Fibria carries out a survey the results showed an increase of 4.6% with its own employees in order to identify of general favorability compared with the the positive and negative factors influencing previous cycle, with a result of 72.4%. With employee behavior which could have impact this data in hand, Fibria now begins a new on company performance. The third edition process to define priorities and action plans of this corporate climate survey took place in for the coming years through an extensive 2014 and had 91.3% employee participation, organizational culture program. This program a record in employee engagement. seeks to maximize the value of the company and its professionals through a strategy of high Applied by Gallup, a company specializing in performance and continuous development. the development and application of surveys, STRENGTHS POINTS FOR IMPROVEMENT • SURVEY ACCEPTANCE: • In beliefs, the results showed an increase in participation evolution in practically all beliefs with the exception of open • GREATER FAVORABILITY RATES: dialogue and meritocracy sustainability, corporate processes (infrastructure, policies, guidelines, etc.) TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Aligned with the goal of having a Hightopics related to personal, professional, Performance Culture, Fibria works on training social and environmental and cultural areas internal talent. In 2014, Fibria also participated in order to improve knowledge and skills, in the Potenciar Program (in partnership streamlining their professional growth with Votorantim, one of the company’s within the company. Also, Fibria granted shareholders), which aims to accelerate the 113 scholarships for language courses, and development of internal talents. Fifteen 30 professionals enrolled in post-graduate young employees were selected, and for studies for Pulp and Paper Technology at the 14 months, attended training modules with Federal University of Viçosa. In 2014, the internal recruitment rate at management level was 78%. 72 Focused on training operators and mechanics in the areas of Harvesting and Forestry, the Operational Training Center trained 955 employees in 2014, an increase of 82% compared with 2013. The company also maintains a Forestry and totaled over 43,000 class hours and included Industrial Learning program which trains protheoretical and practical phases monitored by fessionals in partnership with Senai. In 2014, technicians and professionals from the industry, a total of 119 young people began the profrom inside and outside Fibria plants. The result gram, 86 graduated, and 18 were hired. The is a stronger local job market, with specialized External Labor Qualification Program offers labor available to meet the needs of the comtechnical and behavioral training to over five pany and neighboring communities. thousand people in Três Lagoas. The activities 2012 2013 2014 Resources invested in R$ 4,118,471.33 R$ 6,267,732.25 R$ 7,300,957.11 training Number of training hours 184,652 266,690 223,483 Number of employees 3,827 3,889 4,004 Average number of training 48.3 68.6 55.8 hours per employee Employees who received formal training in human 374 466 1,861 rights policies and procedures Percentage of employees trained in human rights 10% 12% 49% policies Number of training hours in human rights policies 187 233 7,501 and procedures 73 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT Having been implemented since 2011 for a form of guiding the development of its company executives, the Performance professionals, focusing on their skills, the Management Program seeks to create an results presented, and also the needs of the integrated and dynamic People Management company for continued business improvement. Process, which fosters individual performance, Employees who have been in a given position of the team and the organization, and helps for at least six months undergo assessment. provide a better work, generating a culture of feedback and evaluation of results and In early 2015, a new evaluation cycle will be behaviors aligned with the values and beliefs available for all levels. The results of these of the organization, and mapping professionals evaluations – at all levels – guide the preparation for the organization’s succession plan. of Individual Development Plans, an action plan tool that drives professional development, As part of the evolutionary process of this prioritizing performance at the current position management, in 2013 Fibria began to cascade and including career goals. to Administrative and Operational levels as In 2014, a total of 2,750 people participated in the Administrative and Operational Performance Management Cycle, representing 91% of the eligible audience. FIRST LINE LEADERSHIP PROGRAM Thinking about the development of its future attract, engage, and retain our professionals. managers, Fibria also expanded its First Line Leadership Program, geared toward the The Program is composed of these training company’s first level of leadership, which modules: First Line Leadership Dilemmas, includes coordinators, supervisors, and Personnel Management, Feedback, Time technicians in management positions. The Management, Corporate Communication, main purpose of this initiative is to develop Influence and Negotiation, and Movement professionals by teaching them how to be Alert. In 2014, a total of 430 professionals good leaders and provide training contributing went through the first two cycles implemented. to achieving Fibria’s strategies. In addition, it is A new Labor Relations module is already part of Organizational Climate Management to scheduled for implementation in 2015. RETIREMENT With the purpose of supporting professionals preparing for their retirement, thereby facilitating the career transition process, in 2014 Fibria began the Proceed Program at one of its units for a group of 17 people. In 2015 the program will be expanded to other units. 74 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future HEALTH AND SAFETY Fibria continuously seeks improvement in Even considering all the actions taken, it is the health management of its employees worth noting the occurrence of a fatal accident and contractors in all its operations. With involving a services provider in the forestry area this objective in mind, in 2014 the company in Linhares (ES), in which an employee was run introduced new leadership training for over by a forest equipment while conducting awareness and strengthening in applying a periodic maintenance procedure. Preventive guidelines and safety tools at all company measures resulting from the process of analysis levels. In addition, actions recognizing and investigation of this accident have already professionals who stood out in safety been implemented to avoid recurrence. performance were implemented. The practical result was maintaining the lost time Fibria seeks to collaborate with regional public injury rate for employees and contractors at health services to prevent the mitigation of 0.187 accidents for each 200,000 man-hours endemic diseases such as yellow fever, dengue worked and a decrease rate of total reportable fever, leishmaniasis, and spotted fever. In accidents (with and without lost time) of 2014, agreements to hold multi-vaccination 12.7% compared with 2013. In the same campaigns were renewed at all company units, period only one case of occupational illness as well as maintaining the partnership for was reported. the prevention of dengue fever with the Três Lagoas (MS) city authorities. 2012 2013 2014 Number of injuries 59 37 37 Injury rate (general) 0.27 0.18 0.19 Number of occupational 0 0 0 illnesses Occupational illness rate 0 0 0 Number of lost days 3,919 14,155 7,882 Lost day rate 18.15 69.48 39.87 Number of deaths 0 2 1 76 UNIONS The company’s 4,004 direct employees are • Joint health and safety committees (CIPA covered by collective bargaining agreements. and CIPATR) formed by leadership and All negotiation concerning shifts, wages, and employees. collective variable remuneration is carried out • Leadership participation in health and by the company directly with the unions. When safety inspections, audits, and accident hired, all professionals are informed that there investigations (CIPA and CIPATR). is a union representing his or her category and • Training and education in health and safety it is up to that person to join the union or not. in the workplace. • System to record conditions and practices Formal agreements with unions cover which are below safety standards. issues concerning health and safety. Fibria’s • Right to refuse unsafe work. Leadership Variable Remuneration Program • Periodic inspections. has an indicator relating to worker health and • Commitment to compliance with the safety. This metric includes: company’s safety guidelines and Safe Behavior. • Key performance indicators (KPIs) for occupational health and safety. 77 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future COMMUNITIES www.fibria.com.br/r2014/communities/ Maintaining a good relationship with the communities surrounding our operations is of utmost importance and essential to Fibria. Today we have a consolidated strategy – simple in its application model and complex in terms of results which has shown major breakthroughs generating family incomes and in local development. Fausto Rodrigues Alves de Camargo, General Manager of Sustainability • Improve relationship with communities through engagement and Objectives measures promoting their economic and social development • Strengthen the relationship with civil society • Local development and impact on communities • Certifications, industry voluntary commitments and regulations Material topics • Transparency and stakeholder engagement • Government relations 5. Achieve 80% approval from neighboring communities Long-Term Targets 6. Help the community turn 70% of income generating projects self(2025) sustaining with the support of the company • Support public administration of communities in which Fibria maintains social programs Target partially met: project developed with good results in Alcobaça. Support to public administration was not extended to other communities given budget constraints. • Obtain R$ 7 million in funding from new partners for social projects, Targets for 2014 including Responsible Network (Rede Responsável) and access to and Results public policies. Target achieved: funding in 2014 totaled R$ 15,279,899.99 surpassing the plan by 218% • Perform a round of panels with Fibria’s stakeholders (Constructive Dialogues) in Capão Bonito (2013 continuation). Target not achieved: Capão Bonito panel, by budget constraints. • Beginning of two pilot projects of the National Land Credit Program and completion of the demobilization plan of the PDRT areas. Targets for 2015 • Strengthening and expansion of the Responsible Network, with expansion of 10% in the number of communities served and in the number of households benefited. R$ 9 million raised. 78 Creating and maintaining a good relationship totaled R$35,151,339; an amount 11.2% with the communities surrounding operations larger than that in 2013. These resources is one of Fibria’s largest goals. Diverse income came from Fibria and nearly 50 partners from generating programs and social actions serve Responsible Network, a program aiming to over seven thousand families, a number share social and environmental investments that grows exponentially as the years go by and actions between Fibria, its suppliers, with the development of a more trusting clients, and other companies involved in local relationship between the company and the development. community. Investments in these actions INVESTMENTS IN COMMUNITIES (IN R$) 2012 2013 2014 Fibria 18,370,000 20,658,432 17,368,641 Fibria via Votorantim Institute 2,630,000 2,500,922 1,925,306 Project support 1,523,000 788,000 516,334 Votorantim Institute investments (its own 4,523,000 3,506,000 3,142,021 resources and raised via BNDES) Responsible Network 0 4,158,587 12,199,037 Total 27,046,000 31,611,941 35,151,339 The numbers include voluntary donations and the investment of resources in the community, the beneficiaries being external to the company. They also include contributions to charitable institutions, NGOs, and research institutes (not related to the company’s Research and Development department), resources supporting community infrastructure projects and direct costs of social programs. They also include the costs of managing these projects. The amounts for Rede Responsável include the Assentamentos Sustentáveis (Sustainable Settlements) project, in partnership with MST, BNDES investments, and others. In 2014, besides the projects for generating jobs • Partnership with Sebrae in Mato Grosso do and income that have been developed over the Sul to implement an oral health program for past five years, Fibria identified the need to invest participants in the Rural Land Development more in two very important lines of work: health Program (PDRT). and adult education. Subjects that gave rise to • The “Sim, Eu Posso” (“Yes I Can”) Program, three new projects: which will work towards the literacy of • Agreement signed with Fiocruz, which will over 300 adults from an MST Settlement, work on social and environmental and health also in southern Bahia. A way of creating development in vulnerable communities opportunities and offering better perspectives in southern Bahia. The project is being of future for the people. implemented in seven pre-MST settlements and two communities of small rural producers In 2014, Fibria’s community engagement located in four districts in southern Bahia: projects, such as the Rural Land Development Alcobaça, Itamaraju, Prado and Teixeira de Program (PDRT), the Tupiniquim Guarani and Freitas, with a focus on preventive health, Colmeias Sustainability Program, helped 3,221 women’s health, strengthening the use families. One of Fibria’s long-term goals is that of medicinal plants, and the integration of health actions implemented in the Brazilian Unified Health System (SUS). 70% of income generating projects supported by the company become self-sustaining by 2025. In 2014, the percentage remained stable compared 79 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future with the previous year, which was 7% an technical assistance necessary for the job, as expected number given the short implementation well as incentives, support, and guidance for period of the Rural Land Development Program the access to public policies. In 2014, the PDRT (PDRT) initiatives. assisted 1,844 families in the states of Sao Paulo, Mato Grosso do Sul, Bahia, and Espírito Santo. One of Fibria´s main engagement tools used with The wage growth since the start of the project rural communities surrounding its operations, ranges between 2 and 4 minimum wages per the PDRT, focuses on training to generate family. agroforestry projects and offers participants the Periodically, Fibria conducts a favorability survey in impacted communities. In the last edition, carried out in 2012, the company reached a rate of 72%, a number close to the goal set for 2025, which is 80%. 80 To learn more about the “New Generation Plantations” project, visit http://newgenerationplantations.org This work was one of the highlights of the New income generating programs, and by social Generation Plantations project, idealized by the development and environmental education in NGO WWF. The study also shows how Fibria communities surrounding its operations. Since managed to change the conflict scenario in 2009, the company has invested over R$100 some of its neighboring communities in Espírito million in its social development programs. Santo and Bahia, developing into a respectful In 2014, a total of 1,406 new families were collaborative work situation. This evolution included in the company’s social projects, was reached through the combination of which currently include 6,418 families with systematic engagement processes with diverse proven increase in income. 81 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future SPECIFIC COMMUNITIES For being historically susceptible to conflict and engagement with other organizations that may socially vulnerable, Fibria pays special attention also contribute to building solutions, such as to certain communities located in northern various levels of government, NGOs, and other Espírito Santo and southern Bahia and aims companies. In the last five years, there has been to develop, with the community, projects and major evolution in resolving these conflicts, solutions of common interest. Despite the with tangible results which positively reflect the complexity of the challenge, it is Fibria’s priority social license to operate. to help put an end to these conflicts; therefore it works directly with the community or through • Afro-descendent communities: Dialogue with these communities began in 2009 and has improved every year. From this relationship, work opportunities arose with the Rural Land Development Program (PDRT), which has provided larger incomes and a better quality of life for residents. • Indigenous communities: over 760 indigenous families of Tupiniquim and Guarani ethnicity live in 18,287 hectares on the outskirts of company property in Aracruz (ES). Fibria has a multidisciplinary team of anthropologists and indigenists who assist the development of an agro-ecological production model in 12 villages. In Mato Grosso do Sul, Fibria developed a cultural revitalization project with 30 families from an Ofaié Indigenous village and employs several people from the community at its operation in Três Lagoas. • Fishing communities: in the Barra do Riacho district in Aracruz (ES), and in Caravelas, in southern Bahia, Fibria has been developing several actions to strengthen relationship and improve the quality of life of communities in areas near two marine terminals. • Movements for land rights: local conflict concerning pioneering sustainable rural production. • Through work developed with the Luiz de Queiroz Upper School of Agriculture, of the University of Sao Paulo, (Esalq/USP), Fibria has been working with Brazil’s Landless Worker’s Movement (MST) in agroforestry production of several cultures, maximizing the use of the soil in lots distributed to hundreds of registered families. Known as Projeto Alvorecer, the initiative began in 2011, when the company accepted to negotiate with Incra and facilitate eminent domain of land – about 11,000 hectares in the municipality of Prado (BA). LESS CONFLICTS Through good relationships with neighboring on company business. Conflict resolution communities, Fibria reduced wood theft for allowed all of Fibria’s production areas to be illegal production of charcoal by 95%. This was certified by the FSC® and CERFLOR®/PEFC, one of the main conflict issues in eucalyptus the two main sustainable forest management plantation regions in Espírito Santo and Bahia, certifications. and the problem with the most negative impact 82 OPEN DIALOGUE Talk to Fibria is a communication channel communities surrounding its operations. In available at the company’s three units, and addition, each municipality has an employee has internal and external call centers, forest who participates in important community monitors, a website and on-site service to field entities in order to understand local needs. questions, suggestions, and complaints from MECHANISM FOR COMPLAINTS ABOUT SOCIAL IMPACTS 2013 2014 Records of complaints received about impact on society 968 1,153 Number of complaints deemed unfounded 237 353 Number of complaints deemed well founded 605 659 Number of open complaints about social impact 126 141 Number of complaints about social impact received before 2014 51 105 and filed or processed in 2014 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future SUPPLIERS www.fibria.com.br/r2014/suppliers/ Since we are a forestry company, we have an extensive logistics and supply chain which needs to be constantly evaluated in management, compliance, and sustainability issues. We seek to work with equal conditions, providing opportunities to a supplier base that ranges from small rural producers to multinational companies. Wellington Giacomin, Director of Supplies and Logistics • Promote the development, awareness, and engagement of Fibria’s Objectives supply chain. • Social and environmental management of the supply chain. Material topics • Transparency and stakeholder engagement • Ensure by means of Performance Evaluation that 90% of the service providers are qualified in environmental and occupational safety aspects. Targets for 2014 Target achieved with the completion of the Performance Evaluation. and Results • Completion of the implementation and consolidation of the supplier’s Code of Conduct Target achieved with the inclusion of a section on suppliers in Fibria’s Code of Conduct, available at www.fibria.com.br> Mídia > Publicações > Código de Conduta. • Conduct on-site audit in Fibria’s strategic suppliers with a pilot project covering several evaluations on the supplier, one of them being items Targets for 2015 of sustainability. • Continuity of the Value Chain project with analysis of the data collected in 2014 and Action Plan for the continuity of the project in 2015. Regardless of size, the company seeks to company requires all suppliers to comply with engage all suppliers in the best social and current labor and environmental legislation environmental practices, keeping in mind the and policies, as well as safety criteria adopted responsible use of natural resources and respect by Fibria itself. for labor rights. At the time of contracting, the Fibria closed the year 2014 with over eight thousand active registered companies. 86 Whenever possible, the company gives Development and Qualification Program preference to local suppliers, and for this reason (Prodfor) in Espírito Santo, and the Supplier contributes to their improvement through Qualification Program (PQF Avançado) in Mato development programs for best environmental Grosso do Sul stand out, both coordinated by practices and finance, tax, labor, quality, and the company in 2014. occupational health and safety management. Among these initiatives, the Integrated Supplier VALUE CHAIN In 2014, Fibria implemented the Value Chain Project, which helps identify sustainability issues of the company’s strategic suppliers, as well as encourage monitoring and the adoption of best sustainable practices. One hundred twentyeight questionnaires were sent out and 88% of companies participated (113). With this initiative, Fibria hopes to learn more about the practices of its suppliers, stimulating, for example, less carbon emission through the responsible use of natural resources, and ensure respect for human rights in participating companies. APPROVAL AND CONTRACT MANAGEMENT Aiming for a more structured, detailed, and and technical issues, as well as issues related agile supplier evaluation process, in 2014 to social and environmental responsibility and the Contract Management area was created. labor laws. Suppliers considered fit are placed As part of the Logistics and Procurement on a list and are then qualified to participate department, and with support from the in bidding promoted by the company. The Sustainability and Legal departments – it is evaluation of documents presented by a new department responsible for supplier contracted suppliers takes place every six approval and qualification, achieved through a months. For suppliers which are considered complete evaluation of financial, commercial, critical, the evaluation takes place monthly. Percentage of contracts with contracted companies and important suppliers which 82.9% included criteria or human NUMBER OF rights evaluations CONTRACTS 1,439 Percentage of contracts with contracted companies and important suppliers which FINANCIAL were refused or required VOLUME (R$) performance conditions, or 5,659,892,672 were subject to other actions 10.o% as a result of evaluation regarding human rights Percentage of new suppliers Percentage of new suppliers 61.9% 80.4% selected based on criteria which were approved in related to labor practices environmental criteria 87 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future Number of suppliers Total number of suppliers identified as having 206 206 which had their environmental significant potential impact evaluated by Fibria and actual negative environmental impact Percentage of suppliers 2.9% 0.5% Percentage of suppliers which which had contracts made agreements to adjust terminated due to evaluation their environmental impact of environmental impacts CRITICAL SERVICES For the process to hire critical services which has a Service Contracting Commission (CCS) has been carried out with great dedication for created especially to reduce risks associated two years or more, those with annual value with these contracts and select suppliers greater than R$5 million, those who impact the according to the company’s sustainable internal climate of the companies and those growth strategy. Since its inception in 2011, with annual value between R$1.9 million and the CCS has been responsible for registering R$4.9 million and involve specific risks – Fibria 85 new contracts, totaling R$1.36 billion. FOREST PARTNERS Working in relationships based on partnership, a way to keep people in the field, distribute trust, commitment, and respect is part of wealth, and guarantee supply while protecting Fibria’s belief system. So, in order to stimulate the forest. rural producers located close to the pulp factories to plant eucalyptus, the company The contracts are developed in order to meet maintains a Forestry Savings Program, which the needs of both producers and the company. brings benefits in exchange for a guaranteed Today there are over two thousand sponsored supply of wood. producers in the country, which includes 1,690 contracts in the states of Espírito Santo, Bahia, In addition to subsidizing producers, the and Minas Gerais, and 126 in Sao Paulo. company closely monitors through visits and training the work of each producer, always All wood bought from third-party suppliers focusing on environmental and social issues. undergoes the Program for the Verification of Fibria always works together with producers Controlled Wood and Controversial Sources, in planning and guiding the planting of other created by the company to prove the legality of crops on the property, thus guaranteeing profit its raw materials. and the livelihood of sponsored producers; 88 Savings volume transported Percentage of wood to the plant supply from the Savings 2014 3,406,909m3 % 39.31% Savings volume transported Savings volume to the plant transported to the plant 2013 2,389,447m3 % 30.09% FOREST PARTNERS TOTAL AREA CONTRACTED (IN HECTARES) 2012 2013 2014 Aracruz 73,818 56,755 61,080 Jacareí* 11,973 20,508 15,436 Três Lagoas 1,852 2,657 2,656 Total 102,338 108,053 106,630 1. Unit sold in 2012 2. Includes Capão Bonito and Vale do Paraíba 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future INVESTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS www.fibria.com.br/r2014/investors-and-shareholders/ The shareholder who sees the company’s respect for the environment, the community, and its employees, sees that the company obviously has great respect for its shareholders. It’s all related. Guilherme Cavalcanti, Executive Director of Finance and Investor Relations Transparency when dealing with capital market face challenges, specifically those associated analysts and investors is vital for Fibria. To align with climate change and its implications for clarity and speed of information, the company the business, mainly in reference to forest maintains several communication channels and productivity, a concern demonstrated by several holds events to ensure the understanding of analysts in reports produced following the visit. risk factors and respective opportunities that are part of the forestry business. In addition, the company promoted a new edition of Fibria Day, an annual meeting with Fibria also promotes the Investor Tour every foreign analysts and investors held at the New year, which gathers company management York Stock Exchange in the United States, where and several investors and analysts from Brazil company executives announce investment and abroad. In 2014, the event took place at perspectives (Capex) for 2015, planned to the Jacareí unit (SP) and included over 100 reach R$1.69 billion, a growth of 5% compared people who visited the Igaratá Experimental with 2014. In January 2015 the amount was Microbasin. The purpose was to show analysts updated to R$1.72 billion. and investors that the company is prepared to To learn more about Fibria initiatives for Investors and Shareholders, visit http://fibria.infoinvest.com.br, tab Investor Services / IR Agenda To learn more about Fibria results for Investors and Shareholders, visit http://fibria.infoinvest.com.br, tab Informações Financeiras » Earnings Releases 92 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future CLIENTS www.fibria.com.br/r2014/clients/ Despite the pressure on prices throughout the year, in 2014 the pulp market responded and exceeded expectations. This scenario contributed to the market absorbing new offers, maintaining the stock of its producers in line with historical averages. Henri Phillipe Van Keer, Executive Director of International Commerce and Logistics Fibria has business offices located in North level of satisfaction, the company includes America, Europe, Asia, and Brazil. Through internal data related to sales issues, such as its account managers, the company serves its pulp volume sold, length of relationship, and clients from each region, following the entire record of complaints, as well as spontaneous business relationship, which goes beyond the demonstrations of satisfaction such as awards sales process. The continuous relationship and information promoted by the client itself, with clients allows Fibria to offer personalized through scores determined in surveys and service, creating resilience and perceived value audits. for business conditions, logistics, and product development. In 2014, the Client Satisfaction Assessment process underwent methodology improvement Throughout 2014, Fibria received several allowing the process to become fully aligned visits to its units from clients. Their purpose with the company’s sales strategy. This was to strengthen the relationship between the company, clients, and the community, as evaluation was concluded in the first quarter well as promote dialogue about generating of 2015 based on information from the Fibria’s value and impact, and industrial and previous year, resulting in a level of satisfaction sustainability processes. of 83% (above the goal of 80%). The results obtained were used as a reference to develop In order to analyze client relationships, Fibria an action plan with the main purpose of taking carries out a Client Satisfaction Assessment advantage of opportunities to strengthen once a year using indicators which include Fibria’s good relationship with its clients the different stages of relationships between worldwide. the company and its clients. To calculate the Among the visits received in 2014, one of the most important was that of a European client that over for four days, visited our operations and social and environmental projects, and spoke talking directly with 22 community leaders about the company’s operations. 94 GOVERNMENT www.fibria.com.br/r2014/government/ In 2014, we were more incisive in the discussion and adoption of internal policies regarding anti-corruption practices, in the publication of our Compliance Policy and in the intensive training of our employees. These were two notable advances in the face of the country’s political and economic situation. José Luciano Penido, Chairman of the Board of Directors Through participation in several agencies from committed to sustainable development and the forestry, pulp, and paper industries, Fibria the improvement of public governance, seeks to contribute to a more stable politicalcomplying with current electoral legislation institutional environment with a clear and well and according to criteria established in its designed regulatory framework. To this end, Electoral Donations Policy. the company follows its Governance model, giving special attention to ethical principles The company does not make donations to and transparency, supported by guidelines parties or candidates outside the election established in the Code of Conduct and the period. Donations made in 2014 (federal Anti-corruption Policy. and state) totaled R$4.375 million and may be verified in detail on the Electoral Superior In 2014, Fibria made financial donation to the Court website (www.tse.gov.br). political campaigns of candidates considered Learn more about Fibria’s policies and regulations at http://fibria.infoinvest.com.br > Corporate Governance > Codes, Policies & Internal Regulations TOTAL AMOUNT OF FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS TO POLITICIANS, POLITICAL PARTIES, OR RELATED INSTITUTIONS 2012 2013* 2014 R$ 3.615 million 0 R$ 4.375 million *In 2013 there were no election campaigns and Fibria did not make any donations. 95 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future 96 PRESS www.fibria.com.br/r2014/press/ Fibria’s communication is guided by the combination of transparency, access, agility, and credibility, which, together, shape our reputation. Geraldo Magella Lopes de Barros, Manager of Corporate Communications Fibria was cited in 1,866 reports in national and and neutral material published during the year. international media outlets in 2014, which was 13.84% more exposure than the previous year. In social media, Fibria was mentioned 6,034 Considering local press also, total material was times in 2014, a growth of 7% over the 7,865 in 2014, slight growth compared with previous year. About 45% of the mentions were the total from the previous year (7,835). related to economic issues, such as “Economic and operational performance” (24.43%) and This year, news reports about positive aspects “Financial market” (20.88%). of the company reached 58% of the total; 37% were considered neutral; and 3% considered Two other notable subjects were “Legal issues” negative, the lowest proportion of negative (10.44%) and “Communities” (9.46%). Positive mentions in the history of the company. On mentions correspond to 43.6% of the total; a scale of 0 to 10, the annual average press 31.64% were negative, and 23.95% were exposure, including quantitative and qualitative neutral. The references were made on Twitter aspects, was 8.8, above the historical average (63.77%), on Facebook (31.85%), in blogs of 8.28. This indicator is a calculation which (2.52%) and on YouTube (0.33%). includes the proportions of positive, negative, Learn more about what’s going on at Fibria at www.fibria.com.br, tab Mídia IN THE NEXT SECTION, LEARN ABOUT THE MAIN HIGHLIGHTS OF OUR FORESTRY AND OPERATIONAL AREAS, AND THE INNOVATIVE WORK CARRIED OUT IN FORESTRY LOGISTICS AND THE MARKETING OF OUR PRODUCT. 97 OUR OPERATIONS www.fibria.com.br/r2014/our-operations/ Fibria created a benchmark with its concept of Admirable Income. Today we are firmly perceived as a responsible company that acts properly regarding the environment and is concerned with reducing impact on communities. Aires Galhardo, Executive Director of Forestry 98 OUR OPERATIONS • Revise forest sponsorship models, adapting them to new guidelines • Protect and enrich natural resources Objectives • Increase eco-efficiency • Certify Fibria’s forest areas • Social and environmental management of the supply chain • Forest management: biodiversity, land use • Certifications, voluntary commitments of the industry, and regulations Material topics • Water use • Value generation through innovation 3. Promote environmental recovery in 40,000 hectares of own areas Long-Term Targets between 2012 and 2025 • Introduce water monitoring for abstraction points in forest areas in the company’s forest management system. Target partially achieved: The SGF water system was developed, and is in the final stages of implementation/operation. Estimated beginning of operations: 1st quarter of 2015 • Start the recovery process in 4,672 hectares of the Atlantic forest and Cerrado. Target partially achieved. In 2014, the process to recover a total of 2,516 acres was initiated, with 1,888 hectares in the Aracruz Unit, 671 hectares in the Jacareí Unit, and 374 hectares in the Três Lagoas Targets for 2014 Unit, adopting different recovery methodologies, intercropping planting of native species with eucalyptus in Legal Reserve, natural regeneration, and control of exotic and invading species. The target and results was revised during the year to cover 2,489 hectares. • Continue to participate in national and international forums of best forest management and sustainability practices, with an emphasis on The Forests Dialogue (TFD), the Brazilian Forest Dialogue, Forest SolutionsGroup, of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), and the Global Compact Target achieved: Fibria continues participating in various forums relevant to the sector. This target continues Targets for 2015 for 2015. • Initiate the process to recover 2,465 hectares 99 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future FOREST MANAGEMENT www.fibria.com.br/r2014/forest-management/ The forest management process is responsible work has increasingly been developed based for supplying the industrial units, and everything on innovation, a way to find new methods related to the forest is its responsibility. This of monitoring, increase productivity, and includes monitoring of the soil for conservation anticipate harvest results. of nutrients, recovering of native forests, improving water quality, and reducing negative This work makes it possible to better plan impact on communities. eucalyptus clone reactions to different types of soil, climate change, and successive planting The natural fertility of the soil, carbon stock cycles – allowing Fibria to reach its Long-Term contained in the trees, and the water consumed Goal, which is to reduce the planted area by in the industry and plantations, for example, 1/3 due to an increase in productivity. are some of the resources from the ecosystem used in pulp production. In addition, forest INTEGRATED SYSTEM FOR RECOMMENDATION ON FERTILIZATION The Integrated System for Recommendation plantation productivity. SIRA adds intelligence on Fertilization (or SIRA) was a highlight in for the improvement of fertilization of innovation in 2014. It brings together key company’s plantations, within the concept of information which allows the company to precision forestry with resource optimization determine, with great precision, the best contributing to the achievement of the goals fertilizer to use considering soil characteristics, for forest productivity and reduction in the cost eucalyptus clone, climate, and expected of wood. PROTECTION OF PLANTATIONS In 2014, Fibria maintained its leading position and the requirements of the most important concerning its plantation protection strategy certifications. against the attack of pests and diseases. Therefore, the company continued investing Also in 2014, Fibria developed a risk map in studies for selecting clones resistant to main describing the areas where physiological diseases and began producing natural enemies disorder occurred in the eucalyptus, making in one of its own laboratories, dedicated to it possible to identify the areas more or less the biological control of pests. These two susceptible to the problem, more specifically initiatives contribute to maintaining healthy defining how to select the most suitable clones plantations with low reliance on pesticide and actions in forest management according to 100 use, aligned with best management practices the plantation area. BIODIVERSITY AND LAND USE Fibria conserves native ecosystems in about Measures taken to conserve the biodiversity of 33% of its conserved areas (284,000 hectares). Fibria’s areas also include: Within these protected areas, protection, • Alternating harvests, increasing environmental management, recovery, and forestry integration diversity in the forest landscape. activities are carried out (the commitment is • Establishing intervals between wood piles to restore 40,000 hectares of its own areas near high conservation value areas, to facilitate between 2012 and 2025). At the end of animal movement during harvests. 2014, Fibria had restored 10,641 hectares, • Temporary maintenance of eucalyptus plots representing 26.6% of the goal. The existing so they may serve as resting areas for parrots biodiversity in Fibria’s forest areas is the target and parakeets. of studies and monitoring which seek to learn • A Restoration Program for endangered about, protect, and expand the species and species and species whose fruits serve as food populations of native wildlife and flora, as well for wildlife. as promote the environmental quality of the areas kept by the company. Fibria’s strategic biodiversity research plan includes research and development These areas are divided into Permanent actions such as conservation of endangered Preservation Areas (APPs), Legal Reserves (RL), species, sustainable use of biodiversity, and Natural Heritage Private Reserves (RPPN), forest management impact evaluation, a type of private and voluntary Conservation landscape ecology and ecosystem services. Area. They represent different types of The company also participates in the Vale do ecosystems, some of them distributed along the Paraiba Ecological Corridor initiative, (www. rivers, forming natural ecological corridors, and corredorecologico.org.br), in the Rainforest the remaining large areas compose a mosaic Restoration Pact (www.pactomataatlantica. landscape where the eucalyptus plantations org.br), and Sustainable Forest Mosaics. are interspersed with native vegetation. This promotes greater connectivity between native forest fragments used by animals for transit, rest, or feeding. RESTORED CONSERVATION AREA (IN HECTARES) 40,000 2012 2013 2014 Aggregate target until 2025 2,495 5,213 2,933 Targets for 2012 and 2013 were 2,000 and 4,771 hectares, respectively. The target for 2015 is 2,465 NUMBER OF PROTECTED OR RESTORED hectares. The target for 2014 published in the 2013 HABITATS IN 2014 (IN HECTARES) report was 4,672 hectares; however, the 2014 target was changed to 2,489 hectares without prejudice to TRÊS the long-term target for 2025. ARACRUZ JACAREÍ LAGOAS ATLANTIC RAINFOREST 117,247.7 55,178.6 7,193.2 TRÊS LAGOAS 101 JACAREÍ ARACRUZ 7,517.9 92,087.4 5,346.9 CERRADO RESTINGA 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future FOREST PLANNING Fibria is a company that believes in sustainability several principles and operating procedures to as a business strategy and thus is committed to ensure responsible forest management practices generate a respected profit and be recognized where area the commercial eucalyptus plantations by all, working so that the planted forests, more and the areas of native vegetation, rivers, lakes than produce economic value, also promote and other structures (roads, carriers, fire towers, human, social and environmental development constructions, etc.) . In the planting areas, the company adopts Conservation Roads Plots Other uses FORESTRY Fibria’s forest management follows parameters impact and topics which are meaningful to the of productivity, quality, optimized costs, and company. social and environmental responsibility, ensuring the company’s sustainability and competitiveness. At all of its plantation areas, Fibria conducts a detailed report of the location to be During operational planning, goals and action managed, with information about mapping 102 plans are established, defined based on corporate guidelines and the environmental work systems, correct location of roadways, defining access routes, verifying the need to change the division of plantations, areas of the direction of planting alignment to minimize environmental protection, legal reserves, and ground erosion and compacting, facilitating other conservation areas, as well as technical harvesting operations, and promoting forestry recommendations for implementing or reforming activities. It also highlights the areas close to farm settlements. The Forest Management Plan abstraction points of water for consumption so also defines the criteria exclusively dedicated as not to apply herbicides or other pesticides to minimizing environmental impact, such as near those areas. PLANNING AND PRODUCTION HARVESTING SYSTEM CONTROL Carried out in a manner that minimizes the impact on Receives information about long-term planning, the environment (soil, water resources, permanent which establishes a sequence of harvesting the preservation areas, legal reserve, and concern for property considering that plans for harvesting, local wildlife), including concern for neighboring forestry, and transport will be influenced. farms and surrounding and adjacent communities. Waste generated during the process, such as bark, branches, tips, and leavesstay on the plot ANNUAL HARVESTING PLAN (division between areas) as a source of nutrients. Establishes the sequence of farms to be harvested, This process also provides greater protection to the considering the time of year, slope of the area, ground surface against erosion, compacting, and social and environmental recommendations, microorganism activity in the soil. environmental licenses, number and quality of roads, and the ratio of cutting, transport, and chopping activities. SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDEX The environmental performance of forestry ANNUAL FORESTRY PLAN operations is measured throughout the year Considers factors such as pulp production, specific focused on the improvement of the performance consumption, field and factory stock, available of social and environmental forest management. highways, cost of transport, fleet availability, The Social and Environmental Performance Index average radius, density class, and restricted access is compiled monthly through automatically filling to the factory supply. out environmental performance indicators that have direct influence on forestry operations. ANNUAL TRANSPORT PLAN With this information, it is possible to learn about Considers factors such as pulp production, specific anomalies and the proactive actions at different consumption, field and factory inventory, available forestry operations with the purpose of achieving roads, transportation cost, fleet availability, average continuous improvement in environmental radius, density class and access restrictions for performance and handling identified deviations. factory supply. MICROPLANNING Supplies technical input to the forestry area with information gathered from the field. The objective is to refine the necessary resources and the safety of environmental preservation activities. 103 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future ENDANGERED AND VULNERABLE SPECIES Conserved forests serve as shelter, reproduction areas, and transit for 159 species which are considered by Ibama to be vulnerable or endangered. Fibria has a biodiversity database with 738 species of birds, 133 species of mammals, 2,192 species of plants and 76 species of reptiles in the company’s areas. BIRDS MAMMALS REPTILES FLORA 738 133 76 2,192 **Includes the National List and the IUCN Red List (International Union for Conservation of Nature). More information at http://www.iucnredlist.org/ In 2014, Fibria released a public notice for has received almost 100,000 animals, the research projects in the areas of Biodiversity majority of which are birds (91%), and includes Recovery, Preservation of Endangered Species, mammals and reptiles. Among the animals and Water Resources, and then selected four received, 73% have been rehabilitated and projects developed by research institutions, released. Those unable to be rehabilitated are universities, and NGOs to receive the transferred to institutions regulated by Ibama company’s support. or remain in the nurseries at the Education Sector. The Wild Animal Reintroduction Within an area in Aracruz (ES) assigned Center is a partner of Fibria and the Brazilian by the company, there is a Wild Animal Environmental Institute (Instituto Brasileiro Reintroduction Center, which takes in and do Meio Ambiente Ibama), and depends rehabilitates animals which were captured or on the continuous collaboration of 18 donor rescued by environmental inspection agencies companies for financial resources, animal or privately donated. Since 1993, the center food, and gardening services to maintain it. INTERCROPPING PLANTING Intercropping planting was implemented at conservation organization in the world. Fibria in 2011 through a partnership with the Representatives from The Nature Conservancy Luiz de Queiroz Upper School of Agriculture visited the environmental preservation areas (Esalq), at the University of Sao Paulo (USP) in Aracruz (ES) to learn about the experiment and the Rainforest Restoration Pact. Developed which is testing the ecological models of native in the company’s forest areas, the project forest species, including the use of eucalyptus works with innovative environmental recovery as the initial species, promoting the rapid models and sparked the interest of The Nature covering of the area, benefitting other species Conservancy (TNC), the largest environmental needing shade in order to develop. 106 CERTIFIED FOREST AREA1 AREA CERTIFIED AREA CERTIFIED UNIT TOTAL AREA BY FSC® BY CERFLOR®/PEFC Aracruz2 345,940 289,077 327,719 Jacareí 158,290 158,290 158,206 Três Lagoas3 343,318 277,546 277,546 Total 847,548 724,912 763,471 1. In hectares. Does not include 50% of Veracel. 2. The non-certified area includes new leases and the legalization of the documents needed for future certification. 3. The non-certified area includes new land purchased and leased to form forests which may supply the wood for the Três Lagoas expansion project, under study. ORIGIN OF WOOD CONSUMED (M3) ARACRUZ JACAREÍ TRÊS LAGOAS 8,421,421 3,740,707 4,348,784 OPERATIONAL DIALOGUE Fibria constantly maintains an Operational Dialogue with the communities surrounding its operations to ensure a clear, transparent relationship, and to strengthen its relationships with local residents. In order to reach all stakeholders, the company relies on the help of local leaders. The main impact of forest operations in 2014 was related to dust on the roads caused by trucks, risk of accidents, and damage to public and private property. 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future THE FOREST OF THE FUTURE PROGRAM Uses new technology to support Fibria in for 2015. The total accumulated curve since developing its forest efficiency without 2011 is R$645.9 million, needing only R$89.1 neglecting social and economic potential million in order to reach the goal. A result that and its implications for the environment. This has anticipated project closure in August 2015. is how the Forest of the Future Program has established itself as one of the main sources Among projects finalized in 2014 are the of prospecting and the introduction of new optimization of the plantation layout, soil technologies in forest management. preparation with marking of basins, use of mechanized planter, and testing of a new Initiatives guiding the program were defined tractor with a front waste grinder and waste in 2011 based on a study by Pöyry, a Finnish collection. consulting agency specializing in the fields of energy and forestry. The goal was to raise R$735 million of net present value (NPV) The program now enters into its second during the period of 2011 to 2015 by adopting phase, with goals defined for 2020. The innovations and projects with great ecoForest of the Future 2 will define a new yield efficiency potential. curve for technological innovation arising from 15 technological avenues and will be In 2014, savings reached 6.4% in harvesting, an opportunity to develop new international 7.5% in forestry, and the total NPV was R$200.5 technological benchmarks. million, reaching 82.7% of the total estimated 108 FORESTRY LOGISTICS www.fibria.com.br/r2014/forestry-logistics/ Highway transport in Brazil is challenging. This is why we are working on an innovative project with the Federal University of Sao Carlos (UFSCAR) for the development of a flatbed truck trailer that can carry 15% more wood without exceeding the highway weight limit. This reduces cost and has less social and environmental impact. Aires Galhardo, Executive Director of Forestry Whenever possible, Fibria gives preference to a lighter flatbed trailer. It can transport 15% transport which causes the least environmental more wood with reduced fuel consumption impact. However, due to Brazil’s logistics model, and CO2 emissions, and reduce the number a large part of the wood going from the forest of vehicles circulating in the communities to the factory is transported on highways. surrounding its operations. It is known as the Focusing on reducing impact, Fibria developed Forest Implement Project, patented by the a project, in partnership with the Federal company, which should expand its use of these University of Sao Carlos, to develop a truck with trucks in 2015. Through the Safe Highway Program, Fibria constantly ensures that the vehicles in use are in good state of repair, that the drivers are well prepared, and that all of the company’s safety rules are being followed. As a viable alternative, Fibria works with barges the incentive areas in Minas Gerais, and the on the route between the Caravelas Marine deposits in Espírito Santo to the Industrial Unit Terminal (BA) and Portocel’s Barge Terminal (ES). of Aracruz (ES). Railway transport is used for the route between TRANSPORT INNOVATION AND EFFICIENCY Railway transport is one of the alternatives Besides freeing up the flow of vehicles on the adopted by Fibria for delivering wood to its highway, railway wood transport generates plant in Aracruz (ES). At the end of 2014, less social and environmental impact. This is this mode had record performance, with the transport of over 15,000 tons of short logs of because there is less fuel consumption, there eucalyptus in a single month. This volume is is no tire wear, and it does not interfere with equal to removing 1,000 B-train from highways. communities. 109 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future EXPORT Approximately 91% of the 5.3 million tons of pulp produced by Fibria in 2014, including 50% of Veracel production, were exported to countries in Europe, North America, and Asia. Production from the Aracruz unit going overseas travels only 4.5 kilometers in trucks until it reaches the Portocel terminal, where it is loaded onto ships. From the Três Lagoas and Jacareí units and is then loaded onto ships. 110 LOGISTICAL MODAL DISTRIBUTION 58% 31% 92% LONGHIGHWAY RAILWAY DISTANCE MARITIME 1% COASTAL SHIPPING 8% DOMESTIC MARKET 111 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS www.fibria.com.br/r2014/industrial-operations/ Fibria understands that its success increasingly depends on its ability to innovate. Thus the company has achieved significant gains in efficiency, the result of management guided toward financial austerity and process improvement, translating into lower cost of industrial production, below Brazilian inflation. Paulo Ricardo Pereira Silveira, Executive Director of Industry and Engineering Objectives • Increase eco-efficiency • Increase eco-efficiency Material topics • Value generation through innovation Long-Term Targets 5. Reduce by 91% the volume of industrial solid waste disposed in landfills Targets for 2014 and results and See table below targets for 2015 TARGET PROPOSED CONSOLIDATED FIBRIA UNIT 2013 2014 2014 TARGET 2015 Energy consumed MWh/adt 0.587 0.569 0.592 0.589 Water withdrawn m3/adt 31.1 31 30.7 30.6 Waste generation1 kg/adt 219.2 212.6 212.5 209.3 NOx2 kg/adt 1.3 1.2 1.4 1.2 BOD kg/adt 1.58 1.5 1.49 1.48 AOX2 kg/adt 0.07 0.07 0.071 0.07 Solids in suspension kg/adt 1.65 1.6 2.02 1.6 1. Not converted to a dry basis 2. The company operates with the NOx and AOX indicators below international references (IPPC); therefore the values presented are treated as control parameters Working to reduce social and environmental Production 20141 impact while improving the quality of its products Jacareí 1,085 is part of Fibria’s business strategy. To this end, forestry and industrial operations teams work Três Lagoas 1,276 to ensure operational stability and maintain a Aracruz 2,356 balanced production pace. In 2014, Fibria units 50% Veracel 557 operated with a 92% stability rate, surpassing Total 5,274 that of the previous year, which was 90%. The 1. In thousands of tons. Numbers rounded. goal is to evolve each year through systematic work that integrates all areas. 114 PULP PRODUCTION PROCESS When delivered to the These chips are then plant, the wooden logs are cooked with chemicals 1 chopped into chips. 2 to separate the pulp fibers from the lignin (the structural element holding them together). Next they are bleached, The pulp undergoes a turning the brown pulp drying process and is 3 white through a chemical 4 arranged in sheets which reaction. are baled for transport to the client. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Through an Environmental Performance Index (IDA), Fibria evaluates the quality of its process The Environmental Performance based on three indicators: pollution control, Index calculates the variable pollution prevention, and environmental remuneration of employees and is managementeach with a specific weight in measured each month at the three the final calculation of the index. industrial units. ARACRUZ JACAREÍ TRÊS LAGOAS Emissions UNIT BAT1 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 AOX kg/adt2 < 0.25 0.09 0.08 0.09 0.057 0.05 0.05 0.09 0.07 0.06 Particulate kg/adt2 0.2 0.5 0.297 0.41 0.607 0.6853 0.669 0.577 0.25 0.31 0.31 matter SO2 kg/adt2 0.2 0.4 0.069 0.113 0.176 0.2266 0.476 0.336 0.76 0.42 0.47 NOx kg/adt2 1.0 1.5 0.03 1.23 1.56 0.69 0.64 0.60 1.83 1.71 1.72 TRS kg/adt2 0.1 0.2 0.01 0.013 0.015 0.0158 0.014 0.017 0.05 0.05 0.05 CO2 kg/adt2 NA 348 314 371 513 490 526 317 344 325 1. Values according to Best Available Techniques (BAT), a publication of Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC) (2001), for pulp bleached through the Kraft process. 2. adt – air-dried ton. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDEX (%) Produce more with less inputs and work on preventative actions associated with climate 2012 2013 2014 change and eco-efficiency. These are some Aracruz 93.1 93.6 93.9 of the main goals guiding Fibria’s operations, Jacareí 95.4 95.0 95.7 bringing economic, environmental, and social Três Lagoas 94.7 95.0 95.3 gains to the entire chain. About 20% of operational investments are associated with the environment. 115 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future ENERGY Approximately 90% of energy used in pulp production at Fibria’s industrial units comes from renewable sources such as wood and liquid biomass, supplemented by a small percentage of natural gas. In 2014, Fibria produced 20.7% more energy than necessary for pulp production. The company consumed a total of 0.592 megawatt-hours per ton of pulp produced during the year, 3.9% more than the established goal. DIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY PRIMARY ENERGY SOURCE (GJ AND ENERGY INTENSITY) ARACRUZ JACAREÍ TRÊS LAGOAS Purchased Natural Gas 3,560,262 2,964,747 1,965,063 (non-renewable) 1A Oil 736,542 1,607,528 405,449 Total energy consumption from non-renewable 4,296,804 4,572,276 2,370,512 2,370,512 sources Leachate 39,248,813 16,535,347 23,556,028 Produced (biomass) Solid biomass 4,438,395 905,630 992,916 Methanol 155,217 69,313 361,561 Total direct energy consumption from 43,842,425 17,510,290 24,910,505 renewable sources Total direct energy consumption from 18.6 16.1 19.5 renewable sources (GJ/adt) Total direct energy consumption 48,139,229 22,082,566 27,281,017 Total direct energy consumption (GJ/adt) 20.4 20.4 21.4 Sustainability matrix (% renewable) 91% 79% 91% Approximately 90% of the energy used in pulp production at Fibria’s industrial units comes from renewable sources. 116 ODOR GENERATION Among the company’s main concerns is of volunteers who form the Odor Perception reducing sources of odor which may generate Network (RPO). discomfort for employees and the communities surrounding the operations. To minimize In 2014, Talk to Fibria registered 64 odorany type of impact and immediately handle related complaints, all of which were possible occurrences, Fibria works with a team investigated and addressed by the company. PRODUCTS, PROCESSES AND BIO-REFINERY Fibria has been working hard to diversify its was great evolution in the development of business and find solutions outside the concept nanocellulose studies and in transforming of commodity, for the current products as well biomass into bioproducts with increased added as for new products and markets. In 2014, there value from sugars or lignin. In cutting-edge was development in applied research for more technologies such as these, it is vital to establish resistant eucalyptus pulp – an alternative to strategic partnerships. softwood – which is already being tested with major clients. Other initiatives for the current It is worth mentioning the great evolution in product seek to generate energy savings in the client process, both in refining the pulp and the technological and market development drying the paper. of bio-oil produced in partnership with Ensyn, which uses forest biomass as raw material. This The development of new business alternatives, new product has been tested in partnership mainly in the line of bio-strategy, has also with potential clients, with excellent results. expressively accelerated. In 2014, there WASTE In recent years, Fibria has been continuously • Using organic waste as a renewable source evolving its waste management at all of its of fuel in Três Lagoas, an initiative that left units. The focus is to reach, by 2025, the long the energy matrix of the unit even more term goal established by the company, which sustainable. is to reduce the volume of solid waste sent to • Industrial inorganic waste for producing industrial landfills by 91%. The company has soil acidity correctives to replace lime, also already reached 41% of this goal. at Três Lagoas. • Sale of byproducts and generating revenue Seen as a byproduct of production processes, from discarded materials with market innovative projects for reducing, reusing, and potential, such as wet pulp, among others. recycling have brought the company several advantages. In 2014, three of them stood out: 117 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future The work with the sale of byproducts and waste is generated through the sale of byproducts recycling is, today, a great example of integrating with market potential. Through these actions, financial, social, and environmental benefits: as well as other initiatives already underway at while the company reduced environmental all plants, Fibria managed to reduce the volume impact caused by waste disposal, the risk of of waste sent to landfills by 30% in 2014. landfill-related liability is reduced, and revenue WASTE SENT TO LANDFILLS 31% 2013 2014 54.7 37.5 Drop kg/adt kg/adt With a systematic view of a circular economy, this work generated and will continue generating gains for all of the company’s stakeholders, with less social and environmental impact, less risk of liability, lower production cost with a sustainable energy matrix, more revenue for the company which saves on the purchase of correctives, and gains with the sale of byproducts, and less logistics impacts. REUSED INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE 2013 2014 2013 2014 ARACRUZ 84.2% 86.8% JACAREÍ 70.2% 73.5% 2013 2014 TRÊS LAGOAS 23.2% 62.6% Value generated for the organization and its stakeholders: more information on the infographic attached to the 2014 Report 118 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future WATER www.fibria.com.br/r2014/water/ The protection of springs and water sources, generating information and new knowledge the reuse of water effluents, and measures allowing changes in management practices taken to reduce water consumption at all and an increase in plantation productivity with units are some of the actions that are part of the use of fewer natural resources. Fibria’s water resource management strategy. In this same period, the Aracruz unit collected an average of 33.6m3 of water per ton of pulp Monitoring of water resources in forest areas produced, Jacareí 24.2m3 and Três Lagoas is carried out at water units and microbasins: 27.7m3 – all amounts below the average for thirteen in Aracruz (ES), five in Três Lagoas the previous year, even with stable production (MS), and two in Jacareí (SP). This work allows during that period. the company to evaluate environmental impact, plantation interaction with surface It is worth noting that 85% of the water and ground water, the effect of harvesting abstracted is returned to the receiving water on water production, and the parameters of body (rivers), and 14.7% goes back into the water quality and volume. atmosphere in the form of water vapor. During pulp production, water is used 4.5 times Fibria monitors water resources before and during the process before being treated and after forest operations to better evaluate its returned to its natural course. There is almost effects on water quality and identify factors no loss only 0.3% of the water abstracted that may interfere on the community water remains in the final product. supply. In addition, studies about microbasins have been developed over the last 20 years, WATER CYCLE IN PULP PRODUCTION Evaporation 14.7% Chemical inputs PLANT Receiving Pulp 0.3% Body Use / Reuse = 4.5x Treatment Water Cycle In 122 Pulp Production 85% EFFLUENTS AND WATER REUSE Effluents generated by forest operations include, At the nursery located in Bahia, rainwater besides domestic effluents, those coming from harvested from greenhouses and sheds and nurseries where, after irrigating seedlings, is used to irrigate seedlings, decreasing the washing operations, and the cleaning of need to abstract surface or ground water. materials and space, the used water runs though The effluent water generated (water from a drainage system and is then sent to specific irrigation, cleaning of tubes, washing of destinations in each nursery. In Capão Bonito, the the shed, home cleaning, and rainwater nursery supplying the Sao Paulo unit plantations, from open squares), after going through the irrigation and domestic effluents are directed a filtering system, the water is sent to a to a soil filtration system. In Três Lagoas, the catchment basin for storage. In 2014, this domestic effluents are sent to septic tanks and process reused 219,468 m3 of water, used the residual water from irrigation, after passing to irrigate the plantation near the nursery. though a sediment separation box, is discharged into the stream from which it was abstracted. Specific water ARACRUZ JACAREÍ TRÊS LAGOAS withdrawn in the Unit Reference1 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 production process m /adt 3 30-50 33.8 33.8 33.6 22.1 24.9 24.2 28.9 28.7 27.7 EFFLUENTS ARACRUZ JACAREÍ TRÊS LAGOAS Unit BAT1 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Total kg/adt2 0.1 0.25 0.251 0.302 0.243 0.047 0.0596 0.075 0.1 0.1 0.13 nitrogen Total phosphokg/adt 0.01 0.03 0.077 0.065 0.079 0.0336 0.0217 0.049 0.05 0.11 0.07 rus CDO2 kg/adt 8 23 14.10 14.30 15.63 8.69 11.68 10.19 6.99 5.94 5.58 BDO3 kg/adt 0.3 1.5 2.47 2.27 2.22 0.7767 1.136 0.98 0.82 0.7 0.58 Solids in suspenkg/adt 0.6 1.5 0.85 0.86 1.20 3.34 4.625 4.896 1.71 0.59 1.08 sion Volume of m3/adt ND 27.70 28.00 27.93 21.23 21.70 20.65 22.98 22.60 23.32 effluents 1. Values according to Best Available Techniques (BAT), a publication of Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC) (2001), for pulp bleached through the Kraft process 2. CDO – chemical demand of oxygen 3. BDO – biochemical demand of oxygen. 123 WATERSHED Water use according to the company’s contributes to the development of plantation wood production model, which intersperses sustainability technology and the optimization eucalyptus plantations with the company’s of forest management. conservation and preservation areas, is among the main subjects studied by the Forest EcoAs a member of the Water Footprint Network, physiology Center at Fibria’s Technology Center. Fibria is a pioneer in the Brazilian pulp sector The Watershed Project is the most prominent, in this assessment, having as assumption the composed of experimental microbasins located management of water resources in the value at the company’s three units: areas between chain of the processes to obtain pulp. Water 200 and 1,600 hectares where it is possible abstraction to supply the industrial plants and to monitor the water’s entire path, identifying forest management is carried out through the volume of rain and the volume of water grants and registration, complying with the transpired by the plants, which supplies water environmental legislation at each location and tables and maintains the rivers. Through sensors the operating licenses of each unit. All industrial and equipment installed at the locations, units meet international standards of water use the company can evaluate the interaction of and effluent quality. eucalyptus with the environment, work which WATER CRISIS Due to the water crisis occurring in the state of Sao Paulo, the Jacareí production unit has already designed contingency plans for a possible scenario involving a decrease in water abstraction in Paraíba do Sul. Today, the unit abstracts 100% of the water used from the Paraíba do Sul River, and operates 15% below the granted volume (release). Even with the remote chance of a decrease, following information from state government, the company has designed plans to mitigate any type of harm to its operational excellence. 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future SALES www.fibria.com.br/r2014/sales/ A company which takes social and environmental issues into account is more prepared to generate value in its entire chain, becoming more trustworthy and creating a better reputation with its clients. Henri Phillipe Van Keer, Executive Director of Sales and International Logistics Fibria’s greatest value for its clients is the also on the commitment to delivery deadlines guarantee of a quality supply. Therefore the – especially to clients located in Europe and systematic work carried out integrating Forestry, the United States. With a vision of long-term Industrial, Logistics, and Sales operations is one contracts (over 80% of production is dedicated of the company’s greatest differentials in the to 10 clients), one of Fibria’s greatest values is market, which invests in long-term relationships the supply chain security of its three plants, six with volume and regularity. production lines, and two exportation ports. Fibria works with a market analysis methodology In 2014, the situation resulting from the financial which assesses current and potential clients problems faced by the owner of Pan Ocean in search of fresh insight and possible gaps was settled. The contracts for the construction in service. In addition, the company has an of 20 ships were terminated and only five ships internal tool for evaluating satisfaction based delivered until then continued to be used in on reports generated throughout the year and Fibria’s operations. In that same year, a bidding close contact between Fibria professionals and process was held for a long-term contract for the client. Work that provides insight about maritime transport of pulp starting in July 2016. the relationship in a clearer, more transparent The process was completed and is in the final manner. phase of signing the contract. The choice for a single ship owner makes the relationship The strategic pillar of operational excellence is more dynamic, with greater efficiency in the one of the drivers in the Sales area and in pulp management of the fleet, improving the level of transport logistics. The supply guarantee does services and cost optimization for both parties. not only concentrate on pulp production, but IN THE NEXT SECTION, LEARN ABOUT THE RESULTS ACHIEVED THOUGH A GUIDED STRATEGY OF OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE, ORGANIC GROWTH, AND PRODUCT DIVERSIFICATION. 126 127 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC www.fibria.com.br/r2014/economic-performance/ FINANCIAL INDICATORS 128 Fibria ended 2014 with a net profit of R$163 million, even with currency depreciation the positive result, the minimum dividend to be distributed to shareholders will be R$37 adversely impacting its financial results. With million. For the full year, the company closed ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE We ended the year with a very high credibility in the capital markets. This reinforces the process to pursuit a greater financial soundness in which the company’s governance has a key factor for us to have that confidence. Guilherme Cavalcanti, executive director of Finance and Investor Relations with R$7.084 billion net income, a 2% higher the leverage measured by the calculation of net result than 2013. The sales volume also grew debt/EBITDA was kept at 2.4 times in dollars at 2%, reaching 5.305 million tons. the end of 2014, meeting the goal established in the company’s Indebtedness and Liquidity Aware of market opportunities, the company Policy. continued with the initiatives to manage indebtedness, closing 2014 with a gross debt In that same period the renewal of the Company in dollars of US$3.135 billion, a significant Shareholder’s Agreement was approved by reduction of 25% over the 2013 position and its signatories, Votorantim Industrial S.A. a 10% drop compared with the amount in the and BNDESPAR, which, among other terms third quarter of 2014. The company’s net debt and conditions, extended the term of the ended the year at US$2.842 billion, the lowest agreement for a five-year period. level since its inception, contributing so that Fibria reduced its gross debt in dollars by R$1 billion during the year, representing a 25% drop in gross indebtedness. 129 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future MAIN FINANCIAL INDICATORS 2012 2013 2014 Net revenue from sales (R$ million) 6,174 6,917 7,084 Net income (R$ million) -698 -698 163 Assets (R$ million) 28,133 26,750 25,594 Net equity (R$ million) 15,193 14,491 14,616 EBITDA (R$ million) 2,253 2,796 2,791 Net debt /EBITDA LTM (US$) 3.3 2.6 2.4 Pulp production (thousand tons) 5,299 5,257 5,274 Pulp sales (thousand tons) 5,357 5,198 5,305 Market value (R$ billion) 12.5 15.3 18.0 Cash cost of production (R$/t) 473 505 519 Share price FIBR3 (R$) on 12/31 22.6 27.6 32.5 VALUE ADDED STATEMENT CONSOLIDATED (IN THOUSANDS OF REAIS) 2012 2013 2014 Revenue Gross Sales of products and services 6,313,193 7,047,581 7,236,322 (less sales returns) Reversal (provision) for deterioration 3,376 1,950 3,360 of receivables Revenue related to building our own 1,276,858 1,932,589 2,158,261 assets and others 7,593,427 8,982,121 9,397,943 Input acquired from third parties Cost of goods and services sold -3,606,166 -3,943,595 -4,259,045 (including raw materials) Materials, energy, contractors, and others -407,489 -464,257 -474,418 -4,013,655 -4,407,852 -4.733,463 Gross value added 3,579,772 4,574,269 4,664,480 Retentions Depreciation, amortization and depletion -1,720,067 -1,751,947 -1,790,628 Wood depletion from sponsored operations -128,241 -111,214 -83,366 Net value added 1,731,464 2,711,108 2,790,486 Value added received in transfer Equity method -592 0 -622 Financial income and gains in exchange variation 991,096 835,073 1,050,390 990,504 835,073 1,049,768 130 Total value added for distribution 2,721,968 3,546,181 3,840,254 Value added distribution Payroll and payroll charges 547,617 592,582 654,462 Direct remuneration 420,040 456,307 508,438 Benefits 103,130 110,337 119,141 Government Severance Indemnity Fund (FGTS) 24,447 25,938 26,883 Taxes, fees, and contributions 53,705 642,089 209,425 Federal -63,399 523,028 57,147 State 88,276 82,369 95,564 Municipal 28,828 36,692 56,714 Accrued interest, losses on exchange 2,818,616 3,009,092 2,813,815 variation and lease Dividends 36,951 Retained earnings (loss for the period) -704,706 -706,422 118,633 Non-controlling interest 6,736 8,840 6,968 Value added distributed 2,721,968 3,546,181 3,840,254 For more information about Fibria’s results, visit http://fibria.infoinvest.com.br, tab Financial Information > Earnings Releases 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future MARKET OUTLOOK Pulp market performance exceeded Northern hemisphere. The positive market expectations in 2014, resulting from the fundamentals, with hardwood producer stocks combination of higher than expected demand in line with the historical average, allowed the growth in all regions, with special emphasis 2014 sales volume to be higher than that in on China, and the impact of arrival on new 2013. hardwood capacities markets in South America and China, mitigated by factory closure in the PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS In 2014, Fibria’s pulp production totaled 5.3 relationship between sales expenses and net million tons, a stable number compared with income remained stable (5%) compared with the previous year. The pulp sales volume the previous year. totaled 5.3 million tons, 2% improvement over that in 2013 and in line with the production In 2014, Fibria’s adjusted EBITDA was R$2.8 volume. When speaking of sales distribution by billion (39% margin), stable compared with the end use and region, sales to the Sanitary Paper previous year. Generally speaking, in a scenario sector represented 51% of the total in 2014, of falling pulp prices, the dollar lower than followed by 31% to Printing and Writing, and expected, and an increase in sales volume, net 18% to Specialty Papers. Europe continued to income increased by 2%, offset by an increase be a main sales destination, representing 41%, in the base for COGS. followed by Asia, with 25%, North America with 24%, and 10% in Brazil and other The financial result totaled an expense of countries. Net operating income totaled R$7.1 R$1.6 billion, a drop of 24%, compared with billion, 2% higher than that registered in 2013, R$2.1 billion in 2013. This variation was mainly basically due to a greater sales volume during due to the lower effect of the exchange the period, in view of the fact that the average variation because of a reduction in company net price in reais remained stable. indebtedness pegged to the dollar, which, given its nature as an exporter maintains a large part The cost of goods sold (COGS) totaled R$5.5 of its debt denominated in US currency, a better billion, an increase of R$163 million, or 3%, hedging result, and lower interest expense with compared with 2013. Contributing to this loans in foreign currency as a result of liability result was the increase in cash production cost, management actions, partially offset by greater a larger volume sold, and the effect of currency financial charges resulting from the repurchase exchange, especially on freight. Administrative of debt securities (bonds) in 2014. expenses totaled R$286 million, which is 5% less compared with 2013. This result is mainly The company achieved a net profit of R$163 due to fewer expenses related to payroll, million in 2014, against the loss of R$698 million charges, and outsourced services. in 2013. The lower negative financial result, the drop in expenses with income tax and social Sales expenses totaled R$365 million, which is contributions, given adherence to REFIS in 5% more than the previous year. This number 2013, and the credit from BEFIEX obtained in is explained mainly by greater expenses for 2014 greatly explain the performance achieved terminals, by the appreciation of the average in 2014. dollar by 9% against the real, and larger sales volume. It is important to mention that the 132 CAPITAL INVESTMENTS In 2014, Fibria’s capital investments totaled transporting wood, the deepening of viability R$1.6 billion, showing an increase of 5% studies of Três Lagoas II, and larger investments compared with the estimate released to the in research and development. Fibria plans to market at the end of 2013. This result was invest R$1.7 billion in 2015. The increase of influenced by some external factors, such 8% compared with 2014 is mainly due to the as the rise in the price of wood from third effects of inflation and currency exchange, as parties, inflation, and currency exchange, as well as the second stage of investment in trucks well as unforeseen company initiatives, such to reduce the cost of transporting wood. as the purchase of trucks to reduce the cost of MANAGEMENT OF INDEBTEDNESS The year 2014 was characterized by debt currency at US$280 million (contracted in management actions. Fibria settled in advance March 2014), with a cost of 1.55% p.a. plus over US$2 billion of its total gross debt, the LIBOR rate for three months when used including the complete repurchase of three (during the period of non-use, the cost is 35% bonds – Fibria 2019, Fibria 2020, and Fibria of the agreed spread). 2021, coupons 9.25%, 7.5%, and 6.75% per annum, respectively. Beginning 2015, these These resources, though not used, help to actions should generate an annual savings of improve the company’s liquidity conditions. approximately US$27 million. Thus, the current cash at R$778 million and these lines of credit at R$1,594 million totaled Fibria reached the end of 2014 at a solid an immediate liquidity position of R$2,365 financial position. Cash and cash equivalents million. With this in mind, the relationship on December 31, 2014 were R$778 million, between cash and short-term debt was 2.5x including the negative mark on the hedging on December 31, 2014. instrument market at R$417 million. The company has four revolving lines of credit The balance of gross debt in 2014 was R$8,327 totaling R$1,594 million, with a four year term million, equivalent to US$3,135 million, of availability (from the time of contracting), representing a reduction in 25% in dollars three of them in national currency, totaling compared with the balance in 2013, as a R$850 million (contracted in March 2013 result of continued indebtedness management and March 2014), with a cost of 100% of the actions. Fibria closed the year with a net debt/ Interbank Deposit Certificate (CDI) (plus 1.5% EBITDA indicator in dollars of 2.4x, with an p.a. to 2.1% p.a. when used. During the period average total debt term of 55 months. of non-use, the cost in reais is 0.33% p.a. to 0.35% p.a.) and a line of credit in foreign 133 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future CAPITAL MARKET Fibria shares listed on BM&FBOVESPA’s Novo NYSE was 2.7 million, 0.35% lower compared Mercado (ticker FIBR3) closed the year up 18% with 2013. The average daily financial volume trading at R$32.51. At the New York Stock of Fibria shares traded in 2014 was US$29.4 Exchange (NYSE), level III ADR, traded under million, which was 7.8% below compared with ticker FBR, closed trading at US$12.13, up 4% in the same period of the previous year. the year. The average daily volume of securities traded in 2014 at BM&FBOVESPA and the Total number of outstanding shares 553,934,646 ordinary shares American Depositary Receipt (ADR) 1 ADR = 1 ordinary share Market cap on 12/31/2014 R$ 18 billion | US$ 6.7 billion Fibria’s shares integrate the main indices of the Brazilian stock market (Ibovespa, IBRX-50, IBRX-100, IGC, ITAG, ICO2, and ISE), and the North American stock market (DJSI World and DJSI Emerging Markets). DIVIDENDS The company bylaws ensure a minimum million, the minimum mandatory dividend for annual dividend of 25% of net profit, adjusted distribution is R$37 million or R$ 0.06679 per by allocations to equity reserves. Due to Fibria’s share. positive result in 2014, amounting to R$163 134 PUBLIC FUNDING In recent years, Fibria has signed contracts with in advance the amount of US$96 million institutions linked to the Brazilian government (equivalent to R$233,996.00 million). and the governments of other countries. These This operation generated an expense of agreements presented the following situation at R$3,540.00 million, recorded in the financial the end of 2014: results regarding the amortization of the transaction costs originating in hiring this • The National Economic and Social debt. Development Bank (BNDES): in 2014 four • Constitutional Fund to Finance the Midwest: contracts were signed using the credit Taken out in 2009 for the purchase of limit of R$1.7 billion defined in 2011, at parts and pieces for causticizing, lime kiln, the amounts of R$25.6 million (financing and bleaching processes at the unit in Três industrial investments), R$27.3 million Lagoas (MS). With final maturity in 2017, the (financing for projects in technological contract had a remaining balance of R$34 innovation), R$24.9 million (purchase of million on December 31, 2014. trucks and semi-trailers), and R$5.5 million • Financing for Studies and Projects (FINEP): (social projects). On December 31, 2014, Grant awarded in 2011 for the project Pulp considering the contracts in force since Customization for Clients. The outstanding 2005, the remaining balance from Fibria’s balance of this operation was R$3 million on loans from BNDES was R$1.76 million, with December 31, 2014, with final maturity in R$1.19 million pegged to the long-term September 2019. interest rate (TJLP), R$92,700 pre-fixed, and R$471,900 in a currency basket. The Being predominantly an exporter, Fibria uses company also has a balance of R$10 million the tax benefit related to suspending PIS/Cofins in Financing for the Production of Machinery (9.25%) in its purchases of inputs, intermediate and Equipment (FINAME), received though materials, and packaging, achieving the freight onlending agencies. contracted in the domestic market for transport • Finnvera (Finland’s exports credit agency): in national territory of their respective products Loan taken out in 2009 which matures in and products intended for export. 2018, provided partial financing for the first line of production at the unit in Três Lagoas (MS). In February 2014, the company settled Value generated for the organization and its stakeholders: more information 135 on the infographic attached to the 2014 Report CONSULTATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS www.fibria.com.br/r2014/consultation-with-stakeholders/ An open, transparent relationship with the participation of stakeholders, and the stakeholders is essential to sustainable knowledge of their needs and expectations. development and to guarantee the continuity of company business. Throughout the months producing the 2014 Report, the company consulted and interviewed This is why Fibria maintains communication representatives from several audiences channels with the communities surrounding considered the company’s stakeholders in order 136 its forestry and industrial operations and other stakeholders knowing that the success of any enterprise or project depends on to understand their perceptions regarding Fibria’s activities. Some of these perceptions are listed below. CONSULTATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS “Fibria is a company that always brings innovation and opens new paths for developing our work. We are now in the middle of a campaign for monitoring recovery areas on a large scale, and the company is making room and encouraging research and partnerships. In a small state like Espírito Santo, this has a great impact, even on the relationship with the Indigenous population. Many people and communities are getting involved with this work, and this movement, which is being headed by Fibria.” Vanessa Girão The Nature Conservancy (TNC) Specialist in Recovery in Espírito Santo “We see Fibria as a major partner to the community. A company that listens to our needs and works in partnership with us. Before, many families did not have a place to work or a way to sustain themselves. After the work developed by Fibria – especially the Rural Land Development Program (PDRT) they found a fair way to earn a living. We know that the company is there to bring benefits to the community, not to take advantage of it. We still have several expectations, such as leisure areas and community improvement projects, and we hope to expand our relationship with Fibria to achieve these benefits.” Vanderlei Matos – President of the Sao Geraldo Association in Sao Mateus (ES) “When a family’s financial situation becomes more stable, everything improves. We have been working with Fibria since 2009 and we have a very good partnership with the company. Farmers plant on the company’s fields through commodatum and there is a constant exchange of ideas and opinions. When we have difficulty, we sit and talk, we have group meetings where we express our difficulties and suggestions for improvement – all discussed based on a round table where everyone speaks their minds with respect and openness. The improvements are visible – in the community infrastructure and quality of life. In addition, Fibria treats everyone equally, and this encourages our work in partnership.” Taciana Barone – Rural producer, Clean Forest Association in Aracruz (ES) 137 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future “The Itapoty Institute relates with Fibria through the Sao Paulo Forest Forum, where NGOs and forestry companies meet to discuss social and environmental conflicts or issues that may lead to joint projects. Based on this relationship, I can say that Fibria conducts pioneering work with a methodology that values environmental conservation, and, especially, a good relationship with the community. There is always room for open dialogue and that is the beginning of everything we want for the company’s areas of operation. An improvement point that I believe is important to highlight is the issue of GMOs – this needs to be worked on much more by forestry companies, in general, and Fibria should be cautious.” Juliana Greise – Executive director of the Itapoty Institute (SP) “JFI was born inside of Fibria. We have a market concept that was only possible thanks to this partnership of over 20 years. Of course we have occasional problems, but the way Fibria faces these problems and immediately makes action plans for the suppliers is impressive. The company also participates and is directly involved in the development of the region where it is located by generating jobs (own employees and contractors), with transparency in the communication between suppliers, communities, and the government.” José Carlos Almeida – owner of JFI Silvicultura, a Fibria supplier (SP) “My company is small, with only 30 employees, and today my revenue largely depends on Fibria. I can say that we have an authentic partnership, with open and very transparent discussions about costs and contract renewal. I confess that before, things were much easier – at the time of Aracruz – but Fibria is the best company to do business with in the region, compared with the others. We recently noticed that the company is selling some assets, and this looked a bit bad. I know this is not the focus of Fibria’s business, but I think the company should be more careful, because that could interfere with the existing bond between the community and the company.“ Edegar Becker – Director of Metalmecânica Becker in Aracruz (ES) 138 “I think the company has the knowledge and information necessary to define a good plan of action in the areas it operates, an integrated action coordinated with local groups. I see tremendous potential for different activities to boost local micro-economies. Occasionally there are good experiences, but I have noticed the lack of clear corporate strategy for how to work with the natural forest assets owned by the company – something that would bring value, insight, and a much more relevant and positive perception of Fibria. We are aware of a very clear intention to balance economic, social, and environmental initiatives, but I believe that in practice this has not yet been achieved.” Beto Mesquita – Director of Instituto BioAtlântica (IBio) and member of the Council for the Coordination of Forest Dialogue in International Conservation “Before Fibria arrived, we could not produce anything. Today were are all excited, planting and tending the cattle. The administration and acceptance of the Rural Land Development Program has been great and has caused the association to grow from 14 to over 120 associates. This shows that people are interested in growing and improving their lives. Something that only increases our expectations regarding Fibria’s support for the development of our community.” Coracy Souza – President of the Sao Joaquim Settlement Association, in Três Lagoas (MS) “The reporting of environmental and social information has evolved over time. I consider Fibria’s report one of the most advanced in Brazil, but I would like to see even more numbers, information regarding investments in this type of initiative and how much the company expects to generate from each one of them. I believe this data will be increasingly useful and in greater demand by investors in the analysis of companies.” Alexandre Gazzotti – SRI Asset analyst at Banco Itaú (SP) 139 GLOSSARY www.fibria.com.br/r2014/glossary/ Atlantic Forest biome: Biodiversity: a collection of forests and pioneer formations the combination of life forms (living organisms (such as restingas and mangroves) found and ecological complexes) and genes along the Brazilian coastal belt, between the contained within each individual, as well as states of Rio Grande do Sul and Piauí. their interrelations, or ecosystems, in which the existence of any given species directly Biodiversity corridors: affects the others. strips of vegetation linking large forest fragments (or blocks of native vegetation) that Biomass: are isolated from human activity which provide organic matter that can generate electricity, local wildlife with free passage between through direct combustion or burning fuel the fragments and, consequently, genetic derivatives (oils, gases, alcohols), with the use 140 exchange between populations. of special techniques and technology. Part of GLOSSARY the energy consumed at Fibria’s industrial units is generated from burning biomass, such as Cloned seedlings: seedlings of genetically identical plants formed wood and waste from the production process from the cells or fragments of a “donor” plant. (black liquor). Biotechnology: Compliance: technology that uses biological agents the obligation to act in accordance with (organisms, cells, organelles, molecules) to internal and external regulations imposed obtain goods. upon an organization’s activities. Byproducts: Corporate governance: substances or objects resulting from a system by which organizations are run, production process whose main objective monitored, and motivated, involving the was not the production of that product itself relationships between the owners, the (production waste), which are used directly, Board of Directors, the Executive Board, and without any other processing other than that regulatory agencies. of normal industrial practice. A byproduct may be useful and marketable or may be considered waste. EBITDA: stands for “earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization”. The term Cash cost: is used when analyzing the balance sheet of publicly held companies. the manufacturing cash cost. That which the company actually spends to manufacture its product until the moment it leaves the plant. Eco-efficiency: providing goods (or services), at competitive prices, that satisfy human needs and add to quality of life, Circular economy: while progressively reducing environmental impact the concept of a circular economy involves transforming waste into inputs for producing new products. and the consumption of natural resources when manufacturing, transporting, and marketing such goods (or services). 141 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future Effluent: Global Reporting waste streams (liquid and gaseous) released into the environment. Initiative (GRI): international non-governmental organization that develops and globally disseminates Emissions: guidelines for preparing sustainability reports the release of any solid, liquid, or gaseous which are voluntarily used by companies material into the atmosphere. worldwide. Sponsored forest: Hardwood: wood production on rural property receiving hardwood pulp (short fibers), 0.5 to 2 mm in incentives for supplying the forestry industry length, derived mainly from eucalyptus. These (pulp mills, sawmills, steel plants, etc.). fibers are ideal for producing paper for writing and printing, and for sanitary purposes (toilet Forest management: paper, paper towels, napkins). Eucalyptus fibers are also made into specialty paper, as management of the forest in order to obtain well as other items. They have less resistance, economic and social benefits while using high softness, and good absorption. mechanisms that sustain the ecosystem. Forest protection: Hectare (ha): a unit of measure for area (1 hectare is equal set of activities designed to protect forests to 10,000 m², the approximate area of a from pests, diseases, fires, and weeds, or soccer field). anything else that may threaten forest assets. Forest Stewardship IIRC (International Council® (FSC®): Integrated Reporting an independent, non-governmental, nonCouncil): profit organization established to promote a global coalition of investors, companies, the responsible management of the world’s regulators, standard-setters, accounting forests. The FSC® seal ensures that forestry professionals, and NGOs who share the vision products are used responsibly and come from that “generating value” is an essential issue verified sources. when preparing corporate reports. Genetic improvement: Joint venture: the use of science to select and reproduce a business enterprise involving two or more plants or animals with desirable characteristics companies. based on knowledge of the heredity of these characteristics. Legal Reserve: an area located on rural property, not Genetic material: including Permanent Preservation areas, the material in cells responsible for storing the where sustainable use of natural resources, genetic information of living organisms. conservation and rehabilitation of ecological processes, biodiversity conservation, and sheltering and protection of native wildlife and flora is required. A minimum of 20% of all rural property must be Legal Reserve. 142 Permanent The Brazilian Forest Preservation Areas: Certification Program® locations defined by law, with or without vegetation, near springs, on the banks of (CERFLOR®): system of forest management certification rivers and streams, around water reservoirs, in on Brazilian territory, meeting the prescribed restingas, on the edges of tables or plateaus, criteria and indicators in the standards areas above an altitude of 1,800 meters, developed by the Brazilian Association slopes of 45 degrees or more, and the tops of Technical Standards (ABNT), and of hills. Their environmental function is to integrated with the Brazilian Conformity preserve water resources, the landscape, Evaluation System and Inmetro. CERFLOR® geological stability, biodiversity, and the is internationally recognized by the Program genetic flow of wildlife and flora, to protect for the Endorsement of Forest Certification the soil, and ensure the well-being of the Schemes (PEFC). human population. RPPNs (Private Natural Waste: materials in a solid or semi-solid state Heritage Reserves): which are generated by the community conservation units located on private land or by industrial, home, hospital, business, created voluntarily by the landowner. agricultural, service, or street cleaning Stakeholders: company audiences which affect activities. Also includes certain liquids that and/or are affected by the company’s activities. have characteristics which make it unfeasible to release into the public sewage system or tCO2eq/adt: bodies of water. Tons of carbon dioxide equivalent per ton of air dried pulp. Water table: a reservoir of ground water resulting from tCO2eq: infiltration of rainwater into the soil. measure to convert and standardize greenhouse gases in terms of carbon dioxide (CO2), taking into consideration the potential greenhouse effect of each gas. This way we arrive at a single element causing the greenhouse effect that capable of measuring the damage an activity may cause to the temperature of the earth’s atmosphere. 143 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future CORPORATE INFORMATION www.fibria.com.br/r2014/corporate-information/ CENTRAL ADMINISTRATION CONCEIÇÃO DA BARRA Rua Fidêncio Ramos, nº 302, 3º andar Rodovia BR 101 Norte, km 49 (trevo) CEP 04551-010– São Paulo (SP) Caixa Postal 010 Phone/fax (11) 2138-4000 CEP 29960-000 – Conceição da Barra (ES) Phone (27) 3761-4777 INDUSTRIAL UNITS Fax (27) 3761-4715 ARACRUZ Rodovia Aracruz-Barra do Riacho, s/nº, km 25 PELOTAS CEP 29197-900 – Aracruz (ES) Rua Gonçalves Chaves, 3830 Phone (27) 3270-2122 CEP 96015-560 – Pelotas (RS) Fax (27) 3270-2136 Phone (53) 3026-7600 JACAREÍ POSTO DA MATA Rod. Gal Euryale Jesus Zerbine, km 84 – SP 66, Rodovia BR 418, km 37 São Silvestre Caixa Postal 100, Posto da Mata CEP 12340-010 – Jacareí (SP) CEP 45928-000 – Nova Viçosa (BA) Phone (12) 2128-1100 Phone (73) 3209-8555 Fax (73) 3209-8307 TRÊS LAGOAS Rodovia BR 158, km 298, TRÊS LAGOAS Fazenda Barra do Moeda Rodovia BR 158, km 298, Caixa Postal 529 Fazenda Barra do Moeda CEP 79602-970 – Três Lagoas (MS) Caixa Postal 515 Phone (67) 3509-8041 CEP 79602-970 – Três Lagoas (MS) Phone (67) 3509-1002 / (67) 3509-1082 FORESTRY UNITS AND OFFICES Fax (67) 3509-1001 CAPÃO BONITO Rodovia Raul Venturelli, km 210 MARINE TERMINALS Caixa Postal 28 CEP 18300-970 – Capão Bonito (SP) PORTOCEL Phone (15) 3653-9227 / (15) 3653-9594 Caminho Barra do Riacho, s/nº Fax (15) 3543-9424 CEP 29197-920 – Aracruz (ES) Phone (27) 3270-4422 CAÇAPAVA VELHA Estrada Municipal do Barreiro, s/nº – PORTO DE SANTOS Bairro Bossoroca Av. Candido Grafree s/no – Armazém 14/15 Caixa Postal 350 CEP 11013-240 – Outerinhos – Santos (SP) CEP 12010-970 – Taubaté (SP) Phone (13) 2127-1507 Phone (12) 2125-9899 146 TERMINAL DE CARAVELAS Rua Silveira Lobo, 1369 – Ponta da Areia CEP 45900-000 – Caravelas (BA) Phone (27) 3687-1107 COMMERCIAL AND REPRESENTATIVE OFFICES FIBRIA CELULOSE (USA) INC. 18.851 NE 29th Ave., Suite 530 Aventura, FL 33180 – USA Phone (1-305) 940-9762 Fax (1-305) 940-9763 FIBRIA INTERNATIONAL TRADE GMBH Millennium Park 6 6890 Lustenau, Austria Phone +43 5577 62260 FIBRIA INTERNATIONAL TRADE GMBH 10F, Golden Centre 188 Des Voeux Road Central Hong Kong Fone +852-2866-7956 Fax +852-2865-2423 2014 Report • A New Look To The Future CREDITS FIBRIA 2014 REPORT IS PUBLISHED BY FIBRIA CELULOSE S.A. www.fibria.com.br/r2014/credits/ COORDINATION AND EDITING Requests for additional information, Cristiano Resende de Oliveira suggestions or comments regarding this Geraldo Magella Lopes de Barros Report can be sent to the Fibria’s Corporate Patrícia Franco Bahry Communication area: Bruna Tomasuolo Souza Rua Fidêncio Ramos, nº 302, 3° andar EDITORIAL COMMITTEE CEP 04551-010– São Paulo (SP), Brazil Geraldo Magella (Editorial Coordinator) Telephone/Fax +55 (11) 2138-4000 Cristiano Oliveira (Technical Coordinator) E-mail: comunicacaofibria@fibria.com.br Alber Almeida Ana Paula Correa Danilo Vergilio Everson Zaczuk Fausto Camargo Fernando Brait Gustavo A. Reginato João Carlos Augusti Luiz Carlos Nascimento Patrícia Franco Bahry Patrícia Lombardi Persia Christina Machado Ricardo Marcolino Robert Cardoso Roberto Penteado Umberto Cinque INDICATOR, COPY, AND EDITING ANALYSIS Keyassociados GRAPHIC DESIGN (print and online versions) AND INFOGRAPHICS Kite Estratégias Online ENGLISH TRANSLATION AND PROOFREADING Gotcha Translation and Language Services Inc. IMAGES 148 Acervo Fibria Márcio Schimming fb.com/fibriabrasil fibria www.fibria.com.br fibriacelulose @fibria_brasil
