Corporate social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2015 Developing sustainable healthcare & care services in Scandinavia 1 Contents About Aleris • From the Group CEO • From the Board • This is Aleris Our corporate social responsibility • Human rights • Health and working conditions • The environment and sustainability • Corruption Corporate social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2015 2 About Aleris 3 From the Group CEO Liselott Kilaas One of the things that preoccupy me is the relationship between a responsible, sustainable business operation and health and care services of good quality. I am therefore eager for ways in which Aleris, together with all of our 9 000 employees, can make a positive contribution to society. Patients, residents, users and relain society and employment. It is a Aleris also focuses on running tives place their trust in Aleris on a pleasant and gratifying experience successful projects and initiatives, daily basis. Proper stewardship of to see the project delivering some in conjunction with local actors at this trust requires a well-run business excellent results: of 17 women who the 350 locations where we have operation that is robust and takes a have completed the Trainee Proa presence in Scandinavia. You can long-term view. A robust business gramme at Stella, 14 are currently in read about several of the projects operation requires a good working a job that is related to their trainee here – in what is our second report environment where well-qualified experience. Aleris’ third Stella trainee on corporate social responsibility. employees are willing to commit for is currently completing an internship a long period of time. We achieve at our main office in Oslo. I am proud We are continuing our support for a good working environment by that Aleris can give capable women a the Global Compact, the UN’s platbuilding the company’s activities on helping hand to integrate them into form for companies to network in sound values. the world of work. matters of corporate social responsibility. Since Aleris became a member In this way, corporate social responAnother important initiative is the in 2013, we have made the Global sibility goes hand in hand with Aleris’ village in India that we have been Compact’s principles our own. activities and is a pre-requisite for our supporting since 2014 via our new Together with our OPEN (“Omtenkbeing able to deliver good services. partner in Sweden, the Hand in Hand somme, Profesjonelle, Engasjerte og Aleris’ mission therefore revolves organisation. The support from Nytenkende” (Consideration, entirely around contributing to the Aleris means that more children in Professionalism, Commitment and wider benefit of society and taking the village can go to school and get Innovation)) values, these princiresponsibility. But we also contribute school meals. The adults get better ples form part of the basis for Aleris’ in a number of other ways. health provision and health inforshared culture. mation, microloans to start up their An exciting initiative, and one about own businesses and training in waste I hope this report may inspire all our which I am extremely enthusiastic, is management. At a time where there users, partners and 9 000 employees the Stella Red Cross Women’s Centre are big challenges internationally, to apply the Global Compact and the in Norway. Aleris has supported Stella it is even more important to ensure Aleris culture in practice and make a since its establishment in 2012. The that people get the opportunity positive contribution to society. With aim of the Stella project is to improve to participate actively in their local just a small effort on the part of each the opportunities for women from communities one of us, we will achieve significant minority communities to participate . results – together. Corporate social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2015 4 From the Board Lars Idermark The Board has high expectations of and imposes strict requirements on Aleris in the field of corporate social responsibility. It is important that Aleris clearly sets out and demonstrates all the various types of commitment that contribute to positive social development, both within and outside of the specific remit of its business operations. As a private provider of health and In 2014, Aleris’ parent company, Incompany and our employees are in care, more is at stake than simply vestor, also subscribed to the Global a position to interact with the envithe need for Aleris as a company to Compact. It monitors its companies ronment in which we find ourselves, provide good services of high quality. to ensure they are run in line with the in order to generate long-term value People choose to use Aleris’ services. ten principles. creation for our society as a whole. This means that Aleris must also be an ethically responsible company Another important aspect of social with sound values to which users can corporate responsibility in the field of fully subscribe. healthcare is innovation. Investment in high quality and the good utiliWe therefore support Aleris in its sation of resources in healthcare is ongoing work aimed at being a needed, if we are to be able to meet healthcare company with an open the increasing need for ever more corporate culture, that contributes advanced healthcare services, aimed positively to society. at a population that will also be more numerous and older in the future. It is extremely satisfying to see the significant work achieved over the Through research, development and last year, to ensure Aleris will be even innovation, Aleris can contribute to better equipped to provide sustaindeveloping sustainable healthcare able healthcare services in the years services in the years to come. ahead. The Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human The knowledge and expertise Aleris rights, labour, the environment and possesses should also be used to anti-corruption have now been benefit people other than those implemented in Aleris’ strategies and who use Aleris’ services. Aleris must are fully integrated in Aleris’ culture demonstrate a commitment beyond and day-to-day work. what is expected of us, so that the 5 This is Aleris Aleris has more than 9 000 employees across 350 units and provides health and care services to 70 % of the population in Scandinavia. Aleris generates yearly revenue of over SEK 7 billion and is represented throughout the healthcare and care chain. We operate in primary and specialist healthcare, elderly care, care for children and youth, and psychiatric care for adults. We are a large and growing company. Age distribution Gender balance >66 years 56-65 years 9 000 employees 80% 20% 46-55 years 36-45 years 26-35 years <25 years Revenue 1.7 billion SEK The figure shows our revenues over the last decade. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Aleris is established through Aleris acquires Norwegian Norwegian company BOI is Aleris enters the specialist Båthöjden Plaza outside a merger of CarePartner companies Omnia and acquired, launching Aleris’s healthcare sector in DenStockholm becomes the and ISS Health Care, owned Axess. Through the acquiadult psychiatric activities mark through the acquifirst elderly care unit built by EQT. From the outset sition of Medilab Kliniska in Norway. sition of Danske Privatand owned by Aleris. Aleris the business operates Laboratorier, Aleris offers hospitaler, which consists also takes its first steps into in Sweden, Norway and the full range of diagnostics of five hospitals. Aleris now primary healthcare services Denmark. Aleris acquires services in Sweden. The acruns hospitals and medical in Sweden. the Norwegian company, quisition of Nackageriatricentres in all three Nordic Ungplan. ken extends the portfolio countries. The acquisition within healthcare and care. of Sophiahemmet’s x-ray activities improves the company´s position within radiology in Stockholm. Corporate social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2015 6 Revenue SEK We are the only pri7 billion vate operator of both Revenue per Healthcare health care and and Care 59 41 services. Health Care 59 % 41 % Aleris is owned by Investor AB. In one year: Care service has 100 % public clients. We take 600000 x-rays Our Healthcare clients. We perform Public Insurance In 2015 Aleris celebrates its 1 million Private Pay 10-year anniversary. laboratory tests Health Many employees have worked for Aleris even longer, Care in some of the companies that today have become 750000 part of Aleris. The record is 44 years, 10 months and We cover 70% of the people visit our specialist healthcare services Sweden NorwayDenmark Scandinavian population. 16 days. The name Aleris comes We represent more than We have more than 3 600people receive from the Latin “alere”, 100 our elderly care, of which different professions. 350 units in Scandinavia. 1,650 receive homecare which means to provide nursing and care, healing services and nourishment. 2010 2011 in Greater Copenhagen services. Aleris’s second 2014/2015 Investor becomes the new Aleris is growing rapidly and Århus, Aleris becomes elderly care unit is inauguSince its inception, Aleris owner of Aleris. Through its within the health sector in the largest private hospital rated. has grown and expanded its commitment and longboth Denmark and Sweden: operator in Denmark. service portfolio significantly term view, Investor clearly Proxima becomes part of the 2013 through acquisitions, organic demonstrates that it wishes company, bringing on board 2012 Aleris expands its elderly growth and new contracts to build up a healthcare its portfolio of specialist Aleris takes over the runcare service, taking over and agreements. Aleris buys business of the highest healthcare services in Nacka, ning of the specialist care several nursing homes in Teres Medical Group and quality. Motala and Ängelholm and services at Bollnäs Hospital, Norway and Sweden. In opens nursing homes in primary healthcare services which becomes Aleris’ first Sweden, Aleris opens its Simrishamn and Halmstad. in Stockholm, Uppsala and accident and emergency third nursing home and Östergötland, as well as hospital. In Sweden, home commences building in rehabilitation. Through the care services also expand Simrishamn and Halmstad. acquisition of Privathospitathrough the acquisition of let Hamlet, which operates Södermalm’s home care 7 Aleris Long-term corporate governance with Investor Aleris is owned by Investor AB, a Swedish company with a tradition in developing and providing corporate governance for large business operations that reaches back almost 100 years. The company is listed on the Swedish stock exchange. A major concern of Investor is a long-term and responsible approach. In addition to its intent to ensure legal and regulatory compliance at all times, Investor believes that corporate social responsibility is also a central component of value creation in a business. Via its corporate governance work in the companies in which it is involved, Investor requires its companies to be run responsibly and ethically, and to be leaders in terms of corporate social responsibility in their chosen fields. Since 2014, Investor, like Aleris, has subscribed to the Global Compact. Learn more about Aleris www.aleris.no www.aleris.dk www.aleris.se Learn more about Investor www.investorab.com Corporate social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2015 8 Our corporate social responsibility 9 Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle society. In Norway, our collaboration Aleris’ business is founded on the with the Red Cross has resulted in, notion that everyone is of equal valamong other things, a first aid app ue. Everyone should feel welcome. that allows quick access to informaThis applies to employees as well as tion on first aid wherever you may patients, residents, clients and users. be, as well as an internship trainee Anyone who comes to Aleris must be programme designed to support the received in the same way, regardless integration of women from minorof age, sex, disability, sexual inclinaity groups in Norwegian society. In tion, religion, political persuasion, Denmark, the collaboration includes social background, nationality or training in first aid and clothes collecethnic origin. We are convinced that tions. diversity contributes to creativity and In Sweden, we have been working innovation. since 2014 with the non-profit aid organisation, Hand in Hand, which has Objective projects in India and Africa. Their aid Aleris wishes to make an active work is based on a model involving contribution to ethical dialogue and education and job-creation activicollaboration with individual interestties. Hand in Hand is also involved in ed parties as well as representatives combating child labour and ensuring of the community. An important universal schooling, as well as proobjective throughout our activities viding health information and good and commitments as a company is sanitary conditions. to help ensure all people can enjoy a Throughout Aleris as a whole, the fruitful and dignified life. proportion of women employees We would like to increase the is 80%, with men making up the percentage of men in Aleris as a remaining 20%. The Group managewhole and seek to achieve a balance ment team is well balanced in terms between the sexes in those parts of of gender. the business where either men or Each year, Aleris’ various operations women significantly predominate. are subjected to extensive internal and external checks. A wide range of quality systems, internal checks and The present state of affairs audits, external inspections from suAleris has had a long-term partnerpervisory authorities and clients, help ship with the Norwegian Red Cross ensure procedures are of a good since 2007, and with the Danish Red standard and laws and regulations Cross since 2013. Here, measures complied with. Patients, residents, that help enhance health and care clients and users can thus be sure are a priority, but important too are that their rights are upheld. activities that contribute to a better Corporate social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2015 10 Through Hand in Hand, Aleris supports GiraNurse for Operation Smile dara, a village in northern India with a populaAleris Obesitas Skåne has for several years supported a tion of 2 800 nurse as a mission volunteer with Operation Smile. OperAfter making our donation, we received this letter: Thank ation Smile is an international aid organisation that helps you for the contribution. “Due to the generosity shown children and adults by providing free operations to corby you, there will be big changes happening in Giradara. rect facial deformities, mainly cleft lips and cleft palates. A hundred small businesses will be created, which will The way Operation Smile works is by sending medical serve as an impetus for hundreds of women in the area. volunteers on missions all around the globe. All children will be afforded the opportunity to attend Operation Smile is an international aid organisation school. Many of the village’s inhabitants will get medical founded in the USA in 1982 and in Sweden in 2011. There help, and others will learn to cultivate their fields in a susare in total more than 5 000 medical volunteers from tainable way without the use of artificial fertilisers”. 80 different countries, of which around 140 come from So far, 12 so-called self-help groups have been estabSweden, Norway, Denmark and Finland. Operation Smile lished and have received microloans to start up variis active in almost 60 countries. ous types of business. 145 people have received basic training in building and construction, and 18 different family-based companies have been set up. In autumn 2014, 50 new children started school. Ten information campaigns on the abolition of child labour have been run. 354 people have received education in hygiene. 83 people have received free health checks. Support for the Red Cross in its work to eradicate the Ebola virus Thousands of people died in 2014 as a result of the largest Ebola outbreak ever reported. The global community has a joint responsibility to commit itself to providing help. Aleris wishes to support life-critical health work which is badly needed on an international scale. Aleris therefore supported our partner, the Norwegian Red Cross, by making a donation of NOK 100 000 towards their work to combat the Ebola virus in West Africa. 11 Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Children’s Centre in Brazil The Children’s Centre in Brazil is a solidarity project organised under the auspices of the Church City Mission in Bergen. The Children’s Centre works towards providing better conditions for poor children growing up in the city of Porto Nacional in Brazil’s Tocantins state. Via Comsaúde, the local cooperation organisation, hundreds of children and young people are involved in various activities in the field of health, education and culture, where they themselves actively get an opportunity to improve their living situation and complete their education. Aleris has chosen the Children’s Centre as its solidarity project and is one of the project’s oldest and most important partners. In 2014 we renewed our support agreement, and this helped guarantee the continuing operation of the Children’s Centre. In 2015 Aleris will be the Children’s Aleris helps those living in poverty in Centre’s main partner in Norway. Guinea In Denmark, Aleris-Hamlet has an ongoing commitment to donate hospital equipment and consumables that are surplus to requirements to Living-Village. This allows us not just to minimise waste, thereby benefiting the environment, but also to support efforts to help people lead healthier lives in third-world countries. Living-Village is a Danish NGO that works towards improving the lot of those living in poverty in Guinea. Their work is directed at ensuring all have access to education and to basic health services. Living-Village was formed in 2007 and has worked mainly in the village of Kiniébakoro, where the project originally started with the building of a hospital. All projects are based on local initiatives. Corporate social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2015 12 Aleris supports the work involved in educating Danish citizens in life-saving first aid In Denmark, Aleris-Hamlet supports the work of the Red Cross in educating Danish citizens in life-saving first aid. We should all ask ourselves whether we would be able to save someone who suddenly collapses in the street from a heart attack. If the answer is no, we invite people to register for a first aid course. The Red Cross holds an Aleris education in parenting skills and bringevent called “First aider of the year”, where they select a ing up children in Sri Lanka – meeting with hero from an ordinary walk of life who has saved the life the Minister for Children of someone else. The winner receives a prize of In April 2015, an Aleris member of staff and two NorweDKK 10 000 donated by Aleris-Hamlet. gian Tamils employed by the University of Bergen and Bergen Municipality held a week-long course on parenting for 50 participants in Jaffna, Sri Lanka. The three also met the Minister for Children and major politicians in Sri Lanka. The course originated out of the International Child Development Program (ICDP), which is directed at care providers and is aimed at strengthening the care and early stages of life of children and adolescents. The ICDP programme is recognised and used by organisations including UNICEF and the WHO. It was developed by Professors Karsten Hundeide and Henning Rye at the University of Oslo. The background to this project was an enquiry from Sri Lanka expressing interest in Norwegian methods of parenting and a desire to focus on children and the next generation in Sri Lanka. The course was a great success, enjoying good feedback, and the group went on to spontaneously form an Aleris family guidance organisation in Jaffna. 13 Health and working conditions Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle Well-trained and expert employees The present state of affairs Aleris must comply with current who are happy in their work and are Aleris’ annual staff survey this year legislation, national and international provided with the conditions to perachieved a response level of no less conventions and agreements that form to their full potential are crucial than 80%. The response level has relate to our operation. We must also if we are to be able to deliver healththus increased significantly from 75% adhere to general rules of society care services of a good standard. in 2014 and 69% in 2013. The results and trade organisation requireshow that the working atmosphere ments in the same way we adhere to Objective and management are continuing agreements with our customers. We In 2015 Aleris is to create a clearer to progress in the right direction. In actively work with our employees internal labour market, continue to terms of working atmosphere, we to prevent illness and absence from develop and deliver the manager have progressed from a rating of 87 work, inter alia by health promotion development programme and offer last year to 89 this year, which is well activities, employee discussions and training in and tools for the recruitabove the average for companies we HR meetings that highlight issues ment process. The manager desee as comparable (i.e. a benchmark relating to the working environment. velopment programme is intended of 84 on average). The survey also No employees should risk physito ensure our managers gain more allows us to identify negative tendencal injury or mental distress at their confidence in their roles, to enhance cies and take action where necessary. workplace. There is no place for their expertise and to contribute to No less than 9 out of 10 employees insults or threats at our workplaces. a common understanding of manresponded that, in their view, disIt is important both for us and for our agement in Aleris. We are working crimination or harassment are wholly business and other partners that we on improving the system for crisis absent from Aleris. maintain freedom of association and prevention and management in the There is a clear positive relationthat the right to collective bargaining Group. We also intend to focus parship between our commitment and is recognised in practice. Aleris’ ticularly on absence through illness customer satisfaction. We find that 9 000 employees constitute the within the Group and on measures the units where we have many good company’s most important resource. designed to reduce this. We will ambassadors on the staff are also the The opportunity for our employees continue the annual manager and ones with the best patient and user to develop and the way in which staff surveys, which are one of our satisfaction ratings. We share a comwe work with our staff are, in commost important HR tools. Through mon view of manager expertise and bination with good management, organisations and business and other run the same manager programmes absolutely central to creating a good partners we intend to continue to in all three countries. This forms part workplace and a company that is support training and job-creation of the work involved in building up a equipped to meet the challenges of activities in the community. united Aleris in which we all share. the future. Corporate social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2015 14 We can always be better Rings in the Water As employees we have a lot of knowledge about our own “Rings in the Water” is a recruitment strategy under the workplace, how it works and what we can improve on. auspices of the Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise But how are we to bring all these ideas together? At our in Norway. The aim is to get people who, for various hospital in Herning in Denmark we use what are termed reasons, are no longer in employment back into reguKaizen meetings, which are a Japanese method of conlar work. Aleris was one of the first companies to sign a tinuous improvement. We have short regular meetings, national “Rings in the Water” agreement. often impromptu ones, and use Kaizen boards. Here we record challenges, ideas and suggestions for improvements. We then prioritise on the basis of the kind of impact we think each individual idea will have in relation to the amount of resources needed to implement it. The Kaizen meetings deliver good results. At several locations we have achieved productivity increases of up to 20%. The meetings, which last 10–15 minutes a week, are therefore well worth the effort. Stella Red Cross Women’s Centre Aleris has supported Stella Red Cross Women’s Centre since its establishment in 2012. The purpose behind Stella is to improve inclusion of women from minority communities, by providing a network, expertise and new horizons, and giving people who are not at the front of the job queue a helping hand into the world of work. The trainee programme started in May 2012 and is ongoing. Businesses create a trainee position lasting nine months. Via the trainee programme in Stella, – a collaboration project between the Oslo Red Cross and Norwegian business – 14 of the 17 women to complete the programme, have so far found a job related to their trainee experience. During 2015, Aleris’ third Stella trainee is completing an internship at our main office in Oslo, and one of the Aleris trainees has gained a permanent post in the administrative department. 15 The environment and sustainability Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Principle tise of our staff. A healthy financial structured review of procedures and base also allows us to invest in reprinciples for reducing risks. We are Environment: Aleris works on an search, development and innovation. working on a common model for ongoing basis to identify and implefinancial reporting in order to be able ment measures designed to reduce Quality: Plan, implement, evaluate to best utilise our resources. any detrimental impact upon the and improve: our work on quality is environment. Environmental manundertaken on a continual basis and Quality: We will continue to ensure agement is a prioritised area of work plays an integral role throughout we work on quality via continuthroughout our company. We supour company. At Aleris we take a ous measurements of patient and port the precautionary principle with professional approach to the quality resident satisfaction, and will work regard to environmental hazards, and process by first setting ourselves obfurther on non-conformance manimplement measures to promote jectives and, then measuring whether agement. greater environmental responsibility. we really have achieved what we inWe also encourage the development tended to and in the correct manner. The present state of affairs and diffusion of environmentally We then compare the outcome with friendly technologies. the objective. We are open-minded Environment: We work continualin terms of potential for improvely on reducing the environmental Innovation: Our bottom line is that ment and never cease learning from impact by limiting quantities of waste healthcare services can always be the mistakes we make. As part of this and transport of goods as far as we better, so each year we set ourselves approach, quality in the company’s can, by source sorting and the use targets for quality and results in operations is measured continuously of double-sided printing, as well as our company. Innovation within a through audits and inspections. making extensive use of call conservices business involves optimising ferencing and video conferences and improving all the processes in Objectives so as to reduce the need to travel. the business, as well as thinking in All our operations are subsumed completely new ways. Environment: One of our goals is that under overarching ISO certification all operations and activities should or equivalent. The various countries Financial management: All Aleris achieve ISO 14001 or equivalent enhave different standards. companies are registered and pay vironmental certification during the tax in Denmark, Norway or Sweden course of 2016. Innovation: With 9 000 employees at respectively. Good financial man350 locations, we have a lot to learn agement involves us taking responInnovation: To be able to adminfrom each other. One challenge is sibility for the sound and proper ister all good ideas on innovation to create systems that allow emadministration of our financial assets. and communicate them among ployees to contribute ideas gained By using our resources in the best ourselves, we want to construct a on the basis of their experience so possible manner, we can create trust knowledge base. A digital bank with as to improve procedures, and to and confidence and achieve our ideas and projects that are docudisseminate such ideas throughout targets in terms of quality, safety and mented and standardised, will make the organisation. One measure is satisfaction on the part of patients, the ideas searchable and known our own research and development residents and employees alike. throughout the entire company. fund, which was created in 2013 to A healthy financial base means we enhance the focus on research and can make new investments, purchase Financial management: We intend stimulate innovation and the develnew companies and new equipment, to improve the processes associatopment of expertise at Aleris’ various and invest in developing the expered with internal checks and audits, operations. It is intended to support where we regularly undertake a Corporate social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2015 16 research that benefits our users in health and care and is of a unique type, as it allows funds to return to the operation in question. Financial management: Throughout the last three years we have worked hard on improving the quality of our financial accounting, and this work is Examples of quality and environmental ongoing. To become more efficient management at Aleris we have cultivated and coordinated Sweden: The majority of Aleris’ operations carry environmany work tasks within the Group, mental certification to ISO 14001. Aleris Rehab has ISO and accounting is one of several. We certification for the working environment: OHSAS 18001. are looking at how we can optimise Aleris Medilab and Fysiologlab also have accreditation to various processes using existing requirements that go beyond ISO 9001. Norway: Aleris resources. Helse (Health) has environmental certification to ISO 14001. Child Welfare and Mental Health Care at Aleris Quality: All three countries underCare Norway (Aleris Omsorg Norge) are in the process take regular quality measurements of gaining certification under the Norwegian Eco-Lightthroughout the entire company house scheme. Denmark: All hospitals belonging to and have implemented non-conAleris-Hamlet Hospitaler are accredited under the Danish formance management systems. Healthcare Quality Programme (DDKM), which ensures We regularly measure patient and that their operational activities satisfy the environmental resident satisfaction. Within health aspects of the DDKM programme. we have 30 000 evaluations a month undertaken by HappyOrNot, which provide valuable feedback. In addition, we carry out more detailed patient surveys on an ongoing basis. Our users in the care field are asked several times a year for their views on the services provided by Aleris. Do they feel safe at our nursing Environmental objective in Aleris Care, homes? Would they recommend us to others? More than 90% answer Support and Residential Opportunities for “yes” to these questions! We also Young People have regular dialogue with our pubThe environmental objective of Support and Residential lic-sector clients, designed to ensure Opportunities for Young People for 2015 is “Keep our that Aleris is meeting their wishes planet clean”, with the sub-objectives of “Increased enviand expectations. The results of the ronmental awareness among attendees and personnel” measurements are documented and and “get to know nature”. The environmental objective reworked into action plans designed generates activities throughout the Support and Residento improve quality. tial Opportunities for Young People project, ranging from source sorting to nature-based activities. 17 The environment and sustainability Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies “Mange begge små” (“Watch the pennies and the pounds will look after themselves”) A modern hospital needs large quantities of electricity, heating and water, and all of this impacts on CO2 emissions. In 2014, Aleris-Hamlet in Denmark focused their efforts on reducing energy consumption, both via staff behaviour and by using modern technology. Energy savings should not prevent a continuing high standard of comfort. We have invested in an EnergyGuard integrated meter, which measures electricity, heating and water consumption on a continual basis. We are warned immediately if devices have not been turned off in the evening/at the weekend, or if a pipe bursts or toilets are running. Aleris-Hamlet is also investing heavily in the efficient use of new technology that allows ventilation, light and heating to be controlled on the basis of when Videodoktor: Telemedicine is a boon for the they are needed. Large areas of our lighting systems have environment been changed to LED technology, resulting in signifiIn 2014, Aleris-Hamlet launched a video-based doctor cant energy savings. On the basis of the aforementioned app (“Videodoktor”), an innovative online service that measures, power consumption was reduced by as much takes private medicine to a new level. With “videodoktor” as 20% in 2014. you can quickly and easily contact a specialist doctor via Heating and hot water are further major resource items smartphone, tablet or computer. “Videodoktor” allows that we worked on in 2014. Here the emphasis has been you to bring the doctor into your room or take him/her on greater responsibility. Waste energy has been reduced with you when travelling, so the doctor is never more thanks to better insulation, central temperature control than a click away. You save time and reduce emissions and similar measures. With actions of this type, in 2014 from transport to the doctor’s, as well as electricity and we managed to reduce energy consumption in this area energy consumption once there. by 15%. Learn more about Videodoktor https://videodoktor.dk/ Aleris and the Red Cross: The first aid app Aleris and the Norwegian Red Cross have developed a first aid app that anyone can download free of charge on their mobile. The first aid app shows you what to do in various emergencies and can locate you via a GPS function if needed. You will also find a quiz where you can test your basic first aid knowledge, as well as a list of international emergency numbers. The first aid app got an honourable mention in the CSR Awards 2013 organised by CSR Norway. So far around 100 000 people have downloaded the app. The app was nominated for the SPOT prize in 2014 in the innovation category. Learn more and watch a clip about the first aid app. www.rodekors.no/forsthjelpsapp/ Corporate social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2015 18 Group discussion that helps Interactive training in cognitive therapy In Sweden, Save the Children Sweden has, in At Aleris we are convinced of the need for innovation association with Aleris, developed a model for and that our employees should be able to develop their group support discussions for asylum seekers who, expertise. In association with the Attensi company, Aleris though still minors, have arrived in the country has developed interactive simulation as a method of without their parents. The psychosocial situation training child care/social workers to be even better in of most children and adolescents that arrive unwhat they do. Experienced and newly appointed child accompanied is difficult, and their histories concare/social workers can train in how to negotiate, build ceal a range of difficult past experiences. We have trust and a relationship, withstand threats and rejection found that this type of support initiative can have and be truly challenged when working as a social worker significant benefits for the child’s general health for three adolescents. This is the first time an interacand development. The discussions are held on six tive simulation has been developed to train someone occasions and the meetings are organised at the in working with young people with different kinds of child’s place of residence together with the staff. behavioural issues. The simulation is based on expert-apThe model is based on trauma awareness care, proved methods and models in the fields of psychology which is a framework for understanding vulnerable and cognitive therapy. children, where the emphasis is on previous childhood experiences. Trauma awareness care is based on creating trust, understanding and good relationships, capable of supporting the child’s ability to control problematic responses and sensitivities. The material will be available in manual form in 2015. Aleris Research and Development Fund The Aleris Research and Development Fund supports patient-related clinical research, development and quality projects in health and care. A total of SEK 10 million has been allocated to the fund in the period from 2013 to 2016. Our aim is that our patients, clients and residents should be able to enjoy a healthier life. The way the fund is managed must also be subject to Aleris’ values and goals. The fund is managed by a fund committee appointed by the Group CEO, on which all operational areas are represented as well as all countries where Aleris has operations. Interest in applying for support from the fund has been very strong. After a selection process where projects are ordered on the basis of, for instance, patient benefit and scientific level, a total of 16 projects were approved financial support from the fund in 2013. In 2014 the number of applications increased over that of the previous year, and 22 projects were agreed. 19 Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Principle representation of the company, must Objective Aleris should work to counteract all be in line with applicable laws and One of our main aims for 2015 is that forms of corruption. regulations. all employees acquaint themselves All employees are ambassadors for All employees must abide by the with our basic values, including our Aleris, including outside of their currently valid rules governing ethical guidelines, the ethical comworking hours. We are particularly confidentiality and patient safety. pass and the ten principles of the careful when we represent the comWe are cautious when discussing Global Compact. A sound ethical pany in whatever way that may be. internal matters. Our services are framework to which all employees We should also conduct ourselves characterised by honesty and openfully subscribe and a responsible corappropriately when using electronic ness towards our business and other porate culture are crucial in preventchannels, such as for instance social partners. Information on our services ing all forms of corruption. media, e-mail or the Internet. must be absolutely transparent. We We would like our customers to see work to ensure information is corThe present state of affairs Aleris as a reliable company that rectly disseminated in all respects, In 2014, at Aleris we defined our also contributes actively to ethical both internally and externally. basic values on the basis of the ten dialogue. It is important that we Aleris wishes to have an open corprinciples of the Global Compact. relate to them what we do, that we porate culture and to be in a posiWe revised our ethical guidelines and keep our promises and that we do tion where it can find out about and devised an ethical compass to guide not make promises we cannot keep. respond to any serious irregularities us in difficult situations we experiAll employees should avoid situathat might occur in the workplace. ence in our work. tions where their personal interests In the first instance, disclosure of Aleris is subject to strict requiremight come into conflict with Aleris such reports should be made via the ments relating to business practice or the good and well-being of our line manager or the usual channels. and compliance with systematic customers. As employees we do not Where this does not work, disclosure accounting standards, particularly as offer or accept inappropriate gifts. can be made anonymously via a our parent company, Investor, is a All entertainment on behalf of, and channel called Whistleblower. listed company. Corporate social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2015 20 Whistleblowing – the possibility of anonyThe ten principles of the Global Compact: mous disclosure 1. To protect internationally proclaimed human rights To ensure that breaches of the law and other censura2. Not to be complicit in human rights abuses ble conditions are avoided, and in order to improve the 3. To uphold freedom of association and the right to workplace and make it safer in all respects, Aleris wants collective bargaining to be informed of any censurable conditions in its oper4. To eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour ation as soon as possible. In the first instance, reports of 5. To abolish child labour such conditions should be made via the line manager or 6. To eliminate discrimination in respect of employment the usual channels. Where this does not work, an external and occupation disclosure system has been devised for the Group, called 7. To support a precautionary approach to environmental the Whistleblower System. An independent external party challenges (Ethos International) handles the disclosures, allowing 8. To undertake initiatives to promote greater environemployees can make anonymous disclosures. In Sweden, mental responsibility at the start of 2014, Aleris adopted a policy of so-called 9. To encourage the development and diffusion of envi“meddelarfrihet” (freedom of information) that confers ronmentally friendly technologies the same rights as public-sector employees have. Free10. To work against corruption in all its forms, including dom of information has in fact already been applied in extortion and bribery practice, but the policy has been adopted to give the practice further reinforcement and emphasis. 21 Our corporate social responsibility Worried women get a quick answer Most women who are worried that they have breast cancer do not in fact have the disease. It is therefore very important they get a quick all-clear. At the Aleris Breast Diagnosis Centre in Oslo, provided it is possible in medical-technology terms, a patient can leave the centre with a clear answer by the end of the day. Mammograms, ultrasound scans, core biopsies and, where necessary, MR imaging can all be undertaken at one and the same place. Where a core biopsy is needed, a preliminary result is provided and a final result once the sample has been analysed. Every day we get positive feedback from extremely satisfied women. Good food for many Good food and meals taken in pleasant company are a source of cheer for many people. At the Uranienborg old people’s home in Oslo we wanted to focus particularly on good food, so we employed a French chef. The care home is in Frogner, an area with many elderly residents. We then had the idea that more people should be able to benefit from our good food, at the same time as enjoying some company at mealtimes. We started a cafe on the care home´s premises to which visitors from outside are also welcome. In this way the cafe becomes a natural part of the local community. Corporate social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2015 22 Examples of projects that have received support from the Aleris Research Fund • Gastric bypass surgery – patient experiences from a psychosocial and physiological perspective • Tonsil operations – benefits and complications • Food and nutritional projects in home care service – focusing on the health and desire to eat of dementia sufferers Cooperation in the continuing education of • Analysis of the heart failure marker Nt-proBNP • Project to increase our knowledge of cytokines in fibrodoctors at a hospital in Ukraine myalgia and rheumatoid arthritis At Aleris Specialist Care in Ängelholm, orthopaedic sur• Clinical results after operations for rotator cuff tear in geons have devised a cooperation project for the continthe shoulder uing education of doctors at a hospital in Ukraine, in the • The effect of two types of nasal surgery on obstructive disciplines of spinal surgery, hip surgery and shoulder and sleep apnoea syndrome knee arthroscopic surgery. The work was started in 1994 • DVT in cases of degenerative spinal disease surgery and for the first 10 years was supported by the Eastern • Research projects on quality assurance database Europe Committee of Sweden’s National Board of Health • Dietary treatment in the case of irritable bowel and Welfare. Since then the work has continued on a syndrome (IBS) smaller scale. The aim is to develop a hospital to western • Better diagnosis of prostate cancer European standards. The doctors who take part in this • The welfare services of the future 2.0 project believe in the principle that commitment in some form outside of Sweden contributes to peaceful development in the world. Aleris has donated duvets to DanChurchSocial (Kirkens Korshær) Because a large proportion of duvets had to be replaced by new ones, resulting in a sizeable surplus, Aleris investigated the possibility of their being used elsewhere. The duvets had already been cleaned, so that there were no concerns at all about giving them away if somebody could find a use for them. DanChurchSocial’s Charity Work section was ready to accept them, and the duvets now keep homeless people warm in hostels and night shelters run by DanChurchSocial. 23 Our corporate social responsibility See the whole person Our hospital in Copenhagen was contacted by a home for war veterans. All of them were suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder. Most were struggling with various types of abuse, but no one saw their state of health from an overall perspective. The veterans’ home could not pay for our services, but they requested our help in creating a basis for applying for funds from foundations and trusts. We offered a group of war veterans a health check and saw the project as a way of demonstrating social responsibility. Based on the health checks we produced a report on the war veterans’ state of health and proposals as to how it might be improved. The report is used as a basis for the veterans’ home to apply for funds to help more war veterans achieve better health. Aleris supports the Red Cross and Smid Tøjet Danmark (a Danish “discard old clothes” scheme) Aleris-Hamlet supports the nationwide collection of clothing by the Red Cross, and in April 2015 had clothing bins in place at our five hospitals throughout the country where people could bring their used clothes. The Red Cross converts recycled clothing into money, to be used for emergency aid and social work. No less than 440 kg of clothes have been collected, allowing the Red Cross to purchase, for instance, 22 food parcels for families for one month, ensure more than seven years of visits to and contact with individuals who feel lonely or isolated, or buy 110 hygiene packs for families for one month, or 110 cooking sets for refugee families. Corporate social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2015 24 Streamlining At all of our larger hospitals in Scandinavia we have developed a method for measuring productivity in operating wards and reception areas. The method is used each week to measure operational service and see how we can do better the following week. It is also used to compare the hospitals so that they can learn from each other. This has helped increase the likelihood of our hospitals being efficient, delivering high quality and ensuring good patient satisfaction. One example of streamlining is how simplified and common procurement procedures at Aleris’ specialist health service in Bollnäs have freed up time for the staff to work on other tasks. Previously, 30 people were involved with the procurement work, but now it takes just one person with the requisite expertise. The new procurement procedures have resulted among other things in reducing the number of invoices per month from 300 to 65, a clear consequence of this being a massive time-saver for the company. The procurement project is still ongoing throughout the organisation, aimed at getting other units to achieve the same good results. 25 Corporate social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2015 26 27 www.aleris.no www.aleris.se www.aleris.dk Corporate social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2015 28
