Wiloto Corp. Global Compact Communication on Progress Year 2014 Our Statement Being a good corporate citizen is an ambition enthusiastically embraced at all levels within our company. As a member of the Global Compact, we believe that our business policies incorporate the ten principles. Especially, we are very concerned with the job creation as a relevant response to the severe crisis in our country. Basically we pay much attention on the human rights, labour rights, the environment as well as the fight against corruption and we will always commit to respect these basic principles in our future path of doing business. Through our support of the United Nations Global Compact, we also aim to move the agenda forward on performance related to these basic principles in participating to the universal effort in human rights. Global Compact Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; 2. and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5. the effective abolition of child labour 6. and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9. and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 10. Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Wiloto Corp. exist to help clients to achieve their goals, objectives, mission and vision. Our client's success is our business and passion. Wiloto Corp. Vision Is to be a respected global corporation & for a better Indonesia Wiloto Corp. Value 1. Integrity 2. Service Quality 3. Commitment 4. Team Work 5. Continuous Improvement Wiloto Corp. Subsidiaries 1. PowerPR Asia Pacific 2. PowerPR Institute 3. Strategic Indonesia 4. PowerPR Capital Market 5. PowerPR Research Intelligence 6. Power Marketing Communications 7. PowerPR Global Publishing 8. Indonesia Young Entrepreneurship Action Taken & Impact Achieved 2014 and Plans for the upcoming Year Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Wiloto Corp. is very concerned with the protection of internationally human rights, especially the right to work. We realized that following the 1997 financial crisis in Indonesia, this country need more job opportunities for SME sectors, since the conglomeration system was technically collapse due to severe crisis. We are stimulating our partners in Wiloto Corp. develop their works. We are involving the members to participate in the Wiloto Corp. jobs. We intend to invite more partners in our future jobs to give them opportunities to be developed. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuse IYE, Strategic Indonesia and all Wiloto Corp unit business promotes business ethic which contains the universal of human rights. The vision statement, vision and also Wiloto Corp values represented our appreciation on Human Right. We are also committed for the Better Indonesia in the future. We practice the basic principles of mutual understanding, mutual trust, and mutual learning in our relation between our staffs as well as with our clients We are very committed to continue our basic principles as a universal value in the job relation. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. In the future, we are very committed to continue our basic principles as a universal value in the job relation. The basic values of Wiloto Corp. are Integrity, Service Quality, Commitment, Team Work, and Continuous Improvement. By these values, we are very confident that we fully respect our partners, employees and clients. Wiloto Corp. is supporting employees to be entrepreneurs by joining with IYE! forum. We hope that they, our employees, can develop their own job and become our partner in the future. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We promoted the members of IYE! to participate Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Our basic value within Wiloto Corp are Integrity, Service Quality, Commitment, Team Work, and Continuous Improvement. By these values, we are very confident that we fully respect our partners, employees and clients. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. We are clearly committed to eliminate all form of forces and compulsory labor internally within our business as well as promote it to our clients The effective abolition of child labor. It is unquestionable that we strictly reject of all forms of child labor . We are also promoting this basic value in our communities, client and staffs The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We are also respecting women staff and support them for any advance chance on their career Our staff have also different culture and religion and support them to practice their faith freely without any discrimination Strongly support equal chance for both men and women Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining The basic values of Wiloto Corp. are Integrity, Service Quality, Commitment, Team Work, and Continuous Improvement. By these values, we are very confident that we fully respect our partners, employees and clients. Wiloto Corp. support KPU or Komisi Pemilihan Umum or General Elections Commissions to enhance their Public Trust with education campaign We support KPU to set up their integrated communication centre Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. In IYE! we are promoting anti-corruption movement by accentuating the integrity values in doing business. And we encouraging all the members to awake a global economic giant, named Indonesia Ensure people development in order to develop employee skills, meet the need to their career life with regular trainings. A compulsory training which emphasize on leadership, communication, integrity, and goal setting was attended by 100% of the employee. Our target in 2015 is advance training of employee skill. We support prayer movement through the year of 2014 for save elections and many natural disasters We support prayer movement through the year of 2014 for save elections and many natural disasters The general objective of macroeconomic studies is to develop policies to achieve and support macroeconomic stability and sustainability for Indonesian the long term Strategic Indonesia has a commitment to public education through a variety of avenues, including an intensive seminar program, lectures and conferences PowerPR together with Microsoft and Financial Club held a CFO Breakfast Dialogue The vision statement represented by its slogan “Build Indonesia TRUST SOCIETY! Any further information please contact Christovita Wiloto christov.wiloto@wiloto.com Please visit : www.powerpr.co.id www.indonesiayoungentrepreneurs.com www.indonesiainvestmentforum.com www.wiloto.com
