Corporate Responsibility Report 2014/2015 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Quick Links Fields of Action “A sustainable approach is key for longRelevant topics term success in business.” Responsibility in business Environmental management Dr. Nikolaus von Bomhard, Responsibility for employees Chairman of the Board of Management, Munich Re Solutions Statement by the CEO Commitment Facts and figures Downloads Munich Re Current news Strategy and challenges Corporate Responsibility Short Report Living up to our responsibility: corporate 20 August 2015 2014/2015 responsibility at Munich Re. Excellent UN PRI rating for Munich Re's holistic investment strategy Download (PDF, 2.5 MB) more 14 August 2015 POC21: Munich Re relies on innovations from creative minds Management A promise for the future: responsible 10 August 2015 management. Help for earthquake victims in Nepal: Munich Re donations flow into sustainable more reconstruction projects 8 July 2015 Solutions Munich Re updates information in the Corporate Responsibility Portal 2014/15 In keeping with the needs of the 3 July 2015 environment and society: tailored 10 years of Munich Re Foundation Interview with Thomas Loster solutions and services. more 12 June 2015 Climate protection at Munich Re Commitment News archive Sustainable actions: wide-ranging commitment of Munich Re. more Facts and figures Comprehensive and transparent: key figures and reporting. more Service About Munich Re, CR portal, FAQ, glossary, downloads and contact. more Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Strategy and challenges Related topics Management Solutions Commitment Facts and figures Strategy and challenges Corporate responsibility at Munich Re – Living up to our responsibility Munich Re consistently pursues its entrepreneurial guiding principle of turning risk into value. A responsible and forward-looking approach – our corporate responsibility – determines the way we deal with the risks and opportunities presented by the challenges of our time. We are therefore clearly committed to sustainable management, to the development of appropriate solutions and insurance products, to environmental protection, and to fulfilling our social responsibilities. Strategy Our activities are based on a Group-wide corporate responsibility strategy, adopted by the Board of Management in March 2011 and an integral part of our Group's Core Principles since 2013. Its main objective is the integration of corporate responsibility aspects into our business, the protection of natural resources, and our social commitment. The strategy also includes ongoing and open dialogue with our stakeholders. Strategy Challenges In dialogue with our stakeholders, we have defined five key topic areas: climate change, vulnerability of economies, demographic change, access to financial solutions for lower-income sections of the population in emerging and developing countries as well as digitalisation and emerging risks. Challenges GRI: G4-2; G4-45 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Strategy and challenges Statement by the CEO Strategy Ladies and gentlemen, Our business environment over the last year has been affected by a series of different events. One particularly depressing aspect is the extent of destructive geopolitical conflicts, in conjunction with serious epidemics and economic uncertainty. Topics with long-term significance, such as climate change and demographic trends, have been Statement by the CEO eclipsed as a result, but remain matters of urgency for ourselves as insurers. There are also new challenges emerging – which happily offer opportunities as well – from the Our guiding principles diverse manifestations of digitalisation. Our voluntary commitments As a globally active Group, an industry leader and significant investor, we remain Fields of action committed to acting responsibly and sustainably in dealing with such large-scale Organisational positioning developments. In the complex world we live in, it is often difficult to assign responsibilities clearly, but this should be no excuse for hesitancy. We intend to face up Objectives and measures to the challenges and play our part in responding to them, something that we often succeed in doing directly through our business operations. Milestones Dr. Nikolaus von Bomhard Stakeholder dialogue At the same time, we want to create long-term value for our stakeholders in our core Chairman of Munich Reinsurance business of primary insurance and reinsurance. We go beyond what is required by law Company’s Board of Management Materiality analysis and have committed ourselves to meeting more stringent standards. These include the UN Global Compact (UNGC), the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), and the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI). We systematically allow for sustainability criteria along the entire value added chain. Accordingly, the bulk of our investments in shares, government and corporate bonds meet recognised sustainability standards. We shall soon be reaching an important milestone in terms of our carbon footprint, in other words the immediate impact of our business operations on the environment. The entire Group will be carbon-neutral by the end of 2015. But we have no intention of resting on our laurels, and are already developing further ambitious targets to improve our interaction with the environment. As a general rule, our social commitment is focused on our core business activities. In the future, we will be supporting additional projects where we can both actively contribute and expand our risk expertise. By doing so, we hope to achieve a higher degree of efficiency for the projects, while generating valuable ideas for our employees, along with positive feedback for our business. Munich Re has received numerous awards for its responsible and sustainable business practices, the most recent of which was the German Investors' Award in December 2014. I am particularly pleased about this award, because it validates our approach and is an acknowledgement of our efforts in this area. I wish you a stimulating read. Yours sincerely, Nikolaus von Bomhard June 2015 GRI: G4-1 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Strategy and challenges Our guiding principles Related topics Strategy Our guiding principles Our commitments Field of action For Munich Re, a forward-looking and responsible approach is axiomatic. Objectives and measures Corporate responsibility is therefore an essential component of our Group Milestones strategy and a standard that applies throughout the Group. Management Solutions Statement by the CEO Insurance and sustainability are essentially the same in that they both signify a promise Commitment Our guiding principles for the future. As insurers, our existence is dependent on the trust of our clients and investors. In order to keep our promises, we always have to bear in mind the medium Our voluntary commitments to long-term orientation of our strategy. For us, achieving sustainable profitable growth Fields of action and fulfilling societal obligations are in no way contradictory and are our corporate responsibility. Organisational positioning Objectives and measures Milestones Stakeholder dialogue Materiality analysis Our corporate responsibility is focused on our core business . Dr. Astrid Zwick, Head of Corporate Responsibility, Group Development, Munich Re A key aim of our business strategy is to create long-term value for our clients, shareholders, employees and society as a whole. That is why corporate responsibility is an indispensable part of our Group strategy. For us, this means: We actively embrace environmental and social factors as well as those relating to corporate management (ESG factors) in our insurance business and investment management. We practice active environmental management at our locations, and are endeavouring to achieve climate neutrality. Munich Re fulfils its responsibility as a member of society (corporate citizen) through involvement in issues closely related to its core business and, at its locations, in social and cultural areas. By consistently integrating corporate responsibility in the Group strategy, we are seeking to make a contribution to the profitable growth of the Munich Re Group, identify business risks and opportunities as quickly as possible, bring our expertise to bear on the decision-making processes for global risks, further enhance Munich Re's reputation and image with all stakeholders, and increase the value of Munich Re's shares. Acting responsibly is part of our self-image. We emphasise our claim of being a responsible company by voluntarily undertaking to abide by the United Nations' Global Compact (UNGC), the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) and the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) international standards. GRI: G4-56; G4-DMA-Indirect Economic Impacts; G4-DMA-Environmental; G4-DMA-Product Responsibility Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Strategy and challenges Our voluntary commitments Strategy Our voluntary commitments: The UN Global Compact, PSI and PRI We demonstrate our understanding of corporate responsibility to the outside world by the acceptance of international guidelines. The commitments we have Statement by the CEO voluntarily undertaken such as our acceptance of the UN Global Compact, the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) and the Principles for Responsible Our guiding principles Investment (PRI) form the framework of our corporate responsibility strategy. Our voluntary commitments The UN Global Compact Fields of action Organisational positioning Since 2007, the Munich Re Group has been committed to the ten principles of the United Nations' Global Compact. These are a global standard and provide the Objectives and measures fundamental framework for our corporate responsibility strategy. This is why we have included these principles in our Code of Conduct for all staff members. They cover the Milestones areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and corruption Stakeholder dialogue prevention. Materiality analysis munichre.com The annual Communication on Progress (COP) on the implementation of these principles within the Group is integrated into our Corporate Responsibility portal. Code of Conduct Related Topics The ten principles of the UN Global Compact Strategy and challenges The Global Compact requires companies to adopt a series of basic principles Management from the fields of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and Managing investments corruption prevention, to uphold these principles and to incorporate them into Organisational positioning their business practice within their area of influence: Human rights External Links Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of UNEP FI internationally proclaimed human rights. United Nations Global Compact Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in Principles for Responsible human rights abuses. Investment (PRI) Principles for Sustainable Insurance Labour standards (PSI) Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environmental protection Principle 7: Businesses should adopt a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) In recent years, Munich Re has played an active part in developing the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) of the United Nations Environmental Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). These were introduced at the UN Rio+20 Conference in Brazil in June 2012. Munich Re was among the first signatories. At the commencement of the Conference in June 2012, a total of 34 businesses and supporting institutions had signed the PSI. Today there are 68 signatories and supporting institutions. In order to broaden our commitment to these principles, Munich Re has become a member of the PSI Board and has contributed to the development of the PSI strategy which has now been adopted by the General Meeting of the PSI. We are also a member of the Executive Steering Committee and are involved in the PSI's first major project on global resilience. Furthermore, we are one of the first signatories of the insurance industry statement on the advancement of risk reduction measures in the event of natural catastrophes, which was made in March 2015 in the course of the 3rd UN World Conference on Disaster Reduction held in Sendai, Japan. The four Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) Principle 1: We will embed in our decision-making environmental, social and governance issues relevant to our insurance business. Principle 2: We will work together with our clients and business partners to raise awareness of environmental, social and governance issues, manage risk and develop solutions. Principle 3: We will work together with governments, regulators and other key stakeholders to promote widespread action across society on environmental, social and governance issues. Principle 4: We will demonstrate accountability and transparency in regularly disclosing publicly our progress in implementing the Principles. More information on our PSI reporting Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) A holistic investment strategy aligned with ESG (environmental, social, governance) criteria also has a beneficial effect on risk and return. That is why, on 27 April 2006, we were one of the first signatories (and the very first German signatory) of the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) – which we played a prominent role in drafting. Behind these principles is the view that investment decisions often take insufficient account of the need for sustainable development and thus the needs of future generations. The implementation of PRI is now in the hands of our asset manager MEAG. The six principles are set out in a list of 35 recommendations for action. These enable institutional investors to take account of ecological and social aspects, together with topics of good corporate governance, in their investment decisions. Munich Re is committed to fulfilling the PRI in an appropriate and forward-looking manner. The six Principles for Responsible Investment Principle 1: We will incorporate ESG issues into investment analysis and decision-making processes. Principle 2: We will be active shareholders and incorporate ESG issues into our ownership policies and practices. Principle 3: We will seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues by the entities in which we invest. Principle 4: We will promote acceptance and implementation of these principles within the investment industry. Principle 5: We will work together to enhance our effectiveness in implementing the Principles. Principle 6: We will report on our activities and progress towards implementing these principles. More information on our PRI reporting GRI: G4-15; G4-56; G4-DMA-Human Rights; G4-HR1 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Strategy and challenges Fields of action Related topics Strategy Corporate responsibility at work Strategy and challenges Management With its five fields of action, our corporate responsibility strategy sets binding Solutions requirements for specific objectives in our Group-wide activities. Commitment Facts and Figures These fields of action embrace the three core activities of our guiding principles, paired Memberships and partnerships Statement by the CEO with targeted management and the corresponding reporting and communication with Our guiding principles our stakeholders. External links Our voluntary commitments Fields of action of our corporate responsibility United Nations Global Compact Fields of action Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) Organisational positioning Principles for Sustainable Insurance Objectives and measures (PSI) Corporate Responsibility at ERGO Milestones Stakeholder dialogue Materiality analysis Strategy and governance – Binding requirements In the implementation of corporate responsibility (CR) in our structures and processes, we comply with the principles of the Global Compact which forms part of our Code of Conduct for all staff. The Code covers the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and corruption prevention. The Group Corporate Responsibility Committee (GCRC) which spans all business segments was formed in 2013 to steer the development and integration of our Group-wide CR activities. In addition, the open and ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders and the insights resulting from it give us added impetus to develop our corporate responsibility strategy further. Corporate responsibility in our core business – Setting standards We are convinced that only through responsible, long-term action will we continue to succeed in putting our business concept into practice. The Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI), which we played an active role in formulating and signed in 2012, serve us as guides for anchoring environmental, social and governance (ESG) aspects more firmly in our core business. By taking ESG aspects into account along the entire value chain of our business, we add an important level to our risk management and therefore create new business opportunities. Also, when making investment decisions, we bear sustainability criteria in mind and have applied the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) since 2006. Environmental management – Applicable worldwide We take a systematic and targeted approach to environmental and climate protection. Since 2012, a Group-wide framework has defined objectives and guidelines for environmental management at Munich Re; it also regulates assignments, accountabilities and organisational areas of responsibility and sets standards for implementation of environmental management at our many locations. Munich Re is aiming for carbon neutrality throughout its business operations by 2015. The work of the entire reinsurance group and ERGO Germany has been carbon-neutral since 2012 and major locations of ERGO International were incorporated into this strategy in 2013 and 2014. We are achieving carbon neutrality in three stages. Emissions from our business operations (i.e. from energy consumption, travel, paper, water and refuse) will be reduced by 10% in the period from 2009 to 2015, fossil energy sources will be replaced by renewable sources (e.g. green power) and the remaining emissions will be compensated by purchasing emission certificates. Societal commitment – Assuming responsibility Munich Re's understanding of corporate responsibility has always involved assuming responsibility for the communities in which we live and work. Our concept of corporate citizenship provides the framework for linking our involvement in the form of donations, social sponsoring and corporate volunteering even more strongly with content that is important for business. In addition to our activities in the areas of the environment, natural catastrophes, demographic change and health, Munich Re supports education and science as well as social and cultural projects at its business locations. But for Munich Re, assuming social responsibility also means working actively in collaborative forums and committees, and supporting targeted initiatives. Besides this, the foundations set up by Munich Re constitute a central component of our commitment. Reporting and communications – Creating transparency By reporting both internally and externally on the various corporate responsibility activities, we provide our stakeholders with complete and timely information. In this context, our Corporate Responsibility portal is a central medium through which we describe our strategy, objectives, measures and progress. Our aim is to steadily expand our dialogue with stakeholders through expert communications and topic-specific events and thus further enhance the quality of reporting. Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Strategy and challenges Organisational positioning Related topics Strategy Organisational positioning of Corporate Our guiding principles Responsibility Fields of action Corporate responsibility has a central role in Munich Re's Group strategy and is the responsibility of the Munich Re Group Board of Management Chairman. Statement by the CEO Starting in 2008, we concentrated Corporate Responsibility (CR) at our Munich Our guiding principles headquarters in a unit dedicated specifically to this purpose. In the organisation, this Our voluntary commitments department is situated in Group Development, the central division responsible for developing the Group strategy for the entire Munich Re Group. Fields of action Organisational positioning Group Development is directly responsible to the Chairman of the Board of Management, who defines the corresponding objectives and actions and is directly Objectives and measures informed about our CR activities. The CR department performs its tasks at Group level and in direct consultation with ERGO. The department is responsible for establishing Milestones guidelines for our core CR strategy activities. With a function mirroring that of Group Stakeholder dialogue CR, Corporate Responsibility at our primary insurance company is likewise a dedicated department within Group Development and an area of responsibility of the Chairman of Materiality analysis the Board of Management. In addition, the Group Corporate Responsibility Committee (GCRC), which spans all business segments, was created at the beginning of 2013 to steer and coordinate the strategic development of CR activities throughout the Group. The Committee is composed of the relevant senior managers of the Group Development, Group Compliance, Group Communications, Corporate Underwriting, ERGO, MEAG and Munich Health functions and areas. It meets at least four times per year and establishes the direction of the strategic focus of Corporate Responsibility. The GCRC addresses the perception and general analysis of sensitive topics in our business and our positioning in relation to these. Guidelines and projects applicable to the entire Group are submitted to the Group Committee for their decision. Beyond financial, operating and strategic topics, the Munich Re Board of Management regularly (at least once a year) informs the Supervisory Board regarding developments in the fields of corporate governance, compliance and anti-fraud, human resources as well as on donations and sponsoring activities (corporate citizenship). GRI: G4-34; G4-35; G4-36; G4-42; G4-45; G4-48 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Strategy and challenges Objectives and measures Strategy Mandatory requirements for the achievement of objectives We have set mandatory objectives for our five areas of action, with a view to implementing our corporate responsibility strategy across the entire Group. On this basis, we have defined measures and projects to reach these objectives. Statement by the CEO Current objectives and measures Our guiding principles The table below shows the main objectives and areas of action that we are currently pursuing, the resultant Our voluntary commitments measures, the status of implementation in 2014 and the new objectives for 2015 and beyond. Fields of action Strategy and governance Organisational positioning Objective Measure Deadline Status 2014 Objectives and measures Milestones Ensure that Munich Re (Group) fulfils its Review and update the Group-wide CR Ongoing, Met obligations by means of the CR strategy objectives and areas of action in order to every year Stakeholder dialogue United Nations Global Compact further develop the strategy Materiality analysis Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) Internal CR 2013/14 Performance Report Ongoing, Met Principles for Sustainable Insurance submitted to the Group Corporate every year (PSI) Responsibility Committee (GCRC) and ratified Corporate responsibility in business Objectives Measure Deadline Status 2014 Integration of ESG aspects into core Development of a framework for 2014 to New business (along the entire value chain) integrating ESG aspects into our core 2016 objective, based on the Principles for Sustainable business, with focal points in the individual initial Insurance (PSI) business fields measures implemented, is being continually expanded Information to all staff about ESG aspects: Measures to increase awareness among Ongoing Intermediate The integration of ESG aspects forms part selected employee groups objectives of our ongoing dialogue with clients and achieved (e.g other stakeholders. training courses for the International Organisation). Continuation in 2015 Expansion of dialogue with business Ongoing Met and is partners on the PSI being continuously implemented Continuous implementation of the Munich Re investments (handled by Ongoing Met Principles for Responsible Investment MEAG, the Group's asset management (PRI) arm) in shares, property, infrastructure, renewable energies, forestry and bonds comply with specific sustainability criteria Environmental management Objectives Measure Deadline Status 2014 Expansion and establishment of the global Coverage of at least 75% of employees 2013 to Met and is environmental management system worldwide by the Group environmental 2015 being management system continuously implemented Expansion of the environmental management 2013 to Met network to include smaller Munich Re (Group) 2015 units International Group-wide network meeting of 2014 Met Munich Re environmental managers Recertification and surveillance audits for the 2014 Met environmental management system in accordance with ISO 14001 at the following locations: Munich Re Munich, major ERGO locations in Germany, D.A.S. United Kingdom, DKV Seguros in Spain (will be certified to ISO 14001 and EMAS from 2014) Verification of the environmental data for the 2014 Met Group head office in Munich, for MEAG, DKV Seguros and D.A.S. UK Climate neutrality of the reinsurance group, 2014 Met Munich Health, ERGO Germany and selected ERGO international sites (financial year 2014) Reduction in carbon emissions of 10% per Improvement in data quality for 2013 to Met and is employee between 2009 and 2015 (based environmental reporting and systematic 2015 being on emissions in 2009) expansion of reduction measures in continuously individual units implemented Preparation of the new Group Development of the new Group 2014 to New environmental management and climate environmental management and climate 2015 objective up strategy from 2015 strategy, including measures, standards to and timetable September 2015 Corporate citizenship (CC) Objectives Measure Deadline Status 2014 Further development of the CC project Continuation of the earthquake risk 2012 to Met by portfolio prevention project in northern India in 2014, August 2014 cooperation with GeoHazards International extension to Extension (GHI) 2016 for two more years Establishment and implementation of a 2013 to Intermediate partnership with the Städtische Galerie in 2016 targets met Lenbachhaus, Munich and is being continuously implemented Supporting the Water Benefit Certificates 2012 to Met (WBC) project for the development of an 2014 innovative financing mechanism for water projects in developing and emerging countries Application of the CC concept to activities Munich Re units in North America introduce Ongoing Met and is of Munich Re's International Organisation the existing CC guidelines into their being management systems and define local continuously processes for them implemented Quality assurance of CC the project Review of the implementation and Ongoing Met and is portfolio management of ongoing CC projects being continuously implemented Identification of additional CC projects Ongoing Met and is according to the CC plan being continuously implemented Revision of the CC guidelines for Creation and communication of amended 2013 to Met donations, sponsorship and memberships Group-wide CC guidelines for donations, 2014 sponsorship and memberships Creation of a Group-wide corporate Analysis of corporate volunteering options 2013 Measure volunteering concept for Munich Re (Group) and development of met in part, a Group corporate volunteering concept postponed to the end of 2015 Reporting and communication Objectives Measure Deadline Status 2014 Annual participation and positioning in the Munich Re has been continually listed in Ongoing Met key international SRI ratings and indices the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones (such as the FTSE4Good or Dow Jones Sustainability Index since 2001 Sustainability Index) Sustainalytics rating: Ongoing Met First place in the Insurance sector Optimisation of CR reporting and Improvement in reporting processes to Ongoing Met communication ensure that the publication date for the CR portal can be brought forward in the long term Systematic expansion of stakeholder dialogue Ongoing Met (e.g. with SRI investors, ratings agencies and NGOs) Creation of an annual systematic CR Ongoing Met communication plan coordinated with Group Communications Intensification of CR communication, involving Ongoing New all communication channels (including social objective, media) initial actions taken GRI: G4-2; G4-DMA-Human Rights; G4-HR1; G4-FS7 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Strategy and challenges Milestones Related topics Strategy Milestones of our corporate responsibility Objectives and measures As an insurance and reinsurance group, we adopt an international and interdisciplinary approach with a view to finding solutions that are viable for the future. In this way, we make tomorrow’s world insurable. We seek to achieve a Statement by the CEO balance between economic, ecological and social requirements. Our guiding principles The following are examples of our corporate responsibility milestones. Our voluntary commitments Fields of action 2014 Organisational positioning Munich Re and Global Fund agreed on partnership Objectives and measures Munich Re signed a three year cooperation agreement with the Global Fund, an international financing institution dedicated to attracting and disbursing resources Milestones to prevent and treat HIV and AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. The Global Fund is an international financing institution dedicated to attracting and disbursing Stakeholder dialogue resources to prevent and treat these three deadly diseases. Materiality analysis Innovative flood product fills a key market gap in the US Floods are the most frequently occurring natural disasters in the United States and all 50 states have experienced flood or flash floods in the past five years. The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) has remained the only option for homeowners seeking coverage for flooding events Helping others to help themselves: Munich Re is extending to 2017 its financial commitment in the international earthquake and landslide risk reduction project in India Munich Re is extending its cooperation with GeoHazards International (GHI) on earthquake and landslide risk reduction in Aizawl, India, till 2016. The project, initiated in 2012 and financed by Munich Re, builds up resilience locally through training, institutional changes and implementation of mitigation measures. Munich Re purchases three photovoltaic facilities in Great Britain MEAG has acquired sole ownership of three photovoltaic parks in Great Britain for Munich Re. Munich Re Foundation celebrates 10th anniversary The Munich Re Foundation has been established in spring 2005. Since then the foundation is working successfully to minimize risks and to protect people against natural catastrophes. Munich Re Foundation celebrates 10th anniversary 10 years of Munich Climate Insurance Initiative The Munich Climate Insurance Initiative (MCII) recently its tenth anniversary. The MCII was launched by Munich Re, which was able to attract many additional partners. The MCII is a non-profit organisation whose permanent offices are located at the United Nations University (UNU) in Bonn, Germany. Progess in environmental management and climate protection The scope of application of the environmental management systems in Germany has been extended by the first-time certification of the head office of ERGO Lebensversicherung AG in Hamburg. DKV Seguros again won the European Union's EMAS (Eco-Management and Audit Scheme) award in 2014. Certification has also been awarded to buildings of Munich Re America and Munich Re of Canada. The Munich Re Group made a decision in 2011 to combine all its efforts in a unified approach and to achieve climate neutrality across the entire Group by 2015. Munich Re and GIZ are cooperating on an agricultural model project in Peru Germany's Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH and Munich Re are supporting the establishment of a risk transfer system for agriculture in Peru. For this purpose, they have launched the project Integrated Financial Management of Climate Risks in Peru's Agricultural Sector . The aim is to develop, together with the Peruvian authorities, a legal, institutional and structural framework for a system to protect agricultural production against weather-related risks. 2013 Munich Re conducts its first Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Day in Munich After conducting numerous Investor Relations SRI roadshows in European financial centres, Munich Re presents for the first time its Corporate Responsibility strategy and its implementation, along with its experts and top managers, at the Group's headquarters in Munich. Group-wide carbon neutrality At the beginning of 2013, the reinsurance group and ERGO Germany fulfil their carbon-neutrality objectives for the 2012 financial year. Expansion of the environmental management system In 2013, the environmental management system is extended to include more than 75% of global staff for the first time, thus providing a basis for the nearly Groupwide collection of environmental data. MEAG acquires 32 wind farms in France Together with GE Energy Financial Services and EDF Energies Nouvelles, MEAG acquires 32 operational wind farms in France with a total installed capacity of 321.4 MW as part of the Renewable Energies and New Technologies (RENT) investment programme, which is intended to have a volume of €2.5bn. Guarantee cover for LED modules Together with a US manufacturer of LED modules, Munich Re gives the manufacturers' customers a five-year guarantee on the luminous intensity and colour stability of the LED modules. Under the agreement between the two companies, Munich Re assumes a portion of the financial risk entailed in the guarantee. ERGO creates new client-focused division ERGO introduces a metric for measuring client satisfaction and plans to set up a separate division to handle all of the company's client-centric services and processes. ERGO life insurances in China ERGO China Life offers life insurances on the Chinese market, concentrating on the economically attractive province of Shandong, which with around 97 million inhabitants is considered to be the country's third-largest domestic insurance market. Aid for the Philippines The Munich Re Foundation finances part of the immediate aid measures to supply drinking water and urgently needed medicines and medical equipment to the SOS Kinderdorf in the major Philippine city of Tacloban. Munich Re cooperates with the Lenbachhaus art gallery in Munich As part of its corporate citizenship activities, Munich Re is entering into a partnership with the Lenbachhaus municipal art gallery in Munich from 2013 to 2015. MEAG uses ESG country rating for investment decisions Since the third quarter of 2013, MEAG has been using an ESG (environmental, social and governance) rating of countries to assess their sustainability performance. In cases where countries fail to satisfy the criteria we have defined, MEAG refrains from investing in their government bonds or the bonds of quasigovernmental organisations. 2012 Board of Management launches Group-wide Corporate Responsibility Committee At the end of 2012, the Group Committee ratifies a Group-wide Corporate Responsibility Committee. It will be in charge of further developing the corporate responsibility strategy in the coming years and addressing sensitive business issues. Strengthening of compliance organisation Compliance is restructured so that it reports directly to the CEO and its tasks are given more weight. Higher investments as part of the RENT programme On Munich Re's behalf, MEAG acquires three wind farms connected to the grid in the UK. The investment in the low three-digit million range is part of the RENT programme (Renewable Energies and New Technologies) with an envisaged volume of €2.5bn. New insurance solution for LED modules Munich Re introduces ground-breaking insurance coverage in collaboration with the US LED module manufacturer Xicato. Xicato gives its customers a five-year warranty on the brightness and colour retention of its LED modules, which is much longer than the one-year warranty typically available on the market. Munich Re offers serial loss cove for offshore wind power systems The cover provides that Munich Re will pay for the repair or replacement of defective turbines or individual components if there is serial damage affecting a number of elements – such as the gearbox, the rotor or the tower. Munich Re will also cover the substantial costs involved in deploying the special vessels required. First performance guarantee cover for solar thermal power For the first time, Munich Re insures performance guarantees for solar thermal power plants. This cover gives US manufacturer SkyFuel the advantage that it can remove the long-term, technical guarantee risk from its balance sheet and use the capital thus made available for purposes such as investment. Honours for insurance manager of the year Nikolaus von Bomhard, Chairman of Munich Re's Board of Management, is chosen as the 2012 Insurance Leader of the Year by St. John's University's School of Risk Management in New York. (The prestigious award was presented to him on 16 January 2013). Voluntary commitment to increase quota of women Munich Re is one of the DAX 30 companies that have undertaken to increase the quota of women in management positions by 2020. Munich Re's quota will then have increased to 25%. Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) signed The final version of the PSI is signed at the Rio+20 UN Conference on Sustainable Development in June. From the outset, Munich Re was closely involved in drafting the mandatory guidelines. New Chief Compliance Officer at ERGO Stefanie Held is the new Chief Compliance Officer at ERGO. A trained lawyer, she is developing the group's compliance organisation and reports directly to CEO Dr. Torsten Oletzky. 2011 New investments as part of the RENT project Under its RENT (Renewable Energies and New Technologies) project, Munich Re invests primarily in wind farms and solar parks. These include transactions in Spain and Italy totalling €500,000. Global consultation meetings on sustainability in the insurance sector Seven global consultations begin in March to discuss the Principles of Sustainable Insurance (PSI) under the UN environmental programme's financial initiative. Munich Re plays an active part in this process. The European consultation meeting is hosted by Munich Re in autumn 2011. New CR strategy adopted Munich Re adopts a new Group-wide CR strategy, in which CR is firmly established as an integral part of our entrepreneurial action. Munich Re's carbon neutrality in Munich maintained in 2010 After significantly reducing its greenhouse gas emissions at its Munich site back in 2009, the Company builds on this success in 2010 and beyond. We purchase emission allowances to offset the remaining small proportion of emissions. Wolfgang Engshuber, new PRI Chairman Dr. Wolfgang Engshuber, outgoing Chief Administrative Officer of Munich Re of America, is appointed Chairman of the investor-led Principles for Responsible Investment initiative from January 2011 till December 2012. Munich Re in Munich and ERGO recertified The environmental management systems of Munich Re (Munich) and ERGO (Germany)’s main office sites are again successfully re-certified this year. UN debate on disaster prevention In February, Thomas Loster, Chairman of the Munich Re Foundation, gives a presentation on the Group’s expertise in the field of disaster prevention at the invitation of the United Nations in New York, highlighting the strengths of insurance-based solutions. New renewable energy covers Munich Re offers the first ever cover for manufacturers’ warranties in the field of renewable energy, including wind and photovoltaic systems. The reinsurer also covers the exploration risks involved in geothermal energy projects. 2010 Wind energy investment Munich Re acquires 40 wind turbines in a total of 11 wind farms with an overall output of 73 megawatts. In the next few years, some €2.5bn are to be invested in renewable energy and new technologies under Munich Re's RENT (Renewable Energy and New Technologies) programme. 6. International Microinsurance Conference in Manila The Munich Re Foundation and other partners, including the Microinsurance Network, the German Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) and Germany’s Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ), invite participants from 50 countries to the 6th International Microinsurance Conference in Manila. The fact that this is the largest ever microinsurance conference, with 520 attendees, shows the importance of microinsurance globally and its huge growth potential. Weather events insurance in the Philippines A new insurance product co-developed by Munich Re (reinsurance) offers cover against extreme weather events, such as severe typhoons, to cooperatives in the Philippines and their low-income members for the first time. Cover for PV modules in the USA Munich Re now covers performance guarantees on photovoltaic modules in the USA. The new cover applies to concentrating photovoltaic (CPV) systems produced by US manufacturer SolFocus, and is the first ever performance guarantee cover for CPV systems. New insurance solution for oil catastrophes Munich Re insures oil companies against liability risks relating to unsuccessful oil drilling operations, also tightening up safety standards. Relaunch of corporate responsibility portal Munich Re develops a new concept for its CR web presence and the related internal and external reporting on this topic. This also involves extending the scope of CR reporting to up to 60% of employees. Earthquake disaster in Haiti, floods in Pakistan Munich Re companies and their employees collectively donate more than €250,000 to victims of the earthquake in Haiti and flooding in Pakistan. ISO 14001 certification renewed The implementation and quality of the environmental management system at our Munich headquarters are again successfully certified. Carbon neutrality at our Munich site As resolved in 2007, we are able to make our Munich site » carbon neutral. We set the goal of achieving carbon neutrality for the whole reinsurance group by 2012. 2009 Founding of Dii GmbH for generating power in the desert In response to a Munich Re initiative, thirteen partners including Munich Re set up the Desertec Industrial Initiative planning entity (Dii). Its long-term goal: solar and wind power generation in the desert. Submission of the first COP In our Communication on Progress (COP), the obligatory report to be submitted by companies that have signed the UN Global Compact, we publish information on our CR targets and their achievement. ERGO life insurers tested by the German technical inspection agency TÜV ERGO's two major life insurers Hamburg-Mannheimer and Victoria have their service quality tested by TÜV Süd for the first time and are rated “good”. EU GreenBuilding Award for MEAG buildings Three new MEAG buildings feature in the list of official EU GreenBuilding Programme partners in 2009: the Cologne Oval Offices, the Westgate in Cologne and the Sonnencarree in Munich. MEAG launches FairReturn investment fund This mixed fund, geared specifically to foundations, is managed according to sustainability criteria. The investment objectives are a positive performance in line with the capital markets and the achievement of plannable earnings. World’s first microinsurance against floods In collaboration with various partners, Munich Re devises a microinsurance product for the inhabitants of the Indonesian capital of Jakarta, providing them with cover against the economic consequences of flood. Signet Solar – New insurance solution for photovoltaic modules Together with industrial insurance broker Marsh and photovoltaic producer Signet Solar, Munich Re launches a new insurance solution to cover the risk of a performance deterioration in photovoltaic modules. Expansion of Munich Re’s compliance system After the introduction of an ombudsman function at Munich Reinsurance Company in 2008, the ombudsman’s brief is extended to the whole Group with effect from 1 May 2009. Anti-fraud management is significantly strengthened by way of this Group-wide whistle-blowing system. 2008 ERGO adopts CR guiding principles ERGO’s Board of Management endorses the corporate responsibility guiding principles adopted by the Munich Re Board of Management in 2006, taking them as the basis for ERGO’s own CR activities. ERGO implements its own code of conduct On the basis of Munich Re’s Code of Conduct, ERGO defines its understanding of legally impeccable behaviour, based on ethical principles, at all employee levels. Research partnership with the London School of Economics (LSE) Munich Re supports the multi-year research programme of the Centre for Climate Change Economics and Policy (CCCEP) at the LSE. Its goal is to analyse – at the interface between climate research and economics – the risks and opportunities for the insurance industry. 2007 Joining Global Compact Munich Re commits itself to complying with the UN Principles for Corporate Responsibility (UN Global Compact). Corporate Climate Centre established All Munich Re’s climate change activities are pooled in one centre of competence. This comprises a network of staff from across Munich Re’s fields of business. Announcement of climate neutrality target for Munich Re A resolution is taken to make the Munich site climate neutral by 2009 and the whole reinsurance group by 2010. MEAG introduces code of conduct MEAG defines its understanding of legally impeccable behaviour, based on ethical principles, at all employee levels, taking Munich Re’s Code of Conduct as a basis. 2006 Commitment to sustainable and responsible corporate management In its mission statement, Munich Re commits itself to transparency, sustainability and social responsibility. Corporate responsibility becomes an integral part of Munich Re’s Group strategy. Consolidation of corporate responsibility management As a sign of the great importance Munich Re assigns to this sector, the CR management function is located within the Group Development Division, which reports directly to Munich Re’s CEO. Implementation of a code of conduct Munich Re sets out its definition of legally impeccable behaviour, based on ethical principles, at all employee levels. Commitment to PRI and their establishment Munich Re becomes the first German company to sign the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), which it plays a prominent role in helping to establish. Implementation of anti-fraud management The main elements and principles of a Group-wide anti-fraud system are laid down. 2001 to 2005 2005 125 years of handling risk Munich Re celebrates its 125th anniversary and sets up the Munich Re Foundation. The latter’s mission is to minimise risks for people throughout the world, particularly in developing and emerging countries, through prevention and education projects. Establishment of the Dr. Hans-Jürgen Schinzler Foundation Open to all current and former Munich Re employees worldwide, the foundation aims to support staff in their voluntary work in various areas of society. GIG – Sustainability criteria for investments Munich Re’s globally binding General Investment Guidelines (GIG) specify that our investments in shares, corporate bonds, bank bonds and government bonds must meet certain sustainability requirements. 2004 renewables 2004 conference Munich Re takes part in the International Conference for Renewable Energies (renewables 2004). The conference outlines the path towards global development of renewable energies. Tsunami aid Munich Re responds to the tsunami catastrophe in Thailand with both monetary and non-monetary donations. 2003 Launching of MEAG Nachhaltigkeit mutual fund Besides considering the traditional criteria for investments in shares or bonds – return, risk and liquidity – this fund also considers specific sustainability aspects. Creation of a company medical centre A central company medical centre for individual consultancy and treatment of employees is set up. The prophylactic healthcare services it provides include check-ups and influenza vaccinations. Successful EMAS recertification and introduction of ISO 14001 Munich Re sets more standards: successful EMAS recertification and first-time certification to DIN EN ISO 14001, for environmental management systems, thus making Munich Re’s standards comparable at international level. Certification of Victoria Krankenversicherung AG Victoria Krankenversicherung AG in Düsseldorf is certified to EMAS and to DIN EN ISO 14001. In addition, the UK headquarters of D.A.S. is certified to DIN EN ISO 14001, a first for a legal protection insurer. 2002 German Corporate Governance Code On 6 December, Munich Re’s Board of Management and Supervisory Board publish their first declaration of conformity with the recommendations of the Government Commission for a German Corporate Governance Code. 2001 First environmental statement Munich Re publishes its first environmental statement under the title “Perspectives”. Sustainability indices Munich Re is included and henceforward listed in the two most important global sustainability indices, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and the FTSE4Good. 1973 to 2000 2000 Establishment of an ISO 14001 environmental management system Munich Re establishes an environmental management system according to ISO 14001 at its headquarters in Munich. As from 2008, the Munich and Milan offices use only green electricity. 1999 UNEP FI (United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative) Munich Re becomes an active partner in the financial initiative of the UN environment programme. 1998 Participation in the Environmental Pact of Bavaria The participants in the Environmental Pact of Bavaria undertake to save resources and use environmentally sound technologies. The aim is to achieve sustainable economic growth. EMAS (Eco-Management and Audit Scheme) certification for Victoria Versicherung AG ERGO company Victoria becomes the first European insurer to be certified to EMAS at its various sites. 1990 “Victorianer helfen” (“Victorians help”) is founded after German reunification to provide development assistance in eastern Germany. The association begins by providing assistance for the village of Mechterstädt in Thuringia. 1973 Munich Re warns of the consequences of climate change for the first time In a publication on flooding, Munich Re addresses the increasing concentration of carbon-dioxide and the related climate change for the first time, and proposes analyses for determining how far climate change could alter the pattern of weather-related natural catastrophes. GRI: G4-2 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Strategy and challenges Stakeholder dialogue Related topics Strategy In direct contact Materiality analysis Memberships and partnerships Munich Re attaches importance to engaging in open and ongoing dialogue with SRI indices, ratings and awards its stakeholders, in the belief that transparent communication forms the basis for mutual trust. At the same time, this exchange enables us to identify important social challenges and changes at an early stage so that we can then offer or Statement by the CEO develop suitable business solutions for the future. Our guiding principles The many and varied expectations of our stakeholders provide Munich Re with useful Our voluntary commitments input. Our aim is to generate value for both sides through dialogue. In particular, we Fields of action seek to identify social developments and trends at an early stage through this dialogue so that we can take account of them, for example, on the solution side, in innovative Organisational positioning risk coverage and specific products. Objectives and measures Milestones Stakeholder dialogue Materiality analysis Meeting different challenges Munich Re meets its stakeholders' expectations with openness and transparency. The diagram shows the stakeholder groups with which Munich Re conducts a regular and active exchange, as well as the media it uses and the form it employs to achieve this goal. Continuing the dialogue We want to continually improve our Group-wide corporate responsibility processes and activities. The various expectations of our target groups, which we discuss with them on a regular basis, constitute an important source of information for us. This allows us to round off our CR strategy by jointly identifying and discussing material topics. Capital market communication – Transparent and comprehensive Munich Re cultivates an ongoing dialogue with private and institutional investors, analysts and rating agencies. This dialogue is part of our corporate strategy, designed to achieve a sustainable increase in value. Shareholders and capital market players want detailed, up-to-date information on our Group and the (re)insurance sector. In one-on-one meetings, expert interviews, roadshows and on the internet, we provide important, detailed information on the opportunities and risks of our business, both in general terms and specifically for SRI, and discuss trends and key topics. An exchange with rating agencies also forms part of the roadshows. In addition to our Annual Report, we publish a wide range of information for all investors, such as presentations given during our analyst and investor events and the quarterly financial report. All press and analysts' conferences are broadcast live online via Livestream, as is Munich Re's Annual General Meeting, in which as a rule more than 4,000 shareholders take part in person. Many shareholders watch the meeting and vote online. There is a team of in-house experts available to answer enquiries that come in on the shareholder hotline or by e-mail. Additionally, the service pages of our internet-based shareholder portal offer our registered shareholders a wide range of background information and services relating to Munich Re's shares. Our client management – Needs-based and solution-oriented Munich Re has differently structured client bases in reinsurance, primary insurance and asset management. Our central objective in all our fields of business is to be a reliable, solution-oriented partner for our clients. In reinsurance, we operate around the globe with over 4,000 insurers from more than 160 countries. ERGO serves over 35 million (mainly private) clients in over 30 countries, with the focus on Europe and Asia. The Munich Health business segment has over six million clients in primary insurance and 400 in reinsurance. In Germany, our asset manager MEAG offers its competence to well over 100,000 private investors, as well as to over 50 institutional investors outside the Group, e.g. insurers, utilities, pension funds, church organisations, foundations, local authorities and industrial enterprises. Client management Reinsurance At the heart of this activity are solution-oriented approaches, frequently in partnership with clients – as in the case of our innovative risk covers for the generation of renewable energies. Munich Re also promotes intensive dialogue with clients through numerous international client seminars and through a large number of client and market events both in Munich and throughout the Group. Especially strong client ties are forged with promising young employees from our major client companies by the Munich Re Scholarship Programme. As part of our annual strategy conference (Spring Conference), we invite our clients' executive managers to attend as guest speakers, so that we can obtain direct stimulus for the ongoing development and refinement of our services. On our client portal (connect.munichre), as an exclusive service for our clients and business partners, we provide useful risk assessment tools, important publications and policies, and ensure that data is transferred securely with the help of the latest technology. This service range is complemented by innovative topic apps using new information channels. Neutral third parties and specialised market research institutes (such as Flaspöhler for reinsurance) regularly conduct and review the results of client opinions and comments on our Group. These results are then taken into account in our strategic planning. Client communication using social media is a key factor in today's world. Munich Re provides information and promotes exchanges on über Twitter, Facebook, Google+, LinkedIn, XING and YouTube. Client management Primary insurance The ERGO business philosophy focuses on clear and up-to-date communication, structured, user-friendly feedback management certified to ISO 9001 (for example in the form of a free hotline), and prompt, efficient assistance and claims handling in the event of loss. ERGO consistently lives up to its marketing claim To insure is to understand , with needs-based advice, easily understandable communication, a digital customer service and tailor-made products that recognise and respond to customers' personal concerns. (ERGO: Clear language initiative). As a means of promoting dialogue with customers, the ERGO Customer Report has been published in PDF form every year since 2011. The report responds in detail to customers' questions and expectations. A Customer Advocate ensures that customer perspectives and complaints are taken into account in product design and procedural issues. Our ERGO customers have a variety of sales channels to choose from: independent agents, direct sales staff, brokers and strong cooperation partners in Germany and abroad. Every customer can take part in the ERGO Customer Workshop (ERGO Open Innovation Platform) by assessing ongoing projects, ideas and developments and contributing suggestions via anonymised surveys on the internet platform. The objective is to obtain opinions on a range of topics, for example products or services. All staff members have access to the findings so they can inform themselves about customer feedback with a view to providing even better individual advice. Client management Munich Health By offering various solutions and services, Munich Health supports insurers in local markets. To analyse health risks, for example, Munich Health provides its reinsurance clients with modern programmes and tools to standardise the assessment of medical risks. In the Middle East, with the help of intelligent concepts for the use of joint infrastructure and processes, Munich Health managed to expand its presence from the United Arab Emirates to Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Oman within a short time. This will allow it to provide large sections of the local populations with appropriate and affordable medical care. Every two years, DKV Seguros, our Spanish Munich Health subsidiary, conducts a survey among its target client groups in order to identify new needs and recent changes. Its annual customer report informs each stakeholder group in detail about current topics and new, sustainable primary insurance solutions. Investment MEAG is a professional partner to external institutional investors and private investors in need of asset management services. It also offers Socially Responsible Investments (SRI) in the form of funds: MEAG FairReturn and MEAG Nachhaltigkeit (MEAG funds). MEAG provides extensive information to its investors by way of monthly fund reports, market forecasts and publication of fund prices and performance on each trading day at meag.com. MEAG regularly participates in public lectures, panel debates and round table discussions, stating its position with regard to the principles for responsible investment (PRI) and thus contributes to the regular exchange of ideas and information, including within the financial sector. Dialogue with our staff – An open partnership With their dedication and wide range of experience, Munich Re's employees make a vital contribution to the success of the whole Group. We therefore encourage an open and cooperative dialogue with our staff. We conduct an ongoing dialogue with staff around the world at all levels. Regular feedback is standard for the Group. The extensive intranet services at business-field, regional and local levels provide staff with a rich supply of information, supporting employee communication and a wide range of discussion forums and cross-company symposiums. In addition, staff surveys conducted in various forms and at different levels give staff the opportunity to express their opinions. In 2012, Munich Re introduced Global Leadership Monitoring – more than 10,000 employees provided feedback on the leadership behaviour of their managers. This process promotes dialogue between employees and managers. We also offer employees a number of internal communication channels, through which we regularly report on current topics related to the Group and to our staff. Examples include the online magazine go ahead for Reinsurance and Munich Health, and the staff magazines ERGO.magazin and MEAG.COM”. Staff representative bodies also play a central role in ensuring a constructive dialogue. At the highest level, the employee representatives in the Supervisory Board of Munich Reinsurance Company and other companies make an important contribution to the overarching dialogue. In accordance with local requirements, staff associations and employee delegates represent staff interests in a large number of forums. NGOs, associations and policy makers – Open for other people's knowledge Munich Re is also in contact with important stakeholder groups with whom we have no direct business relationship. In such cases, we value the exchange of expertise and knowledge on current or emerging global questions and insurance topics, and on economic and social developments worldwide. Through our Corporate Responsibility, Group Legal, Corporate Climate Centre and other departments, we are in constant contact at national and international level with a large number of interest groups, NGOs, UN institutions, public administration bodies and the scientific community. Working with a whole range of different political institutions and national governments, Munich Re provides advice on current topics relating to climate change, and contributes the expertise of its Corporate Climate Centre. Munich Re is an active member in many insurance industry initiatives and associations. Among other activities, the company is involved in various bodies and committees of the German Insurance Association. Society – A networked partnership The Munich Re Group aims to actively contribute its comprehensive knowledge gained over many years to discussions on the challenges facing our society today. Our experts engage in intensive dialogue around the world with research scientists, associations and other organisations and are involved in a large number of national and international research and development projects, such as the Global Earthquake Model (GEM), GEOHazards International, the Global Climate Forum and the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). As part of this involvement, Munich Re makes available its extensive knowledge and financial resources to the relevant organisations and scientists. Each year, the Munich Re Foundation organises public dialogue forums to discuss the areas in which it works, giving participants an opportunity to exchange views with leading politicians, scientists and journalists. Such experts are regular guests at these events. In the context of public-private partnerships in developing countries, Munich Re cooperates with government institutions, associations and companies, for example with the Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ). Such projects help give the poorer segments of the world's population access to adequate insurance protection through innovative financial solutions. The Munich Re Foundation organises the International Microinsurance Conference each year– a forum for microinsurance experts from around the world. The conference offers representatives of the insurance industry, regulatory authorities, development organisations and research institutes a platform to discuss both standard and novel ways of providing reasonably priced insurance for the lowest income groups. Through its various foundations (the Munich Re Foundation, Dr. Hans-Jürgen Schinzler Foundation, ERGO Youth & Future Foundation, DKV Integralia Foundation, Spain), Munich Re also engages in charitable and social work; these foundations contribute to cultural activities by sponsoring initiatives and projects at Group locations worldwide. In Munich, for example, Munich Re has started a cooperation with the Städtische Galerie im Lenbachhaus. GRI: G4-18; G4-19; G4-20; G4-21; G4-24; G4-25; G4-26; G4-27; G4-37; G4-PR5 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Strategy and challenges Materiality analysis Related topics Strategy Relevant topics for Munich Re Stakeholder dialogue Corporate responsibility is an attitude towards how we do business, and at the same time, a mirror of change within society. The world around us is a dynamic one, and values and expectations are changing, with new challenges calling for new solutions. Our analysis of the developments around us and the dialogue we Statement by the CEO maintain with our stakeholders help us to weigh up our strategic decisions better Our guiding principles and place the appropriate emphasis on our activities. Our voluntary commitments We face far-reaching challenges worldwide that will have a significant impact on the Fields of action future of the insurance industry. We can broaden our understanding of the dimensions of these challenges by increasingly incorporating the assessments and perspectives of Organisational positioning our internal and external stakeholders. Objectives and measures From our expert analyses, our dialogue with stakeholders and through cooperating on Milestones international initiatives, we have already been identifying for some years the major topic areas that are of importance for our business model: climate change, vulnerability Stakeholder dialogue of economies, demographic change and access to financial solutions. This year, in the Materiality analysis light of global developments, we decided to include the topics of digitalisation and new types of risk (emerging risks) as further material challenges. The importance of these topics is particularly high for providers of financial services and insurances, and is continuing to increase with the growing use of digital solutions and technological innovations. The input of our stakeholders and experts We regularly discuss with selected experts the new forms, trends and additional issues that are materialising in these six major areas and are of importance for our corporate responsibility perspective. The comprehensive trend analysis we undertake within the company every five years also acts as a further reference framework for us. Strategists from each business field, along with specialists from our Risk Management department or from multi-business-field panels are also involved in this process. We discuss the importance of the topics and trends identified with selected stakeholders, such as investors and analysts, scientists, consultants, NGOs, competitors within the industry and clients. The figure below depicts these topics – based on their degree of importance for our business and for our stakeholders. In this way, we wish to highlight the topics that are considered as of special relevance . The importance of the individual aspects for our business are described in the category Challenges . Source: Munich Re GRI: G4-2; G4-18; G4-19; G4-20; G4-21; G4-26 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Strategy and challenges Climate change Related topics Challenges Putting knowledge to use, devising solutions Solutions Insurance concepts for renewable Increased flooding, heatwaves, droughts and severe storms: for over 40 years, energies Munich Re has been researching the changes in the frequency of weather-related Environmental management loss events and has made use of this knowledge to understand weather and Climate protection climate risks better, and to develop solutions for them. SystemAgro Climate change Ecological insurance solutions Vulnerable economies The current status of scientific knowledge shows that climate change is happening and Investments in infrastructure, focus that it can only be mitigated by systematic carbon reduction measures. The most renewables Demographic change Membership and partnerships effective way would be the adoption of an ambitious international climate policy by as Access to financial solutions many countries as possible. While negotiations on a global climate agreement at a political level have made little progress, we as a company are taking action. Our Emerging risks munichre.com knowledge and our solution strategies help cushion the effects of climate change and Digitalisation pave the way towards a sustainable and low-carbon future. Touch Natural Hazards Risk report: Climate change (PDF, Climate change has diverse consequences: The physical changes, in other words 111 KB) regional changes in weather patterns in terms of frequency and extent, are one of the Focus topic Climate change consequences that are of extreme relevance for reinsurance. Extreme weather events NATHAN Risk Suite result in high material damage to buildings and infrastructure, as well as significant loss Topics Online: 40 years of Geo Risk of revenue in agriculture. There are frequent casualties and victims in regions where Research risk prevention is still in its infancy. The consequences of climate change can also be of Topics Online: Keeping an overview a regulatory kind. On the one hand, these are connected with the regulation of carbon of all risks emissions and accompanying laws, and on the other, with liability issues and safety aspects. External links How high the cost of climate change will turn out to be will depend on the approach that MCII (Munich Climate Insurance is taken to it, and how the costs for mitigation and adaptation are distributed. Many Initiative) studies have endeavoured to estimate the cost of climate change, with very different results. For us, it means analysing all the consequences of climate change, both physical and regulatory, as well as the changes in technology. Climate change is one of the greatest risks facing humankind this century. Through a part of its core business, the insurance industry is directly affected and therefore assumes a leading role in devising solutions for climate protection and adaptation to the inevitable changes. Professor Peter Höppe, Head of Munich Re’s Geo Risks Research/Corporate Climate Centre Our approach: Expertise and research In the financial and insurance sector, Munich Re is a pioneer in analysing the consequences of climate change. In the 1970s, as part of geo risk research activities within the company, Munich Re began to investigate the causes behind increasingly costly losses from weather-related natural catastrophes, and to record the associated losses. Over the years, the complexity of the issues involved became increasingly clear as scientific advances were made. Today, we are integrated into a comprehensive scientific network that gives us access to the latest findings on climate change, and ensures a high level of quality for our analyses. The different findings from these analyses are consolidated on an ongoing basis and translated into relevant recommendations for action for the Munich Re Group. They are also incorporated into risk assessment tools for natural hazards, such as the NATHAN Risk Suite, which we provide to our clients. Our action: Specific and future-oriented Climate change places special demands on us as a company. In 2008, Munich Re developed a strategic approach that comprehensively maps the topics and bundles every aspect of our knowledge and skills. The Corporate Climate Centre was charged with implementation and development of this approach. In this Group-wide network, staff members research the consequences of climate change and work on pioneering concepts and product solutions. At Munich Re, Dr. Torsten Jeworrek, Reinsurance CEO, is responsible for all insurance-specific matters relating to climate change. He is supported in this task by Professor Peter Höppe, Head of Geo Risks Research/Corporate Climate Centre, and by all the members of the Board of Management, departmental managers, and staff at the various units involved with products and questions relating to climate change. Concrete, forward-looking solutions In these efforts, we are continuously developing solutions for climate protection. Our strategic approach includes both business-related activities and measures in the context of our corporate responsibility. It comprises the following components: Risk evaluation As a company, we need to understand the business policy risks arising from climate change and adapt to its consequences. In risk evaluation, we determine the risks from climate change that have a direct impact on our business model. These include the analysis and evaluation of weather-related natural hazards, but also regulatory and technical changes with a direct influence on our insurance business and on our investment management. Development of risk transfer solutions One of our business objectives is to offer solutions. Through developing risk transfer solutions, we can make an active contribution to climate protection, firstly by cushioning the effects of climate change on natural hazards, and secondly by facilitating the introduction of climate-friendly technologies through our assumption of risks. Examples include the development of innovative insurance solutions in the field of technology (renewable energies, new technologies), as well as coverage concepts in the agriculture sector and protection against weather risks based on parametric triggers. This enables us to develop business growth areas for our company in connection with mitigation and adaptation. Asset management As a company, we invest our capital in a responsible way, and contribute, for example through investments, to reducing carbon emissions. Changing political and regulatory background conditions, e.g. in the energy and carbon markets, are also generating new opportunities in the field of asset management. For example, we have been investing for a number of years in renewable energies, providing private-sector capital to finance infrastructure measures. Carbon neutrality strategy In our Group strategy, we also take a concrete and future-oriented approach. Munich Re advocates effective and binding rules on carbon emissions not only internationally, but also internally within the Group. Business operations throughout our Group are to be made carbon-neutral by the end of 2015, based on our internal environmental management system, which enables us to continually improve our carbon footprint and emissions balance. Involvement in climate initiatives For a number of years, Munich Re has played an active role in a range of national and international climate protection organisations, such as the United Nations Environmental Program, and as a board member of the Global Climate Forum. We are convinced that, with our expertise, we are a valuable partner for political decision-makers, organisations and companies. One group particularly affected by climate change is that of emerging and developing countries. The Munich Climate Insurance Initiative (MCII) was established in 2005, at the initiative of Munich Re and representatives from the World Bank, NGOs and the scientific community, as a charitable organisation with a secretariat in the United Nations University in Bonn. The underlying idea was to support adaptation to climate change in developing countries through providing insurance-related risk management mechanisms. Since then, MCII has contributed suggestions on risk management to climate negotiations and provided technical support in the discussions on dealing with losses from climate change under the UNFCCC Loss and Damage programme and the Warsaw International Mechanism . You can find further information under the headings Management , Solutions , Facts and figures , as well as on the Munich Re home page, particularly under the focus topic Climate change. GRI: G4-EC2; G4-EC8; G4-DMA-Product Portfolio Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Strategy and challenges Vulnerable economies Related topics Challenges Stability through risk transfer Access to financial solutions Solutions for developing countries Every form of economic transaction and investment harbours risks. Protecting and emerging markets against them is a prerequisite for the progress in economies. Economic losses caused by the forces of nature particularly impact not only economic output but also other economic factors such as public finances and the foreign trade of Climate change countries affected. When natural disasters occur, Munich Re provides support as Vulnerable economies a reliable (re)insurance partner for the rapid and sustainable recovery of economies and capital markets. Demographic change Access to financial solutions Citing Gesamtverband Deutsche Versicherungswirtschaft e.V. (GDV), insurance is a basic prerequisite for virtually any economic activity. Insurable risks relieve the burden Emerging risks on the private sector, thereby allowing it to take advantage of entrepreneurial Digitalisation opportunities (such as third-party liability, property and asset risks). Insurance also has a preventive effect, with insurance premiums acting as a signal. They allocate a price to the risk to be insured, thereby increasing the incentive to lower that price through measures to minimise the risk. Particularly in the event of natural catastrophes, political, institutional and economic parameters are crucial in determining how quickly a country can recover from natural disasters, and what long-term damage it will suffer after such events. These parameters also include the development status of the insurance market. Natural catastrophes can imperil entire economies. As a global reinsurer we can restrict the scale of the damage so that economic development can soon recover. Dr Michael Menhart Head of Munich Re Economic Research Many developing and emerging nations are particularly affected by natural disasters – from both a humanitarian and economic perspective. Natural disasters occur throughout the world. But the probability of dying as a result of a natural disaster is highest in developing and emerging countries – irrespective of geographic region. For example, from 1980 to 2012, fatalities caused by natural disasters were remarkably high in Asia and Africa. The picture was very different in industrialised nations with strong economies, where the numbers of victims were much lower. In addition, developing and emerging countries – which generally have weakly developed insurance markets – must usually withstand much higher loss levels in relation to economic performance than industrialised counties. Due to the lack of insurance cover, reconstruction following a disaster may be delayed or even impossible in poorer countries. This applies in like manner to individuals and to the state. Increasing the resilience of economies Risk transfer increases the resilience of economies, with insurers and reinsurers acting as shock absorbers . They help by providing prompt payments for immediate financial relief which in turn limit economic losses, for example because damaged infrastructure or industrial plants can be reconstructed without delay. Through rapid claims settlement and payouts, we smooth the way for sustainable economic development, also for developing and emerging countries. Also, the insurance industry has the experience to play a key, ground-breaking role in nat cat risk financing, both in private-sector nat cat risk management and in partnership with supranational and state civil protection agencies by further developing and implementing sustainable, insurance-based coverage models. More information on how we respond to challenges involving the stability of (young) economies is available in our online magazine Topics Online. Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Strategy and challenges Demographic change Related topics Challenges The challenges posed by demographic Sustainable solutions for the health change market Medical care in developing and emerging countries Demographic change is altering our society and presenting new challenges for Healthcare and digitalisation the insurance industry because of the heavier burden it places on social security Climate change systems. Munich Re draws on the extensive specialist knowledge within the Group to meet this evolution in the form of customised products in its various Vulnerable economies business fields. Demographic change Worldwide population growth, increasing life expectancy as a result of changes in 3 questions for Dr. Reiner Klingholz, working conditions and better medical care, greater prosperity in many countries: Berlin Institute Demographic change has wide-ranging implications for pension and healthcare Access to financial solutions provision – and therefore impacts directly on Munich Re's business. Emerging risks As dietary habits and lifestyles change in industrialised and emerging countries, so the number of persons afflicted by diseases related to affluence also rises. The increased Digitalisation incidence of cancer and cardiovascular disease, for example, is leading to rapid growth in the cost of treatment and nursing. To address these trends, Munich Re has bundled its global health expertise in primary insurance and reinsurance under the Munich Health brand. The approaches taken by Munich Health and ERGO range from preventive measures and a wide variety of private insurance covers, to providing medical care and advising governments and public authorities on healthcare systems. Encouraging private provision in industrialised countries Particularly in industrialised countries, people are tending to live longer on average, while birth rates are declining. This development is placing an enormous burden on pay-as-you-go pension systems and calls into question the feasibility of the intergenerational contract. Private provision will be increasingly necessary to prevent the living standards and healthcare of retirees deteriorating over the longer term. Whether through private provision for old age or other future-oriented coverage models, ERGO offers its clients a broad spectrum of individual and needs-based products for old-age provision. Meeting the greater need for coverage in emerging countries As a result of continued economic growth in many emerging countries, the living standards of broad swathes of the populations there are improving, and demand for insurance products is consequently increasing. The ERGO Group is endeavouring to meet this demand – for example, with life insurance products in the growing Chinese market, and in India. Munich Health supports stakeholders in developing and emerging countries in establishing and securing a sustainable system of healthcare provision that is affordable for large sections of society. Demographic change in developing countries In the opinion of Dr. Reiner Klingholz, Managing Director of the Berlin Institute for Population and Demographic Change, poorer countries will experience demographic change at a later stage, but when they do, it will happen faster than in industrialised countries. The consequences could find the poorer countries unprepared and hit them harder, because they are having to combat a large number of acute problems, such as economic instability, corruption, poverty and environmental pollution. The poorer countries run the risk of becoming old before they are rich, said Dr. Klingholz. ERGO, in particular, is attempting to combat these problems with microinsurance concepts and by offering insurance cover through special public-private partnerships in segments where a purely private-sector approach is not viable. Digitalisation and demographic change As a result of increasing digitalisation, promising ways have emerged to meet the challenges thrown up by demographic change. The use of new technologies can deliver cost reductions, efficiency gains and enhanced customer satisfaction. In emerging and developing countries, mobile solutions on smartphones can offset shortcomings in healthcare infrastructure, and systematically ensure that patients receive prompt treatment within a doctors' network, for example. Munich Health assists primary insurers in exploiting this potential for making health risks sustainably insurable. Further information on how we are tackling the impact of demographic change in terms of our solutions can be found in the following articles: Sustainable solutions for the health market , Medical care in emerging and developing countries , and Healthcare and digitalisation . Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Strategy and challenges Demographic change 3 questions for Dr. Reiner Klingholz, Berlin Institute External links Challenges Demographic change – three questions for Berlin Institute for Population and Dr. Reiner Klingholz Development In a short interview Dr. Reiner Klingholz, Managing Director of the Berlin Institute for Population and Development, explains his views on how demographic Climate change change will affect various regions of the world. Vulnerable economies Dr. Klingholz, in your opinion what are the three most important challenges for Demographic change societies posed by demographic change? That very much depends on the country you are looking at. A country like Germany is 3 questions for Dr. Reiner Klingholz, faced with quite different demographic problems than China or Nigeria. As a result of a Berlin Institute low birth rate and high life expectancy, both Germany and Japan already have a rapidly Access to financial solutions ageing population and a continuously declining number of young people to generate prosperity. In order to remain competitive, we should invest in education and training, Emerging risks get used to working longer, and recruit people from other countries who contribute to the success of our society through their work. Digitalisation Dr. Reiner Klingholz, Managing Director of the Berlin Institute for Population and Development. And what does this mean for other countries? Newly industrialised countries such as China, Brazil or Turkey are on the same path as ourselves but have not advanced so far along it. They have a very large number of young people in work but already there are fewer coming along behind them. They must attempt to provide their large working population with jobs and the necessary training in order to reap a demographic dividend . It is only in this way that they can generate sufficient prosperity to cope financially with the ageing process, which will start in these countries about 20 years later than in Germany. The developing countries – particularly in Africa – are not so far down this path. In these countries the birth rate must first reduce in order to improve people's development opportunities. The best way to achieve this is education, especially for girls. Women who have a secondary school leaving certificate have fewer children and are more concerned about their children's success and health. What opportunities do you see for insurers and reinsurers to partner these changes over the long term? As all societies will experience this change sooner or later, an ever-increasing number of people will need to be provided for financially in their old age. This can be achieved both through state social security systems and private provision. The poorer countries are paying little attention to this because they are faced with other, more pressing problems. But demographic change is also progressing faster there than was the case in industrialised countries in past times. These countries are running the risk of becoming old before they are rich. Insurers must adjust themselves to the fact that the economic growth rate in the highly developed countries will reduce further as a result of ageing and declining populations. Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Strategy and challenges Access to financial solutions Related topics Challenges Innovative partnerships in developing and Solutions for developing countries emerging countries and emerging markets Microinsurances (primary insurance) SystemAgro Millions of people, primarily in developing countries, lack adequate insurance Munich Re Foundation cover and capital for investment. At the same time, it is precisely these countries Climate change that are particularly hard hit by natural catastrophes. Munich Re has entered into public-private partnerships and microinsurance cover arrangements in these External links Vulnerable economies countries in order to contribute to the development and propagation of innovative insurance solutions in both primary insurance and reinsurance Munich Re Foundation Demographic change business. Munich Climate Insurance Initiative Access to financial solutions (MCII) Developing and emerging countries are hit particularly often by natural catastrophes Caribbean Catastrophe Risk 3 questions for Dirk Reinhard, Munich such as floods, earthquakes and cyclones. At the same time, of the world's four billion Insurance Facility (CCRIF) Re Foundation people with the lowest incomes, only around 250 million have insurance that would Emerging risks cover the material damage incurred in such instances to guarantee them a stable economic existence. In Bangladesh, Laos, Angola and Ethiopia, fewer than 1% of the Digitalisation population have access to insurance. Underinsurance can impact on the development and resilience of an economy. With our solutions, we hope to make a contribution to the growth of developing and emerging countries. At the same time, we also perceive business potential in these markets. Developing and emerging countries – A growing market In developing and emerging countries, microinsurance products are playing an ever more important role. Demand is growing primarily in rural areas and is being boosted by the relative ease with which people can be contacted by mobile or smart phone. Because of their expertise, insurers are the main players offering area-wide microinsurance cover to a large number of people. These microinsurance policies make a significant contribution to economic stability in developing and emerging countries. Cooperative agreements with local institutions and existing infrastructures (e.g. bank branches and community centres, as is the case in India) are often used to bring microinsurance solutions to as many people as possible. One example of this type of cooperation is on weather insurance for peasant farmers in India. Our Indo-German joint venture, HDFC ERGO, working in close cooperation with non-governmental organisations and microfinance institutions, has developed an innovative insurance product to protect farmers against crop failures caused by the weather. Mark Lammerskitten, ERGO's microinsurance specialist for India, estimates that total gross premiums now amount to about €60m. Total number of lives and properties covered by country in millions 01 02 03 Source: Microinsurance Network / Münchener Rück Stiftung Public-private partnership (PPP) as a solution Munich Re is increasingly collaborating with local authorities and with global partners to offer new, region-specific finance solutions. In such cases, product expertise is combined with local knowledge and infrastructures. State institutions, cooperatives, NGOs and private-sector companies are all involved in these kinds of multi-sector collaborations (public-private partnerships). The resultant new, region-specific forms of cover are often the first practical step towards developing a comprehensive risk management system for developing countries. You can find a detailed overview of current projects, such as the Munich Climate Insurance Initiative (MCII) and the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility (CCRIF) under the heading Solutions: Solutions for developing countries and emerging markets . The Munich Re Foundation promotes microinsurance dialogue The Munich Re Foundation is also involved in microfinance. The Foundation and the global Microinsurance Network jointly host the Annual International Microinsurance Conference in a developing or emerging country to discuss the latest developments in this field. Following Mexico City, the 11th International Microinsurance Conference will be held in Casablanca, Morocco, from 12 to 14 November 2015. The prime objective of this conference, the world's largest microinsurance gathering, is to exchange knowledge on ways to protect low-income population groups against risk. The conference provides experts with an international platform to discuss how the potential of microinsurance can be extended further, based on experience and forward estimates. This event is complemented by further conferences in smaller groups held in conjunction with local authorities, in which regional solutions for specific markets are discussed. As a further step in this direction, the Munich Re Foundation also supports the collection of data on the trend in supply and demand for insurance for lower-income groups in developing countries. You will find further information on how we facilitate and extend access to financial solutions in emerging and developing countries in the articles entitled Solutions for developing countries and emerging markets , SystemAgro and Munich Re Foundation . Also read the interview with Dirk Reinhard, Vice Chairman of the Munich Re Foundation. Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Strategy and challenges Access to financial solutions 3 questions for Dirk Reinhard, Munich Re Foundation Related topics Challenges Access to financial solutions – three Solutions: Micropayment questions for Dirk Reinhard (Reinsurance) Solutions: Micropayment (Primary Insurance) How will microinsurance develop in the coming years and what are the challenges which will have to be overcome? Dirk Reinhard, Vice Chairman of the Climate change Munich Re Foundation, explains the most important aspects of microinsurance External links in the following interview. Vulnerable economies Munich Re Foundation Demographic change Mr Reinhard, let's start with some scenarios: How will coverage with microinsurance products develop in the next ten years? Access to financial solutions Anyone expecting enormous success in just a few years may be disappointed. For 3 questions for Dirk Reinhard, Munich example, today's major insurers and the developed insurance markets have taken a Re Foundation hundred years or more to grow to their present size. The number of people with access to insurance products will continue to grow significantly. If this growth were to continue, Emerging risks the number of microinsurance policies in existence today (about a quarter of a billion) could well double. In addition, new technologies provide the opportunity for Digitalisation accelerating this growth. Dirk Reinhard, Vice Chairman of the Munich Re Foundation What must happen to prevent this development from slowing or even coming to a stop? What part can the Munich Re Foundation play? Three areas need to be singled out here: the improvement of knowledge, the creation of a legal framework, and the development of efficient structures for marketing and customer service. We urgently need insurance experts and adequate opportunities for them to work in emerging and developing countries. For example, it is estimated that at the present time there are only a couple of dozen actuaries with sufficient experience in dealing with under-developed markets. The Society of Actuaries in the USA alone has more than 22,000 members, which is a striking illustration of the dramatic mismatch. The use of mobile phones for making payments offers a huge potential for cost savings – provided that the legal prerequisites are in place. Countries such as India, Indonesia, Nigeria and Brazil have already developed special microinsurance regulations or are in the process of doing so. The Munich Re Foundation will continue to act as a catalyst through its national and international conferences, bringing the relevant stakeholders together to devise solutions for the challenges that exist. What specific opportunities from microinsurance do you see for insurers and for you, as the Munich Re Foundation? The biggest opportunity is the opening up of new markets with high growth rates. Many governments and multinational organisations such as the World Bank have recognised the importance of improving the living standards of the poor for the stable development of countries as a whole. Involvement in this field can therefore also be a door-opener with regard to regulatory authorities or new groups of customers. Today's poor will form part of tomorrow's middle class. With increasing prosperity, many people emerge from the ranks of the poor and disappear from the statistics of those with microinsurance. For example in China alone, between 2002 and 2009 the number of people living in poverty decreased by about 200 million. A company that succeeds – as part of a long-term market entry and growth strategy – in developing long-term customer relationships through good, easy-to-understand products will automatically grow with its customers as prosperity increases. In addition, we are seeing increasing interest in learning from microinsurance how to enhance efficiency, reduce costs and offer better products in developed markets. And much more money than is generally thought is now transferred by mobile payment systems. So far developed markets have hardly concerned themselves with these technologies. Simple insurance terms and conditions are a key factor in building trust among customers – something that only a few in this part of the world have realised as yet. As the market grows, so the number of enquiries to the Foundation for support for this development increases. It is therefore all the more important to work with the right partners to achieve the best possible effect with the means available. Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Strategy and challenges Emerging risks Related topics Challenges Emerging risks – New and complex risks Climate change Demographic change For us, sustainable management means focusing our view and actions on the Management: Risk management future. We perceive a special challenge in the form of new, and so far unknown, risks, which are known as emerging risks. These new types of risk bring munichre.com changes for both society and for companies. Climate change Focus Topic Emerging Risks Vulnerable economies As a result of the rapid pace of technological development, of changes in our climate and environment, and transformation in societies and industries, events repeatedly Demographic change occur that push the boundaries of standard risk management. For this reason, the Access to financial solutions systematic, early identification of emerging risks is a strategic focus topic at Munich Re. Emerging risks Over a dozen different emerging risks are constantly monitored. They include IT risks, Digitalisation climate change, demographic trends and the shortage of raw materials. The rapid pace of technological progress – such as the construction of skyscrapers more than 1,000 metres high, or the transport of inflammable lithium batteries in aircraft – raises the question of how controllable such progress is. With such topics, the degree of uncertainty attached to the risks in terms of the size of losses and the probability of occurrence is especially high. Munich Re has the necessary expertise to identify new kinds of risk, to analyse their potential impact and to quantify the corresponding loss scenarios. In this way, we help to reduce risks, while at the same time supporting technological progress with innovative insurance solutions. Heidi Strauß, Emerging Risk Manager, Integrated Risk Management, Munich Re Emerging risks and their dependencies and interrelationships can have significant consequences for the economy, society and the environment. As a (re-)insurer with global operations, we pay very close attention to handling these risks in a responsible way. After all, they could have as yet unknown or unrecorded repercussions for our own portfolio and our own business activities. Over ten years ago, Munich Re established a Group-wide emerging risk management system to analyse new and changing risks, identify complex accumulations, derive the risk potential and adopt measures to manage and reduce it. Identifying and managing complex risks We identify trends and weak signals in many different ways, such as with the help of systematic trend research and our knowledge management system. In regular discussions in the Emerging Risks Think Tank and in the global emerging risk community, a group of more than 100 experts, we investigate the possible impact of emerging risks on our business. Cooperation with external partners complements our internal early-warning system. For example, we are involved in the emerging risk initiative of the CRO Forum. We also share our knowledge about emerging risks with scientists and social institutions through the medium of organisations and associations. You can find out more about some of the emerging risks mentioned that relate to the environment and society, climate change and demographic change on the following pages of our CR portal. Detailed information on how we deal with emerging risks can be found in the Focus Topic Emerging Risks on our corporate website. GRI: G4-23 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Strategy and challenges Digitalisation Related topics Challenges Big Data – big opportunities, big challenges Solutions: Healthcare and digitalisation Digitalisation is triggering a revolution in the business world. Many business models can now be replaced or improved by digitalisation. For us as insurers, it munichre.com also presents an equal number of opportunities and risks. Climate change Focus topic Emerging risks Digital media enable new forms of communication, cooperation and sales and Vulnerable economies marketing. Business processes can be designed more efficiently by employing digital solutions, and the new options for using and analysing data are paving the way for Demographic change product innovations and enhanced services. Big data applications, for example, make Access to financial solutions it possible to assess risks more precisely at an earlier stage. Clients in primary insurance and reinsurance can be served more individually and in a more need-based Emerging risks way, and solutions are emerging for risks that were previously uninsurable. Digitalisation By the same token, digitalisation presents new challenges – of both an entrepreneurial and social nature. The cards in the competitive arena have been shuffled as a result of the access to data and the options for data evaluation. In addition, social values and legal background conditions have been unable to adapt to the more rapid speed of development of the technical possibilities offered by digitalisation. The question is increasingly being raised of how to ensure responsible handling of what are often sensitive data. Munich Re is fully conscious of this responsibility. Digital services primarily create sustainable value if we, as the provider, are transparent and trustworthy. It is for this reason that we are advocating improvements to background conditions for online activities, for example by supporting secure payment systems on the internet and a high level of legal security for contracts that are concluded online. In order to promote the expansion of secure, digital business transactions – such as the transfer and processing of insurance and personal (health) data – we are urging the introduction of European and international standards and regulatory framework conditions. We furthermore attach great importance to the high level of integrity and security of our data networks and promote the protection of the digital identity, so as to ensure the security of digital communication. Find more information on the page “Healthcare and digitalisation” and in our focus topic “Emerging Risks” on munichre.com. GRI: G4-23 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management Related topics Corporate governance Corporate responsibility in business Compliance Munich Re as an employer Climate protection Management Responsible management For Munich Re, a value-based, long-term approach is a basic prerequisite for business success. Mandatory rules for compliance with legal and ethical standards, responsible business practice, long-term HR management and our environmental awareness are among our success factors, also instilling clients and investors with confidence in our operations. Responsible corporate governance To meet our own requirements and those of our stakeholders, we have committed ourselves throughout our Group to codes and principles that go beyond what the law requires. Responsible corporate governance Responsibility in business A forward-looking and responsible approach is axiomatic for Munich Re. It is essential for securing the long-term success of our business model, creating lasting value, and strengthening the confidence of our clients, investors and society in our work. Responsibility in business Responsibility towards staff Responsibility and fairness are a major feature of our human resources planning. We create optimal working conditions for our staff and support their personal and professional development in a multitude of ways. Munich Re is therefore an attractive employer worldwide. Responsibility towards staff Our environmental awareness Munich Re seeks to play its part in maintaining the ecological balance worldwide. With our expertise in the area of climate change and environmental protection, we set a positive example through our consistent environmental management throughout the Group. Our environmental awareness Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management Corporate governance munichre.com Responsible Corporate governance – Our understanding Corporate Governance Corporate of responsible corporate management Board of Management Supervisory Board Governance Good corporate governance creates sustained value. Munich Re therefore subscribes to high standards and is committed to a clear, effective division of responsibilities within the Group's management. We understand corporate governance to be responsible corporate management and Corporate governance control geared to long-term value creation. To ensure good corporate governance, we apply nationally and internationally recognised standards. Another success factor is the Compliance efficient work of our Board of Management and Supervisory Board, and the close Anti-fraud management collaboration between these bodies. Risk management The following requirements apply to Munich Re Sustainability and Munich Re shares As a global company, we have to consider the corporate governance rules of all the markets in which we operate. In Germany, these standards are established particularly Guidelines for dealing with journalists in the Stock Corporation Act (AktG) and the German Corporate Governance Code (DCGK). The Insurance Supervision Act (VAG) standardises specific requirements for Lobbying the business organisation of insurance companies and the qualifications of members of Sustainable supply chain management the Board of Management and of the Supervisory Board. The German Corporate Governance Code contains the main legal rules to be observed by listed German companies. The code also makes recommendations and suggestions based on nationally and internationally recognised standards of good and responsible management. In the annual declaration as per Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act, Munich Re complied again in 2014 with all of the DCGK's recommendations and suggestions. Furthermore, it has been confirmed for the financial year 2014 that all 20 members of the Supervisory Board are independent and free from conflicts of interest. Staff co-determination in the Supervisory Board is regulated by a co-determination agreement. Our voluntary commitments to international standards We underscore our approach to corporate responsibility by recognising international guidelines. These include the UN Global Compact with its ten principles of responsible corporate management, the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) as guidelines for sustainable investment and the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) with its four principles for responsible and sustainable insurance. We also report annually on our progress with all the above initiatives. Collaboration between Board of Management and Supervisory Board The Board of Management and the 20-member Supervisory Board play especially important roles in ensuring effective, long-term corporate governance. The Board of Management is responsible for managing Munich Re and must ensure compliance with statutory requirements and internal corporate directives. Our company is a parent group with clearly delineated areas of responsibility, the Group Committee being responsible for holding functions, while the Reinsurance Committee oversees the reinsurance business. Both of these spheres of activity are governed by the Board of Management’s rules of procedure. The Board of Management, whose remuneration is geared in particular to long-term corporate performance, reports regularly to the Supervisory Board on all matters having significant bearing on the corporation. The Supervisory Board appoints the members of the Board of Management and is involved in fundamental decisions regarding strategic planning and business development. Changes in the Board of Management Dr. Doris Höpke was appointed a member of the Board of Management with effect from 1 May 2014, and has since been responsible for the business field Munich Health. Giuseppina Albo was appointed a member of the Board of Management with effect from 1 October 2014. She is responsible for the Europe and Latin America Division. Georg Daschner, who has been a member of the Board of Management since 2003, retired on 1 January 2015. Elections to the Supervisory Board The five-year term of office of the Supervisory Board expired at the end of the Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2014. The following shareholders’ representatives retired: Annika Falkengren and Peter Löscher. The following employee representatives retired: Herbert Bach, Dina Bösch, Hans Peter Claußen, Silvia Müller, Reinhard Pasch and Richard Sommer. The Annual General Meeting elected Professor Ursula Gather and Gerd Häusler as new members of the Supervisory Board. Prior to the Annual General meeting, the following members of the Supervisory Board were elected by the relevant employee representative bodies on the basis of the co-determination agreement: Dr. Anne Horstmann, Ina Hosenfelder, Beate Mensch, Ulrich Plottke, Gabriele Sinz-Toporzysek, and Angelika Wirtz. The period of office of the new and re-elected members of the Supervisory Board began at the end of the Annual General Meeting. Audit confirms good work by the Supervisory Board Half of the Supervisory Board comprises employee representatives and the other half shareholder representatives. There are no overlaps, i.e. no one is a member of both the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management. The Supervisory Board monitors the effectiveness of its work on a regular basis. The review of the effectiveness of the Supervisory Board conducted during the 2014 financial year concluded once again that the Supervisory Board judged the reporting by the Board of Management and the work of the Supervisory Board to be effective and appropriate overall. Munich Re offered the members of the Supervisory Board an internal information event again in 2014. Nearly all the members took advantage of the opportunity to brief themselves about the challenges associated with the increasing digitalisation and data management in the insurance industry, particularly at Munich Re, and to hold intensive discussions. Munich Re held an induction course for the newly elected members of the Supervisory Board. This provided a customised overview of risk management, corporate governance, financial control accounting and Board remuneration with particular reference to Munich Re. Detailed information on important aspects of our corporate governance can be found in the Corporate Governance section on our corporate website. GRI: G4-41; G4-43; G4-45; G4-DMA-Society; G4-SO3; G4-SO4; G4-SO5 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management Compliance Related topics Responsible Binding rules of conduct for the Group Sustainable supply chain Corporate Compliance with applicable laws and internal rules and principles is binding for management Governance all employees of Munich Re. To ensure compliant conduct, we have created External links Group-wide guidelines and suitable information and documentation systems as control measures. Munich Re's Compliance Whistleblowing Portal The full meaning of compliance is not simply adhering to legal provisions, regulatory United Nations Global Compact requirements and internal rules (in particular, those of the Code of Conduct), but also GDV: Code of conduct sales force Corporate governance extends to making decisions and deciding on activities on this basis. Compliance is (German) Compliance therefore a basis for initiating and conducting business transactions, a platform for realising integrity, and a key element in the business processes. Anti-fraud management Downloads Risk management Each individual staff member at Munich Re is responsible for compliance. On the basis munichre.com: Risk report (PDF, 112 of the Code of Conduct, all staff undertake to act in an ethical and reliable manner. In Sustainability and Munich Re shares KB) doing so, they should avoid doing anything that might harm Munich Re, and take munichre.com: Code of conduct Guidelines for dealing with journalists business decisions in compliance with legal provisions, supervisory regulations and (PDF, 354 KB) internal rules. Managers have a special responsibility to integrate compliance as an ERGO: Code of conduct (PDF, 183 Lobbying inherent component into the business processes. They have a role model function for KB) their staff and the obligation to ensure that all actions within their area of responsibility Sustainable supply chain management ERGO: Code of conduct sales force comply with laws and statutes and internal guidelines. “In our Munich Re Code of Conduct, we have made a commitment to adhering to high-level ethical and legal requirements.” Dr. Lothar Essig, Group Chief Compliance Officer, Munich Re Group-wide code of conduct The central guideline for our actions is our Code of Conduct, which describes our understanding of values and has also been implemented by our subsidiaries. It specifies rules that are binding for all Munich Re staff and is regularly reviewed and expanded as needed. In 2013, for example, we anchored the understanding of values conveyed in the Global Compact by expressly referring to the ten principles in the introduction to our Code of Conduct. In 2012, we introduced rules of conduct to ensure that our interaction with clients is fair. Our objectives in doing so were to ensure that we meet legal requirements and to define a uniform Munich Re position with regard to ethical walls situations. In the primary insurance sector, ERGO is taking a progressive approach: On 1 July 2013, with the aim of establishing a clear business foundation for cooperation with insurance brokers, the ERGO insurance group was one of the first companies to commit to the GDV Code of Conduct for sales. This voluntary commitment applies to all operational German subsidiaries that sell insurance products with the aim of ensuring the high quality of client consulting. The appropriate implementation of principles and measures to satisfy regulations was confirmed in June 2014 by an external auditor. Expansion of compliance management and Group-wide application The Munich Re compliance management system is the methodical framework for the structured implementation of early warning, risk control, consulting and supervision functions, as well as for the monitoring of background legal conditions. It consists of seven tools: compliance culture and strategy, compliance risk management, organisation and processes, consulting, communication and training, compliance reporting, monitoring and control. We have developed a modular compliance approach to allow for local conditions in the different Group companies. For example, a small company with low risk exposure only needs to implement minimum compliance standards, whereas a large company with high risk exposure must effectively implement comprehensive CMS. This approach was introduced in the Group in 2015. Direct channels of communication and the protection of anonymity Munich Re has a Group-wide system for reporting violations of rules and laws. This system enables the Group Chief Compliance Officer to quickly report potential violations to the Board of Management. This officer is the first contact for all questions and assists the Board of Management in developing and implementing organisational measures. Staff members can report infringements and violations to the Group Chief Compliance Officer, their direct supervisor, or Group Audit. The compliance system is complemented by an external, independent ombudsman. To strengthen the compliance system even further, the Board of Management decided to make available an additional channel. The Munich Re Compliance Whistleblowing Portal has been open for all staff or external whistleblowers since mid-November 2013. This portal can be used to anonymously report serious violations involving fraud, insider trading, anti-trust and data protection infringements and punishable reputational risks. Sustainable procurement We also strive to achieve a balance between economic, ecological and social aspects in our procurement. In this way, we extend our commitment to abide by the Global Compact in dealings with our business partners too. (You can find more on the topic of Sustainable supply chain management here.) GRI: G4-27; G4-56; G4-57; G4-58; G4-DMA-Procurement Principles; G4-EC9; G4-EN32; G4-EN33; G4-DMA-Supplier Assessment; G4-DMA-Human Rights; G4-HR2; G4-HR3; G4-HR4; G4-HR5; G4-HR6; G4-HR7; G4-HR8; G4-PR6 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management Anti-fraud management munichre.com Responsible Combatting financial crime concerns us all Corporate Governance Corporate The risk of falling victim to financial crime increases with a company's size and Governance the rising complexity of its structures and workflow. The financial loss and External Links consequences can be devastating for the company's reputation. Munich Re is Whistleblowing portal resolutely countering this risk with an effective system for combatting fraudulent activities. Financial crime may take on many different guises, ranging from direct asset losses Corporate governance and corruption to manipulation of accounts. Although there is no such thing as Compliance complete protection, much can be done to reduce the risks. Anti-fraud management A holistic approach in combatting fraudulent activities and comprehensive prevention is Risk management of central importance. It is for this reason that Munich Re has assigned these Grouplevel functions to a separate Group Compliance Department, which underlines the Sustainability and Munich Re shares importance of the matter and creates the basis for a stringent procedure across the Guidelines for dealing with journalists Group. The guideline contains minimum requirements to be observed by all Group companies. These minimum requirements are formalised by policy in individual Group Lobbying companies. A process of coordination with Group Compliance guarantees adherence to the minimum requirements, but allows some leeway in defining measures, Sustainable supply chain management depending on the risk situation and observance of local regulations. Explicit specifications for the behaviour of employees in handling transactions are included in the measures. Clearly defined processes and responsibilities, effective checks which also monitor the example set by management, in addition to training, heighten employees' awareness of the fact that every single individual can make a contribution to combatting fraudulent activities. If employees notice that something is amiss or their suspicion is aroused, they have the option of contacting the respective persons in Group Compliance and Group Audit, or their line managers. Electronic Whistleblowing Portal Employees can also turn to our external ombudsman or use the electronic Whistleblowing Portal. Our clients, contractual partners and other third parties can also contact the ombudsman or place a message on the Whistleblowing Portal. Anonymous messages can also be submitted. The system lets the user create a sort of mailbox to allow communication while preserving anonymity. The messages on the Whistleblowing Portal are actioned by the specially trained workers in Group Compliance. Munich Re also provides training to heighten employee awareness of the subject and the risks, and provide information on hazard characteristics. Training sessions have been developed that are aimed at top management. These are held jointly by Risk Management, Group Audit and Group Compliance. Measures to uncover suspicious circumstances Specially trained staff members in Group Audit conduct appropriate investigations in the event of concrete suspicion of fraudulent activity. A confirmed suspicion always entails consequences. Munich Re tolerates no fraudulent activity, and takes action based on industrial, criminal and/or civil law, depending on the individual case. To supplement the actions outlined, Group Audit supports the Board of Management and managers in their controlling functions, providing auditing and consulting services. The combatting of fraudulent activities and the enhancement of an effective system have uppermost priority at Munich Re. Our system is thus subjected to continual monitoring, and to ongoing development on the basis of the latest findings and trends. GRI: G4-57; G4-58; G4-DMA-Society; G4-SO3; G4-SO4; G4-SO5 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management Risk management Related topics Responsible Risk management Climate change Corporate Risk management is a key part of Munich Re's corporate governance. Effective Integrating ESG aspects Practical implementation Governance risk management underpins our financial strength, enables us to meet our Managing investments obligations to clients, creates sustained value for our shareholders and protects our reputation. munichre.com Purposely taking on risk is at the heart of our business model; the risk strategy defines Risk management the scope of the risks we enter into. Our implementation of risk management embraces Corporate governance identification, measurement, analysis and assessment of risks. Risk reporting, limiting (reduction to a desired level) and monitoring are derived from this. This enables us to Downloads Compliance keep an eye on all significant risks. Anti-fraud management Risk report (PDF, 112 KB) Risk management Sustainability and Munich Re shares Guidelines for dealing with journalists Lobbying Sustainable supply chain management “Risk management is not just about quantitative methods. It also has a lot to do with experience and plain old common sense. This is an essential part of our risk culture or, in other words, the foundation of our Enterprise Risk Management.” Dr. Bernhard Kaufmann, Group Chief Risk Officer Determining the risk strategy The risk strategy defines the extent to which we are prepared to incur risks; developing this strategy is part of the annual planning cycle and thus embedded in our business strategy. It is approved by the Board of Management and discussed regularly with the Supervisory Board. We determine our risk strategy by establishing tolerance amounts for an array of risk criteria. The criteria are based upon the capital and liquidity available and on our earnings target within specified volatility limits, and provide a frame of reference for the Group's operating divisions. Munich Re Effective risk management As required for Solvency II, Munich Re has set up an efficient risk management function (RMF) at Group level in addition to the key functions of Compliance, actuarial and Group Audit. It is part of the Integrated Risk Management Division (IRM) and reports to the Chief Risk Officer (Group CRO). In addition to the Group functions, there are risk management units in the business fields, each headed up by its own CRO. Our extensive documentation, guidelines and instructions ensure that staff in our risk management structure and the Group as a whole are kept informed of our risk strategy and the RMF's organisation and processes. This provides the basis for active management of the risks we incur. Risk and control culture Risk control maintains and fosters an effective risk and control culture, which encompasses all significant risk categories. It is supported by various committees at Group and business-field level. Ensuring that risk management and risk governance systems are in place and continuously enhanced at Group level is one of the most important tasks of the Group Committee of the Board of Management. It convenes quarterly together with the CROs of the Group and fields of business as the Group Risk Committee (GRC) to discuss fundamental risk issues arising in the Group. Specific risks of investment are dealt with and managed in the Group Investment Committee (GIC). The Group Compliance Committee (GCC) also considers reputational risks at Group level to ensure uniform analysis and handling throughout the Group. We have created further committees at the business-field level with risk governance responsibilities. The Group CRO is also a member of those committees. The following committees are highlighted: The Global Underwriting and Risk Committee (GURC), the Munich Health Risk Committee and the ERGO Risk Committee are responsible for setting up and carrying out appropriate ongoing risk management processes in the reinsurance and primary insurance fields of business at Munich Health. Reputational Risk Committees (RRC) evaluate specific individual cases which can raise issues of reputation in the various fields of business. A unit's Compliance Officer can always be consulted on matters relating to the assessment of reputational risks. How we deal with sustainability and emergent risks It is our business to know all risks of relevance. We take into account traditional economic insurance risks as well as those risks capable of negatively impacting the environment and society. We are convinced that our corporate goals can be only achieved in the future through sustainable and responsible actions. Sensitive issues that could lead to reputational risks are handled across fields of business by the Group Corporate Responsibility Committee (GCRC). The committee decides upon the guidelines for ESG integration and thus continually enhances the Group-wide CR strategy. It is made up of members of key Group functions, and representatives from all fields of business (reinsurance and primary insurance, and Munich Health) and from asset management (MEAG). Under the links on the right, you will find examples of how we deal with risks pertaining to ecological, societal and governance issues as these relate to climate change, integration of sustainability aspects in our core business and in investment, and also how we deal with sensitive topics. Our cross-cutting approach to emerging risks is described here. Detailed information on all aspects of risk governance and the risk management system at Munich Re are available in the risk report section of the Group management report (PDF, 112 KB) (pages 117ff.). GRI: G4-14; G4-34; G4-SO3; G4-SO5 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management Sustainability and Munich Re shares Related topics Responsible An investment that creates value SRI Indices Corporate Our corporate governance geared to sustainability is also reflected in the Challenges: Globalised financial markets Governance development of Munich Re's share price. Their specific risk-return profile makes Munich Re's shares an attractive investment. For this reason, ongoing and munichre.com transparent communication with all capital market players has top priority at Munich Re. Investor Relations Munich Re is committed to the creation of sustained value. Our corporate activities Corporate governance revolve around valueand risk-based management, integrated and active risk Compliance management and an all-embracing knowledge of risk. This strategy, derived from our objective, has proven successful in the past, as our share performance shows. Anti-fraud management Risk management Positive development of the insurance industry in 2014 The European insurance industry continued to perform well in 2014, surpassing the Sustainability and Munich Re shares development of the European share price index (DJ EURO STOXX 600) for the third Guidelines for dealing with journalists consecutive time. Once again, the industry outperformed the European bank index (DJ EURO STOXX Banks) and the German DAX 30. The main driver of the price trend was Lobbying the moderate economic recovery and a diminished risk perception among investors. Given the improved growth perspectives and the prospects of increasing dividends, Sustainable supply chain management primary insurers in particular benefited from these developments and their share prices responded positively. In the year under review, the performance of reinsurance company shares fell short of that of several primary insurance companies, despite the comparatively low incidence of major losses. Overcapacity and intense competition in the reinsurance market – combined with the entry of new market players such as pension funds and stagnating demand – led to significant pressure on the margins. This was aggravated by lower income from investments. However, given the comfortable capital situation of reinsurers, distributions in the form of higher dividends, share buy-backs and special dividends were important investment criteria. Good performance: Munich Re's share price Annualised total shareholder return defined as price performance plus dividend yield over the period from 1.1.2005 until 31.12.2014 ; based on Datastream total return indices in local currency; volatility calculation with 250 trading days per year High sustainability standards pay off Munich Re shares also developed very well internationally from a sustainability perspective. Our stringent corporate responsibility management throughout the Group is acknowledged by sustainability ratings. In addition to inclusion in the important FTSE4Good-Rating, the Munich Re share has been consistently listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices since 2001. It is also listed on the MSCI Global Sustainability, the STOXX ESG Leaders and the Euronext World 120, and it is a member of the ETHIBEL Pioneer and Excellence investment registers. Munich Re's rating by specialised sustainability rating agencies, e.g. Sustainalytics, oekom, MSCI, Vigeo and RobecoSAM, has been consistently excellent, making the company one of the best in the insurance sector. In 2014, Munich Re came in first in the Sustainalytics rating of peers in the same market capitalisation category. Weighting of Munich Re shares as at 31 December 2014 Index Weighting (in %) DAX 30 3.1 DJ EURO STOXX 50 1.3 DJ EURO STOXX Insurance 12 MSCI EURO 1.1 FTSE EUROTOP 100 0.6 DJ Sustainability World 0.3 FTSE4Good Global Index 0.2 Proven attractiveness Munich Re shares closed the year at €165.75, corresponding to a price gain of 3.5%. With the dividend paid for the financial year 2014, the return was a gratifying 8.2%. The DAX 30 gained only 2.7% and the European insurance index rose by 3.7%. Taking a longer period as a basis, the return on Munich Re shares including dividends has grown more strongly than the European insurance index over the last threeand fiveyear periods. For the financial year 2014, the Board of Management and Supervisory Board proposed a dividend of €7.75 per share (previous year: €7.25) to the Annual General Meeting on 23 April 2015. By increasing its dividend, Munich Re once again underscored the sustainable profitability of its business model and the solidity of its capital position. Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management Guidelines for dealing with journalists munichre.com Responsible Guidelines for dealing with journalists Corporate Governance Corporate Munich Re respects journalists' independence and favours a strict separation of Governance journalism and public-relations work. When we conclude contracts with journalists (whether salaried employees or freelancers) to act as PR consultants, moderators or authors, we ensure that this cooperation does not influence media reporting about our company or issues related to our company. In Germany, where Munich Reinsurance Company has its registered office, the guiding Corporate governance principles defined in the DPRG guidelines for dealing with journalists of the BerlinCompliance based German Public Relations Association (DPRG) and the statutes of the German Council for Public Relations serve as a basis for our cooperation with journalists. These Anti-fraud management guidelines are in keeping with those of the German Press Council and the Risk management recommendations of the Federation of German Industries for combating corruption in Germany. Sustainability and Munich Re shares Guidelines for dealing with journalists In order to provide maximum transparency in accordance with the above rules, the names and places of residence of all journalists who have worked for us either on a Lobbying salaried or freelance basis during the past two years are published here. Sustainable supply chain management Michael Aberger, Munich, Germany Paul Begala, Washington, D.C., USA Dirk Benninghoff, Hamburg, Germany Bärbel Brockmann, Cologne, Germany Tucker Carlson, Washington, D.C., USA Dr. Melinda Crane, Berlin, Germany Doris Eichmeier, Glonn, Germany Christoph Fasel, Mössingen, Germany Reiner Gärtner, Wangen im Allgäu, Germany Dirk von Gehlen, Munich, Germany Leticia Gow, Munich, Germany Ralf Grauel, Berlin, Germany Beate Hoffbauer, Berlin/Cologne, Germany Iris Janke, Dusseldorf, Germany Peter Kleffmann, Hamburg, Germany Olaf Kolbrück, Frankfurt am Main, Germany Jennifer Lachmann, Hamburg, Germany Adrian Ladbury, Bournemouth, United Kingdom Jane Lanhee Lau, Shanghai, China Julia Leendertse, Cologne, Germany Tobias Mandelartz, Berlin, Germany Carl-Eduard Meyer, Hamburg, Germany Joachim Müller-Jung, Herschbach, Germany Dr. Tanja Neuvians, Heidelberg, Germany Dr. Max Rauner, Hamburg, Germany Victor Reichardt, Berlin, Germany Prof. Dr. Konrad Scherfer, Cologne, Germany Andreas Schmitz, Munich, Germany Andreas Schuck, Munich, Germany Harald Schultz, Berlin, Germany Dr. Hajo Schumacher, Berlin, Germany Heiko Schwöbel, Tübingen, Germany Michael Smerconish, Philadelphia, PA, USA Sivam Subramaniam, Singapore Thomas Trösch, Berlin, Germany Anke Trutter, Munich, Germany Similar policies are in place at our branches and subsidiaries outside Germany. Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management Lobbying External links Responsible Transparent lobbying activities EU transparency register Corporate In the interests of our stakeholders, we contribute our knowledge and expertise Governance to the political decision-making process. In doing so, we place an emphasis on fairness and transparency. Unlike the laws of nature, making regulations is a job for people, and is subject to different values and perspectives. In order to draw up new legislative texts, the government constantly draws on the knowledge, experience and assessments of those Corporate governance affected to allow it to reach balanced and appropriate decisions. This may take the Compliance form of hearings and consultations, as well as individual discussions. Anti-fraud management In the interests of our clients, employees and shareholders, we participate in the Risk management political decision-making process. We focus on topic areas that affect our Group and our stakeholders, and in which we possess a level of expertise. It is then up to the Sustainability and Munich Re shares decision-makers to weigh our arguments against those of the other parties involved. Guidelines for dealing with journalists Thus, the only form of influence is a cogent argument. With many Munich Re concerns, the corporate interest matches the general societal interest, for example in the areas of Lobbying climate protection and data security, or with investments in infrastructure. Sustainable supply chain management The Governmental Affairs department is responsible for lobbying on behalf of Munich Re Group. With staff members in the locations Munich, Berlin and Brussels, our activities focus on registering the Group's concerns with governments, national and supranational authorities and other organisations. In addition, our experts in the specialist departments play an active role on the committees of various industry associations, such as the German Insurance Association (GDV) and Insurance Europe, the European insurance and reinsurance federation. Munich Re attaches importance to ensuring its lobbying activities are transparent. We therefore provide details to the transparency register of the European Parliament and the European Commission on focal points, memberships and the cost of our lobbying activities. GRI: G4-23; G4-58 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management Sustainable supply chain management Related topics Responsible Sharing responsibility with suppliers Compliance Corporate As a globally operating Group, Munich Re assumes corporate responsibility Governance along the entire value added chain. ESG (environment, social and governance) Download criteria play a crucial role for us in the procurement of goods and services. We Munich Re procurement principles therefore hold our suppliers responsible for ensuring they operate sustainably (PDF, 84 KB) too. We have established the following principles to ensure smooth cooperation with our Corporate governance suppliers. These apply for all business units within the Group with a procurement Compliance department: Anti-fraud management Procurement principles Risk management Our procurement principles ensure that ESG criteria are met in day-to-day interaction with suppliers. For example, we expect our suppliers to comply with the ten principles Sustainability and Munich Re shares of the UN Global Compact, to which Munich Re has voluntarily committed itself. If we Guidelines for dealing with journalists believe these principles have been breached, Munich Re reserves the right to cancel the contractual relationship by way of extraordinary termination for good cause. You Lobbying can find the full text of our procurement principles here (PDF, 84 KB). Sustainable supply chain management Procurement guideline The procurement guideline defines sustainable measures in the entire procurement process. It is binding for all purchasers within the Group. The guideline states that ESG criteria must be considered when selecting suppliers. This includes performing a comprehensive due diligence analysis that includes the ESG criteria. a risk analysis must be carried out for both new and existing suppliers. The risk analysis for existing suppliers is performed on an annual basis. the ESG criteria must be anchored in the contracts with our suppliers, for example in the form of contract clauses on compliance with the ten principles of the Global Compact. Supplier registration If a new supplier wishes to do business with Munich Re, it must first complete a supplier registration process. Using a self-disclosure questionnaire, this asks for key information on the subject of sustainability. This voluntary information also contains exclusion criteria. Furthermore, a check is made to ensure the supplier is not on the Munich Re Financial Sanctions List. Supplier evaluation Existing suppliers undergo a regular supplier evaluation process. Our purchasers assess whether the supplier respects the established ESG criteria. A risk analysis is also performed at regular intervals to identify any breaches in conduct. GRI: G4-12; G4-23; G4-EC7; G4-DMA-Procurement Principles; G4-EC9; G4-EN32; G4-EN33; G4-DMA-Supplier Assessment; G4LA14; G4-LA15; G4-DMA-Human Rights; G4-HR2; G4-HR4; G4-HR5; G4-HR6; G4-HR8; G4-HR10; G4-SO9 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management Corporate responsibility in business Responsibility in Corporate responsibility in business business We are convinced that our business concept can only be successfully realised in the future through sustainable and responsible action. For that reason, the focus of our corporate responsibility – the assumption and diversification of risks in primary insurance and reinsurance, and also investment – is on our core business ( Corporate Responsibility in Business ). Corporate responsibility in business There are many different reasons for this: we believe that it is the only correct way to Integrating ESG aspects show corporate responsibility. In our core business, by taking into account Practical implementation environmental, social and governance aspects (ESG) (see diagram below), we can achieve the maximum effect for our Group and for society. In this context, we have Managing investments made extensive voluntary commitments. PRI reporting PSI reporting Related Topics Our voluntary commitments Strategy and challenges Management Managing investments Organisatorial positioning External Links ESG aspects are important decision-making criteria in defining our risk CRO Forum appetite in reinsurance. CRO Forum: Blueprint on Anti Personnel Mines and Cluster Stefan Golling, Head of Central Division Corporate Underwriting, Munich Re Munitions CRO Forum: Blueprint on Oil Sands CRO Forum: Environmental, Social and Governance factors in Country It is our profound conviction that only through responsible action we can be Risk Management – a new horizon economically successful over the long term. Our objective of sustainable economic added value is anchored in the core principles of our corporate strategy. We can only achieve this objective if our products and services make equal allowance for economic, ecological and social requirements. These three aspects are by no means selfexcluding; on the contrary, they are mutually dependent. The insurance industry is a capital reservoir and a key investor. It allows citizens and companies in a country to accept risks, and it can help stabilise entire economies, for example following natural catastrophes. With our knowledge and innovative coverage concepts, we help to expand the boundaries of insurability, often facilitating the breakthrough of new technologies in the process. Frequently, this also contributes to goals relating to sustainable development, such as the spread of energy-efficient and low-emission technologies. We are conscious of the fact that there are numerous industries and projects that have a major impact on the environment and on local communities. If adequate consideration is not given to such consequences, it can entail an increase in the underwriting risk. This is because, in many cases, there are significant interdependencies. The systematic anchoring of ESG aspects in core business enables us to identify these risks and to minimise them in cooperation with our clients. In doing so, we expand our risk management to include an additional aspect. At the same time, this helps avoid any reputational risks for the Group. For example, making consistent allowance for ESG aspects can reveal previously unidentified risks and provide starting points for developing new kinds of cover. We have committed ourselves to this approach with the signing of the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI). In the area of investment, we have signed up to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). These two codes go well beyond what is required by law or by supervisory regulations. The same applies for several other voluntary commitments we have made. By implementing them in a consistent manner, we meet the requirements of our diverse stakeholder groups in terms of our corporate responsibilities. GRI: G4-DMA-Human Rights; G4-HR1; G4-HR2; G4-HR4; G4-HR5; G4-HR-8; G4-HR9; G4-DMAProduct Portfolio GRI: G4-DMA-Human Rights; G4-HR1; G4-HR2; G4-HR4; G4-HR5; G4-HR-8; G4-HR9; G4-DMA-Product Portfolio Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management Integrating ESG aspects Related topics Responsibility in Integrating ESG aspects Risk management business In signing up to the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI), we committed Externe Links ourselves to making allowance for ESG aspects that are relevant for our insurance business. To begin with, this applies for our products, services and CRO Forum internal processes. We also enhance awareness of such aspects on the part of CRO Forum: Blueprint on Anti our clients and business partners, and cooperate with other stakeholder groups Personnel Mines and Cluster Corporate responsibility in business with this objective in mind. Munitions CRO Forum: Blueprint on Oil Sands Integrating ESG aspects A holistic Group strategy underlies our three business fields of primary insurance, CRO Forum: Environmental, Social Practical implementation Munich Health and reinsurance. With our Corporate Responsibility in Business and Governance factors in Country strategy (see diagram), we ensure that allowance is made for ESG aspects in the Risk Management – a new horizon Managing investments individual business fields. Human Rights are explicitly an important aspect in all PRI reporting dimensions. PSI reporting In reinsurance, the emphasis is on the integration of ESG aspects in the underwriting process and on dialogue with our clients and business partners. With Munich Health, the focus is on access to medical care, disease prevention and the management of chronic illness. The ERGO Group mainly writes personal lines insurance, focusing on easy-to-understand products and a holistic approach to sales advice. In ERGO's commercial and industrial business, the emphasis is the same as in reinsurance. In the field of investment, MEAG's brief is to press ahead with the integration of ESG criteria and thus put into practice our voluntary commitments as part of the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). Considering the social and environmental impact of your business operations can open up new perspectives and opportunities. Lucia Rückner, Consultant Corporate Responsibility, Munich Re In 2012, we established a cross-business-field Group Corporate Responsibility Committee (GCRC), which advises the Board of Management on the development of our sustainability strategy. It identifies and prioritises sensitive topics, on which we develop positions that apply Group-wide. These are then implemented by the business fields in the form of binding underwriting guidelines, best practices and guidance for our employees. With the approach we take, full responsibility for each transaction deliberately remains with the business unit concerned. Needless to say, we support our employees in assessing ESG criteria in business operations. We offer a broad-based range of training programmes, ranging from the technical implementation of our underwriting guidelines to current sustainability topics, tailored in each case to the individual industry and region. At the same time, we expect and promote active dialogue among our employees and between them and their managers. Experts from our Corporate Responsibility department are always available to provide advice and guidance. Individual transactions that are of particular concern are submitted to the Reputational Risk Committees (RRCs) which have been established for each field of business. These committees check whether a planned transaction is appropriate and ensure that we do not make any decisions that could harbour reputational risks. Our objective is to ensure that all employees, irrespective of the business field or the function they work in, are aware of and comply with the Group's voluntary commitments. This empowers them to actively integrate the key ESG aspects into their own activities. In this way, they become competent contacts for their clients and exemplify our corporate responsibilities. GRI: G4-35; G4-36; G4-37; G4-43; G4-HR2; G4-HR4; G4-HR5; G4-HR8; G4-HR9; G4-DMA-Product Portfolio Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management Practical implementation Related Topics Responsibility in Practical implementation Objectives and measures business Our strategic framework for corporate responsibility in our core business is PRI reporting Solutions continually implemented in practice. Below is an overview of the many Risk management implementation measures we have carried out in the various business fields. Following a development process lasting several years, in which Munich Re had an Corporate responsibility in business extensive role, the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) were presented and signed at the RIO+20 conference in June 2012. As with the Principles for Responsible Integrating ESG aspects Investment (PRI), to which Munich Re was the first German company to commit, we Practical implementation were among the first signatories to the PSI. Interview Dr. Astrid Zwick and Stephan In 2012, as the first step towards implementation, we incorporated Munich Re's Lämmle, Munich Re commitment to the PSI into the preamble to our internal Group-wide risk management Managing investments manual, which is the reference work for the corresponding manuals in the business fields. At the same time, it constitutes a generally binding basis for all Group PRI reporting underwriting guidelines. In addition, we included the Integration of ESG aspects into core business as part of the three-year targets from 2012 to 2014 for the members of PSI reporting the Parent Board of Management and for the Strategy Committee. The Central Division: Group Development – Corporate Responsibility coordinates implementation of the PSI principles and the integration of ESG aspects in our core business. With this in mind, staff in Corporate Responsibility provide relevant training for managers, underwriters and asset managers in the different divisional units. In the reinsurance sector, a CR in Business coordinators' network was also established, and the coordinators were focused on the topic. More than 200 staff members have been sensitised to ESG aspects and, in their role as multipliers, are now transferring their knowledge within their own departments, in risk assessments, client discussions and in exchanges with other units. Implementation measures in reinsurance and primary insurance In 2013, we established ten generally applicable ESG criteria, which were approved by our Group-wide Corporate Responsibility Committee (GCRC). These criteria help to prioritise industrial sectors with high ESG exposure, thus allowing sensitive business topics to be identified. The GCRC has now approved position papers and guidelines on various sensitive topics: Position papers and applications on sensitive topics at Munich Re Banned Weapons ESG Criteria for Policy on Cluster Munition and Land Mines Engineering ESG tool for engineering / large infrastructure projects Oils sands Fracking Position paper including specific questions on ESG Position paper including aspects specific questions on ESG aspects Mining Arctic Oil Drilling Position paper in collaboration with Mining business Position paper in unit; based on a master thesis “ESG aspects in the collaboration with Marine mining industry” business unit ESG country rating Investments in Farmland ESG information included in MR Country Risk Position paper in Assessment collaboration with MEAG and Agro business unit In 2013, we developed an ESG questionnaire for engineering projects (using the example of technical insurance for construction projects). These help our underwriters and asset managers to systematically incorporate ESG aspects into their risk assessment. This control mechanism is used in particular for risk assessment with major infrastructure projects. Since May 2014, our Special and Financial Risks/Credit Insurance department is using the ESG questionnaire as best practice for political and credit risks. Current planning foresees that the methodology of the ESG questionnaire should also be applied to other areas of industry and classes of insurance business. We can assess risks even better. Interview: Dr. Astrid Zwick and Stephan Lämmle, Munich Re, on the importance and concrete implementation of responsible business practices in our core business. To the interview Dr. Astrid Zwick und Stephan Lämmle, Munich Re Since 2013, our investment activities have taken into account an external ESG country rating for the sustainability performance of individual countries. In cases where countries fail to satisfy our criteria, MEAG refrains from investing in their government bonds or the bonds of government-sponsored organisations. In a pilot project, we have also made this rating available to a selected group of underwriters in the reinsurance and Munich Health business segments. The ESG country rating is intended as an additional source of information for staff in units that write business worldwide, and as a quick overview of important indicators. These country-specific indicators include, for example, standard of living, level of public safety, corruption index and regulatory quality. Also on record is information on UN, EU and US sanctions against specific countries. It is planned to gradually extend the use of this rating to further units in the Group. At our primary insurer ERGO, sustainability is also reflected in special new insurance solutions, with which the company hopes to respond quickly to trends and create incentives for its clients to engage in environmentally sound practices. In 2013, our sales units introduced a standardised, technically supported ERGO guideline for advising clients that ensures a consistently high level of consulting quality. At the same time, an initiative to use plain language made our insurance terms and conditions more understandable. In terms of products, we offer a greater number of new insurance solutions, such as renewable energy covers and eco-rates for motor policies, which reward policyholders for sustainable, environmentally friendly behaviour. In 2014, ERGO introduced ESG aspects into the product development process for private clients. Driving forward ESG integration with partner projects Corporate Responsibility in Business is also taken into account with product development at Munich Re: Cooperation with the Global Fund One example of this is the cooperation we began in 2014 with the Global Fund. The Global Fund is a funding model to combat the three major infectious diseases of AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. It operates in 140 different countries, making it one of the most important tools to combat these diseases. Our Divisional Unit: Special and Financial Risks (SFR) is developing a series of products and solutions for the non-profit sector, and thus for people affected by diseases, while at the same time generating financial added value for Munich Re. (You can find more on our cooperation with the Global Fund on the page entitled Health and demographics in the section Commitment .) ESG in risk management for surety bonds In cooperation with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the Fox School of Business at Temple University in Philadelphia, USA, and the University of Technology, Sydney, Australia, Munich Re initiated the PSI project ESG in risk management for surety bonds . Until now, there has been no standard ESG framework in surety bond underwriting, which is important for risk evaluation in the field of infrastructure development. For this reason, a detailed survey is being carried out as part of the project to obtain an insight into current practice regarding ESG assessment of surety bonds, and with the joint aim of enhancing awareness of ESG aspects. The aim of the project is to establish a standardised framework for assessing infrastructure projects based on the results of the survey. Global resilience project With the Global Resilience Project , Munich Re is taking part in a further initiative of the Principles for Sustainable Insurance. This project hopes to achieve a change in perspective on the part of governments, NGOs, local authorities and companies, whereby they would invest more heavily in preventive measures for catastrophe risks, instead of spending funds on disaster response and reconstruction efforts. A better understanding of global catastrophe prevention activities needs to be achieved for this, by quantifying the socio-economic cost of catastrophes and assessing the effectiveness of prevention measures. The information obtained should serve as starting material for a strategic commitment on the part of the insurance industry within the context of the PSI initiative, so as to initiate preventive measures in highly exposed countries. Chief Risk Officer Forum (CRO Forum) We are also involved in the working group of the Chief Risk Officer Forum (CRO Forum). This is a group of professional risk managers from the insurance industry that focuses on developing and promoting industry best practices in risk management. Among other things, we contributed to the guideline on banned weapons and ESG factors in country risk management, and also to the blueprint on oil sands. The latest paper from the CRO Forum was published in November 2014, and included a case study from Munich Re with the title Human rights and corporate insurance . Association of German Insurers (GDV) In the autumn of 2014, Munich Re organised a PSI seminar for members of the Association of German Insurers (GDV) under the umbrella of the German Association for Environmental Management in Banks, Savings Banks and Insurance Companies (VfU). GRI: G4-35; G4-36; G4-43; G4-HR2; G4-PR6; G4-DMA-Product Portfolio Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management Practical implementation Interview Dr. Astrid Zwick and Stephan Lämmle, Munich Re Related topics Responsibility in We can assess risks even better. Practical implementation business Interview: Dr. Astrid Zwick, Head of Corporate Responsibility, and Stephan Objectives and measures PRI reporting Lämmle, Corporate Insurance Partner, Munich Re, on the importance and Solutions concrete implementation of responsible business practices in our core Risk management business. Corporate responsibility in business Responsibility in our core business – how does that work at Munich Re? Dr. Astrid Zwick: External commitments such as the Principles for Sustainable Integrating ESG aspects Insurance provide a framework to guide all insurance companies in integrating Practical implementation corporate responsibility issues into their work. We have defined specific ESG (environmental, social and governance) criteria as core principles for our business. Interview Dr. Astrid Zwick and Stephan These aspects are incorporated into the risk assessment, for instance into Lämmle, Munich Re assessments for major infrastructure projects like the construction of dams, tunnels and Managing investments pipelines. This allows us to assess risks even better. PRI reporting Must underwriters always take these criteria into account? Stephan Lämmle: Essentially, yes, they are a must. The question is: What does this PSI reporting entail in practice? All staff members are made aware that they need to pay attention to these issues. How they do so – whether they use separate documentation or integrate the criteria into their risk assessment – is up to them at present. Zwick: We are still at the design stage of the ESG framework. This is no easy task, as we have a diverse and complex business. Developing risk assessments for different industry sectors and lines of business only works if we collaborate with our colleagues from the relevant business areas, who are best able to evaluate the relevant risks based on their specialist knowledge. We have developed expert assessments and guidelines with the divisional units, setting out binding approaches for particularly sensitive topical issues. For example, there are specially adapted ESG questions for the production of crude oil from sand, fracking and mining, a panel of experts for drilling in the Arctic, while a precluding guideline applies for banned weapons such as cluster bombs and landmines. Dr. Astrid Zwick, Head of Corporate Responsibility, and Stephan Lämmle, Corporate Insurance Partner, Munich Re. Image source: Orla Connolly Why is meeting ESG criteria important for business? Lämmle: Risk assessment for complex construction projects calls for a high level of expertise. In our case, these are usually projects worth billions that almost always come under public scrutiny and can involve environmental impacts or changes for the local population. Our coverage concepts allow such projects to be realised. By taking ESG criteria into account, we can help ensure this is done properly in keeping with our corporate responsibility. We attach great importance to complying with and improving standards. We also minimise possible risks to our reputation. Zwick: Our risk management is becoming even more comprehensive, but it also identifies a client's vulnerabilities because these are ultimately the business risks it faces. What do you do if ESG criteria are not met? Lämmle: If ESG criteria are not met, this generally reflects the overall quality of risk management for a project. In extreme cases, ESG aspects can lead to a decision not to sign a particular treaty. If a project involves serious deficiencies in relation to environmental issues or working conditions, or if there are actually indications of corruption, it is in Munich Re's own interest to distance itself from such clients and their business. What further measures are planned? Zwick: We continue to work Group-wide on integrating the guidelines available up to now into existing processes and regulations. We are also systematically identifying and analysing sensitive issues. For treaty business, the key is to engage in dialogue with the client. There are so many different sides to the topic! Lämmle: We will therefore be holding further training sessions to raise awareness in these business segments. It is also imperative to anchor these issues even more firmly in people's minds and to take account of the views of our colleagues throughout our International Organisation. Zwick: We provided training in this area in the autumn of 2014 for underwriters and client managers at our largest US business units. In 2015, the training sessions will be extended to Asia and Australia. Early feedback from our clients on our approach indicates that we are on the right track, and encourages us to continue the consistent integration of ESG aspects into our business. GRI: G4-PR6 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management Managing investments Related topics Responsibility in Pooling know-how for sustainability Risk Management business Corporate responsibility as an integral part of our Group strategy is also Responsible investment strategies reflected in our investment approach. The Principles for Responsible Investment External links (PRI) serve as the framework. MEAG Insurance companies are subject to strict security and return requirements. They have Principles for Responsible Corporate responsibility in business to ensure that their clients’ money is invested both safely and profitably. MEAG Investment (PRI) (MUNICH ERGO AssetManagement GmbH) is the asset manager of the Munich Re Integrating ESG aspects and currently manages over €250bn around the world. Practical implementation In April 2006, Munich Re became the first German company to sign the UN Principles Managing investments for Responsible Investment (PRI), which we also played a prominent role in drafting. PRI reporting Since then, the PRI have served as guidelines for our investment strategy, anchoring environmental, social and governance (ESG) aspects more firmly in our investment PSI reporting process. MEAG, our asset-management arm, is responsible for the application of the PRI. At Group level, a team consisting of representatives of Munich Re, ERGO and MEAG strategically develops socially responsible investment further in line with PRI requirements. Top-down approach and asset liability management MEAG's experts follow a risk-controlled investment approach geared to above-average long-term performance. Depending on the specific investment category and focus, they put together the portfolios using a top-down approach. Taking into account micro and macro-economic factors as well as capital market data, MEAG decides on the allocation in individual countries and sectors. Some 70 experienced portfolio managers are in charge of implementing investment decisions and selecting attractive securities. All persons involved adhere to the criteria of our internal asset-liability management and a holistic risk management process. This is how we ensure that we can always meet our short and long-term obligations to our clients in the best possible way. Internal requirements – our General Investment Guidelines As early as 2002, we decided that our equity and bond investments had to meet specific sustainability criteria. In 2005, this requirement was incorporated into our Group-wide General Investment Guidelines (GIG). Altogether, the major portion of our investments meet sustainable investment criteria. In the asset classes of infrastructure, renewable energies and forestry, we have established an investment process which follows additional important objectives relating to investment (including ESG criteria) as well as financial criteria. We regularly review our sustainability criteria for these asset classes using the ESG criteria of external rating agencies. Particularly in the areas of renewable energies, infrastructure and forestry, MEAG benefits from Munich Re experts' years of experience in the field of risk research and assessment. Criteria for our sustainable investments Wherever possible, we use the know-how of external service providers to ensure the sustainability of our investments. We combine their assessments with our own investment criteria. Our objective is the further optimisation of our investment decisions. Sustainable investment criteria have not yet been defined for all asset classes, private equity for example. The blank spots on our sustainability map are being filled in gradually on the basis of criteria developed in-house and available externally. Equities and corporate bonds: We base our investments on the analyses and classifications of external research providers in the field of sustainability. Thus Munich Re invests in equities and corporate bonds featured in sustainability indices such as the Dow Jones Sustainability World Group Index, the FTSE4Good or the Advanced Sustainable Performance Index. Government bonds: We also assess government bonds in terms of sustainability. As the starting point for this process, we take the internal Munich Re sustainability country rating, which is based on the Country Risk Monitor of the Sustainalytics rating agency. All other bodies issuing interest-bearing securities, such as state-owned companies, public and private financial institutions or issuers of covered bonds, are assessed as well. We use the ratings of independent agencies, for example oekom research, for this purpose. Real estate: Sustainability is also important for us when it comes to real estate. We have defined sustainability criteria (for example, energy efficiency and construction materials) which we apply to the purchase, construction or renovation of properties. Infrastructure/renewable energies: As investments in renewable energies and infrastructure may extend over period of 20 years or more, we carefully examine all the risks associated with them. As well as financial aspects, we are concerned with meteorological and climate-related factors (such as solar irradiation in the case of solar plants or wind force in the case of onshore wind farms) and also political parameters such as the relevant national energy policy. Forestry: In the asset class of forestry, we have also established an investment process which follows additional important objectives relating to investment (including ESG criteria) as well as financial criteria. We regularly review our sustainability criteria for these asset classes using the ESG criteria of external rating agencies. GRI: G4-DMA-Human Rights; G4-HR1; G4-DMA-Product Portfolio; G4-FS7; G4-FS11 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management PRI reporting Related topics Responsibility in Principles for Responsible Investment – Objectives and measures business Investing responsibly Our guiding principles Challenges: Climate change Solutions: Asset management At Munich Re, responsible management has top priority, not least with a view to operating profitably. Our asset management therefore follows the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). We helped to draw up these External links principles and we were the first German company to sign them. Corporate responsibility in business UN: Principles for Responsible A holistic investment strategy aligned with ESG ( environmental, social, governance) Investment Integrating ESG aspects criteria also has a beneficial effect on risk and return. That is why, on 27 April 2006, we PRI Reporting Outputs Practical implementation were one of the first signatories to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Managing investments Investment (PRI), which we played a prominent role in drafting. Behind these principles is the view that investment decisions often take insufficient account of the need for PRI reporting sustainable development and thus the needs of future generations. PSI reporting Principles and recommendations for action for investment decisions Six principles are described more closely in a list of 35 recommendations for action. These enable institutional investors to take account of ecological and social aspects, together with topics of good corporate governance, in their investment decisions. Munich Re is committed to fulfilling the PRI in an appropriate and forward-looking manner. The following examples show how Munich Re is putting the six UN principles into practice: No. Principle Examples of measures 1 “We will incorporate We are pursuing the best-in-class approach in ESG issues into the investment process. In other words, from investment analysis the base population of investable shares and and decision-making corporate bonds, we select the most processes.” sustainable titles in every sector. Sustainable If two risk-returns profiles are identical, we investment process select the more sustainable issuer. 2 “We will be active We communicate our investment criteria owners and openly and address these in dialogue with the incorporate ESG companies we work with. issues into our Our aim here is to motivate companies to ownership policies improve their ESG rating or achieve a positive and practices.” ESG rating for the first time. Munich Re is Active investor thereby contributing to companies keeping a closer eye on ESG criteria. 3 “We will seek For the mutual funds, MEAG Nachhaltigkeit appropriate and MEAG FairReturn, we request information disclosure on ESG relevant to our sustainable investment criteria issues by the entities from the issuers. in which we invest.” We have taken sustainability criteria into Sustainability account when purchasing real estate since disclosure 2007. 4 “We will promote We proclaim and stress our principles via acceptance and through publications in the media and by implementation of the participating in presentations and conferences Principles within the on sustainability. investment industry.” With individual funds and activities, we show Patron of PRI how responsible management can be put into practice: RENT (Renewable Energies and New Technologies), MEAG Nachhaltigkeit, MEAG FairReturn. 5 “We will work Through its PRI membership, Munich Re together to enhance contributes to the further development and our effectiveness in propagation of the principles. implementing the We are driving the exchange of experience Principles.” forward with other PRI members in Germany Cooperation to and around the world. realise the PRI 6 “We will each report on our activities and progress towards implementing the Principles.” Reporting on activities and We participate in UNEP's annual PRI progress relevant Reporting and Assessment Survey. to PRI We report on the PRI and our activities pertaining to it (such as reports and ESG analyst discussions). Munich Re takes part in ESG ratings and factors appraisals into corporate decisionmaking. GRI: G4-DMA-Human Rights; G4-HR1; G4-FS7; G4-FS11 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management PSI reporting Responsibility in Principles for Sustainable Insurance – business Corporate responsibility in business In signing up to the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI), we committed ourselves to making allowance for environmental, social and governance (ESG) aspects that are relevant for our insurance business. To begin with, this applies for our products, services and internal processes. We also enhance awareness Corporate responsibility in business of such aspects on the part of our clients and business partners, and cooperate External Link Integrating ESG aspects with other stakeholder groups with this objective in mind. Practical implementation PSI Signatories: Signatory companies Managing investments Principles for Sustainable Insurance PRI reporting Every day we take decisions that have an impact on our business results and on the perception our stakeholders have of us. It is our maxim to act responsibly and PSI reporting make informed choices. Corporate responsibility is deeply rooted in our Group strategy, core principles and corporate values. Decisions that are good for our business should also be good for the environment and for society. That is why in our conduct we go beyond what is required by law and have committed ourselves to more stringent standards. These include the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), and the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI). Statement by the CEO Munich Re played an active role in developing the Principles and was among the first signatories when they were unveiled during the Rio+20 Conference in 2012. To demonstrate our commitment to the Principles, Munich Re continues to serve on the PSI Board and contributed to developing the PSI strategy adopted by the assembly of signatories. Moreover, we are involved in the Executive Steering Committee of the PSI flagship project on global resilience. The PSI serve as a framework for anchoring environmental, social and governance (ESG) aspects more strongly in our core business. We are conscious of the fact that there are a range of industries and activities that have a major impact on the environment and local communities. The systematic consideration of ESG aspects along the value chain of our core business enables us to identify risks and, in cooperation with our clients, to minimise them as far as possible. In doing so we ensure that the actions we take are not merely legal but socially legitimate. At the same time, consistently observing ESG aspects helps us to identify and realise new business potential and empower our clients to better manage all types of risks. Within the framework of the PSI, we are working together with various market participants from the insurance industry and with a wide range of stakeholders from society at large. The following examples show how Munich Re (Group) is putting the four principles into practice: Principle 1 We will embed in our decision-making environmental, social and governance issues relevant to our insurance business. A holistic Group strategy underlies our business of primary insurance and reinsurance. We reflect this in a framework for integrating environmental, social and governance (ESG) aspects into our core business and asset management, geared to appropriate focal points in the individual business fields. Corporate responsibility in business With our Corporate Responsibility in Business framework, we ensure that allowance is made for ESG aspects in the individual business fields. Integrating ESG aspects To ensure that our commitment is implemented and lived out in corporate reality, all members of Munich Re's Board of Management have PSI performance targets in their long-term objectives agreements. Practical implementation Annual Report 2014 (PDF, 12 MB) (chart on p. 53) In 2012, we established a cross-business-field Group Corporate Responsibility Committee (GCRC), which advises the Board of Management on the development of our sustainability strategy. It identifies and prioritises sensitive topics, on which we develop positions that apply Group-wide. By sensitive topics we mean industry sectors, projects or practices that concern ESG aspects of our core business and/or investments in more than just a single case in such a way that the relevant business/investment cannot be compatible with our fundamental conviction and/or our commitments such as the PSI. For each of the industries and activities thus identified, we are successively drafting position papers that provide guidance to our underwriters on how to address ESG aspects when writing such business. These are then implemented by the business fields in the form of binding underwriting guidelines, best practices and guidance for our employees. Integrating ESG aspects The GCRC has approved position papers and guidelines on various sensitive topics: Banned Weapons ESG Criteria for Policy on Cluster Munition and Land Mines Engineering ESG tool for engineering / large infrastructure projects Oils sands Fracking Position paper including specific questions on Position paper including ESG aspects specific questions on ESG aspects Mining Arctic Oil Drilling Position paper in process in collaboration with Position paper in process Mining business unit; based on a master thesis in collaboration with “ESG aspects in the mining industry” Marine ESG country rating Investments in ESG information included in MR Country Risk Farmland Assessment Position paper in process in collaboration with MEAG and Agro business unit Position papers and applications on sensitive topics at Munich Re With the approach we take, full responsibility for each transaction deliberately remains with the business unit concerned. Needless to say, we support our employees in assessing ESG criteria in business operations. We offer a broadbased range of training programmes, ranging from the technical implementation of our underwriting guidelines to current sustainability topics, tailored in each case to the individual industry and region. At the same time, we expect and promote active dialogue among our employees and between them and their managers. In the reinsurance sector, a Corporate Responsibility in Business coordinators' network was also established, and the coordinators were focused on the topic. By end of 2014, more than 200 staff members have been sensitised to ESG aspects and, in their role as multipliers, are now transferring their knowledge within their own departments, in risk assessments, client discussions and in exchanges with other units. Experts from our Corporate Responsibility department are always available to provide advice and guidance. Integrating ESG aspects Practical implementation In 2013, we developed an ESG tool for engineering projects (using the example of technical insurance for large construction projects). It supports our underwriters in systematically incorporating ESG aspects into their risk assessment. This control mechanism is used in particular for risk assessment with major infrastructure projects. Since May 2014, our Special and Financial Risks/Credit Insurance department is using the ESG tool as best practice for political and credit risks in terms of infrastructure projects. Furthermore it helps our asset managers to assess risks when investing in infrastructure projects. Current planning foresees that the methodology of the ESG questionnaire should also be applied to other areas of industry and classes of insurance business. Practical implementation Our primary insurer ERGO attaches importance to the integration of ESG aspects in its personal lines insurance business and offers a multiplicity of insurance solutions that take account of ecological aspects. They range from eco-rates in motor insurance to unit-linked annuity insurance policies that take sustainability into account in the investments. In 2014, ERGO introduced ESG aspects into the product development process for private customer business. Ecological insurance solutions With its focus on covering and managing risk, Munich Health offers customised, sustainable solutions for the health market. By combining know-how from both the primary insurance and reinsurance segments, we create the basis that enables our clients to achieve success and security in their respective markets. Sustainable solutions for the health market Principle 2 We will work together with our clients and business partners to raise awareness of environmental, social and governance issues, manage risk and develop solutions. Munich Re’s business environment is in flux, presenting ever new opportunities and risks. Climate change, vulnerable economies, emerging risks and demographic trends constitute major challenges. We meet these challenges actively and flexibly with tailor-made solutions. Challenges It is our business to know all risks of relevance. In addition to the global challenges, our focus is also on developing new business potential. One of our tasks is therefore to use new findings to advance the risk models used. With our extensive knowledge and decades of experience, we can thus actively shape the changes taking place. Solutions In treaty reinsurance, where we cover entire portfolios without being able to assess the individual risks, our client managers actively seek dialogue with the ceding company to raise the awareness of ESG issues. At the same time, Munich Re Group staff regularly and frequently speak at international conferences, market events or client seminars about the PSI and ESG integration. Munich Re is driving forward ESG integration within partnerships and cooperations, for example with the Global Fund and with the International Finance Corporation. Practical implementation One example of this is the cooperation we began in 2014 with the Global Fund. The Global Fund is a funding model to combat the three major infectious diseases of HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. It operates in 140 countries, making it one of the most important tools to combat these diseases. Our Divisional Unit Special and Financial Risks (SFR) is developing a series of products and solutions for the non-profit sector, and thus for people affected by diseases, while at the same time generating financial added value for Munich Re. The Global Fund In cooperation with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the Fox School of Business at Temple University in Philadelphia, USA, and the University of Technology, Sydney, Australia, Munich Re initiated the PSI project ESG in risk management for surety bonds . Until now, there has been no standard ESG framework in surety bond underwriting, which is important for risk evaluation in the field of infrastructure development. For this reason, a detailed survey is being carried out as part of the project to obtain an insight into current practice regarding ESG assessment of surety bonds, and with the joint aim of enhancing awareness of ESG aspects. The aim of the project is to establish a standardised framework for assessing infrastructure projects based on the results of the survey. ESG in risk management for surety bonds Principle 3 We will work together with governments, regulators and other key stakeholders to promote widespread action across society on environmental, social and governance issues. Munich Re has always valued an open and ongoing dialogue with its stakeholders. Transparent communication with our stakeholders is the basis for mutual trust. At the same time, this exchange enables us to identify important social challenges and changes at an early stage so that we can then offer or develop suitable business solutions for the future. Stakeholder dialogue With the Global Resilience Project , Munich Re is taking part in a further initiative of the Principles for Sustainable Insurance. This project hopes to achieve a change in perspective on the part of governments, NGOs, local authorities and companies, whereby they would invest more heavily in preventive measures for catastrophe risks, instead of spending funds on disaster response and reconstruction efforts. A better understanding of global catastrophe prevention activities needs to be achieved for this, by quantifying the socio-economic cost of catastrophes and assessing the effectiveness of prevention measures. The information obtained should serve as starting material for a strategic commitment on the part of the insurance industry within the context of the PSI initiative, so as to initiate preventive measures in highly exposed countries. Global Resilience Project We are also involved in the working group of the Chief Risk Officer Forum (CRO Forum). This is a group of professional risk managers from the insurance industry that focuses on developing and promoting industry best practices in risk management. Among other things, we contributed to the guideline on banned weapons and ESG factors in country risk management, and also to the blueprint on oil sands. The latest paper from the CRO Forum was published in November 2014, and included a case study from Munich Re with the title Human rights and corporate insurance . Chief Risk Officer Forum (CRO Forum) Our experts from the Special and Financial Risks department have initiated a project within the framework of the International Association of Engineering Insurers (IMIA), a global network of experts in engineering insurance. The international working group is developing an ESG framework for engineering underwriting, including a due diligence process and ESG standards with the active participation of Munich Re. In the autumn of 2014, Munich Re organised a PSI seminar for members of the Association of German Insurers (GDV) under the umbrella of the German Association for Environmental Management in Banks, Savings Banks and Insurance Companies (VfU). Practical implementation Principle 4 We will demonstrate accountability and transparency in regularly disclosing publicly our progress in implementing the Principles. This is our third progress report in connection with the Principles for Sustainable Insurance. It covers the calendar and financial year 2014 (1 January to 31 December). We will publish an update for the financial year 2015 within a year from now. An extensive overview of all our activities can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Portal and on our corporate website. Corporate Responsibility Portal Munich Re Corporate website SRI indices, SRI ratings and awards received N.B.: Hyperlinks in this report refer to pages in our Corporate Responsibility Portal, of which this report is an integral part. Links also refer to Munich Re's corporate website and other pages in the public domain, which may be updated at irregular intervals. Munich, June 2015 Dr. Astrid Zwick Head of Corporate Responsibility Munich Re responsibility@munichre.com GRI: G4-DMA-Human Rights Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management Munich Re as an employer Responsibility Expertise and know-how as decisive factors towards staﬀ in our success With their specialist knowledge, commitment and continual innovational strength, our employees are driving our business forward and so are a crucial factor in our success. We create the conditions for this by promoting personal development and performance in all areas and at all stages of life. Munich Re as an employer Training and personal development Munich Re is synonymous with an unusual diversity of individual skills of our employees and challenging assignments in a demanding and appreciative work Remuneration environment. Our founder, Carl von Thieme, was considered one of the most socioWork-life balance politically advanced employers of his time. We uphold this tradition by offering staff first-class benefits and support. Consequently, we have enjoyed a high level of Health at the workplace employee loyalty and consistently low staff turnover rates for many years. Diversity munichre.com Career External links ERGO: Career Our aim is to attract the best people by clear employer brand positioning – we offer excellent working conditions, good opportunities for personal development and a value-based corporate culture. Dr. Peter Seemann, Head of Human Resources at Munich Re Successful with a clear position We believe that raising the level of staff motivation through personal development will continue to have a very positive impact on our success. In an international context, our global human resources management ensures that we uphold high-quality HR standards throughout our reinsurance units. This mindset pays off: Munich Re's reputation is being further strengthened in the face of national and international competition. Our comprehensive corporate health and diversity management plays a major part in this, as do our performance-related and transparent remuneration system and our family-friendly structures. The latter is reflected by our membership in the City of Munich's Action Forum for Families, which supports family-friendly projects and initiatives and networks them locally. Top places nationally and internationally We have received further affirmation of our standing: for students, graduates and professionals alike, we have been among the top 100 employers in Germany for years, according to surveys of market research institutes Trendence and Universum Communications. The top rank in the field of finance and the corresponding award for Top Traineeship in Germany also prove that we are on the right track with our offerings for students. The award is based on a survey of 7,500 trainees conducted during the Praktikantenspiegel study in 2014. With our communication channels in the employer sector, 2015 saw us place 24th amongst all of the 161 Germany companies assessed in the ranking by the potentialpark institute. And internationally, ERGO Hestia in 2014 won a place in the Universum TOP 100 Employees for business and law students. Good working climate worldwide The positive work climate at ERGO is not confined to Germany. For example, ERGO Hestia was voted among the top ten major company employers in Poland in an employee satisfaction survey carried out by Polish newspaper Rzeczpospolita. Our commitment is also illustrated by the fact that in 2012 we extended the Leadership Monitoring survey, conducted every two years in the reinsurance group and Munich Health, to include all units worldwide. 10,436 employees gave 1,758 managers very positive feedback on their leadership behaviour and rated this important aspect of employee satisfaction as very good . This is an excellent basis for focused enhancement of our leadership culture. Systematic HR work with maximum outreach We rely on systematic HR work to maintain the same high global standards in the future. This is how we will attract specialists and train them for the right jobs within the Group. Job vacancies in all business fields and at MEAG are advertised internally in the Group’s own job listings, and usually across departments and regions. Depending on the scope required and the target group, jobs may also be advertised on a number of global internet job portals. These activities are supported by international university networking, representation at international career fairs, social media activities and extensive public relations work. Further information on our employee and job offers is available under “Careers” at munichre.com. The current employee figures can be found in the Annual report and under “Employee figures”. GRI: G4-10; G4-DMA-Labor Practices; G4-DMA-Management Relations; G4-DMA-OHS; G4-DMA-Training/Education; G4-LA12 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management Training and personal development Responsibility Our programmes for training and towards staﬀ development Related Topics Munich Re has a clear objective: to attract the best employees for the Group and Employee indicators to retain them in the long term. We are therefore committed to a corporate culture that offers opportunities for personal development, encourages independence and rewards success and performance. munichre.com Munich Re as an employer Career: Training and development Training and personal development The Group offers development opportunities of every kind. With systematic talent opportunities management in all fields of business, we ensure that key functions are staffed in-house Remuneration Career: „FUEL“ for executives with the best and most qualified employees. Over 90% of all management positions at Work-life balance MEAG, Munich Re's asset manager, were filled in this way in the past four years. MEAG’s “Young Manager” programme, for instance, helps young managers master the External links Health at the workplace new challenges facing them during their first year in this role. ERGO: Career Diversity In the reinsurance sector, talented employees with management potential are Training and development at ERGO supported worldwide in line with the same philosophy. The FUEL programme (Future Excellence in Leadership) offers talented employees a standardised framework for advancing specific aspects of their personal development. Talented employees with management potential are prepared very precisely to assume their initial and their subsequent management positions nationally and internationally. At ERGO, the Management Development unit prepares talented senior executives individually for the challenges at the next level. The extensive development of the management culture and competencies is the focus of the two-year initiative ERGO – Focus on Leadership launched in the autumn of 2013. All of ERGO's 2,300 or so managers in Germany are currently completing this manager triathlon – a mandatory, multi-stage development programme. In parallel, staff are giving systematic feedback on their managers in the form of upward appraisals. The basis for this comprehensive initiative is ERGO's Leitbild Führung (guiding management principles), which were developed with the aid of ideas from the 2012 employee survey and have already been established. This measure to advance the development of individuals shows how much importance is attached to this subject. Training measures and career Munich Re promotes lifelong learning. We offer a wide range of training options in each of our business fields and at MEAG to promote key skills and specialist training in all fields of business. Additional training opportunities are afforded by user-friendly elearning platforms that are continually updated and enhanced and can be accessed by Munich Re staff all over the world, irrespective of their working hours. The positive impression made by this development has been confirmed by external sources. In 2013, the reinsurance group was awarded the seal of excellence of the Deutscher Bildungspreis (German Education Award) in the “Innovation” category. The pioneering training process, which was awarded second place, has already been implemented in our primary insurance group. To us, career is not just about advancement in terms of a management career. At Munich Re, it can also mean continually expanding one's expertise in a specific area, taking on more responsibility in one's current position and moving laterally at the same managerial level in order to progress to senior executive status along the expert career path. Standardised succession planning for top management There is systematic development towards defined target positions based on coordination across business-field boundaries. The resulting transparency also improves the use of internal potential. Rotation of managers and staff members within the Group supports the pooling of expertise and knowledge transfer. Depending on business requirements, these changes take place on the basis of flexible models – as exchanges, for extended periods and on a project basis. As part of the staff development process, we have continued and expanded the initiatives launched in reinsurance last year to promote job changes to other areas and business fields, and to other countries. This is intended to enhance both professional expertise and intercultural competence. Combining work and studies We offer our reinsurance staff practical ways of combining studies and career, for example the Executive Master in Insurance (EMI) at our Munich headquarters. This inservice degree course is run in conjunction with the Munich School of Management (LMU Munich). Another example of optimally combining studies and work is the “Munich model”, an integrated professional training and insurance degree course. MEAG and ERGO also encourage staff to enrol for in-service study courses by covering part of the costs and granting study leave. For instance, MEAG staff can enrol for a three-year Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) course or a degree course in Real Estate Economics. Together with recognised academic institutions such as the University of Leipzig or the German Insurance Academy, ERGO offers courses of study such as the Bachelor of Insurance Practice or the Insurance MBA. Support through graduate trainee programmes Munich Re develops talent systematically by providing targeted apprenticeships and attractive student and trainee programmes. As part of this, trainee programmes in the reinsurance group, ERGO and MEAG offer graduates interesting, challenging and widely diversified opportunities to start careers. Our reinsurance graduate trainee programme, for instance, comprises numerous professional and personal development modules and provides insight into all aspects of our core business for a direct career start. The international orientation of these programmes was further enhanced in 2014 by training modules that are used for all trainees around the globe. The statistics on days of training that our employees have participated in, and our expenditure for training, are presented under “Employee indicators”. GRI: G4-DMA Market Presence; G4-EC6; G4-DMA-Labor Practices; G4-DMA-Training/Education; G4-LA9; G4-LA10 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management Remuneration Responsibility Fair, performance-related remuneration towards staﬀ Only if our employees are satisfied will we be able to maintain and enhance the high quality of our work over the long term. Munich Re therefore offers its employees conditions that reflect this claim. This includes fair, performancerelated remuneration. munichre.com Career: Remuneration Munich Re as an employer Our employee pay structure is designed to reward the success of each individual and the Group as a whole. Our internal remuneration systems must be fair, transparent and Training and personal development adaptable because, in addition to other factors in our HR policy, they contribute External links Remuneration towards staff motivation and loyalty. Remuneration & benefits at ERGO Work-life balance Rewarding personal achievement and sharing in company success Fair Company (German version) Health at the workplace For example, our reinsurance group's human resources model defines adaptable remuneration structures that systematically take into consideration the personal Diversity performance of employees and the financial success of the Group. Our remuneration models and incentive systems are coupled with objectives agreed in line with the employees' functions and take into account the Group's financial results. Remuneration thus reflects both the employee's personal performance and the success achieved as part of the Group. Individual performance-related remuneration is therefore based upon personally agreed objectives and performance appraisals. We use transparent key performance indicators to measure the success of the Group. Continually enhancing our holistic remuneration system means we are making a key contribution towards successful, value-based corporate governance. Value-based additional benefits A modern, successful company must take the needs and values of its employees into account and align them with its corporate objectives. At Munich Re (reinsurance), ERGO and MEAG, additional benefits are a long-standing tradition to which we attach great importance. They are part and parcel of our overall remuneration model and mirror our corporate culture. The attractive package we offer includes membership in our company pension scheme, one of the key pillars of retirement provision. Munich Re and ERGO are also members of the German insurance employers’ association and have signed the respective collective bargaining agreements. Munich Re’s basic value-oriented approach also includes paying students and graduates appropriately and endeavouring to offer them optimal opportunities for a successful career start. That is why the reinsurance group and ERGO have joined the Fair Company initiative, committed to providing fair internships and offering genuine opportunities for university graduates. GRI: G4-DMA Market Presence; G4-LA2; G4-LA11; G4-DMA-Equal Remuneration; G4-LA13 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management Work-life balance Responsibility Combining career and family towards staﬀ Development opportunities at work and in private lives, with or without a family, are important objectives for personnel management at Munich Re. We create conditions that are among the most attractive in our sector. Munich Re offers its munichre.com staff numerous different models and rules on flexible working conditions, interesting working hour models and needs-based support. Career: Work-life balance Munich Re as an employer More and more employees are seeking to actively pursue their careers and develop Training and personal development External links professionally without compromising their private lives. We offer our staff a wide variety Remuneration of models to meet their needs for flexibility regarding when and where they work. Work & family life at ERGO pme Familienservice (German Work-life balance The start of 2015 saw the Flexible working concept introduced at Munich Re, greatly version) Health at the workplace increasing the levels of employee flexibility as regards physical location and time. Employees can for example convert bonuses into leave or save up holiday over three Diversity years to then take longer periods of leave. Munich Re also offers a kind of short-term sabbatical allowing an additional period of leave of three months. Also, the whole issue of mobile working is comprehensively regulated. This pertains to working with mobile devices as well the possibility of working at a home office. The Flexible working model represents a considerable improvement in marrying the work requirements of employees and their personal interests. As an employer, combining career and family is a subject that is becoming increasingly important for us. We offer our employees a wide variety of models to meet their need for flexibility in terms of their working hours and where they work, and we modify and expand these models at regular intervals. Martin Thumm, Group HR Manager, Munich Re The stipulation of certain workdays is possible, as is the specification of work hours during the week – which can be flexibly organised in agreement with the supervisor. And modern technology means part of the work can be completed at home as telework. These models are complemented by offers of assistance for dealing with different life situations – from childcare and sabbaticals to providing care for close relatives. And planning suitable measures such as training courses early on makes it easier to return to work following interruptions. Standardised rules thanks to the internal company agreement on family and career Since 2002, the internal agreement on family and career has made it easier for employees of the reinsurance group in Munich to reconcile their personal and career aspirations. When we renewed the agreement in 2011, we further improved the conditions for parental leave and leave to provide care for relatives in order to promote professional continuity. Going beyond the legal requirements, we guarantee parents who return to work within 12 months that they will be reintegrated into their previous positions, on a part-time basis if so desired. This also applies to all senior executives. Comprehensive childcare support We make a wide selection of external childcare places available to our staff. For example, the reinsurance group in Munich offers reserved places at daycare centres nearby as well as places at our bilingual daycare centre in the vicinity. This is intended to make returning to work easier – for female employees in particular. Alternatively, we pay a contribution towards childcare costs of up to €400 per month to staff members who make their own childcare arrangements. And if children occasionally require care during office hours, parent-and-child offices with play corners for little ones are also available. In addition, in-house contacts provide information to colleagues on the full range of options for achieving an optimum balance between career and family. The Staff Council committee on equal opportunities, family and career also supports employees as needed. Munich Re also works together with an outside cooperation partner. This independent consulting and placement service provider is available to our staff as an expert contact point for all issues relating to personal work/life balance and provides support in implementing individual plans both for childcare and care for elderly relatives. Facilitated return to work We make every effort to encourage our female staff members to return to work following maternity leave. To ensure that parents who do not return directly to their previous positions do not lose touch with their employer, ERGO has established a parents' network. In addition, parents can under certain circumstances choose to work from home or to convert special payments into leave. Family-friendly options for staff ERGO cuts a good figure with its family-friendly human resources policy and has now won the “audit berufundfamilie®” (career and family audit) four times for all its main administrative centres in Germany. This certificate is awarded by the non-profit Hertie Foundation for outstanding efforts in this area. Parents who work at one of ERGO's main locations in Germany have the opportunity to use one of two fully equipped workstations in the parent-and-child office (with play corner) on a day-by-day basis. ERGO has also reserved places in several kindergartens near its main office locations, for instance in the City Nord area of Hamburg and Lindenthal in Cologne, and will gradually extend this offer to include other locations – particularly for children under the age of three. At the Düsseldorf location, ERGO and E.ON AG opened a joint childcare facility in cooperation with pme Familienservice. The limited choice of childcare means holiday periods are often difficult for working parents. ERGO has therefore partnered with other companies to set up holiday childcare at the Hamburg, Düsseldorf, Cologne and Munich locations. The primary insurer is also setting standards in care for relatives – at short notice, staff members can take family leave of up to 12 months duration and receive half their salary during their absence and in the subsequent active phase respectively. Simple and effective assistance is also offered by external social service providers. GRI: G4-10; G4-LA2; G4-LA3 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management Health at the workplace Responsibility Staﬀ health towards staﬀ The health of our staff is a matter of priority. Munich Re is thus actively involved in promoting all aspects of health. We offer medical care, sport and relaxation programmes, as well as personal measures to help staff return to work after a prolonged absence. Munich Re as an employer Our most important objective is to take preventive measures to protect and promote the long-term health and performance of our employees. Our offerings focus on a wide Training and personal development variety of programmes for promoting health and prophylaxis that go far beyond Remuneration statutory requirements. They also include expert advice and an array of support Related Topics measures in the event of illness. Work-life balance Employee indicators Health at the workplace Committed health promotion and illness prevention Munich Re complies with the statutory health and safety requirements conscientiously munichre.com Diversity and effectively. We give staff information on ergonomically correct posture for sitting at their desks, tips on effective relaxation techniques and advice on further preventive Work-life balance measures. At several Munich Re office sites, company medical officers provide staff and their families with personal advice or remind them of vaccinations for foreign travel External links and assignments abroad. We also publish the latest travel advisories and arrange seminars on how to avoid security problems during business trips. ERGO: Health (German) D.A.S. UK D.A.S. Austria (German) Fürstenberg-Institute “Our most important objective is to take preventive measures to protect and promote the long-term health and performance of our employees.” Dr. Frank Drees, Chief Company Medical Officer, Munich Re (Munich location) At Munich Re's company medical centre, employees aged 30 or older are eligible for free laboratory tests; those aged 40 and above are entitled to a free and comprehensive health check every two years. The centre also offers information on fitness and gymnastics courses held in the Munich location's sports facilities. We publish the company medical centre's offerings and the services it has rendered in a detailed health report that is updated each year. Munich Re promotes the physical and mental well-being of its staff both on and off the job. Employees can choose from a variety of options. Company gyms, swimming pools and sports halls and facilities such as ERGO's back-care centre in Düsseldorf offer staff members a wide range of opportunities. With ERGO Sports , ERGO makes available one of the most extensive company sports programmes in Germany. International sports tournaments and competitions for staff members are also held regularly. The ERGO Cup, a football tournament between teams from different units of the Group, has already become something of a tradition. In recent years, D.A.S. Austria has implemented numerous measures under the heading Fit 4 D.A.S. . The programme ranges from fruit baskets in the offices and regular health checks to organising topic days focusing on healthy nutrition and exercise. Comprehensive medical advice We attach great importance not only to our staff's physical health but also to their emotional well-being. That is why we offer expert counselling at several sites in Germany to help staff deal with difficulties at work or at home. At the reinsurance group in Munich, Human Resources collaborates with the Fürstenberg Institute to make available a largely external Employee Assistance Programme (EAP). Our aim is to provide employees and their families with extensive, direct and flexible support during personal and professional crises. Staff members can contact the institute in complete confidence to make use of its personal support services. Our expanded healthcare promotion programme includes mandatory workshops for new managers on how to prevent stress-related and mental disorders among staff. Preventing and dealing with stress in general is becoming increasingly important within our health management. One example is a seminar offered by ERGO, Mastering stress with optimism , which is intended for everyone who wishes to take a preventive approach toward the challenges posed by their work. By showing participants how they can become calmer and deal optimistically with stress, we support the health and performance of our staff in a very practical way. International recognition D.A.S. UK was the only employer in South West England to win two awards for its successful staff management system from Investors in People (IiP) – the Investors in People Gold Award and the Investors in People Health & Wellbeing Award. D.A.S. Austria was again recognised with the seal of quality for Company Health Promotion . The seal of quality is awarded to companies for successful projects in the area of health promotion and is held for a period of three years. The seal of quality was first awarded in 2012. D.A.S. Austria was again awarded the seal of quality for the period 2015 to 2017 for ensuring sustainability in the field of company health promotion. You will find information on rates of sick leave at Munich Re under Employee indicators . GRI: G4-DMA-OHS; G4-LA5; G4-LA6; G4-LA7 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management Diversity Responsibility Added value for our Group towards staﬀ The different mindsets, cultures and values of our staff are key to Munich Re's success. After all, their breadth of experience provides a wide variety of personal skills and strengths that are essential to our business. Our diversity management is geared to promoting this diversity, which effectively helps us achieve our Group objectives. Related Topics Munich Re as an employer DKV “Integralia” Foundation Diversity in the workplace also furthers achievement of our strategic goals. The Training and personal development establishment of universally valid principles and the implementation of individual Remuneration measures reflect our conviction that diversity is crucial to Munich Re's success. We munichre.com therefore intend to address the topic with great care. Each individual’s personal Work-life balance strengths and experience have their part to play in Munich Re’s performance. Given Diversity Health at the workplace the breadth of the subject and its cultural embedding, we do not see diversity management as a passing trend. Appreciation and targeted promotion of different External links Diversity mindsets, mentalities, experiences and specialist knowledge are an important focus of our work. For this reason, the topic of diversity is integrated into the objectives of some ERGO: Diversity members of the Board of Management. Logib-D Diversity policy – Global management, local solutions By introducing a diversity policy (PDF, 410 KB) for the entire Group in 2011, Munich Re laid the groundwork for an overarching and comprehensive diversity management programme to promote diversity and embed it even more firmly. This new guideline sets out our definition of diversity, along with the main principles for promoting diversity within the Group, and underlines our global commitment to embracing diversity as a strength and investing in it. The policy also defines the focal points of our action: gender, age and internationality. Diversity management – Our objectives As regards the gender criterion, the HR board members of the DAX 30 companies issued a joint statement as early as March 2011 relating to the promotion of women in management. As part of this commitment, Munich Re pledged in October 2011 to achieve a quota of women in leading positions in Germany of at least 25% by the end of 2020. Taking into account our low staff turnover rate and the average age of our managers, the target is certainly an ambitious one. At the end of 2014, the figure was 22.8% (2013: 21.5%). So we are well on our way to achieving the target. This is also illustrated by the fact that, in 2014, more than 40% of all new managers in our German reinsurance business were women. Regarding the diversity criterion of age, we are focusing on a gradual expansion of health promotion and lifelong learning programmes. With our flexible work models, we wish to fully integrate employees of every age throughout all the stages of their career. And in the spirit of internationality, we allow for the increasing level of globalisation by continuously expanding the options available to our employees to gain international experience and competencies throughout the world. In this context, the number of international assignments, job rotations and international project teams was further increased in 2014. The Group now employs staff from more than 55 countries, and the number of employees outside Germany has once again increased in this reporting year. Diversity – Implementation in the business segments Our diversity targets are being implemented for each business-field in primary insurance and reinsurance, as well as for investment. Primary insurance Since 2011, diversity has been one of several core projects at ERGO. As an employer that makes allowance for the different stages in life, ERGO constantly works to professionalise the range of options available and to develop a corporate culture that values diversity. A special support and mentoring programme for women is being held for the fifth time in 2015 and, for many female colleagues, it has produced tangible career changes in addition to benefits in terms of personal development. In 2015, ERGO received the top4women seal of approval. This employer emblem signals a company's holistic approach and stated intention to consistently expand the number of female employees with management potential, to cultivate their loyalty to the company, and offer them long-term career perspectives. ERGO also shows its commitment to equal opportunities through its participation in the Logib-D project. With the help of Logib-D, companies in Germany can voluntarily and anonymously analyse their salary structures from a gender perspective. The extent to which senior management and part-time work arrangements are compatible has been the focus of a pilot project with managers that has now been running for over two years. The pilot participants discuss the background conditions, arrangements with superiors, with teams and even with themselves that are conducive to successful implementation, all with the aim of positioning ERGO more flexibly and in a more forward-looking way. A further focal point for diversity activities is the development of measures that consider the requirements of the different generations of employees, so as to promote more effectively, and make more extensive use of, the potential of the 45+ generation . A specific success factor training course entitled Diversity has been offered for managers since 2014 to help sensitise them to diversity management in teams. Reinsurance In the reinsurance segment and at Munich Health, we are using comprehensive management training opportunities to emphasise to managers the importance of diversity management. The global International Graduate Trainee Programme was established to promote junior management talent at an early stage, and to consolidate international diversity. Training sessions are held in the USA and Germany, and international rotations form a key component of the programme. As part of the Emerge-Going-Global training programme, employees who operate at an international level, already perform a function and display management potential are prepared for their first project, expert or management function outside their own country. All of these measures serve to anchor internationality and mobility within the Group. Under the heading Gender diversity , specially developed skills assessment programmes help women employees to reflect critically on their personal development according to the particular target group. To ensure that family phases merely interrupt, rather than halt a career, we have concluded an internal company agreement on family and career. This stipulates, for example, that after parental leave, mothers and fathers may return to their former permanent posts provided they resume work with a year. This option also applies for managers. In this way, we promote career continuity in demanding positions – including parttime ones. A study commissioned by Munich Re from the University of Passau is examining age-dependent motivation for advanced professional training within the context of age diversity and will provide recommendations based on the results. We see this as an invitation to consider new, alternative forms of advanced professional training to best enhance the employability of our staff across all age groups. At the same time, we are creating a work framework that relates to the corresponding stages in life. Examples in the International Organisation Internationally, we adapt measures to suit local requirements and conditions. At Munich Re of Africa in Johannesburg, for instance, the subjects of ethnicity and skin colour are of particular importance for historical reasons. Corresponding quantitative objectives are embedded as essential in our balanced scorecard. In North America, Munich Re founded a regional diversity council to coordinate its activities. A women's network has been operating there for some years. Another example of overarching initiatives in this area is the newly developed e-mail newsletter, Diversity & Inclusion , in Munich Re's US P&C operations, which directly addresses all employees in these units. The newsletter enhances awareness of the diversity of cultures, skills and backgrounds in our Group. Equal treatment for people with disabilities Equal treatment for persons with or without disabilities is also a special Groupwide concern. Munich Re (reinsurance) in Munich has been working with integration establishments for many years. Since July 2008, ERGO has been committed to giving greater consideration to persons with disabilities in its staff recruitment. ERGO also systematically invests in training and health programmes for such employees. In their call centres, DKV Seguros and ERGO Hestia in Poland only employ people with physical disabilities. The two subsidiaries have set up a dedicated foundation for this purpose. GRI: G4-DMA-Diversity; G4-LA12; G4-DMA-Equal Remuneration; G4-LA13; G4-HR3 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management Environmental management Downloads Our environmental Environmental management – We take a Environmental guidelines, awareness systematic and targeted approach to Munich Re (Group) (PDF, 222 KB) environmental protection One of the Munich Re Group's defined objectives is to minimise the environmental impact of its business operations while preserving resources. Our Environmental management environmental management system encompasses all the effects of our operations on the environment and helps us use resources and energy more Operational ecology carefully, thereby limiting any possible negative consequences. Climate protection We have planned to reduce our carbon emissions by at least ten percent between 2009 and 2015, and will achieve Group-wide carbon neutrality this year (2015). Group-wide environmental management system: Strategic approach In 2012, Munich Re introduced a binding uniform environmental management system (EMS) applicable for all locations. It is based on the requirements of the internationally recognised DIN ISO 14001 standard and describes our environmental guidelines and the key performance indicators used to measure our carbon footprint; it also governs process-related and organisational responsibilities. Munich Re Organisational anchoring of environmental management In the Munich Re Group, the full Board of Management – represented by its Chairman, Dr. Nikolaus von Bomhard – is responsible for our Group-wide environmental protection strategy and all related measures. Dr. Astrid Zwick, Head of the Corporate Responsibility Department (GD1.3) in the Group Development Division, has been appointed Environmental Officer. The Corporate Responsibility Department formulates the strategy for Group-wide environmental management and carbon neutrality within the scope of the authority delegated to it by the Board. Two environmental managers handle implementation of the strategy, of the environmental management system and data collection at Group level across the business fields of reinsurance, Munich Health, ERGO and MEAG. ERGO's Board member for environmental matters, Dr. Ulf Mainzer, is supported by the Employment, Health and Environmental Protection unit set up in 2009. This unit is responsible for the implementation of the environmental management system and the coordination of the tasks resulting from it among the local ERGO Group units. Environmental managers at the respective locations are responsible for the implementation of the environmental management system, achieving the environmental targets, initiating and putting into practice carbon-reduction measures, and collecting the environmental data. Local contact persons report to the environmental managers in each field of business. Responses to key environmental issues affecting several fields of business are discussed and decided on in the Group Corporate Responsibility Committee (GCRC). Munich Re This organisational set-up allows us to integrate the relevant managers and staff into the environmental management system across all levels of responsibility. Their financial remuneration is directly influenced by the achievement of environmental objectives. Binding Group-wide environmental guidelines The Group-wide environmental guidelines (PDF, 222 KB) form a further component of the environmental management system. These call for: an ongoing improvement in the level of environmental performance and protection in our business operations, avoiding, or at least reducing, carbon emissions (caused by business travel, energy, water and paper consumption and waste) and the application of environmental criteria in the selection of materials, suppliers and service providers, enhancing employees' awareness of environment-related topics and actively motivating them to protect the environment, regularly and proactively communicating our activities and efforts for the protection of the environment to all stakeholders and making available our knowledge on matters relating to environmental protection. The environmental guidelines are binding on all units of the Munich Re Group, but may be adjusted to take account of local circumstances. High level of environmental data collection The carbon footprint from our business operations is the key indicator for measuring and assessing our environmental performance. Carbon emissions from energy, water and paper consumption, business travel and waste are recorded annually in a standardised format and in accordance with DIN ISO 14064. Data for the locations MR Munich, MEAG, DKV Seguros and DAS UK have been verified in an external audit process (twelve percent of employees). A high coverage rate of 86 percent of employees for the collection of environmental data in 2014 underpins the informational value of our results. As many as 17 of our sites are already certified to ISO 14001. This equates to a coverage of 38 percent of all employees. International network of environmental managers A constant exchange of information, best practice and skills relating to environmental protection and management forms the cornerstone for our joint success. In addition to the regular network meetings of environmental managers, joint webinars and working groups are organised on specific topics to exchange views and information about important areas, such as improved data collection, energy efficiency and building management. At a strategy retreat meeting in December 2014, the environmental managers laid the groundwork for the new Munich Re environmental strategy from 2016. GRI: G4-DMA-Environmental; G4-FS8 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management Operational ecology Related topics Our Enviromental Operational ecology – Conserving the Environmental indicators Awareness environment and resources Downloads Munich Re consumes as few natural resources as possible and uses eco-friendly materials. In this way, we minimise our impact on the environment and manage Environmental guidelines, Munich our business activities more efficiently. Re (Group) (PDF, 222 KB) Green Leases brochure MEAG Environmental management (PDF, 424 KB) The carbon footprint from our business operations is the key indicator for measuring Operational ecology and assessing our environmental performance. CO2 emissions from energy, water and paper consumption, business travel and waste are recorded annually in a standardised Externe Links Climate protection format and in accordance with DIN ISO 14064. A high coverage rate of 86% of employees for the collection of environmental data in 2014 underpins the informational Operational ecology at ERGO value of our results. Our goal is to reduce our CO2 emissions Group-wide by at least 10% between 2009 and 2015, a target we already surpassed in 2013 and 2014. All units within the Group are individually responsible for introducing and implementing CO2 reduction measures in accordance with the feasible options available at each location. Special emphasis is placed on measures that offer significant leverage in the areas of energy efficiency, minimising CO2 emissions from the vehicle fleet, and the avoidance of business travel. We have invested in digital communication technologies for example (video conferences, telepresence conferences), with a view to reducing the volume of business travel and the CO2 emissions this entails. We have already achieved a significant reduction in energy consumption and related CO2 emissions by following a consistent policy of giving up inefficient buildings, modernising equipment and parts of buildings, and optimising building operation. Since 2009, we have achieved energy savings of more than 20% in this way at our headquarters in Munich. We further limit CO2 emissions by using fuel-efficient company cars and an increasing number of electric vehicles at Munich Re locations in Munich and at DKV Seguros in Spain. Wherever possible, business trips are made by rail, and in Germany they are actually CO2-neutral. Development of certified environmental and energy management systems Another key component in our operational ecology is to expand our certified environmental and energy management systems and the certification of our buildings. Certified systems require not only systematic monitoring of environmental performance, but also an ongoing improvement in the consumption of resources, the use of eco-friendly operating materials, and the training of employees in the use of intelligent building services engineering. Wherever possible, electricity is purchased from renewable sources, and 67% of the electricity used by Munich Re is currently green energy. The MEAG head office in Munich was awarded the LEED certificate in Gold in 2013, and in 2014, the new DKV Seguros building in Saragossa was likewise certified to this standard. The Munich Re of America conference and fitness centre was even awarded the coveted LEED Platinum status at the start of 2015. The award recognised not only the building design, but also looked at the purchase of consumables and the users' modes of transportation in terms of sustainability criteria. Green building – Real estate with certified sustainability The comprehensive sustainability approach is also embedded in our real estate management, which combines economic, ecological and socio-cultural aspects. The approach focuses on modern and efficient plant engineering and our multiple-award-winning energy management. Both in our own buildings and in the real estate owned by our asset manager, we pay attention to modes of construction and operation that save resources and energy. The result is that MEAG, our asset manager for Munich Re and ERGO, has already received a sustainability certificate for eleven buildings. This means MEAG is managing certified buildings worth more than a billion euros in total. For buildings used by the Group, we have also begun to introduce green leases , aimed at ensuring the sustainable use of resources. The obligations include the use of cleaning agents which do not harm the environment, waste separation, and transparency in the consumption of energy and water. These requirements also form part of the contracts we have with cleaning companies. As a major landlord of approximately 9,300 residential units, MEAG introduced a sustainability preamble into all new leases in Germany with effect from 1 April 2014. Each tenant also receives an information brochure containing advice on energy conservation and other ways to protect the environment. Pilot projects were launched in 2014 so that we can also offer green leases for commercial properties in future. Sustainable Property of Munich Re (in own use) and of our MEAG asset manager – a selection 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 Munich Re America, Princeton/New Jersey, USA (in own use) In Princeton, 7,660 solar panels with an installed capacity of 2.5 megawatts have supplied the office buildings of Munich Re America with electricity since the end of 2012. Besides this, Munich Re America won the NFMT FMXellence Award for energy efficiency last year. This prize was awarded to Munich Re by Building Operating Management Magazine in recognition of its outstanding achievements in the field of energy saving. You can find further information on our environmental performance in the section “Facts and Figures”. GRI: G4-DMA-Environmental; G4-EN3; G4-EN6; G4-EN8; G4-EN30; G4-FS8 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Management Climate protection Related topics Our environmental Climate protection – Leading by example Challenges: Climate change awareness As an insurer of losses caused by weather-related natural catastrophes, we are Environmental management Certificate purchases particularly hard hit by the effects of climate change. Climate change is therefore an integral part of our Group strategy. With the help of all our insurance expertise and research on climate change spanning four decades, we Environmental management want to heighten the public and political sense of responsibility for this topic. One consequence of this strategy is that we integrate climate protection into our business Operational ecology processes and endeavour to lead by example. Climate protection Our strategy: We protect the climate and the environment by reducing, substituting and compensating for our carbon emissions. In order to offset the carbon emissions from our business operations, the Munich Re Group made a decision in 2011 to combine all its efforts in a unified approach and strive to achieve carbon neutrality throughout the entire Group by 2015. The original intention was to reduce carbon emissions Group-wide between 2009 and 2015 by at least 10% to less than four tonnes per employee; we already exceeded this target in 2013 and 2014! Fossil fuels are being replaced by renewable energies wherever possible, while unavoidable carbon emissions are being offset by the purchase of emission credits. Approximately 67% of the electricity purchased Group-wide already comes from renewable energy sources. “For Munich Re, environmental protection has been part and parcel of our social responsibilities for many years. We are continually striving to improve our performance, and our business operations will be carbonneutral by the end of 2015.“ Anja Hirsch, Group Environmental Manager, Munich Re Our road to carbon neutrality We are achieving carbon neutrality in stages: Our headquarters in Munich have been carbon-neutral since 2009, and was followed in 2012 by the reinsurance group, Munich Health and ERGO Germany. The ERGO International companies and MEAG will also be carbon-neutral by 2015. The unavoidable carbon emissions for the 2014 fiscal year are offset by the purchase of certificates from various projects. We have strict requirements when selecting the projects: At least one project must meet a gold standard and be realised in an LDC (least developed country). Alongside technology to avoid carbon emissions, we also place particular emphasis on social aspects, such as job creation, improvements in health and education, the development of local infrastructure, as well as the avoidance of deforestation and the maintenance of biodiversity. To achieve carbon neutrality for the 2014 fiscal year, we obtained carbon certificates from the following projects: Solar power from the Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region in China (PDF, 1.5 MB) Wind farms in the Shandong region in China (PDF, 1.5 MB) Solar cookers from Henan Province in China (PDF, 1.9 MB) Run-of-river power stations in Madagascar (PDF, 715 KB) Efficient cooking stoves in Uganda (PDF, 2.3 MB) Carbon neutrality is one of several key elements in our Group-wide commitment to climate protection. You can find further information on our extensive activities to address climate change under Challenges – Climate change and at munichre.com under Focus topic climate change . GRI: G4-DMA-Environmental; G4-EN3; G4-EN6; G4-EN7; G4-EN19 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Solutions Related topics Strategy and challenges Management External links munichre.com ERGO Munich Health MEAG Downloads Corporate Responsibility in Business at Munich Re (Group) (PDF, 227 KB) Solutions Bringing corporate responsibility to life Corporate responsibility is reflected in Munich Re’s products and services, which bring us financial success and are in keeping with the needs of the environment and society. Reinsurance solutions Complex risk scenarios and increasing interdependencies in a globalised world mean that the challenges and opportunities in reinsurance are constantly changing. By taking into account the aspects of ecology, social responsibility and corporate governance (ESG aspects) in our core business, we are able to identify and minimise new risks. Reinsurance Primary insurance solutions The ERGO Insurance Group offers a wide range of insurance products and services that take account of environmental aspects. It promotes renewable energies by providing the necessary insurance coverage for their use. ERGO also offers various microinsurance policies. Primary insurance Broadening perspectives in the health sector Our Munich Health experts develop a wide range of solutions adapted to the individual market, such as prevention and management of chronic diseases, thus enabling this business field to achieve sustainable growth while benefiting its clients and partners throughout the world. Munich Health Sustainable asset management Years of experience, all-round know-how and sustainable asset management are MEAG's hallmarks, proving that sustainable investment strategies can bring good returns. Sustainable asset management GRI: G4-2; G4-EC2 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Solutions Insurance concepts for renewable energies Related topics Reinsurance Insurance concepts for a low-carbon future Solutions: Investments in infrastructure focus renewable Munich Re is actively supporting the role of renewable energies in the transition energies to a low-carbon energy supply. We offer innovative insurance solutions geared to Challenges: Climate change the potentials of new technologies and their operators, thus promoting the development and propagation of renewable energy sources. Insurance concepts for renewable energies munichre.com NATHAN Geointelligent solutions Wind, solar and geothermal energy are in unlimited supply worldwide. Energy supply Corporate Insurance Partner: from resources such as these saves resources, reduces the impact on the Special Enterprise Risks Solutions for developing countries and environment, and actively contributes to sustainable management and climate Corporate Insurance Partner: Green emerging markets protection. As well as opportunities, the technologies required in these fields also Tech Solutions SystemAgro worldwide crop insurance harbour entrepreneurial and new kinds of risks, such as fluctuations in wind resource or Focus topic climate change system solar irradiation, or the inadequate productivity of hot water in the case of geothermal drilling. These risks have a direct influence on investment returns. The transfer of these risks to the insurance market improves the plannability of cash flows, thereby External links supporting business models and investment in technologies for a low-carbon future. HSB Renewable Energy Insurance With our innovative insurance solutions for renewable energies and new technologies, we facilitate the realisation of a great many projects and allow attractive investments to be made for a sustainable future. Michael Schrempp, Head of Green Tech Solutions, Munich Re Munich Re's expertise and our cover concepts adapted for these technologies offer capital and revenue protection for technology companies, operators and investors. With our many years' experience from major global projects, we partner consortia through every stage of development and implementation, ensuring the success of ambitious projects, while at the same time making our own contribution to sustainable development. Performance warranty covers for large companies in the fields Solar , Fuel cells and LED light technology Munich Re has developed new coverage solutions that extend the performance warranty for photovoltaic modules to up to 25 years. This performance warranty cover for operators is supplemented by a further insurance solution that pays compensation directly for guarantee trigger events in the event that a manufacturer should become insolvent, thereby making it much easier to obtain funding for major solar energy projects and giving all the stakeholders greater planning reliability. Since the beginning of 2010, we have insured over 55 solar module manufacturers and projects for performance cover up to 25 years, including a Chinese manufacturer last year in collaboration with our partner company, Ping An. Munich Re also offers similar performance guarantee covers for the manufacturers and operators of solar thermal power plants. In the same way as the risk transfer for PV or wind farms, this technology calls for intensive inspection of the development and manufacturing processes by experts from Munich Re. Last year, for the first time, we concluded a performance warranty cover for fuel cells. By taking out the insurance, we managed to significantly increase the project rating and, in the process, greatly improve the overall project financing. The performance guarantee cover for LED modules, the first of its type in the field of energy consumption, is boosting an up-and-coming lighting technology sector. In this sector, manufacturers are offering guarantees for the quality of the light source in terms of lumen and colour consistency for up to five years. The freedup capital from concluding the insurance can be used for other investments in technology development and market growth. Comprehensive insurance cover for offshore wind farms There are ambitious expansion targets for offshore wind energy, particularly in Europe, but also in other regions. The investment costs for offshore wind farms are often in the upper three-figure million or even billion US$ range. The requirements in terms of materials, logistics and construction are extremely high for offshore wind power plants. Additional substantial costs can already be incurred in the construction phase, but also from serial losses during ongoing operations, and these can impact on returns from the investment. Comprehensive risk management can help reduce such costs. Our many years of experience makes risks more calculable along the entire length of the value added chain for all the parties worldwide involved in the project. Our expertise, for example in creating international risk management guidelines for offshore wind farms, (Offshore Code of Practice), has also been incorporated. This guideline, which is the first of its kind worldwide, covers all the construction phases for a wind farm. Productivity risk insurance for geothermal projects Geothermal heat can now also be exploited thanks to modern technology: the extracted water at temperatures of well over 100°C can be used in commercial applications such as for district heating systems and electricity generation. However, investors must take into account the fact that, despite painstaking preparatory work, the quantities of hot water found in deep wells may be insufficient to make a geothermal power plant economically viable. Back in 2003, Munich Re became the world's first insurer to develop a policy covering the operator's costs for unsuccessful geothermal drilling projects as well. Investment security for industrial projects with Project Risk Rating Since the start of 2014, Munich Re and the German technical inspection agency, TÜV SÜD, have been offering a risk rating service for industrial projects (Project Risk Rating). The unique combination of TÜV SÜD's experience in processes and testing mechanisms and Munich Re's risk expertise in global projects and research allows complex investment projects from the areas of infrastructure and renewable energies to be expertly and efficiently assessed. Using a transparent and comprehensible rating system, TÜV SÜD and Munich Re create a reliable basis for sustainable investment decisions. HSB energy efficiency insurance protects investments in energy efficiency projects HSB Engineering Insurance, a British subsidiary of Munich Re, offers insurance for energy efficiency projects on the European market. HSB offers insurance cover, not only for the installed systems, but also for the forecast savings. This is because if projects are calculated incorrectly, or if the installed technologies do not work as planned, the desired savings cannot be achieved. Assuming these risks reduces the technical uncertainties for lenders and operators, thus making investments in the field of energy efficiency a more attractive prospect. You can find detailed information on our solutions in the field of renewable energies and new technologies under the headings Corporate Insurance Partner and Green Tech Solutions. GRI: G4-EC2; G4-DMA-Indirect Economic Impacts; G4-EC7; G4-EC8; G4-EN7; G4-EN27; G4-DMA-Product Portfolio Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Solutions NATHAN Geointelligent solutions Related topics Reinsurance Improving the assessment of natural Challenges: Climate change hazards munichre.com In the NATHAN Risk Suite, Munich Re offers unique information and consultancy services that make it easier to identify and assess natural hazard risks Touch Natural Hazards Insurance concepts for renewable energies distributed over large areas. The classic World Map of Natural Hazards, online NATHAN Risk Suite tools and, as the most recent addition, mobile solutions are all part of the NATHAN Geointelligent solutions offering. Downloads Solutions for developing countries and emerging markets The frequency of earthquakes, windstorms and floods and the damage caused by them NATHAN Risk Suite Flyer (PDF, 381 have been increasing significantly for decades. This trend poses a major challenge for KB) SystemAgro worldwide crop insurance governments, the corporate sector and thus for the insurance industry as risk carriers. system Documenting and analysing natural catastrophes are important steps in preparing to cope with looming hazards and developing our ability to identify emerging trends at an early stage. Munich Re makes a major contribution to progress in this field. Expert assessments and holistic risk management Munich Re offers its clients the NATHAN ( Natural Hazards Assessment Network ) Risk Suite. This service lets insurers and institutions precisely determine the exposure of specific locations to natural catastrophes, detect substantial gaps in cover and improve envisioned risk management measures. More than 18 million risk location evaluations carried out in 2014 and customer satisfaction of over 90% illustrate the high success levels of NATHAN. NATHAN draws upon the systematic, global acquisition of exposure and loss data compiled at Munich Re over the last four decades. This comprehensive knowledge, combined with probabilistic risk modelling developed in-house, forms the basis for the NATHAN product. It comprises national and international risk evaluations, spatial analyses and claims overviews. NATHAN is used primarily as an aid for client-specific insurance solutions and processes, and is used as input for scientific and political decision-making processes. “The efficient technical implementation options of the NATHAN Risk Suite accelerate complex business processes and significantly improve risk transparency – to everyone's benefit.” Andreas Siebert, Head of Department, Exposure Analytics & Geospatial Solutions, Munich Re Made-to-measure products The NATHAN World Map of Natural Hazards has been available as a component of the NATHAN Risk Suite since 2011. The maps, developed by geoscientists on the basis of analyses of major catastrophes, indicate degrees of exposure to specific hazards. As an adaptable assessment tool in DVD form, the globe combines Munich Re's accumulated geo-intelligence , for example also in relation to urban areas. Via its connect.munichre client portal, Munich Re also offers online services that examine individual and portfolio risk analyses featuring high-resolution maps, and entire portfolios for natural hazard exposure. The new NATHAN Mobile module makes it possible to carry out risk analyses and evaluations anywhere in the world at any time on smartphones and tablets – a truly pioneering innovation. This service is complemented by expert consulting services, for example in risk controlling or for the introduction of geoscientific solutions at a client company. 2014 saw the application nominated for the Digital Insurance and Technology Award. In the same year, NATHAN emerged as the winner in the Geospatial World Excellence Award, Best Application of Geospatial Technology in Reinsurance category. GRI: G4-DMA-Product Portfolio Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Solutions Solutions for developing countries and emerging markets Related topics Reinsurance Solutions for developing countries and Primary insurance: Microinsurance emerging markets Related topics Munich Re contributes to solutions to address global challenges and to push the frontiers of insurance to new geographies, risks and types of clients. Particularly Munich Climate Insurance Initiative Insurance concepts for renewable energies natural disasters often lead to severe socio-economic consequences for (MCII) vulnerable developing countries. In form of partnerships with supranational Challenges: Access to financial NATHAN Geointelligent solutions solutions organizations, development banks and –agencies at the national and regional level we contribute to financial resilience of these countries Commitment: Munich Re Foundation Solutions for developing countries and emerging markets Developing countries are particularly vulnerable to natural and man-made External Links SystemAgro worldwide crop insurance catastrophes. Low-income sections of the population in these countries have difficulty system protecting themselves against such catastrophe risks. In tandem with investment in risk Munich Climate Insurance Initiative reduction and avoidance measures, risk transfer solutions can help mitigate the (MCII) financial impact of catastrophes in the countries affected. Munich Re is therefore Caribbean Catastrophe Risk involved in collaborations with development banks and organisations in many regions Insurance Facility (CCRIF) around the world, with the goal of developing and putting into practice risk transfer African Risk Capacity (ARC) solutions. For example, these provide the countries affected with prompt funding for Pacific Catastrophe Risk emergency aid for their citizens and to pay for clearing-up operations. Assessment and Finance Initiative (PCRAFI) But the positive effects of risk transfer solutions extend far beyond the provision of insurance cover. By harnessing our expertise on risk protection methods with local knowledge and infrastructure, we not only contribute to managing global challenges, but also assist governments and economies to identify and assess risks at an early stage, and to design measures based on their assessment to reduce socio-economic losses after natural catastrophes. Through public-sector partnerships, we play a role in developing international policy and strengthen our voice at international level. Improvements in catastrophe management in vulnerable countries promote fair competition and a more stable business environment. Our clients in traditional reinsurance also benefit from this. We establish better general conditions for secure and responsible investment, and can shape new markets in the medium to long term. Realisation of innovative risk transfer solutions: Our management approach Experts in our specialist department Public Sector Business Development (PSBD), working in close collaboration with the business units, provide support to supranational organisations and development banks. These organisations are either our direct clients, or partner us in developing and implementing innovative risk transfer solutions for third parties. PSBD also supports our staff in the various business units, and in direct contacts with our insurance clients on innovative risk transfer solutions for the public sector, or with risks where providing safeguards is in the public interest. We measure our success by the number of transactions and the positive economic and social effects that are achieved. The satisfaction of our clients and business partners is important to us, so we place an emphasis on tailored consultation and support. Below we present some examples of risk transfer solutions in the area of Public Sector Business Development: Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility (CCRIF) Munich Re supports the World Bank and the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility (CCRIF) to set up the first Caribbean cat bond. The limited economic resources among Caribbean countries subject to natural disasters, as well as the dependence on financing from international donors for post-disaster needs, gave rise to the establishment of the CCRIF. The CCRIF is a risk-pooling facility that aims to provide immediate liquidity to Caribbean countries after major natural catastrophes. Munich Re strongly supported the World Bank in the development of the CCRIF by providing technical know-how to the design of the trigger and acting as a key reinsurance partner to the CCRIF. On June 30, 2014, the CCRIF purchased $30m of combined tropical cyclone and earthquake capacity with a 3-year term from the capital markets via a cat bond issuance. The transaction is the first Insurance Linked Security (ILS) issuance out of the World Bank’s International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the first cat bond placed for the benefit of a Caribbean sponsor. Munich Re contributed as co-lead structure to World Bank’s first cat bond emission using its new Global Debt Issuance Facility. African Risk Capacity (ARC) Motivated by recurrent catastrophic drought events in the Sahel, the ARC Agency was established as a specialized agency of the African Union (AU). In 2014 the ARC Ltd was established as a mutual insurance company in the Bermudas. The objective of ARC is to assist AU Member States to reduce the risk of loss and damage caused by extreme weather events and natural disasters. By now, eight participating countries bought a parametric insurance policy from the ARC. ARC Ltd is capitalized by KFW Bankengruppe (Germany) and the Department for International Development DFID (UK) and transfers risk to the market in order to build up a sustainable and independent system. The trigger is based on a Water Requirement Satisfaction Index and the Africa RiskView (ARV) model a model developed by the UN World Food Program to calculate the estimated crop losses and drought response costs. As the Africa Risk View also serves as an early warning mechanism, it becomes clear before the end of the season whether a payout will occur. If the early warning mechanism kicks in, a “Final Implementation Plan” detailing the use of the payout has to be submitted. The ARC pays out on an nationwide level and the payout is only provided if the government ensures allocation of indemnity to the affected people through a dedicated plan. The recipe for success of Africa Risk Capacity is the combination of risk assessment, contingency planning, implementation planning, risk transfer and rapid availability of funds. These elements as a whole make for a new innovative approach to drought risk mitigation and food security. Munich Re supports ARC by participating in the reinsurance which globally is providing a capacity of $55m. Due to drought events in Senegal, Mauretania and Niger in the 2014/2015 season of ARC $26m have been transferred to the above mentioned affected countries. The use of these funds is informed by the Final Implementation Plans of each country. To provide an example of the measures taken: In Senegal pupils in public schools were provided with food packages. More information on this project on artemis.bm. Pacific Island Catastrophe Insurance Pilot The Pacific Catastrophe Risk Assessment and Finance Initiative (PCRAFI) is a programme financed by various donors and administered by the World Bank. It was established as part of the World Bank's worldwide Disaster Risk Financing and Insurance Program (DRFIP). The aim is to promote insurance solutions as a contribution to financing catastrophe losses in emerging and developing countries. The focus areas here are advising political policymakers, analysing risks and developing outline solutions to finance and insure catastrophe risks. Munich Re, via NewRe in Zurich, is one of five companies involved in reinsuring the project. The participating Pacific Island Countries (PICs) do not generally have access to the capital markets and therefore cannot raise capital there quickly in order to finance losses following natural disasters. The use of parametric triggers, where payouts are linked to the severity of a natural disaster rather than the actual loss amounts, allows payouts under such insurance programmes to be made in a very short time. The funds that are quickly made available can then be used for emergency aid and for clearing-up operations following a natural catastrophe. The PCRAFI displayed already its value for the participating countries. After cyclone PAM made landfall in a number of islands belonging to Vanuatu in April 2015 and causing devastating damages, Vanuatu received $1.9m to support relief and recovery. In 2014 Tonga received $1.3m in the aftermath of Tropical Cyclone Ian. Integrated Financial Management of Climate Risks in Peru's Agricultural Sector Germany's Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH and Munich Re are supporting the establishment of a risk transfer system for agriculture in Peru. The project, Integrated Financial Management of Climate Risks in Peru's Agricultural Sector, was launched to achieve this goal. The aim is to develop, in cooperation with the Peruvian authorities, a legal, institutional and structural framework for a system to protect agricultural production against weather-related risks. The project will last for five years and is being sponsored by the International Climate Initiative (ICI) of the German Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation, Construction and Nuclear Safety. Microinsurance – Developing and implementing tailored solutions In partnership with primary insurers, other institutions and international NGOs, Munich Re offers microinsurances for people in exposed regions. Our microinsurance covers are adjusted to the needs of low-income sections of the population, and protect them against losing their livelihoods, while also safeguarding against other risks. In this context, we meet the needs of families and small businesses for risk protection following catastrophe events and, at the same time, make a key contribution to preventing impoverishment. The aim is to develop a viable reinsurance concept that reaches a large section of the affected population. Through our commitment to developing and emerging countries, we are promoting economic stability and social development on the ground, and also investing in a growth market, and thus in the future of Munich Re. For these reasons, the Group offers microinsurance products not only in the form of reinsurance, but also in its primary insurance (ERGO) and Munich Health segments. Munich Climate Insurance Initiative (MCII): Climate Risk Adaptation and Insurance in the Caribbean Under the umbrella of the Munich Climate Insurance Initiative (MCII) and in collaboration with Munich Re, the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility (CCRIF), and other partners, a weather-index-based insurance for individuals with low incomes was developed for the Caribbean islands of Jamaica, St. Lucia and Grenada. If pre-defined wind speeds or amounts of rainfall are exceeded, the Livelihood Protection Policy pays out to policyholders within a few days. Policyholders also receive a text message warning of the approach of a severe weather event, enabling them to protect their property and ensure their personal safety. A further coverage concept, Loan Portfolio Cover, is currently in the planning stages. This product is intended to protect credit institutes after an extreme weather event, to compensate for potential defaults in payments on small loans to farmers, small businesses and families. The creation of an insurance solution for weather risks in developing and emerging markets, in conjunction with a loss prevention component, represents an initial operational step by MCII on the road towards establishing a comprehensive natural catastrophe risk management system for low-income regions. The German Ministry for the Environment has made a significant contribution to the financing and structural content of this pilot programme. GRI: G4-DMA-Indirect Economic Impacts; G4-EC7; G4-EC8; G4-DMA-Society; G4-FS13-14; G4-DMA-Product Portfolio Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Solutions SystemAgro worldwide crop insurance system munichre.com Reinsurance Covering risks in agriculture SystemAgro Munich Re offers a globally successful crop insurance system: SystemAgro. It External links helps farmers to protect themselves against weather extremes and the consequences of climate change on the basis of public-private partnerships in Food and Agriculture Organization of which the agricultural sector, the state and agricultural insurers work together. the United Nations (FAO) Insurance concepts for renewable energies NATHAN Geointelligent solutions No other sector of the economy is as dependent on weather conditions as agricultural production.That is why climate change, which is accompanied by greater variability in Downloads Solutions for developing countries and weather patterns and weather extremes, has a particularly strong impact on this sector. emerging markets Risk management in agriculture: Insurance tools that are successful in providing protection against natural hazards are SystemAgro (PDF, 335 KB) SystemAgro worldwide crop insurance of great significance for agricultural development and food security. system Mounting demand for food, agricultural commodities and green energy At the same time, demand for agricultural commodities is rising. The world's population is continuing to rise, eating habits are changing as a result of increasing prosperity, and the demand for green energy is mounting as our reserves of fossil fuels dwindle. Trends such as these will increase the consumption of agricultural commodities. The UN's Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) estimates that food production will have to increase by 70% by the year 2050 in order to feed the nine billion people who will then populate the world – an extreme challenge in view of limited land resources and the risks of climate change. “Insuring risks in agriculture will be a key challenge in ensuring the supply of food, commodities and energy.” Dr. Joachim Herbold, Senior Underwriter and agricultural risk expert Securing investments and agricultural loans In order to continue to meet the rising demand for food in the future, it will be necessary to invest in improved production technologies for seed, fertilisers and pesticides, as well as in adapted agricultural technologies. The required financing will have to come largely from agricultural loans.Securing these agricultural loans through crop insurance greatly reduces the default risk for banks and increases their willingness to grant agricultural loans. SystemAgro – a sustainable insurance system for all farmers Munich Re evaluated numerous countries' stores of experience with crop insurance systems over the past 30 years and combined this knowledge to create SystemAgro. SystemAgro is based on a public-private partnership between the state, farmers and the insurance sector and is integrated in national agricultural policy through appropriate laws. The essential success factors of SystemAgro are: state premium subsidies, government catastrophe reinsurance, central structures with uniform insurance rates and conditions, as well as the availability of insurance for all farmers. These factors (which together make up a comprehensive system) have already been implemented in the countries shown in green on the following world map of agricultural insurance. These countries also have the highest level of insurance penetration. In the USA, the world's largest market for crop insurance, the system already protects 114 million hectares that are in agricultural use. World map of agricultural insurance Sustainable crop insurance systems are indispensable for further agricultural development, particularly in the more challenged emerging and developing countries. SystemAgro from Munich Re is thus a response to the pressing problems posed by climate change, population growth, land shortage and globalised agricultural markets. GRI: G4-DMA-Product Portfolio Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Solutions Ecological insurance solutions Related topics Primary insurance Our insurance solutions help to protect the Climate change environment Management Many ERGO products factor in environmental aspects. They range from External links insurance coverage for renewable energies and eco-rates in motor insurance to Ecological insurance solutions unit-linked annuity insurance policies that take ecological aspects into account. ERGO: Eco-insurance policies Microinsurance The ERGO portfolio includes a range of insurance policies that systematically incorporate ecological factors, or even create incentives for behaviour that protects the environment. The use of renewable energies and related technologies is steadily gaining in significance in every regard. Combined property and business interruption insurance provides ERGO policyholders in this segment with comprehensive, clientfriendly protection. The policies are specially tailored to include photovoltaics, wind energy, hydropower, biogas, fuel cells and their special features. Our insurances help secure the future of renewable energies One focus of ERGO's activities is the photovoltaic market. ERGO is one of the few insurers offering innovative coverage extensions such as reduced yield insurance. This offers protection if the expected annual energy yield is not met due to lower global radiation or defective components. Because a minimum yield of 90% is guaranteed, this insurance component also benefits the financing process for the technical equipment. Since 2012, the field of renewable energies has also made explicit allowance for protection against third party claims under liability covers. The plan includes a specific section with information, clear underwriting guidelines and the particular aspects of cover required to insure against the specific liability risks. “Environmental protection and scarce resources demand a new way of thinking about our traditional energy supply. We support the establishment of renewable energy sources using customised insurance solutions.” Thomas Meyer, Head of Technical Insurance Operations, ERGO Rehabilitation of damaged ecosystems European environmental law holds polluters responsible for causing damage to flora, fauna, bodies of water and soil. ERGO provides coverage for this risk in the form of environmental impairment insurance, which ensures that the damaged ecosystem is rehabilitated. Upwards of 150,000 commercial sector clients have concluded a policy of this type with ERGO. Helping clients save energy ERGO assists its clients by offering suitable insurance products for energy saving too. The current generation of German householders' insurance products, for instance, covers the added cost for acquiring environmentally friendly household appliances if a loss occurs. If older appliances are damaged, ERGO bears the additional costs for purchasing energy-efficient models with eco-friendly standards. Houseowners' comprehensive insurance automatically covers privately used photovoltaic, solar and heat pump equipment against damage caused by insured perils. Current protection also covers a reduction or default in feed-in tariffs for photovoltaic systems if the system is damaged or destroyed by an insured peril (for example, if privately used photovoltaic, solar or heat pump systems are destroyed by fire or windstorm). Low-cost policies for climate-friendly vehicles ERGO also offers environmentally friendly insurance policies for motor vehicles. In Germany, ERGO promotes the use of electric cars, thus providing incentives for ecofriendly mobility. The company currently offers discounts for motor liability insurance and comprehensive own damage cover for various types of electric cars. Environmentally friendly – Unit-linked annuities Annuity insurance gives clients the opportunity to protect themselves against various risks and provide for their later years while making sustainable investments. With a unit-linked annuity insurance such as ERGO Annuity Opportunity, you can take into account ethical, social and ecological criteria: In this instance, clients can invest their capital in sustainability funds according to different investment strategies. GRI: G4-EN7; G4-EN27; G4-DMA-Product Portfolio Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Solutions Microinsurance Related topics Primary insurance Microinsurance in India – Small policies, big Reinsurance: Solutions for impact developing countries and emerging markets Challenges: Access to financial ERGO develops insurance policies tailored to the financial situation and solutions personal circumstances of people in developing and emerging countries. In Ecological insurance solutions India, for example, the German-Indian joint venture HDFC ERGO markets a wide range of microinsurance policies in the rural sector, including weather-indexed, External links Microinsurance health, personal accident and fire, as well as special policies for farmers. ERGO: Microinsurance ERGO's insurance products help people in developing and newly industrialising HDFC ERGO India countries protect their vital sources of income at prices they are able to pay. Of the approximately 500 million people around the world who have already taken out microinsurance policies, 60% live in India. According to estimates, significantly more than half of India's population cannot afford traditional insurance. Cooperation with local institutions, inexpensive and innovative sales channels Insurers are the main market players and – thanks to their expertise – are in a position to offer microinsurance protection to large numbers of people on a broad regional scale. It is essential with microinsurances that the products are easy to understand and affordable. In addition, they have to be made available in large numbers to customers by using innovative marketing channels. Within the framework of public-private partnerships, our German-Indian joint venture HDFC ERGO develops a variety of insurance products that are frequently supported by local non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and microfinancing institutions. These cooperations with local institutions, cooperatives and other rural associations have proved an effective way of reaching as many people as possible. Partnerships use existing infrastructures like branch banks or other systems that are increasingly well established in India, such as government-licensed Common Service Centers (CSC). In the province of Uttar Pradesh, for example, sales rooms were set up in around 50 rural supermarkets. Registration is done by mobile phone, allowing cover to be arranged simply and without the need for paperwork. Diverse insurance solutions for an expanding market Microinsurance policies from HDFC ERGO range from health, personal accident and property, to covers providing protection against the loss of working animals and crops. A health policy offered in conjunction with the Biocon Foundation covers expenses for hospitalisation, medical treatment and operations for low-income people at premiums they can afford. Likewise, cover can also be offered for the loss of farm animals, which are absolutely vital for the survival of each household, especially in rural areas, and for damage to tractors. This allows ERGO to combine social commitment with an investment in a growing market that the United Nations estimates has currently reached only 5% of its potential. In the last financial year, HDFC ERGO wrote a total of more than €60m in gross premiums in the microinsurance segment. In the coming years, microinsurance will continue to rapidly grow in significance in emerging countries. Worldwide market potential is estimated at two to four billion clients, and the potential premium volume to range from US$ 30bn to US$ 40bn. Insurance companies expect a growth rate of 100% in the coming years. Andreas Matthias Kleiner, member of the Board of Management of ERGO International AG, responsible for Asia Weather insurance – A growth area As one the biggest providers of weather policies based on parametric triggers, HDFC ERGO now offers this insurance especially to small farmers in 14 of India's 28 federal states. A simple product design that, for example, provides for payment of a standard benefit whenever the temperature or the amount of precipitation remains below or exceeds specified limits, almost eliminates the financial risk of crop failure in rural regions. HDFC ERGO has been operating successfully with this business model since 2010, when the Indian government commissioned it as the first private insurance company to develop a government-sponsored weather-based crop insurance programme in the four states of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. GRI: G4-EC7; G4-DMA-Society; G4-FS13-14; G4-DMA-Product Portfolio Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Solutions Sustainable solutions for the health market Related topics Munich Health Sustainable solutions for the health market Digitalisation Munich Health offers individual, sustainable solutions for the health market, munichre.com which is expanding rapidly worldwide. By combining know-how from both the primary insurance and reinsurance segments, we create the basis that enables Munich Health our clients to achieve success and security in their respective markets. Sustainable solutions for the health market The global health market is one of the fastest growing economic sectors and is External links Medical care in developing and emerging countries extremely important for social development in the future. Global population growth, Munich Health increasing life expectancy and the rising level of prosperity of wide sections of the Healthcare and digitalisation population, particularly in the developing and emerging countries, are among the most important challenges we face. The developments in medical infrastructure in many countries, and therefore new markets, are being accelerated by medical advances and by the increasing importance of prevention and disease management programmes to support health preservation. Medical expenses and costs of care are rising sharply, which in turn can often push social security systems to the limits of affordability and increases the need for private sector insurance solutions. With customised services and innovative concepts, Munich Health creates reliable health solutions in the international insurance market. Dr. Doris Höpke, member of the Board of Management responsible for Munich Health To support and participate in sustainable growth in the health markets, Munich Re has bundled its global health expertise in primary insurance and reinsurance under the Munich Health brand. Munich Health devises integrated solutions tailored to the individual needs of clients in the different markets. We now serve over six million clients in primary insurance and some 400 in reinsurance. Optimisation of risk assessments and processes With our reinsurance solutions, we help primary insurers to keep control of the rising costs for healthcare – in the interests of their clients. In the field of health risk analysis for example, we provide our reinsurance clients with sophisticated programmes and tools for standardised medical risk assessment. Over the next few years, in an effort to improve standards of care, we will also be significantly expanding the disease management and prevention programmes already in use at our primary health insurance companies, in the interests of the clients and within the framework of data protection regulations. To enhance the efficiency of internal processes, Munich Health offers modern solution processes and project-related tools, for example for claims notification data transmission and in claims handling. Ultimately, this also benefits policyholders since optimisation measures always have the effect of counteracting rising health costs in the long term. Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Solutions Medical care in developing and emerging countries Related topics Munich Health Medical care in developing and emerging Digitalisation countries munichre.com Munich Health supports stakeholders in developing and emerging countries in establishing and securing a sustainable system of healthcare provision that is Munich Health Sustainable solutions for the health market affordable for large sections of society. External links Medical care in developing and emerging Developing and emerging countries face the challenge of swiftly establishing countries healthcare systems that provide large portions of the population with access to Munich Health Healthcare and digitalisation effective, affordable healthcare. Private-sector insurance products, which may be closely intermeshed with state schemes, can play a valuable part in developing and emerging countries. Transfer of successful business models to other markets Munich Health has developed successful concepts that are continually improved and transferred to new markets. For instance, a market-specific model has been developed for the Middle East. Its successful implementation in the United Arab Emirates enabled us to expand Munich Health's presence to Saudi Arabia and Qatar within a short time. As in industrialised countries, digitalisation is also playing a major role in developing and emerging countries. Mobile solutions for smart phones are helping to offset shortcomings in healthcare infrastructure. They can be used, for instance, to ensure that patients are quickly referred to the right physician in a network of doctors. Find out more about our challenges “demographic change” and “digitalisation” in the section “Strategy and Challenges.” Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Solutions Healthcare and digitalisation Related topics Munich Health Healthcare and digitalisation Digitalisation The use of new technologies facilitates cost reductions, efficiency gains and munichre.com enhanced customer satisfaction. Munich Health assists primary insurers to exploit this potential for making health risks sustainably insurable. Munich Health Sustainable solutions for the health market The term business analytics is often used in connection with big data. Business analytics covers various statistical methods and techniques used to analyse large External links Medical care in developing and emerging countries quantities of data. The aim is to identify previously unknown patterns, to subdivide the Munich Health community of policyholders into smaller and more homogeneous groups, and to assess Healthcare and digitalisation risks even more accurately with the aid of additional data. Improvements in data analysis and incomparably larger data volumes also make it more likely that previously uninsurable risks can be insured, thus making a contribution towards a sustainable future. A purposeful combination of big data and business/predictive analytics helps to identify and predict individual risks, client behaviour and clients' needs more precisely, so that customised insurance products can subsequently be offered. This allows risks to be insured that have been uninsurable up to now. Fabian Winter, Senior Consultant Business Analytics, Munich Health From the results of the analyses, insurers can learn from the past and forecast developments for the future. With the business analytics approach, Munich Health offers primary insurance clients a central management tool to prepare them for future developments. Identifying widespread diseases better with prevention In the field of prevention too, new technological developments have opened the door for new and intensified activities. An increasing number of health programmes or socalled disease management programmes (DMPs) are being offered specifically for common diseases such as diabetes, back pain or chronic cardiac insufficiency. What are known as wearables, for example, are being used for diabetes prevention and control. Wearables are body-worn devices equipped with sensors for recording vital data and communicating it via an app to patients' smart phones. Doctors can thus monitor their patients remotely, thus establishing a basis for improved healthcare. It is our aim to further exploit the new digital opportunities to ensure the sustainable insurability of health risks. Over the next few years, in an effort to improve standards of care, we will also be significantly expanding the disease management and prevention programmes already in use at our primary health insurance companies, in the interests of the clients and within the framework of data protection regulations. On the one hand, business analytics helps insurance companies to select programme participants by evaluating numerous patient data, such as real-time weight and blood pressure. At the same time, it allows for a valid and undistorted measurement of the economic effects. To this end, Munich Re has developed an analytical procedure for improving patient selection, which was presented in the journal Health Care Management Science in 2014. The procedure adds a regression-based component to the classic rule-based approaches, thus permitting individual estimates of the subsequent costs. GRI: G4-23 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Solutions Responsible investment strategies Capital Investment products with sustainable management success MEAG's investment funds demonstrate that economic, ecological and social requirements do not need to be a contradiction in terms. The fund managers at Related topics Munich Re and ERGO offer their institutional and private clients the international Management: Managing investments equity fund MEAG Nachhaltigkeit, and defensive mixed fund MEAG FairReturn, Responsible investment strategies Management: PRI reporting which are geared towards sustainable issues. Questions for Dr. Thomas Kabisch, MEAG The equity fund MEAG Nachhaltigkeit, which was set up on 1 October 2003, invests External links throughout the world primarily in companies that conduct business in a responsible Investments in infrastructure with a focus on MEAG manner. Companies are selected on the basis of their environmentally friendly and renewable energies Principles for Responsible socially responsible behaviour as well as their financial success. This involves supplementing leading equities with forward-looking niche providers. Producers of Investment (PRI) tobacco, alcoholic beverages, arms and weapons are excluded, as are companies in the gambling industry. Private investors benefit from know-how Secure returns plus protection of endowment capital are the priorities of every foundation. The MEAG FairReturn investment fund established in June 2009 meets both requirements. Fund managers invest predominantly in Europe in accordance with strict social, ecological and financial criteria recommended by the rating agency oekom research. At the same time, there is a requirement for positive growth in value. The fund grew so successfully that MEAG opened it up to private clients at the beginning of 2010 with a separate shareholding class. 2015, for the fourth consecutive year, MEAG FairReturn is named foundation fund of the year. A summary of the reasons as to why the foundation fund received the fund of the year award in 2015 says as follows: Once again, MEAG FairReturn stands out with its value conception – of key importance for many foundations. Its sophisticated Absolute Return Architecture gives the fund a unique standing in the foundation fund segment. Year on year, the management has reliably avoided heavy losses. No rival product is as exemplary as FairReturn in consistency of returns. Also behind this is the fact that the proportion of equities generally does not exceed 15%. In 2014, yielding a quite acceptable real return of just under 4%, the management performed particularly well. Our investments adhere to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), which Munich Re signed in 2006 as the first German company to do so. Read the interview with MEAG CEO Dr. Thomas Kabisch on Munich Re's understanding of corporate responsibility reflected in its asset management. GRI: G4-EN7; G4-EN27; G4-HR1; G4-FS7; G4-FS11 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Solutions Responsible investment strategies Questions for Dr. Thomas Kabisch, MEAG External links Capital Interview with Dr. Thomas Kabisch (MEAG) MEAG management – “Accepting responsibility” How is Munich Re's understanding of corporate responsibility reflected in its asset management? In this interview, MEAG CEO Dr. Thomas Kabisch explains why assuming ecological and social responsibility also makes commercial sense. Responsible investment strategies Questions for Dr. Thomas Kabisch, What does sustainability in investment mean to you? MEAG For us as Munich Re asset managers, sustainability means not only the integration of ecological and social aspects, but also viability for the future in a broad sense. As a Investments in infrastructure with a focus on primary criterion, nothing is lasting or sustainable that does not pass the market test. renewable energies Ecological and social requirements are not contradictory here – behaviour that harms society or the environment is not sustainable and can jeopardise a company's very existence. Recent crises have served to greatly sharpen the focus on the concept of sustainability. Dr. Thomas Kabisch has been MEAG’s CEO since Munich Re's and ERGO's joint asset manager was founded in April 1999. He is Head of MEAG’s Mandate Management Division and thus responsible for the Group’s asset management, as well as for MEAG’s central functions. Do you continually monitor the sustainability of investments you manage? Munich Re's investments are bundled under the roof of MEAG – a key prerequisite, not only for managing all investments of a group according to uniform rules and principles, but also – and this is very important – for keeping track of all of them at all times. Nowadays, equity markets are so fast-moving that challenges for portfolio and risk management can arise every day, perhaps even every hour. Sustainability means that excessive risk-taking can ideally be averted at any time. Does this mean that sustainability is another term for defensive risk culture? This view applies to investment. Excessively high risks are eliminated in the investment process, or low risks given preference where other risk circumstances are identical. This means that, in investment management, identifying financial risks traditionally involves a high level of expertise. Furthermore, we take ecological, social and economic criteria into consideration in our investment decisions. These include key ecological indicators such as energy consumption and environmental management. Staff programmes and social standards are examples of social criteria, much as corporate governance and risk management systems are of economic criteria. We factor all of these in to keep risks low. Are the risks for all investment types clearly defined along the lines of your sustainable approach? Sustainable investment criteria have not yet been defined for all asset classes. The blank spots on our sustainability map are being filled in gradually on the basis of criteria developed in-house and those available externally. One example of this is our historically evolved real estate portfolio, amounting to almost €10bn, which is being successively reviewed. For newly acquired real estate, we have already developed sustainability criteria (such as energy efficiency and construction materials) which we apply for purchases, building and renovation. So you do not have standardised sustainability criteria, but different ones, depending on the asset class? As understandable as the desire for standardised sustainability classes may be, asset classes are different, as are the expectations and requirements of an investment as part of a business model and an investor strategy. Sustainability must always be seen from the viewpoint of the respective investor. The framework is established by common principles and standards which are broken down according to needs, and thus defined. Are the specific criteria then not as decisive as the overriding approach? In sustainable investment, the focus is often only the criteria for selecting titles. This is not enough. Investment is only sustainable when strategy, organisation and realisation of investment management are also viable for the future. This includes adherence to asset-liability management, the entire investment structure and process, the risk-taking culture and observance of fundamental investment principles. Is sustainability worth it from an economic viewpoint? Scientific research has furnished evidence that the performance of sustainable investments can keep up with conventional investments, and even exceed them. Risks can be reduced considerably in the long term. Of the more than 100 studies analysed by Deutsche Bank, 89% show that companies with sustainability management in place show stronger economic growth. But there will continue to be phases in which the sustainable approach does not necessarily come out on top against the classic approach. All things considered though, sustainability is worth it. Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Solutions Investments in infrastructure with a focus on renewable energies Related topics Capital Investments in infrastructure with a focus Challenges: Vulnerable Economies management on renewable energies Globalised financial markets Solutions: Insurance concepts for renewable energies Renewable energies are a necessary component of the future energy mix. To ensure that the company is not only promoting sustainable energy generation but also taking advantage of it, Munich Re also invests in the necessary energy infrastructure. Responsible investment strategies Investments in infrastructure with a focus on MEAG, Munich Re's asset manager, invests in global infrastructure projects. These renewable energies include direct equity investments in solar parks and wind farms as well as participations in a power grid and a natural gas grid. By the end of the 2014 financial year, these investments totalled some €1.5bn. With these investments, synergies are generated on both sides of the balance sheet. Among other things, internal experts assess the technical risks of potential investments on the insurance side, and then make the assessment available to asset managers for their investment decisions. Gernot Löschenkohl, Senior Investment Director, Asset Liability Management In the coming years, we will increase our investments in infrastructure to a cumulative total of €8.0bn, given stable parameters and the achievement of an adequate return. To this end, we plan to extend our commitment to infrastructure via third-party capital in a low single-digit billion euro amount. We are aiming to achieve this by continuing to strongly diversify our infrastructure investments, both regionally and by segment. This will enable us to obtain a spread of the technological and political risks, and thus of this portfolio's main risk drivers. On the underwriting side, Munich Re has been involved in renewable energy for many years and in developing innovative insurance solutions. Our commitment has a double leverage effect: by using our risk knowledge to promote both new technologies through investments and innovative coverage concepts, we contribute to the advancement of social developments. GRI: G4-EC2; G4-DMA-Indirect Economic Impacts; G4-EC7; G4-EC8; G4-EN7; G4-EN27; G4-DMA-Product Portfolio Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Commitment Related topics Social commitment indicators Downloads Corporate citizenship guidelines (PDF, 418 KB) Commitment Our corporate citizenship concept: Responsibility for the community Corporate citizenship has a long tradition at Munich Re. We are involved as promoters, donors and co-sponsors of innovative projects and ventures, and these activities form an indispensable part of our corporate responsibility. Our concept for the strategic orientation of our social commitment is based on business-related topics, while specific guidelines help us to select donations and sponsorship projects. To create a framework for our Groupwide social commitment, the Board of Management has set out binding criteria and conceptual parameters. A corporate citizenship concept for the Munich Re Group sets out clearly defined funding guidelines. Focus areas of our commitment In addition to providing basic assistance for social and cultural projects at corporate locations, we focus on topics that are related to our business activities. These are mainly projects from the fields of natural catastrophe prevention, the protection of natural resources, and healthcare promotion. With these aims in mind, Munich Re enters into partnerships with charitable and non-profit organisations at national and international level. Focus areas Commitment of our foundations Munich Re's project commitments are complemented by the activities and projects of our four foundations: the Munich Re Foundation, the Dr. Hans-Jürgen Schinzler Foundation, the ERGO Foundation Jugend & Zukunft (Youth and Future) and the DKV Foundation Integralia . Foundations Find detailed social commitment indicators here. GRI: G4-FS-EC1; G4-FS15-16 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Commitment Education and science Focal areas Supporting university, school and vocational education For Munich Re, as a financial services provider, comprehensive knowledge and a good level of education/training rank high. Our knowledge of risk is the Education and science cornerstone of our business. Our social commitment therefore focuses on the areas of science and education. Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität Munich Natural catastrophes and environment Health and demographics Stifterverband für die Deutsche Wissenschaft Art and Culture As an active company in the Stifterverband für die Deutsche Wissenschaft Social commitment (Association for the Promotion of Science and Humanities in Germany) – Chairman of the Board of Management, Dr. Nikolaus von Bomhard, is VicePresident of the Presidential Council – Munich Re is committed to enhancing Germany as a location for science and scientific research. With an education initiative planned to run until 2020, the Stifterverband wants to achieve better education in Germany and implement this initiative with projects and Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität Munich collaborations in the fields of international education, education clusters, MINT education (mathematics, informatics, natural sciences and technology) and teacher training. The focus is on the structural internationality of German universities, the strengthening of regional alliances for successful recruitment for the job market, and on increasing diversity in science and technology subjects and in teacher training. Munich University Society Munich Re has been supporting the Ludwig Maximilian University in Munich with its commitment to the Munich University Society since 1922. The Society's task is Joblinge to promote university research and academic teaching outside the public service remit. The University Society helps fund a large number of scientific projects, External links interdisciplinary visiting professorships and lecture series, national and international scientific congresses, as well as collaborations and exchange ERGO: Commitment to education programmes with other universities. In addition, the Society donates awards and and science sponsorship prizes for new academic talent at the Ludwig Maximilian University German Mathematical Society and granted 30 Deutschlandstipendien (Germany scholarships) in 2014. Munich (German only) Re is involved as a major donor and has members on the Society's Board. European Mathematical Society Association for the Promotion of Science and Humanities in Germany (German only) Munich University Society (German ERGO: Germany scholarships and the Dr. Kurt Hamann Foundation only) ERGO supports young people pursuing university education. As part of the Joblinge (German only) Deutschlandstipendium of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia and in Rock Your Life! cooperation with the Dr. Kurt Hamann Foundation, which promotes research Michigan Mobility Transformation projects in the field of insurance sciences, ERGO has been supporting talented Center students and degree candidates in Düsseldorf, Cologne and Mannheim. Within Hands-On Mathematics this framework, ERGO operates targeted funding programmes in Latvia which enable orphans to gain a university education. European Mathematical Society To raise awareness of mathematical correlations and arouse enthusiasm for this science among young people, Munich Re has been supporting the knowledge portal of the European Mathematical Society since 2009. The core scientific content of this field is regularly defined by the European portal coordinators involved. Updating and continuously broadening the exchange of information at the European level for the benefit of this science are the central tasks of this platform. Joblinge Many talented young people often lack the means to make the most of their potential. Munich Re endeavours to provide long-term, effective assistance by supporting the Joblinge non-profit initiative – a joint national programme sponsored by business, government and society for unemployed youngsters with limited qualifications. Apart from financing two scholarships, several Munich Re employees also serve as mentors for this project, sharing their practical and professional expertise with young people to help them gain a footing in the world of work. Rock Your Life! ERGO Direkt supports the “Rock Your Life!” initiative at its Nuremberg location. This provides young people from socially deprived situations with support for the start into their future. Pupils receive direct coaching with a university student for comprehensive job orientation, as well as individual support on their way into work or higher education. These projects are currently being carried out in more than 40 German cities. Reading Corners An ERGO project in China does educational work in rural areas. Three reading corners with furniture and over 300 books were set up in public places in Shandong Province. They are used particularly to introduce children and women from socially marginalised groups to reading, with the aim of broadening their knowledge horizon and improving their personal perspectives. Following the successful start to the project in 2013, a further eight reading corners were opened in 2014. Michigan Mobility Transformation Center Munich Re supports the University of Michigan’s Mobility Transformation Center (MTC) through its Affiliates Program. The MTC is a public-private research and development partnership which will revolutionise mobility. It is working to develop the foundations of a commercially viable ecosystem of connected and automated vehicles. One of the central goals is to develop and implement an advanced system of connected and automated vehicles in Ann Arbor by 2021. Connected and automated vehicles partly or fully remove the human from the complex sensing, monitoring, and control processes involved in motor vehicle driving. Travellers and vehicle occupants will benefit from new, enjoyable ondemand services, reduced stress and better use of travel time. Since driver error is responsible for approximately 93% of US fatal crashes, we will see a dramatic improvement in crash avoidance and traffic behaviour in addition to a reduction in energy consumption. The ever more protective, generic vehicle structures designed for crash survival will no longer be needed. Instead, designs will become more nimble and responsive to user needs, as well as highly efficient relative to energy needs and carbon emissions. By comparison, current transportation systems that move people, goods, and services in societies worldwide pose unprecedented environmental, economic and social challenges. There is an increasingly urgent need to reduce the number of crashes, relieve congestion in urban centres, cut back on carbon emissions and pollution, conserve resources and maximise transportation accessibility to growing populations. Hands-On Mathematics Mathematics is not only one of the oldest sciences there is, it is also essential for the insurance industry. The complexity associated with this subject stops many people from getting more closely involved in it. The Hands-On Mathematics touring exhibition uses experiments and interaction to try to explain mathematical phenomena and bring them closer to visitors. This understandable and entertaining exhibition has already appeared in several hundred places and had over a million visitors. ERGO Austria is supporting the exhibition in Vienna. Organisations supported by Munich Re: Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Commitment Natural catastrophes and environment Focal areas Prevention and adaptation measures The risks from the increasing number and intensity of natural disasters and the changes in our environment are many and varied. Munich Re's commitment in the social sector therefore also includes prevention and adaptation measures for future protection against natural disasters, primarily for people in emerging and Education and science developing countries. Natural catastrophes and environment Health and demographics Natural disaster prevention project in India Art and Culture Munich Re has been cooperating with the GeoHazards International (GHI) Social commitment organisation since 2012. The cooperation supports the city of Aizawl in northeast Australian Business Roundtable India with loss mitigation in the event of earthquakes and landslides. Aizawl was Robert Tickner CEO, Australian Red identified as a city that is particularly at risk due to its mountainous topography, its Cross and Julie Batch, Chief Analytics geographical isolation and the structure of its buildings. Officer, Insurance Australia Group, as representatives of Australian Business The project supports and educates authorities and decision-makers in Aizawl. Roundtable, receive the Certificate of GHI has founded a technical council for this purpose. Experts have examined the Distinction at the UN Sasakawa Award. susceptibility to damage of the buildings and infrastructures, developed a scenario, and derived specific prevention measures for the city. GHI is supporting the city with implementation of the proposed measures and is training geologists, thereby ensuring improved safety for the population in the future too. After a landslide in May 2013 in which 17 people lost their lives, Munich Re provided additional funding. The Landslide Policy Committee for Aizawl was started with the help of GHI. An action plan was developed, risk maps are being created together with GHI, and specific land-use regulations are being implemented. Dr. Janise Rodgers, GeoHazards International The aim of the project is a long-term improvement for the population of Aizawl. Project geologists Dr. Victor Ralte of Information and education for political decision-makers as well as for society are Mizoram University and Dr. Leonardo important measures, and capacity building thus takes place at the political and Seeber of Lamont-Doherty Earth social level. As a renowned partner with experience in India, GHI ensures that the Observatory at Columbia University, and expected benefit can be realised. project geophysicist Dr. Vineet Gahalaut of National Geophysical Research Institute, Australian Business Roundtable for Disaster Resilience and Safer Communities Hyderabad (left to right) examine a rock outcrop south of Aizawl. Australia is highly prone to a wide range of natural disasters, including catastrophic floods, cyclones, storms and bushfires. The Australian Business Roundtable for Disaster Resilience and Safer Communities was founded to support the development of a more sustainable, coordinated national approach to tackling these and other natural catastrophes. Its vision is to help develop a national, long-term preventive approach to managing natural disasters and protecting communities. The Roundtable was formed by the Chief Executive Officers of the Australian Red Cross, the Insurance Australia Group, the Investa Property Group, Munich Re Australia, Optus and the Westpac Group. The CEOs created the Roundtable Munich Re of Malta because all of them believe that having resilient communities that can adapt to Afforestation measures in Malta extreme weather events is of national importance. This is the first time such a broad spectrum of organisations have come together to champion this issue. External Links GHI The Roundtable was one of three finalist projects for the United Nations Water Benefit Partners Sasakawa Award for Disaster Reduction and was given a Certificate of IBHS Distinction. This is the first time in the 29-year history of the awards that such a Australian Business Roundtable certificate has gone to a private sector organisation. Rare –Solution Search BLICKWINKEL ELA Water Benefit Partners in India In the framework of a public private partnership created by Water Benefit Partners (WBP) and the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC), we, together with international partners such as SGS, The Gold Standard, Carlsberg, the International Red Cross and the Swiss Federal Department of Foreign Affairs, have committed to developing an innovative financing mechanism – the so-called Water Benefit Standard – for additional water projects in regions with severe water shortages. Two Munich Re employees from different divisional units are contributing their expertise to coordinate and support this process on a voluntary basis. Similarly to the proven CO2 certificates, results-oriented water certificates are given to successful water-saving projects. Companies, foundations, governments and private individuals support new water projects by buying certificates. The first pilot projects in India, for example new irrigation technology for sugar cane cultivation, optimisation of the drinking water supply and the introduction of general hygiene standards, are currently under way and will be scientifically evaluated after their conclusion. Institute for Business and Home Safety (IBHS) In the USA, Munich Re America and the American Modern Insurance Group support the Institute for Business and Home Safety (IBHS) in a partnership. Independent experts and scientists use natural disaster and hazard scenarios to verify the safety and building standards of private and commercial buildings. The results of this research are then used as recommendations for the US building commissions and regulations. This prevents damage and minimises risks of central importance not only for the population but also for insurers. Buildings that meet the latest safety standards can withstand the elements better than buildings erected to the old standards. Losses caused by storms and earthquakes are extremely expensive and can be largely prevented through efficient measures taken in the construction phase and through careful planning. This makes the insurance industry one of the main advocates for implementing higher building standards, as this allows it to reduce its risk provisions. For building owners, higher resiliency standards mean lower insurance premiums. An IBHS study about Hurricane Charley on the US East Coast in 2004 proves, for example, that compliance with the relatively high building standards (in an American context) reduced the severity of the damage there by 42% and the frequency of damage by 60%. In another case, scientists from Louisiana State University found that more stringent building standards would have reduced the storm damage from Hurricane Katrina in 2005 in the southern US by nearly 80%. Munich Re America is currently developing a tablet application that tells people how to build to IBHS Standards . Our goal is to show how building owners can make houses and business safer in cost-efficient steps. The app will be available free of charge from the iTunes and Google Play stores. Rare Munich Re America is one of the sponsorship partners for Rare's Solution Search on Reducing Our Risk . Rare has found that solutions to some of the world’s greatest conservation and development challenges can already be found in local communities around the globe. In many instances, however, these solutions remain on the local level and go unnoticed by the wider community. What is already working must be publicised and highlighted so that practitioners around the world can expand the impact of the solutions as they replicate proven success. Solution Search is an innovative contest created by Rare and designed to identify and highlight the most effective solutions to global conservation challenges. The contest sources, rewards and disseminates what is already working in the fields of conservation and development. EKO Amigos DKV Seguros is the promoter of the EKOamig@s (eco-friends) project, in which 60 volunteer employees encourage their colleagues to behave in an environmentally friendly way. In 2008, an internal communication plan was launched in the company to involve employees in reducing environmental impact. Specific actions were developed in each workplace, while at the same time, DKV Seguros invented the figure of EKOamig@, a committed person who acts as a spokesperson on environmental issues at every workplace. EKOamig@ informs colleagues about environmental actions taking place in the company and gives practical advice on how to assist in reducing environmental impact. Guidance is offered in various fields of action, including energy, use of resources and waste management. Afforestation measures in Malta Since 2010, the Munich Re of Malta team has been planting around 200 trees each year in various parts of the island, as part of the Maltese government's 34U tree-planting campaign. In 2014 and 2015 too, the team repeated the action, thereby making a contribution to environmental protection and sustainability. The thousandth tree was planted in 2014. The need to afforest the Maltese islands arises from the high population density and the rather sparse vegetation. A large part of the land surface is paved, and trees are rare. The Munich Re of Malta team is doing its bit here, in line with the Munich Re sustainability concept. Blickwinkel Ela alliance: Reforestation in the Düsseldorf metropolitan area Düsseldorf lost almost 40,000 trees in a devastating storm (Storm Ela ) on 9 June 2014. To deal with the severe damage, which ran into the millions, the municipality had to rely on the help of its citizens. Blickwinkel Ela took it upon itself to get actively involved, in a committed and transparent way, in the city's reforestation. Besides ERGO, the Düsseldorfer Jonges local association (Heimatverein), the insurer ARAG and the Fritz Henkel Foundation are also involved. Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Commitment Health and demographics Focal areas Education and prevention Munich Re is committed to helping create a healthier society. With their comprehensive expertise as health insurers, the subsidiaries ERGO and DKV can set special focuses in this area. They thus support health education, promote physical activity and finance life-saving research. Education and science Natural catastrophes and environment In spite of all medical progress, some diseases cannot be cured. Many of them can be Klasse in Sport treated if they are diagnosed in time. For others, the risk of illness can be reduced Health and demographics significantly through prevention, e.g. with regular physical activity and a healthy diet. It Art and Culture is therefore in the best interest of Munich Re and particularly their primary insurers to provide health education and targeted support for the prevention, diagnosis and Social commitment treatment of diseases. Cooperation with “The Global Fund” In 2015, Munich Re signed a three-year cooperation agreement with The Global Fund to Fight Aids, Tuberculosis and Malaria . The Global Fund (TGF) is one of © M.Schickedanz Kinderkrebsstiftung the largest international financing institutions dedicated entirely to gathering and Children's cancer ward in Cuzco, Peru disbursing resources to prevent and treat these three deadly diseases. As part of this project, Munich Re contributes risk management and insurance expertise to External links help The Global Fund identify and effectively manage risks through applying appropriate solutions. ERGO: Health & Sport DKV: Run (German only) The partnership will be mutually beneficial. While TGF will have access to DKV: Viva la vida valuable risk management expertise, Munich Re will gain access to a new Campus Thao market: the non-governmental sector. The cooperation focuses on identifying Madeleine Schickedanzrisks in The Global Fund’s supply chain linked to procurement initiatives that are KinderKrebs-Stiftung (German only) already in place. Munich Re also gives advice and proposes risk management The Global Fund solutions to maximise effectiveness in implementing programmes. Downloads By understanding the NGO sector, tailoring products to cover needs better, and designing new products for such institutions, insurance providers can enable DKV report: How healthy are them to achieve their goals more efficiently and effectively. Germans? (German) About “The Global Fund” The Global Fund is an international financing institution dedicated to collecting and disbursing resources to prevent and treat HIV and AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. The Global Fund promotes partnerships between governments, civil society, the private sector and affected communities, which is the most effective way to reach those in need. This innovative approach relies on national ownership and performance-based funding, meaning that people in countries implement their own programmes based on their priorities, and The Global Fund provides financing where verifiable results are achieved. Since its creation in 2002, The Global Fund has supported more than 1,000 programmes in more than 140 countries, providing AIDS treatment for 6.1 million people, anti-tuberculosis treatment for 11.2 million people and 360 million insecticide-treated mosquito nets for the prevention of malaria. The institution collaborates closely with other bilateral and multilateral organisations to supplement existing efforts in dealing with these three diseases. As a public-private partnership, The Global Fund receives contributions from governments and private-sector partners. In 2013, the world's leading companies provided The Global Fund with a staggering US$ 12bn to support countries in fighting these three infectious diseases over the next three years – a truly global initiative. Klasse in Sport Physical education in schools has been proven to promote the physical and cognitive development of children. With the Klasse in Sport (Class in sport) initiative, ERGO sponsors daily qualified PE lessons at 26 primary schools across the country and also supports the advanced training of teachers to this end. Campus Thao In Spain, DKV supports Thao , a community programme for the prevention of overweight and obesity in children. The aim of the initiative is to spread the word among the population about a healthy lifestyle in line with the UN philosophy and the NAOS [nutrition, physical activity and obesity prevention] strategy, particularly targeting young people. To achieve this, Thao goes to a different city every three months, giving dietary recommendations and promoting healthy food. At the same time, Thao provides teachers with supporting classroom materials, and the school kitchens cook food with correspondingly healthy ingredients. This promotes a varied and balanced diet as well as physical activity. DKV and Thao have also launched another project called Caminos de salud (Ways to health), which encourages people to combat overweight and obesity through regular physical activity. Run Promoting physical activity is an important part of our social commitment. After all, exercise promotes good health and helps prevent illness. DKV, the ERGO health insurer, uses the Run initiative to encourage people to take control of their own health and get plenty of exercise as a step in the right direction. The annual DKV bridge run and DKV team run sports events combine exercise with a good cause. Instead of an entry fee, participants are asked for a voluntary donation which is then rounded up by DKV. The money collected is donated to the Cologne child welfare association. Madeleine Schickedanz-KinderKrebs-Stiftung As one of the main sponsors of the Madeleine Schickedanz-KinderKrebs-Stiftung (Madeleine Schickedanz Children's Cancer Foundation), ERGO contributes to childhood cancer research, improving the chances of recovery for young cancer patients. The foundation is supported through different projects. During the nationwide Bike to work campaign, for example, each kilometre cycled by the ERGO Direkt team was sponsored with 50 cents. In 2014, ERGO Direkt was able to donate €100,000 to the foundation. 1,000 Kilometres against cancer Since 2010, the Flemish Anti-Cancer League has staged the 1,000-kilometre Kom op tegen Kanker (Fight Against Cancer) event, in which the participating teams have to cover a total of 1,000 kilometres by bike within four days. But it is about much more than sport – the ride is a sign of solidarity against giving up. The participants encourage affected patients and their families in their fight against the disease. The entry fees also make it possible to improve cancer research. DKV Belgium makes a sporting and financial contribution with two teams of riders. Organisations supported by Munich Re: Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Commitment Art and Culture Focal areas Sponsoring culture A tradition of involvement Cultural commitment is one of Munich Re's long-standing traditions. This applies in particular to contemporary art as an expression and reflection of an open and Education and science interested society and as a barometer for innovative ideas. Natural catastrophes and environment Städtische Galerie im Lenbachhaus und Kunstbau Both sides benefit from an exchange between culture and industry. While many cultural München Health and demographics projects only become possible with financial support from businesses, the creativity and aesthetics of the arts in turn create major inspiration for staff and for society. Art and Culture Social commitment Our membership of several support and sponsor groups for cultural institutions in Munich, such as the Pinakothek Society or our partnership with the Städtische Galerie im Lenbachhaus, underline our cultural commitment. The Munich Re art collection Munich Re's appreciation of art has a long-standing tradition. Founder Carl von Bayerische Philharmonie Thieme recognised the inspirational power of contemporary art and enjoyed engaging in dialogue with artists. In 1912 and 1913, he commissioned a number External links of young artists to decorate the newly completed Main Building at Königinstrasse in Munich, laying the foundation for our art collection and our cultural ERGO: Commitment to music commitment. CAMPUS – Bayerische Staatsoper Munich Re art collection Our corporate art collection has always been an integral part of the Munich Re Bayerische Philharmonie (German corporate culture. Works of contemporary art are continually being added to it. only) The art collection in Munich currently comprises more than 2,500 works from Kulturkreis der deutschen Wirtschaft international artists. In addition to established artists, we provide targeted support (Association of Arts and Culture of for promising young talent in the visual arts. the German Economy) Lenbachhaus (German only) Städtische Galerie im Lenbachhaus and Kunstbau München SingPause (German only) 3-2-1-Ingnition Munich Re has had a collaboration project with the Städtische Galerie im Florence Griswold Museum Lenbachhaus and Kunstbau since December 2012. The curators of the two ArtsWave houses work together on content and overarching concepts to develop exhibition, teaching, publication and events formats for the Städtische Galerie with financial support from Munich Re. In keeping with the guiding principles of the Lenbachhaus and Munich Re's corporate citizenship concept, the collaboration focuses on projects dedicated to the communication of contemporary culture, while critically addressing social issues. In addition, Munich Re has created a research position. The Munich Re traineeship for promoting young scientists is a trial model aimed at bridging the gap between academic training and occupational requirements. I got to have one of those is the title of this year's exhibition which is being held as part of the collaboration. The new presentation of the Lenbachhaus's extensive collection of Art after 1945 opened on 18 May 2015. Bayerische Philharmonie Orchestra In 2013/14, Munich Re is sponsoring the Bayerische Philharmonie Orchestra, and with it the education and development of young prodigies. The Bayerische Philharmonie Orchestra provides broad support for young musicians, ranging from first practical experiences in orchestral performances to professional preparatory orchestra academies. With Munich Re support, the 4th and 5th Orff Days honouring renowned Munich composer Carl Orff (1895 – 1982) were held at the Munich Philharmonie in Gasteig Culture Centre in 2013 and 2014, drawing avid public interest. For their 20th anniversary in May 2014, the Bayerische Philharmonie Orchestra presented their anniversary concert in this context. Carmina Bavariae , the piece commissioned by composer and singer-songwriter Konstantin Wecker was performed as a revival from the “1st Orff days of the Bayerische Philharmonie Orchestra” as well as Carl Orff's most famous work for symphonic choir – Carmina Burana . 3-2-1 Ignition ERGO has been supporting the young musicians' concert series 3-2-1 Ignition since 2009. The Junge Tonhalle programme at the Tonhalle in Düsseldorf offers young people a special experience with classical music. SingPause (schools singing project) In the SingPause project sponsored by ERGO, trained singers visit Düsseldorf primary school classes twice a week to work together with the children on a broad international repertoire of songs. This model project for early music education has now reached 13,400 children – from all social backgrounds – at 60 schools around the city. This is about two-thirds of all primary school pupils in Düsseldorf. Besides a sound, basic education that can serve as a foundation, the teachers above all want to cultivate enjoyment and enthusiasm in the children through singing. As a by-product , the project also improves social behaviour and concentration. Florence Griswold Museum Hartford Steam Boiler’s (HSB) Fine Arts Collection has increased the Florence Griswold Museum’s capacity to serve, educate and inspire the public. The museum shares Connecticut’s artistic heritage with visitors from all over the world. In addition to gifting the HSB Fine Arts collection, HSB has a long history of sponsoring (1987-2015) exhibitions with related educational programmes, as well as making significant gifts to several campaigns. ArtsWave Cincinnati has one of the most vibrant arts communities in the United States. With the help of tens of thousands of donors, ArtsWave, a local arts agency and the nation's largest community campaign for the arts, supports more than 100 arts and community organisations. Music, dance, theatre, museums, festivals, and more, are happening in large and small ways in neighbourhoods all over – making communities more exciting and lively, and bringing all different kinds of people together throughout the area. American Modern has raised funds for ArtsWave for more than 20 years and runs an employee campaign where our associates can donate. In March 2015, its employees surpassed the annual fundraising goal by nearly $3,000, pledging more than $62,000. Together with American Modern’s corporate contribution, the total raised was more than $102,000. Investing in the arts is an important part of fostering a dynamic community, said Kerri Coburn, Vice-President Client Operations & Personal Lines Underwriting, and Chair of American Modern’s 2015 ArtsWave campaign. As a singer and performer, I am proud of American Modern’s continued commitment to Cincinnati theatre, music, art and more. Organisations supported by Munich Re: Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Commitment Social commitment Focal areas Our social commitment Munich Re and its staff support social institutions and projects in Germany and throughout the world. In addition to the financial help we provide, our employees also show personal commitment: They volunteer for charity initiatives or take part in sports events. The Munich Re (reinsurance) corporate volunteering Education and science activities are coordinated and supported by the Dr. Hans-Jürgen Schinzler Natural catastrophes and environment Foundation. Munich Re From left to right: Dr. J. Walter (Board Health and demographics One main focus is the integration of people with disabilities in all companies within the member of the Pfennigparade Art and Culture Group, following the example of the DKV Integralia Foundation in Spain. A selection Foundation), Dr. Astrid Zwick (Head of of our numerous projects is listed below. More information about the individual Corporate Responsibility, Munich Re), Dr. Social commitment foundations of Munich Re (Group) can be found on our pages about the foundation Joachim Wenning (Member of the Board work. of Management, Munich Re) Pfennigparade We attach great importance to the integration of people with disabilities. To this end, Munich Re has for ten years now been working together with the Pfennigparade Foundation, one of the largest rehabilitation centres for people with physical disabilities in Germany. This cooperation is based on a bilateral social partnership agreement. ICP Suitably qualified employees from the Pfennigparade Foundation – with due regard to their physical capabilities – support Munich Re in a whole range of areas, projects and work processes, e.g. in IT, accounting and purchasing. The employees are deployed in the same manner as external service providers and work either directly at the Munich Re offices in Munich or in the foundation's own workplaces, depending on the job in question. „Arbeit für Menschen mit Behinderung (AfB)” ERGO Direkt helps to provide jobs for people with disabilities and, to this end, has been working with the first non-profit IT system house in Germany since 2007. In collaboration with charity organisations, used IT hardware is given to United Way AfB, where it is refurbished and then donated to or sold for charity. Employees can, for example, donate their used PCs to support social institutions such as Related topics schools or nursery schools. Dr. Hans-Jürgen Schinzler Integration at Hestia in Poland Foundation DKV Foundation “Integralia” We also integrate people with disabilities directly into the company at the Munich Management: Diversity Re offices internationally. An excellent example of integration is ERGO Hestia in Poland: physically disabled employees provide customer service over the phone. The project is supported by the company's own foundation, which follows the External links integration model of the Integralia Foundation of the Spanish DKV Seguros. Ergo: wir helfen e.V. (We help) Cooperation between D.A.S. and the integration company ICP Pfennigparade (German only) AfB ICP looks after children, young people and adults with infantile cerebral palsy ICP (ICP) at its various facilities. Since September 2010, D.A.S. has been cooperating 40 Oaks with ICP's Munich-based integration company, ICP Verwaltungsund Service Tú Decides! GmbH, helping severely disabled employees to get started in the primary labour DKV Brückenlauf (German only) market by acquiring occupational skills. At the integration company, young office Intermón Oxfam Trailwalker clerks and office workers with cerebral palsy work together with people without a United Way disability. They received extensive and specific training for the demanding tasks ShareTheMeal at D.A.S. Habitat for Humanity 40 Oaks – Community Meal Programme Employees of HSB Boiler Inspection and Insurance Company of Canada in Toronto volunteer their time for the 40 Oaks meal project. The Toronto Christian Resource Centre (CRC), a community centre, provides breakfast and lunch on weekdays to local residents. Every few months, a group of employees help serve lunch at CRC for a few hours. The volunteers set up trays of food and serve in the dining area. The aim of the 40 Oaks project is to revive an underprivileged part of Toronto by creating a community centre with flats, food cooperatives and social activities. “Aligning ourselves with an organisation that is making a difference and in close proximity to us is the reason we decided to support CRC and the good work it does,” says John Mulvihill, President and CEO. ergo: wir helfen e.V. The non-profit association ergo: wir helfen e.V. (ERGO: We help) was started by ERGO employees. Around 4,600 employees have joined the organisation, which promotes and sponsors social facilities and initiatives. The primary focus is on assisting people in need, particularly children and young people. The focus of one of the 73 projects, for example, is medical and psychological care in Germany for children from international crisis areas who have been affected by war. Helfende Hand e.V. ERGO supports the Düsseldorf parent initiative Helfende Hand e.V. (Helping hand). The idea: Selected partner shops along the route to school are designated as helping hands , to allow primary school children to move about their part of town safely and without fear. The children can find help and protection there in critical situations. Öffne dein Herz Each year, the Team Asset Management Immobilien International (AMI) of MEAG fulfils Christmas wishes of socially deprived children in Munich as part of the Öffne dein Herz (Open your heart) project organised by the INTEGRA charitable institution. In 2013, MEAG also donated the proceeds from their Christmas tombola to sick and deprived children. The money went to the Foundation Ambulantes Kinderhospiz München – AKM, which supports families with severely or terminally ill children and youngsters. Tú Decides! As part of the tenth public call to assist social and environmental projects throughout Spain, DKV Seguros provided support totalling almost €100,000 to new companies, benefiting more than 160,000 people. Under the slogan Tú Decides! (You decide!), employees, customers, brokers, health providers and healthcare professionals can select the programmes they want to see supported. This year, 20,697 votes were obtained, thanks to intensive promotion on social networks and the sponsoring of projects by DKV Seguros staff. The largest share of the funding went as start-up assistance to social projects for people with disabilities and children, and to cooperative health prevention and disease prevention efforts. Solidarity march In September, DKV Seguros organised a solidarity march that was held simultaneously in 30 cities. Nearly 2,000 people, including employees, their families, friends and business partners, covered a total distance of 8,805 kilometres. For the kilometres walked, DKV Seguros donated a total of €27,342 to the Food Bank Federation. Intermón Oxfam Trailwalker DKV Seguros is the main sponsor of Intermón Oxfam Trailwalker , the world's largest team sporting event for a social purpose. In 2014, 2,814 walkers took part in the charity walk (jointly organised by both partners) for food and water projects in the Third World. ShareTheMeal: social app helps children in need The ShareTheMeal app was developed by a young team in the Axel Springer Plug and Play Accelerator , and was promptly rated by WIRED magazine as one of the best 15 ideas for a better world . The main funding for the app's development was provided by ERGO as part of its social commitment. ERGO will also support the introduction of the app in the spring of 2015. The idea behind the concept: by clicking on the app, you donate 40 cents to the UN World Food Programme – exactly what it costs to feed a hungry child for one day. In return, ShareTheMeal ensures transparency – UN staff collect stories and pictures of the children who are being helped and send these to the app user. Sharing, doing good, combating global hunger together – this is what ShareTheMeal is committed to doing. United Way United Way has been in existence for 125 years and has been the major recipient of donations from American Modern and HSB for over 25 years. United Way comprises a national system of volunteers, contributors and local charities, dedicated to helping people in their own communities improve their lives. The vision of United Way is to ensure that children are educated and prepared for success in life, that people are financially stable with maximum health and independence, and that neighbourhoods and communities are vibrant, inviting places to live. The donations to United Way are keystones of the Corporate Citizenship concepts of American Modern and HSB. While United Way is a national fundraising organisation, each region has an independent agency. HSB supports United Way of Central and Northeastern Connecticut, and American Modern is consistently one of the top participating companies in United Way of Greater Cincinnati. It was named the Number One Pacesetter company of 2013 for achieving the largest dollar increase in the Pacesetter group. United Way of Greater Cincinnati – Eastern Area presented its 2015 Excellence in Service Award to American Modern President and CEO, Manny Rios. Habitat for Humanity Habitat for Humanity is a global, non-profit housing organisation that works to provide everyone with decent accommodation where they can live in dignity and safety. Through building, rehabilitating and maintaining homes, its aim is to eliminate poverty housing and homelessness. Last year, a group of 20 Hartford Steam Boiler (HSB) employees volunteered for a Hartford Habitat for Humanity project and spent a day building three houses for local families in need. They hammered in hundreds of nails, cut out sections for windows, and lifted frame segments. The company encourages volunteerism by granting employees paid time off for volunteer activities. Employees' volunteer efforts were in addition to a corporate donation from HSB, which went towards defraying the cost of building materials. Refugee aid As part of refugee aid, Munich Re supports the Welcome to Munich platform. Although the many organisations involved in assisting refugees are in contact with each other, they have not previously had any possibility of pooling aid and coordinating needs. In 2015, in Munich alone around 12,000 asylum seekers and refugees are expected, including around 4,000 unaccompanied child refugees. The Social Services Department of the City of Munich, Caritas and more than 100 organisations have therefore developed a communication platform consisting of an intranet for the organisations involved in assisting refugees and a web portal for Munich's civil society. The non-profit association SoNet e.V. is the main sponsor and non-profit body responsible for the platform. The platform gives the organisations involved in assisting refugees a long-term digital tool for networking and exchanging information on assistance available and required. Arriving refugees can be given better and quicker support as a result. Last year, Munich Re already responded to the tense refugee situation in Munich by making donations to selected organisations operating in the area of local social issues . Staff also held a collection for refugee accommodation. Organisations supported by Munich Re: Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Commitment Munich Re Foundation Foundations Munich Re Foundation – Improving living conditions A company with a wealth of knowledge should share it. Munich Re fulfils this responsibility with the Munich Re Foundation. In keeping with its motto From Munich Re Foundation Knowledge to Action , the Munich Re Foundation (established in 2005) plays its part in assisting people in risk situations, primarily in developing countries, and Dr. Hans-Jürgen Schinzler Foundation improving their living conditions. ERGO “Youth & Future” Foundation Disaster reduction award: RISK Award DKV “Integralia” Foundation Disaster preparedness is an important element of the foundation's work, and there are a number of ongoing projects in this field. In 2012, the Global Risk Forum Davos and the United Nations International Strategy for Disaster Reduction (UNISDR) chose the Munich Re Foundation winner of the Foundation's first RISK Award, which is endowed with €100,000 and awarded every two years. With this prize money, the winners financed a specific Experts in dialogue: climate researcher, disaster management project, and the Munich Re Foundation supported its Mojib Latif attending a public discussion implementation. forum organised by the Munich Re Foundation. In 2014, the award went to the Chilean organisation ONG Inclusiva, which works to ensure that people with disabilities have equal opportunities to cope and survive in disaster situations. The United Nations World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction (WCDRR) was held in Sendai, Japan, in 2015. The RISK Award was presented here for the third time. The winner was the city of Pune in India. Its main concern is to protect women and children living in the slums against natural disasters. Climate change in Bangladesh – Preparing for emergencies Bangladesh is exposed to many hazards. For example, rising sea levels, flooding and salinisation of the soil threaten the flat stretches of land along the coast. The vast river Munich Re Foundation landscapes in the country's interior are flooded each year during the monsoon. In the The project that won a RISK Award in summer, the country is threatened by cyclones, and its north-western region is 2015 specifically reduces the risks faced increasingly subject to year-long droughts. Over the years, the people there have built by women and children in the slums of up their knowledge of how to deal with these hazards, but, to an increasing degree, Pune in India. their latitude for action is being restricted by the pressure of a growing population and climate changes that exacerbate the situation. Together with the United Nations University in Bonn and a research institute at the International University of Bangladesh (ICCCAD), the Munich Re Foundation and people in the country have been developing proposals to more effectively counter the heightened risks. The project consortium selected six highly exposed Bangladeshi communities, where it will work over the next four years to improve the people's resilience to disasters. Microinsurance safeguards livelihoods Munich Re Foundation The Munich Re Foundation’s efforts are making themselves felt, and not only in the Capturing drinking water in the Anti-Atlas field of disaster management. The foundation is also striving to help achieve the United mountains of Morocco: fog is converted to Nations' millennium objective of combatting poverty, which is why, each year since drinking water using fog nets. 2005, the foundation has organised a large annual International Microinsurance Conference. Microinsurance offers low-income population groups an opportunity to insure themselves against risks, particularly health risks, and thus alleviate the consequences of major emergencies. Also, with the World Map of Microinsurance, market data on the status and development of microinsurance worldwide is collected and made available. The International Microinsurance Conference – A forum for microinsurance experts from all over the world The conference organised by the foundation offers representatives of the insurance Munich Re Foundation industry, regulatory authorities, development organisations and research institutes a platform for discussing existing and new ways to insure the lowest income groups at Waterline near the Bhola slums in Dhaka, reasonable cost. The 2014 conference, held in Mexico City, Mexico, attracted some Bangladesh 400 experts from more than 50 different countries, making it the biggest Related topics microinsurance conference in the world. It is held in turn in Africa, Asia and Latin America, and the venue in 2015 will be Casablanca, Morocco. Solutions for developing and emerging countries Water – Resource and risk Alongside poverty, disaster preparedness and climate change, water is the fourth area in which the foundation works. Among the foundation's core interests are fog net External links projects for capturing drinking water. The simple technology – large nets filter droplets Munich Re Foundation of water out of the air – makes life easier for people in arid mountain regions. The first Munich Re Foundation» Munich Re fog catchers set up in the Anti-Atlas mountain range in Morocco and in Tanzania now Foundation: Publications supply several communities with fresh water. In Tanzania, the fog net project is also Risk Award benefitting schools. The fog net projects receive technical and scientific support from Microinsurance Conference the Technical University (TU) of Munich, and fog net technology is undergoing continual Worldmap of microinsurance further development. More efficient nets mean more drinking water for an ever greater number of people. Educational work in Munich Each year, the foundation organises public dialogue forums to discuss the areas in which it works, so that participants have the opportunity to exchange views with policymakers and experts from science and the media. The forums regularly feature presentations from leading experts such as Frank-Walter Steinmeier, Gesine Schwan, Hans Joachim Schellnhuber and Klaus Töpfer. With the theme of Starving in the midst of abundance? , the 2014 dialogue forums addressed the topic of Food and nutrition , covering aspects such as food security, famine, health aspects and food as an object of financial speculation. The topic series for 2015 is looking at the challenges of Climate, poverty, disasters – Save the world! . In 2016, the dialogue forums will examine the energy transition and its implications for business, politics and society. GRI: G4-FS14 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Commitment Dr. Hans-Jürgen Schinzler Foundation Foundations Dr. Hans-Jürgen Schinzler Foundation – Promoting corporate volunteering The Schinzler Foundation was founded in 2004 by Dr. Hans-Jürgen Schinzler, former Chairman of the Munich Re Group, to promote the commitment of Munich Munich Re Foundation Re staff to voluntary work. The foundation is now a successful forum for the reinsurance group's corporate volunteering activities. Dr. Hans-Jürgen Schinzler Foundation ERGO “Youth & Future” Foundation The Dr. Hans-Jürgen Schinzler Foundation aims to offer Munich Re's reinsurance staff around the world active support for their volunteer projects, providing a framework in DKV “Integralia” Foundation which employees or entire company departments can play a part in a wide range of voluntary fields, such as social, environmental and cultural activities. In addition to Dr. Hans-Jürgen Schinzler Stiftung giving financial support for projects, the Foundation has been organising social days for staff since 2010 and providing project ideas for voluntary helpers. Selected project examples from the Schinzler Foundation in 2014 Reading for Pleasure “Reading for Pleasure” aims to motivate students to read more books. The project is designed to benefit underprivileged young people aged 15 to 19. Using the funds provided by the Schinzler Foundation, the Uirapuru Project increased the library’s collection, acquiring books chosen by the students under the supervision of the librarian. The ambiance of the library has been improved, making it now more Dr. Hans-Jürgen Schinzler Stiftung attractive to young readers. New sound equipment was bought and has been used in cultural events such as literary, music, dance and drama presentations. The Uirapuru Project is proud to say that it now has a regular readership. Teachers and librarians have noticed that some young people who come to the project for the first time have already heard about the community library that the project is involved in, and count on being able to choose books according to their personal interests. Cooking with children and renovation work in the Ronald McDonald House For years, a team from Munich Re has been supporting the Ronald McDonald House at Grosshadern in Munich by taking it in turns to prepare dinners for the families who Dr. Hans-Jürgen Schinzler Stiftung stay there. Families with seriously ill children who are being treated in the Grosshadern Hospital can stay temporarily in the Ronald McDonald House. External links And when the planned restructuring of the basement was mentioned at the facility's Schinzler Foundation most recent New Year's reception, six Munich Re employees decided to help out with Dr. von Haunerschen Children's the project. In the space of two days, they managed to remodel the basement rooms Hospital and contribute towards their new use. Integration Centre for Cerebral Palsy (ICP) Trainee project in the Dr. von Haunerschen Children's Hospital McDonalds children´s aid The 18 second-year trainees spent a day with sick children in the Dr. von Haunerschen Children's Hospital. In consultation with the Hauner Verein, the association that supports the Dr. von Haunerschen Children's Hospital, the Munich Re team spent the morning transforming the inner courtyard. After some repair and restoration work, the trainees also planted colourful flowers in large pots to brighten up the appearance of the playground, which is situated in an inner courtyard surrounded by walls. In the afternoon, the trainees invited the children to a games afternoon featuring a bouncy castle. The children also painted pictures for the patients who were unable to take part that afternoon because of medical examinations. Their parents enjoyed an afternoon in the sun with coffee and cake, while the children were able to forget their cares for a while amid all the fun. Hellabrunn Zoo in autumn – Senior citizens' excursion In summer 2013, a team from Munich Re got to know a number of senior citizens from the Integration Centre for Cerebral Palsy (ICP) in the Munich suburb of Freimann, all of whom rely on wheelchairs. Following a visit together to the Transport Museum in 2013, the group made a visit to Hellabrunn Zoo in 2014. They intend to remain in touch, with a joint excursion being organised at least once a year. Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Commitment ERGO “Youth & Future” Foundation Foundations ERGO Foundation creating prospects for the future External links ERGO “Youth & Future” Foundation With the ERGO foundation Jugend & Zukunft (Youth & Future), ERGO aims to give encouragement to young people, help them discover their full potential and Munich Re Foundation take personal responsibility for shaping their future. An important tool in this context is the foundation's Job Locomotive project. Dr. Hans-Jürgen Schinzler Foundation ERGO “Youth & Future” Foundation Impetus from the Job Locomotive The Hamburg Job Locomotive project is the foundation's key focus. It helps socially DKV “Integralia” Foundation disadvantaged youngsters to develop their career prospects and manage the transition to vocational training or employment. Educational award for regional initiative ERGO's Jugend & Zukunft foundation focuses on young and innovative projects that tackle the issue of education in Germany in a special way. Projects deemed worthy of consideration can be recommended in four regions (north, south, east and west). In the summer of 2014, with its educational award the foundation gave a one-time recognition to young and very effective educational innovations. These were initiatives that are already having a major impact and whose approaches offer potential for expansion. The aim of the sponsorship prize was to provide the necessary development assistance to the award-winning projects, with a view to allowing them to have an impact on a national level. Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Commitment DKV “Integralia” Foundation Foundations DKV’s Integralia Foundation – Integrating people with disabilities Through its Integralia Foundation, DKV Seguros has set up special call centres that employ people with physical disabilities. Munich Re Foundation The Fundación Integralia is a non-profit organisation founded by DKV Seguros. Its Dr. Hans-Jürgen Schinzler Foundation mission is the social and professional integration for persons with physical disabilities. ERGO “Youth & Future” Foundation With this purpose in mind, the foundation has established in Spain a number of call Fundación DKV Integralia centres staffed by such persons, who take customer orders, schedule appointments DKV “Integralia” Foundation Staff members celebrate the ten-year and conduct customer satisfaction surveys. Launched in 1999, the foundation has its anniversary of Fundación DKV Integralia headquarters in El Prat de Llobregat (Barcelona) and employs more than 320 people, in 2010. most of whom have severe physical disabilities. Since its founding, Integralia has received numerous national awards and honours, particularly for its commitment to the social integration of persons with disabilities. According to Spain's Fundación Empresa y Sociedad (foundation for enterprise and society), this integration model had by 2007 already placed DKV Seguros among the Spanish companies with the highest percentages of employees with disabilities. 2014 has been a good year for DKV’s Integralia Foundation Fundación DKV Integralia The foundation has included 57 new employees in its workforce. Beyond this, it has integrated 76 people as workers in ordinary companies in Spain and 24 in Latin The call-centre in Barcelona, operated by America. Fundación DKV Integralia within DKV The Integralia School has been consolidated as a powerful project to train disabled Seguros. people and foster the skills demanded by customer-support companies. This year, External links 12 courses have been conducted with more than 150 certified students, 79 of whom currently have a job. DKV‘s Integralia Foundation The organisation’s work has been extended even to South America and Asia, where it has implemented educational projects to empower people’s integration. The “Talento sin Límites” (talent without limits) programme has emerged, giving disabled people the possibility of carrying out their professional projects through entrepreneurship. The foundation has established the bases for a modern DKV Integralia Foundation which can effectively meet new challenges and export the model embodying its three main objectives: to integrate people with disabilities in companies, to maintain special employment centres for training and promoting the professional development of employees and to raise the awareness of business people regarding the added value which people with disabilities provide wherever they are given the opportunity. Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Facts and figures Related topics PSI-reporting PRI-reporting External links ERGO: Facts and figures Comprehensive and transparent Munich Re reports transparently and comprehensively on its performance in the field of corporate responsibility. To fulfil this claim, this section provides detailed and concisely summarised information and key indicators on Munich Re' activities relating to CR. Key figures On the following subpages, we have compiled all the important data and facts relating to Munich Re’s corporate responsibility. They include key performance figures and detailed disclosures for the financial, employees, environmental and social commitment indicators, also available for download. Key figures Reporting Detailed indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) together with our CR Portal and the additional key indicators for fields of business, comprise our Communication on Progress for the Global Compact. We also indicate how our corporate responsibility performance is assessed by actors in the financial markets and name the partnerships and initiatives in which we participate. Reporting GRI: G4-20; G4-21; G4-22 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Facts and figures Financial indicators Related topics Financial indicators (IFRS) Environmental indicators Employee indicators In the 2013 financial year, Munich Re posted a very satisfying profit of €3.3bn, thus exceeding our original consolidated result target of close to €3bn. Our core business in primary insurance and reinsurance is healthy. We also achieved a good investment result. Downloads Group annual report 2013 (PDF, 9.3 Key figures (IFRS)¹ ² MB) Munich Re Group 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Gross premiums written €bn 48.8 51.1 52.0 49.5 45.5 Net earned premiums €bn 47.4 49.2 50.5 47.3 43.1 Net expenses for claims and benefits €bn –39.7 –39.9 –41.0 –40.9 –36.6 Net operating expenses €bn –12.0 –12.4 –12.6 –12.0 –11.1 Operating result €m 4,028 4,398 5,349 1,180 3,978 Taxes on income €m 312 –108 –878 552 –692 Consolidated result €m 3,171 3,333 3,204 712 2,430 Attributable to non-controlling interests €m 18 29 16 10 8 Earnings per share € 18.31 18.45 17.94 3.94 13.06 Dividend per share € 7.75 7.25 7.00 6.25 6.25 Dividend payout €m 1,298 1,254 1,255 1,110 1,110 Share price at 31 December € 165.75 160.15 136.00 94.78 113.45 Munich Re’s market capitalisation at 31 December3 €bn 28.7 28.7 24.4 17.0 21.4 Book value per share € 178.22 146.23 152.34 129.99 126.31 Investments €bn 218.9 202.2 213.8 201.7 193.1 Insurance-related investments €bn 8.5 7.3 Equity €bn 30.3 26.2 27.4 23.3 23.0 Return on equity % 11.3 12.5 12.5 3.3 10.4 Off-balance-sheet unrealised gains and losses4 €bn 17.4 8.7 11.0 5.7 3.6 Net technical provisions €bn 198.4 187.7 186.1 181.2 171.1 Balance sheet total €bn 273.0 254.3 258.4 247.6 236.4 Staff at 31 December 43,316 44,665 45,437 47,206 46,915 Reinsurance 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Gross premiums written €bn 26.8 27.8 28.2 26.0 23.6 Investments €bn 88.0 79.2 83.8 79.5 83.7 Net technical provisions €bn 63.5 60.5 61.1 62.7 56.6 Major losses (net) €m –1,162 –1,689 –1,799 –5,048 –2,228 Natural catastrophe losses €m –538 –764 –1,284 –4,538 –1,564 Combined ratio property-casualty5 % 92.7 92.1 91.0 113.8 100.5 ERGO 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Gross premiums written €bn 16.7 16.7 17.1 17.4 17.5 Investments €bn 135.5 126.7 124.9 117.0 121.8 Net technical provisions €bn 132.4 125.1 122.8 116.1 111.2 Combined ratio property-casualty Germany % 95.3 96.7 98.0 Combined ratio international % 97.3 98.7 99.8 Munich Health 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Munich Health 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Gross premiums written €bn 5.3 6.6 6.7 6.0 5.1 Investments €bn 3.9 3.6 4.2 4.6 4.1 Net technical provisions €bn 2.5 2.2 2.2 2.4 3.3 Combined ratio6 % 98.8 98.3 100.2 99.5 99.7 1 Previous years’ figures adjusted owing to IFRS 8 and IAS 8; see “Changes in accounting policies and other adjustments”. 2 In 2012, our segment reporting was modified and no longer has a consolidation column. The figures for 2011 have been adjusted accordingly. Comparability with the year 2010 is thus limited. 3 For 2010, 2013 and 2014, this contains own shares earmarked for retirement. 4 Including those apportionable to minority interests and policyholders. 5 The figures for 2011 are not adjusted for relief of 1.4 percentage points from economic risk transfer to the capital markets. 6 Excluding health insurance conducted like life insurance. Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Facts and figures Employee indicators Related topics Employee indicators Financial indicators Environmental indicators Highly qualified, motivated and performance-oriented staff are key to the success of our business. Munich Re Management: Responsibility towards currently has some 43,500 employees. Thanks to their risk knowledge, expertise and innovative thinking, our staff staff create long-term value. This section of the corporate responsibility portal shows the evolution in Munich Re’s main employee indicators for the period 2011–2014. Munich Re employee indicators 2014 2013 2012 2011 Employees 43,316 44,665 45,437 47,206 Employees by line of business Reinsurance (%) 27.1 25.3 24.4 23.8 Primary insurance (%) 65.9 66.3 65.5 66.3 Asset management (%) / 1.9 1.8 1.6 Munich Health (%) 7,0 6.5 8.3 8.3 Since 2014 asset management split up among business lines. Percentage of female staff Female employees (%) 53.9 54.1 54.0 54.0 Women in management (%) 31.1 30.2 29.0 26.0 No. of staff by age Employees aged 30 and under 14.8 15.2 12.8 14.2 (%) Employees aged 31 to 50 (%) 61.2 61.8 65.1 63.0 Employees aged over 50 (%) 24 23.0 22.1 22.8 No. of staff by type of employment contract Permanent employment (%) 96.8 94.8 96.0 94.2 Temporary employment (%) 3.2 5.2 4.0 5.8 Sick leave Sick leave (%) 4.3 4.4 4.7 4.1 Employee turnover rate Weighted average turnover rate 11,8 10.5 9.2 12.5 (%) Length of service Average length of service (years) 12.3 12.1 11.6 10.8 These figures account for 100% of all Munich Re (Group) employees in 2014 (exception: sick leave 92%). Training Training costs per staff member 898.00 975.00 946.00 1,096.00 (€)* No. of days’ training per staff 3.2 3.8 2.9 3.1 member** * Proportion: 93% (2013: 52%) ** Proportion: 69% (2013: 75%) Comments We are steadily extending the amount of employee data in order to cover additional items and thus to improve the reliability of our key figures. As a result of the expanded data base, some of the figures have changed retroactively. Since the data now being used are of greater quality than earlier, the employee turnover rate, length of service and training have only limited comparability with figures from earlier years. Staff by field of business Staff by region Age structure of staff (Munich Re Group) Percentage of female staff (Munich Re Group) Munich Re (Group) training expenditure Munich Re (Group) training Sick leave Munich Re (Group) Total number of permanent employees by employment type (full-time/part-time) and gender (2014) Permanent employees 2014 Female Male Total Full-time 14,135 17,115 30,879 Part-time 5,973 994 6,967 Permanent employees 20,108 18,109 37,746 Total coverage: 87%; (Degree of coverage in Reinsurance and MH: 66.3 %, MEAG 100%, ERGO Germany and International ~99%) This calculation considers MR Munich and all Entities which have solely permanent employees. Employees represented by an independent trade union or covered by collective bargaining agreements (%) 2014 2013 2012 2011 Collective bargaining agreements (%) 96% 96% 96% 96% Coverage MR Group employees in Germany (~50% of MR Group) Voluntary employee turnover rate 2014 2013 2012 2011 Voluntary employee turnover rate in % 3.4 1.0 2.5 2.0 Coverage Voluntary employee turnover rate is valid for ERGO Germany. Open positions filled by internal candidates 2014 2013 2012 2011 Open positions filled 89.3 90 by internal candidates in % Coverage Percentage of open positions filled by internal candidates refers to leadership positions at MR Munich. Due to the low turnover rate, there is a high percentage of open positions filled by internal candidates. Other entities could differ. Lay-offs 2014 2013 2012 2011 Employees laid off in the last fiscal year (in %) 544 638 204 Coverage 100% 100% 70% Performance and career development 2014 2013 2012 2011 Employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews in % 100% 100% 100% Coverage 100% 100% 100% 100% GRI: G4-10; G4-11; G4-LA1; G4-LA7; G4-LA9; G4-LA12 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Facts and figures Environmental indicators Related topics Environmental indicators Financial indicators Employee indicators As a financial services provider, Munich Re only has a small direct environmental footprint compared with Management: Environment that of manufacturing companies. Nevertheless, we are working continuously to minimise our emissions and resource consumption. Download In our reporting on our emissions and consumption of resources, we focus on the main environmental impacts of our business operations as a financial services provider. These are the consumption of paper, energy and water, More detailed environmental the waste we produce, the number of business trips taken and the volume of our CO2 emissions. In recent years, indicators (XLSX, 35 KB) we have steadily extended the criteria we use in recording consumption in order to capture additional data and thus improve the information value of our environmental indicators. External links ERGO: Key environmental figures Munich Re environmental 2014 2013 2012 2011 indicators Proportion of employees % of employees 38 38 32 31 captured by the certified environmental management system Proportion of employees Data % of employees 86 87 85 83 collection Direct energy consumption Megawatt hours (MWh) 4.3 4.66 4.55 5.08 (e.g. oil, gas, fuels) per employee Indirect energy consumption Megawatt hours (MWh) per employee 5.7 6.05 5.73 6.20 (e.g. electricity, district heating) Paper consumption Tonnes (t) per employee 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.05 Water consumption Cubic metres (m3) per employee 17.9 15.98 18.24 18.77 Waste Tonnes (t) per employee 0.28 0.26 0.30 0.25 Business trips Kilometres (km) per employee 7,418 6,915 6,503 6,585 Total CO2 emissions Kilos (kg) per employee 3,911 3,885 3,944 4,168 No. of employees as at 31 43,316 44,665 45,437 47,206 December The table provides information on our current resource consumption and CO2 emissions as at 31 December 2014. Please find more detailed environment indicators here (XLSX, 35 KB). Explanations of the environmental indicators CO2 emission sources: direct emissions from primary energy consumption (natural gas, heating oil, diesel for emergency generator), indirect emissions from power supplied by third parties (purchase of electricity and district heating), other indirect emissions (business trips, fuel for company cars, paper and water consumption, waste – excluding emissions from products and investments). The concrete environmental data captured covers the vast majority of all Munich Re employees. In 2014, this amounted to 86% of employees. All the environmental indicator figures given here are extrapolated to cover 100% of all Munich Re (Group) employees. The gradual extension of the data capture has resulted in a few changes in the indicators from previous years, as the newly included units have also provided data retroactively back to 2009. We base our environmental indicators on the standards for data capture and the conversion factors of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. We also use the standard of the Verein für Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit in Finanzinstituten (Association for Environmental Management and Sustainability in Banks, Savings Banks, and Insurance Companies). GRI: G4-DMA-Environmental; G4-EN1; G4-EN2; G4-EN3; G4-EN19; G4-EN30 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Facts and figures Social commitment indicators Related topics Social commitment indicators Financial indicators Employee indicators Corporate citizenship – the social commitment of our Group – has a long-standing tradition at Munich Re. Management: Responsibility towards Our concept for the strategic orientation of our social commitment is based on business-related topics. It staff provides the guidelines and criteria for selecting donations and sponsorship projects. In the following, you will find a breakdown of Munich Re's total expenditure on corporate citizenship (CC). Social commitment indicators Indicator Unit 2014 2013 2012 2011 Expenses CC Munich Re Group* € 6,480,170 6,788,357 5,559,819 4,648,796 Total expenses CC** € 9,328,608 9,147,054 7,152,161 6,710,681 Coverage Munich Re Group % 95.5 94 74 73 * This amount comprises donations, sponsorships and memberships for science/education, social welfare, heathcare, culture, demographic change, the environment and natural catastrophes. ** This amount additionally includes donations in kind, political donations, corporate volunteering, ERGO foundations, Munich Re foundations. Political donations Munich Re (Group) also supports the democratic political process and, to this end, donates to the following parties: Bündnis90/Die Grünen, CDU, CSU, FDP and SPD. Donations to all parties do not exceed €150,000 in total, each party receiving the same amount of money with no conditions attached. Of that sum, €75,000 is contributed by Munich Re and €75,000 by ERGO Germany. The donations are transferred exclusively to the parties' federal headquarters. In addition to the above donations, membership fees are paid to organisations closely affiliated with the parties. These may total a maximum of €25,000 per financial year for Munich Re and ERGO. Corporate citizenship expenses in 2014 Additional spending: Donations in kind 29,177 € Political donations 170,500 € Corporate Volunteering hours 545,756 € Foundation and association ERGO 220,201 € Foundation Munich Re 1,882,804 € 0.25% of pre tax result (incl. political donations, corporate volunteering and donations in kind) 0.33% of pre tax result (incl. political donations, corporate volunteering and donations in kind and foundations * Proportion of employees captured: 95.5% of all employees ** Not including donations in kind Corporate citizenship expenses in 2014 (regional classification) Corporate citizenship expenses in 2013 Corporate citizenship expenses Munich Re Group* in 2013: 6,788,357 Euro** Additional spendings: Donations in kind 30,764 € Pollitical donations 168,000 € Corporate Volunteering hours 326,607 € Foundation ERGO 29,493 € Foundation Munich Re 1,864,033 € 0.21 % of pre-tax result (incl. political donations, corporate volunteering and donations in kind) 0.27 % des Vorsteuerergebnisses (iincl. political donations, corporate volunteering and donations in kind and foundations) * Proportion of employees captured: 94% of all employees ** Not including donations in kind Corporate citizenship expenses in 2012 Additional spending: Donations in kind 30,866 € Political donations 168,000 € Corporate Volunteering hours 195,220 € Foundation ERGO 45,000 € Foundation Munich Re 1,181,180 € 0.13% of pre tax result (incl. political donations, corporate volunteering and donations in kind) 0.15% of pre tax result (incl. political donations, corporate volunteering and donations in kind and foundations * Proportion of employees captured 74% of all employees ** Not including donations in kind Corporate citizenship expenses in 2011 Corporate citizenship expenses of Munich Re (Group)* in 2011: 4,648,796 €** * Proportion of employees captured: 73% of all employees ** not including donations in kind GRI: G4-15; G4-16; G4-24; G4-25; G4-26 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Facts and figures GRI reporting and Global Compact Related topics GRI reporting and Global Compact Communication on Progress Strategy: Our guiding principles In preparing the Munich Re corporate responsibility portal, we have for the first time taken as a basis the new G4 reporting standard of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Financial Services Sector Supplement. Our aim Download is to make our performance more transparent and comprehensible. Global Reporting Initiative 2013 We report in accordance with the core option guidelines and – where possible – endeavour to provide Results of the GRI Report (PDF, 328 information on additional indicators. The core option creates a background against which enterprises can provide KB) details of their economic, ecological and management-related performance. External links The indicators presented in the GRI disclosures simultaneously fulfil the requirements of the annual UN Global Communication on Progress Report. We thus document the measures Munich Re has taken to firmly anchor the Global Compact ten principles of the Global Compact in our operations. Global Reporting Initiative The following tables refer to the Munich Re's CR-Portal and other publications and contain comments and explanations of individual indicators and any deviations. KPMG’s “Reasonable assurance” covers all the information and data in the “Consolidated financial statements” and “Management Report” sections of Munich Re’s 2014 Annual Report (see p. 302 therein). General Standard Disclosures GRI G4/UN Global Compact Link/Page Additional Comment/ External Aspects and Indicators CR-Portal Reason for Omission Assurance Corporate Website (CWS) MR Annual Report 2014 (AR) General Standard Disclosures Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement by the CEO No Statement from the CEO G4-2 Strategy and challenges No Description of key impacts, risks, and Solutions opportunities Materiality analysis Objectives and measures Milestones Organisational profile G4-3 Imprint/Service: Back Münchener RückversicherungsNo Name of the organization cover p. 317 (AR) Gesellschaft G4-4 Munich Re portrait (CWS) Reasonable Primary brands, products, and services Our brands: back cover p. assurance 319 (AR) (PDF, 12 Management report, MB) Group structure: pp. 33-38 (AR) G4-5 Imprint Munich, Germany No Location of the organization’s headquarters G4-6 Munich Re worldwide Reasonable Number of countries where the (CWS) assurance organization operates, and names of ERGO International (PDF, 12 countries with major operations (CWS) MB) Munich Health worldwide (CWS) MEAG locations (MEAG) Munich Re’s global presence: cover pp. 4-5 (AR) Group structure: pp. 33-38 (AR) Stakeholders – Clients and client relationships: pp. 108-110 (AR) G4-7 Shareholder profile (CWS) Reasonable Nature of ownership and legal form Munich Re shares: pp. 12assurance 15 (AR) (PDF, 12 Other information – MB) Parent: pp. 282 (AR) Nature of ownership and legal form Munich Re shares: pp. 12Reasonable 15 (AR) assurance Other information – (PDF, 12 Parent: pp. 282 (AR) MB) G4-8 Munich Re Portrait (CWS) Reasonable Markets served (including geographic Group structure: pp. 33-38 assurance breakdown, sectors served, and types (AR) (PDF, 12 of customers and beneficiaries). Munich Re’s global MB) presence: cover pp. 4-5 (AR) Our brands: back cover p. 319 (AR) Stakeholders – Clients and client relationships: pp. 108-110 (AR) G4-9 Business performance: Reasonable Scale of the organization (employees, pp. 72-99 (AR) assurance operations, net sales, capitalization, Financial position: pp. 100 (PDF, 12 quantity of products or services ff. (AR) MB) provided) Stakeholders Staff: p. 113 (AR) Number of staff: p. 287 (AR) G4-10 / GC 6 Munich Re as an Partially reported – some data Reasonable Employee indicators (number of employer not available assurance employees, gender, contract, type, Work-life balance (PDF, 12 region) Employee indicators MB) Group/Employees (CWS) Staff: pp. 111-114 (AR) G4-11 / GC 3 Employee indicators Partially reported – some data No Percentage of total employees covered not available by collective bargaining agreements 96% of our employees are represented by an independent trade union or covered by collective bargaining agreements. MR Munich and ERGO are member in the employers' association of insurance industry in Germany and therefore subject to the association’s collective bargaining agreements; the same terms and conditions apply to both union and nonunion members. G4-12 Supply chain Partially reported – some data No Supply chain management not available G4-13 Notable events: pp. 8-9 Reasonable Significant changes during the reporting (AR) assurance period regarding size, structure, Group structure: pp. 33-38 (PDF, 12 ownership or supply chain (AR) MB) Commitments to external initiatives G4-14 Risk management Reasonable Whether and how the precautionary Risk management (CWS) assurance approach or principle is addressed. Risk report: pp.117 ff. (AR) (PDF, 12 MB) G4-15 Our commitments No Externally developed economic, Memberships and environmental, and social charters, partnerships principles, or other initiatives to which Munich Re subscribes G4-16 Memberships and No List memberships of associations and partnerships national or international advocacy organizations Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List of shareholdings: pp. Reasonable All entities included and excluded in the 292-301 (AR) assurance organization’s consolidated financial Group structure: pp. 33-38 (PDF, 12 statements or equivalent documents (AR) MB) G4-18 Stakeholder dialogue No Process for defining report content and Materiality analysis Aspect Boundaries and how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles G4-19 Materiality analysis Identified and analysed material No G4-19 Materiality analysis Identified and analysed material No All the material Aspects identified in the Stakeholder dialogue topics for Munich Re Group: process for defining report content. Climate change Vulnerability of economies Demographic change Access to financial solutions Digitalisation and new technologies Emerging risks G4-20 Materiality analysis Climate change: relevant No For each material Aspect, report the Stakeholder dialogue particularly for risk assessment, Aspect Boundary within the About CR portal corporate underwriting and organization Facts and figures business development Vulnerability of economies: stable economies are in general relevant for Munich Re, Demographic change: relevant particularly for the Life and Health sector as well as for the primary insurance sector. Access to financial solutions: in general relevant for market and business development Digitalisation and new technologies: in general relevant for the development for future markets/access to clients Emerging risks: in general relevant for identification/analysis of new risks and opportunities (risk assessment, business potentials) G4-21 Materiality analysis Climate change: relevant No For each material Aspect, report the Stakeholder dialogue particularly for clients and Aspect Boundary outside the About CR portal shareholders organization Facts and figures Vulnerability of economies: relevant particularly for shareholders and clients Demographic change: particularly relevant for clients in the health and life business as well as in primary insurance Access to financial solutions: potential/new clients/markets Digitalisation and new technologies: relevant for clients and shareholders Emerging risks: relevant particularly for shareholders and clients G4-22 Facts and figures We generally report on several No Effect of any restatements of Notes to the consolidated years in order to show the information provided in previous financial statements: pp. development of performance reports, and the reasons for such 165-179 (AR) indicators. The reasons for restatements Prospects: pp. 146-153 restatements of environmental data are generally improved data quality and availability following the introduction of a web-based data management system (SoFi), as well as changes in carbon accounting with revised emission factors. The effects of any restatements are explained for the indicators affected where applicable. G4-23 About CR portal New information available No Significant changes from previous Digitalisation regarding Digitalisation, reporting periods in the Scope and Emerging Risks Emerging Risks, Supply Chain Aspect Boundaries. Supply Chain Management, Lobbying and Management Health Care and Digitalisation Lobbying Health Care and Digitalisation Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder dialogue Reasonable List of stakeholder groups engaged Memberships and assurance partnerships (PDF, 12 Stakeholders: pp. 108-116 MB) (AR) G4-25 Stakeholder dialogue No Basis for identification and selection of Memberships and stakeholders with whom to engage partnerships G4-26 Stakeholder dialogue No G4-26 Stakeholder dialogue No Approach to stakeholder engagement Materiality analysis Memberships and partnerships G4-27 Stakeholder dialogue Partially reported – some data Concerns that have been raised Annual General not available through stakeholder engagement; how Meeting/Countermotions Munich Re has responded to those key Compliance topics and concerns. Report Profile G4-28 About CR Portal No Reporting period G4-29 Downloads June 2014 No Previous report publication G4-30 About CR Portal annual No Reporting cycle G4-31 Contact Dr. Philipp Hasenmueller No Contact point for questions regarding Georg Schwarz the report. responsibility@munichre.com Report profile: GRI content index G4-32 Reporting/GRI No The ‘in accordance’ option Munich Re has chosen G4-33 No external assurance of the Policy and current practice regarding CR-report (Portal and Short external assurance Report). Consolidated financial statements and Group management report in the Annual Report 2014 with reasonable assurance from KPMG. Governance G4-34 Risk management Group Corporate Responsibility Reasonable Governance structure including Articles of Association Committee assurance committees responsible for decision(CWS) (PDF, 12 making on ESG impacts. Organisational positioning MB) Corporate governance report and corporate governance statement: pp. 26-29 (AR) G4-35 Organisational positioning No external assurance of the Reasonable Process for delegating authority for Integrating ESG aspects CR-report (Portal and Short assurance ESG-topics from the highest Practical implementation Report). Consolidated financial (PDF, 12 governance body to senior executives Corporate governance statements and Group MB) and other employees. report and corporate management report in the governance statement: Annual Report 2014 with pp. 26-29 (AR) reasonable assurance from KPMG. G4-36 Organisational positioning No Report whether the organization has Integrating ESG aspects appointed an executive-level position Practical implementation with responsibility for ESG-topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. G4-37 Stakeholder dialogue Reasonable Processes for consultation between Integrating ESG aspects assurance stakeholders and the highest Mission statement (CWS) (PDF, 12 governance body on ESG-topics. Annual general meeting MB) (CWS) Stakeholders: pp. 108ff. (AR) G4-38 Supervisory Board (and No Composition of the highest governance subsequent pages) (CWS) body and its committees by: Executive Corporate governance or non-executive, Independence, report and corporate Tenure, other commitments, Gender, governance statement: Membership of under-represented pp. 26-29 (AR) social groups, Competences relating to Management report: p. ESG impacts, Stakeholder 43-48 (AR) representation Report of the Supervisory Board: pp. 21-25 (AR) G4-39 Corporate governance No Whether the Chair of the highest report and corporate governance body is also an executive governance statement: officer. pp. 26-29 (AR) G4-40 Corporate governance No Nomination process for the highest report and corporate governance body and its committees governance statement: p including diversity, independence, skills, 28 (AR) stakeholder engagement G4-41 Corporate governance No Board conflicts of interest Code of Conduct (Section 4) (CWS) Report of the Supervisory Board: p. 24 (AR) Corporate governance report and corporate governance statement: p 28 (AR) G4-42 Organisational positioning No Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-43 Corporate governance No Report the measures taken to develop Integrating ESG aspects and enhance the highest governance Practical implementation body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. G4-44 Report of the Supervisory No Processes for evaluation of the highest Board: pp.21 ff (AR) governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics and actions taken in response G4-45 Strategy & challenges The Munich Re Corporate No Report the highest governance body’s Corporate governance Responsibility strategy has role in the identification and Organisational positioning been approved by the Board of management of economic, Report of the Supervisory Management. The Munich Re environmental and social impacts, risks, Board: pp.21 ff (AR) Corporate Responsibility and opportunities and whether Department forms part of the stakeholder consultation is used to Group Development Division, support the highest governance body’s which reports to the Chairman identification and management of of the Board of Management. economic, environmental and social Since 2011, an Annual impacts, risks, and opportunities. Evaluation Report on Corporate Responsibility has been submitted to the Board of Management. G4-46 Risk Report: p. 117 f., Reasonable Highest governance body’s role in particularly Control and assurance reviewing the effectiveness of the monitoring systems: p. (PDF, 12 organization’s risk management 120 (AR) MB) processes for economic, environmental Report of the Supervisory and social topics. Board: p. 23 (AR) G4-47 Report of the Supervisory No Frequency of the highest governance Board: pp. 21ff. (AR) body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-48 Organisational positioning Head of Group Development – No Highest committee or position that Management Level 1 formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. G4-49 Investor Relations/Mission No Process for communicating critical statement concerns to the highest governance Corporate body. Governance/Annual General Meeting Whistleblowing Portal G4-50 Not reported No Nature and total number of critical concerns communicated to the highest governance body; mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. G4-51 Remuneration report Individual three-year objectives Reasonable Remuneration policies for the highest (CWS) (2012–2014) for executive assurance governance body and senior executives Remuneration report: pp. managers are linked to (PDF, 12 governance body and senior executives Remuneration report: pp. managers are linked to (PDF, 12 and performance criteria in the 49 ff. (AR) environmental, social or MB) remuneration policy related to governance metrics and targets economic, environmental and social relating to approx. 3% of the objectives total remuneration. G4-52 Remuneration report Reasonable Process for determining remuneration (CWS) assurance Remuneration report: pp. (PDF, 12 49 ff. (AR) MB) G4-53 Not reported Stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. G4-54 Not reported – data not Ratio of the annual total compensation available for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. G4-55 Not reported – data not Ratio of percentage increase in annual available total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Ethics and Integrity G4-56/ GC 10 Our commitments No Munich Re’s values, principles, Guiding principles standards and norms of behavior Compliance Code of Conduct: (ERGO , Group) (CWS) G4-57/ GC 10 Anti-fraud Management No Internal and external mechanisms for Compliance seeking advice on ethical and lawful Code of Conduct: (ERGO behavior, and organizational integrity , Group) (CWS) G4-58/ GC 10 Compliance No Internal and external mechanisms for Anti-fraud Management reporting concerns about unethical or Lobbying unlawful behavior, and organizational integrity Economic GRI G4/UN Global Compact Link/Page Additional External Aspects and Indicators CR-Portal Comment/ Assurance Corporate Website Reason for (CWS) Omission MR Annual Report 2014 (AR) Economic Economic Performance G4-DMA Our Strategy: pp. 16No 18 (AR) Strategy (CWS) G4-EC1 Financial indicators Reasonable FS-EC1 Key figures (IFRS): assurance Direct economic value generated and distributed cover p. 2 (AR) (PDF, 12 Business MB) performance: pp. 72 ff. (AR) Notes to the consolidated balance sheet – Equity and liabilities, p. 231 (AR) Personnel expenses: p.282 (AR) FS-EC1: Commitment Social commitment indicators G4-EC2 / GC 7 Climate change Reasonable Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Insurance concepts assurance for the organization’s activities due to climate change for renewable (PDF, 12 energies MB) Investments in infrastructure with focus on renewable energies Solutions Focus topics/Climate change Risk report/Climate change: pp. 135 ff. (AR) Opportunities report: pp. 142 f. (AR) G4-EC3 Other accrued Reasonable Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit plan liabilities: pp. 192 f. assurance obligations (AR) (PDF, 12 Other accrued MB) liabilities: pp. 246 ff. (AR) G4-EC4 To our best No Financial assistance received from government knowledge, Munich Re did not receive financial assistance from government. Market Presence G4-DMA Remuneration No Training and personal development G4-EC5/ GC 6 Personnel expenses: Munich Re salaries Reasonable Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender p. 282 (AR) are substantially assurance compared to local minimum wage at significant above the local (PDF, 12 locations of operation minimum wage MB) level. In general, Munich Re pays wages that are higher than the local minimum wages (where they exist). G4-EC6/ GC 6 Training and personal Reasonable Proportion of senior management hired from the local development assurance community at significant locations of operation. Staff: pp. 111ff. (AR) (PDF, 12 MB) Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA Our guiding principles We use our Investments in knowledge to come infrastructure with up with solutions focus on renewable that meet the needs energies both of our clients Insurance concepts and of society and for renewable its financial energies structures, since Solutions for insurance only developing countries works if the risks – and emerging markets including indirect economic impact – can be calculated. G4-EC7 Investments in No Development and impact of infrastructure investments infrastructure with and services supported focus on renewable energies Insurance concepts for renewable energies Solutions for developing countries and emerging markets Microinsurances (Primary insurance) Supply chain management Munich Climate Insurance Initiative (CWS) G4-EC8 No Significant indirect economic impacts, including the Investments in Significant indirect economic impacts, including the Investments in extent of impacts infrastructure with focus on renewable energies Insurance concepts for renewable energies Solutions for developing countries and emerging markets Climate change Focus topics/Climate change Procurement Practices G4-DMA Supply chain No management Compliance G4-EC9 Supply chain Only partial data No Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant management available locations of operation Compliance Environmental GRI G4/UN Global Compact Link/Page Additional Comment/ External Aspects and Indicators CR-Portal Reason for Omission Assurance Corporate Website (CWS) MR Annual Report 2014 (AR) Environmental G4-DMA Environmental management Our explanations regarding No Operational ecology this DMA applies to the Climate protection following Aspects: Materials, Environmental indicators Energy, Water, Emissions, More detailed environmental Effluents and Waste, Products indicators and Services, Compliance, Our guiding principles Transport, Supplier Environmental Assessment, Environmental Grievance Mechanisms. Materials G4-EN1/ GC 7,8 Environmental indicators No Materials used by weight or volume More detailed environmental indicators G4-EN2/ GC 8 Environmental indicators No Percentage of materials used that More detailed environmental are recycled input materials indicators Energy G4-EN3/ GC 7,8 Environmental indicators No Energy consumption within the More detailed environmental organisation indicators Climate protection Operational ecology G4-EN4/ GC 8 not reported G4-EN5/ GC 8 More detailed environmental No Energy intensity indicators G4-EN6/ GC 8,9 More detailed environmental No Reduction of energy consumption indicators Climate protection Operational ecology G4-EN7/ GC 8,9 Investments in infrastructure No Reductions in energy requirements with focus on renewable of products and services energies Insurance concepts for renewable energies Eco-friendly insurance solutions Climate protection Responsible investment strategies Water G4-EN8 / GC 7,8 Operational ecology As a financial services No Total water withdrawal by source More detailed environmental provider, Munich Re is not a indicators water-intensive company. Total water withdrawal 2014 at Group-level by source: 775.051m³ Rain water: 0.06% Natural water: 0.81% Tap water: 99.13% G4-EN9/ GC 8 None No Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water G4-EN10/ GC 8 This indicator is of limited No Percentage and total volume of water relevance, no water is recycled and reused recycled nor reused at our sites. Toilets at our offices in Munich are flushed with rainwater. Biodiversity G4-EN11/ GC 8 Not material G4-EN12/ GC 8 Not material G4-EN13/ GC 8 Not material G4-EN14/ GC 8 Not material Emissions G4-EN15 / GC 7,8 More detailed environmental Partially reported, no data No Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) indicators (XLSX, 35 KB) available regarding the use of emissions (Scope 1) courier services. G4-EN16 / GC 7,8 More detailed environmental No Energy indirect greenhouse gas indicators (XLSX, 35 KB) (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) G4-EN17/ GC 7,8 More detailed environmental No Other indirect greenhouse gas indicators (XLSX, 35 KB) (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) G4EN18/ GC 8 More detailed environmental No Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions indicators (XLSX, 35 KB) intensity G4-EN19/ GC 8,9 More detailed environmental No Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) indicators (XLSX, 35 KB) emissions Climate protection Environmental indicators G4-EN20/ GC 7,8 Not material No G4-EN21/ GC 7,8 Not material No Effluents and Waste G4-EN22/ GC 8 Not material No G4-EN23/ GC 8 More detailed environmental No Total weight of waste by type and indicators (XLSX, 35 KB) disposal method G4-EN24/ GC 8 There were no significant No Total number and volume of spills of hazardous materials significant spills during the reporting period. Our activity as a financial services provider entails very little contact with hazardous materials and significant spills are thus unlikely. G4-EN25/ GC 8 Not material. Munich Re No Weight of transported, imported, works with certified waste exported, or treated waste deemed disposal entities that hazardous guarantee the correct transfer and processing of waste. G4-EN26/ GC 8 Not material No Products and Services G4-EN27/ GC 7,9 Investments in infrastructure No Extent of impact mitigation of with focus on renewable environmental impacts of products energies and services Insurance concepts for renewable energies Eco-friendly insurance solutions Responsible investment strategies Focus topics/Climate change G4-EN28/ GC 8 Not material Compliance G4-EN29/ GC 8 None No Monetary value and number of nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Transport G4-EN30/ GC 8 Operational ecology No Significant environmental impacts of Environmental indicators transporting products and other More detailed environmental goods and materials for the indicators (XLSX, 35 KB) organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce Overall G4-EN31/ GC 7,8,9 Not material No Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32/ GC 8 Supply chain management 100% No Percentage of new suppliers that Compliance were screened using environmental criteria G4-EN33/ GC 8 Supply chain management None, not material No Compliance Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-EN34/ GC 8 Annual General NO Number of grievances about Meeting/Countermotions environmental impacts (CWS) Social GRI G4/UN Global Compact Link/Page Additional Comment/ External Aspects and Indicators CR-Portal Reason for Omission Assurance Corporate Website (CWS) MR Annual Report 2014 (AR) Sub-category: Labor Practices and Decent Work G4-DMA Munich Re as an employer Reasonable Training and personal assurance development (PDF, 12 Staff: pp. 111-113 (AR) MB) Employment G4-LA1/ GC 6 Employee indicators Only selected data available No Total number and rates of new (Employee turnover rate) employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region G4-LA2 Remuneration Munich Re does not No Benefits provided to full-time Work-life balance differentiate between benefits employees that are not provided to Munich Re as an provided to full-time staff and temporary or part-time employees, employer/what we offer/salary those provided to part-time by significant locations of operation (CWS) staff. G4-LA3 / GC 6 Work-life balance No Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Management Relations G4-DMA Munich Re as an employer Only selected data available No Staff: pp. 111-113 (AR) (Employee turnover rate) G4-LA4/ GC 3 In the event of operational No Minimum notice periods regarding changes, the Staff Council is operational changes, including duly informed of the action whether these are specified in planned in accordance with its collective agreements right to information, so that it can have a say in whether, when and how such changes are effected Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA Munich Re as an employer Reasonable Health at the workplace assurance Staff: pp. 111-113 (AR) (PDF, 12 MB) G4-LA5 Health at the workplace Data coverage: Germany No Percentage of total workforce (Munich Re Munich, ERGO, represented in formal joint MEAG): 100% in-house staff/ management-worker health and MR America: 100% safety committees All of Munich Re’s activities/actions in its various lines of business are based on the same principles, but with local freedom of application. G4-LA6 Health at the workplace Only partial data available, to No Type of injury and rates of injury, Employee indicators some extent due to occupational diseases, lost days, confidentiality. and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities G4-LA7 Health at the workplace “Preventing and dealing with No Workers with high incidence or high stress in general is becoming risk of diseases related to their increasingly important within occupation our health management.” […] G4-LA8 Each company discusses No Health and safety topics covered in safety at work issues with its formal agreements with trade own employee unions representatives. The relevant statutes are applied. Training and Education G4-DMA Munich Re as an employer No Training and personal development Munich Re as an employer/what we offer/further training and development opportunities (CWS) Staff: pp. 111-113 (AR) G4-LA9 / GC 6 Training and personal Average hours of training per year development per employee Employee indicators G4-LA10 Training and personal No Programs for skills management development and lifelong learning that support Munich Re as an the continued employability of employer/what we offer/further employees and assist them in training and development managing career endings opportunities (CWS) Careers at Munich Re (CWS) Future excellence in leadership (CWS) Specialist career (CWS) G4-LA11/ GC 6 Remuneration Performance appraisals are No Percentage of employees receiving part of Munich Re’s regular performance and career performance management development reviews, by gender system. Employees and and by employee category managers set objectives that are reviewed on a regular basis. Personnel development initiatives are part of the annual appraisal interviews. This is valid for the whole Munich Re Group, including reinsurance, primary insurance (ERGO), Munich Health and MEAG. Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA Diversity No Staff: pp. 111-113 (AR) G4-LA12/ GC 6 Munich Re as an employer No Composition of governance bodies Diversity and breakdown of employees per Employee indicators employee category according to gender, age group, minority group Corporate membership, and other indicators of Governance/Supervisory diversity Board (CWS) Curriculum vitae Supervisory Board (CWS) Staff: pp. 111-113 (AR) Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-DMA Remuneration We do not differentiate No Diversity between men and women in Code of Conduct (CWS) (PDF, our remuneration system. Our 354 KB) policy on salary determination is not based on gender but on individual expertise, experience and market-based criteria. G4-LA13/ GC 6 Remuneration We do not differentiate No Ratio of basic salary and Diversity between men and women in remuneration of women to men by Code of Conduct (CWS) (PDF, our remuneration system. Our employee category, by significant 354 KB) policy on salary determination locations of operation Munich Re as an is not based on gender but on employer/what we offer/salary individual expertise, (CWS) experience and market-based criteria. Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-DMA Supply chain management No Compliance Procurement Principles (PDF, 84 KB) G4-LA14 Supply chain management 100% No Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria G4-LA15 Supply chain management None No Negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Not material No Sub-category: Human Rights G4-DMA Our commitments This DMA applies to the No Managing investments aspects Investment, NonObjectives and measures discrimination, Freedom of Corporate Responsibility in Association and Collective Business Bargaining, Child Labor, PRI reporting Forced or Compulsory Labor, PSI reporting Security Practices, Indigenous Compliance Rights, Assessment and Code of Conduct (PDF, 354 Supplier Human Rights KB) Assessment. Sustainable Supply Chain Management Observance of human rights is axiomatic for Munich Re. This commitment is manifested e.g. in Munich Re’s participation in the United Nations’ Global Compact (since 2007) and the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) as well as the Principles on Responsible Investments (PRI). Munich Re is a member of the UN Global Compact Peer Learning Group on Human Rights. Munich Re (Group) treats the topic of human rights from four perspectives: 1) Employees; 2) Procurement; 3) (Re)Insurance business; 4) Asset Management Examples: 1) In our Code of Conduct (CoC) we take reference to the UN GC and explicitly list all the principles. Our CoC specifies that we expect our employees to observe the personal dignity, privacy and personality rights of every individual. We do not tolerate any discrimination, sexual harassment, other personal harassment, or insulting behaviour. Neither do we tolerate any intimidation or violence, or the threat thereof. violence, or the threat thereof. 2) We apply sustainable procurement guidelines throughout the group. 3) In our insurance business we identify and prioritize sensitive topics (those issues which have the highest ESG – environmental, social and governance – challenges), on which we develop positions that apply Group-wide. These are then implemented by the business fields in the form of binding underwriting guidelines, best practices and guidance for our employees. Human Rights are explicitly an important aspect in all dimensions. 4) The major portion of our investments meet sustainable investment criteria that include human rights aspects. See also specific indicators. Investment G4-HR1/ GC 2 Managing investments Only partial data available. No Total number and percentage of Objectives and measures significant investment agreements Responsible investment The major portion of our and contracts that include human strategies investments meet sustainable rights clauses or that underwent Our commitments investment criteria that include human rights screening Corporate Responsibility in human rights aspects. In the Business asset classes of infrastructure, PRI reporting renewable energies and forestry, we have established an investment process which follows additional important objectives relating to investment (incl. ESG criteria) as well as financial criteria. We regularly review our sustainability criteria for these asset classes using the ESG criteria of external rating agencies. Particularly in the areas of renewable energies, infrastructure and forestry, Since 2013, our investment activities have taken into account an external ESG country rating for the sustainability performance of individual countries. In cases where countries fail to satisfy our criteria, MEAG refrains from investing in their government bonds or the bonds of governmentsponsored organizations. Human rights aspects are also part of our policy on banned weapons as well as of our position on agroinvestments. G4-HR2/ GC 1 Compliance Only partial data available: No Total hours of employee training on Code of Conduct (CWS) (PDF, Training programmes on the human rights policies or procedures 354 KB) Code of Conduct for our concerning aspects of human rights Corporate Responsibility in employees as well as ethat are relevant to operations, Business learning module on this topic. including the percentage of Integrating ESG aspects Furthermore there are specific employees trained Practical implementation ESG trainings in place for our Sustainable Supply Chain underwriter, business analysts Management and client manager in order to helping them to systematically incorporate ESG aspects in their risk assessments. Non-discrimination G4-HR3/ GC 6 Compliance Only partial data available. No Total number of incidents of Diversity Our CoC specifies that we discrimination and corrective Code of Conduct (CWS) expect our employees to actions taken observe the personal dignity, privacy and personality rights of every individual. We do not tolerate any discrimination, sexual harassment, other personal harassment, or insulting behaviour. Munich Re has completed the enhancement of our internal control system. Furthermore internal guidelines and procedures to report on breaches are implemented. Additionally, there is the Group Compliance Committee (GCC), which deals with compliance and reputational issues and risks at Group level, with a view to standardizing the way they are handled throughout the Group. The possibility of whistle blowing and reporting to an external ombudsman or confidential reporting through ethic hotlines and our electronic platform (BKMS) are provided. Freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-HR4/ GC 3 Compliance To our best knowledge, in the No Operations and suppliers identified Sustainable Supply Chain period under review, no in which the right to exercise Management business operations/suppliers freedom of association and Procurement Principles (PDF, were identified in which collective bargaining may be 84 KB) freedom of association and the violated or at significant risk, and Corporate Responsibility in right to collective bargaining measures taken to support these Business were at risk. rights Integrating ESG aspects Child Labor G4-HR5/GC 5 Compliance To our best knowledge, in the No Operations and suppliers identified Sustainable Supply Chain period under review, no as having significant risk for Management business/supplier operations incidents of child labor, and Procurement Principles (PDF, were identified in which there measures taken to contribute to the 84 KB) was a significant risk of child effective abolition of child labor Corporate Responsibility in labour. Business Integrating ESG aspects Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-HR6/ GC 4 Compliance To our best knowledge, in the No Operations and suppliers identified Sustainable Supply Chain period under review, no as having significant risk for Management business/supplier operations incidents of forced or compulsory Procurement Principles (PDF, were identified in which there labor 84 KB) was a significant risk of forced or compulsory labour. Security Practices G4-HR7/ GC 1 Compliance Munich Re’s Code of Conduct No Percentage of security personnel applies to 100% of its own trained in the organization's human security staff. For all external rights policies security personnel, the conditions of the new Purchasing Guidelines apply for reinsurance and require that all new supply and service contracts contain a Corporate responsibility clause based on the UN’s Global Compact. Indigenous Rights G4-HR8/ GC 1 Compliance To our best knowledge, in the No Total number of incidents of Sustainable Supply Chain period under review, no violations involving rights of Management business operations were indigenous peoples and actions Procurement Principles (PDF, identified in which the rights of taken 84 KB) indigenous peoples were Corporate Responsibility in violated. This aspect is of little Business relevance in Munich Re’s Integrating ESG aspects business. Assessment G4-HR9/ GC 1 Corporate Responsibility in Partially reported. No Total number and percentage of Business In 2013, we established ten operations that have been subject Integrating ESG aspects generally applicable ESG to human rights reviews or impact criteria, which help to prioritise assessments industrial sectors with high ESG exposure, thus allowing sensitive business topics to be identified. We approved position papers and guidelines on various sensitive topics: e.g. Oil sands, Mining, Fracking, Artic Oil Drilling, Banned Weapons, Engineering/large infrastructure projects. Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10/ GC 2 Supply chain management 100% No Percentage of new suppliers that Procurement Principles (PDF, were screened using human rights 84 KB) criteria G4-HR11/ GC 2 None No Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-HR12/ GC 1 Annual General No Number of grievances about human Meeting/Countermotions rights impacts Society GRI G4/UN Global Compact Link/Page Additional Comment/ External Aspects and Indicators CR-Portal Reason for Omission Assurance Corporate Website (CWS) MR Annual Report 2014 (AR) Local Communities G4-DMA Corporate governance This DMA applies to the Anti-fraud management aspects Local communities, Code of Conduct (CWS) Anti-corruption, Public Policy, ERGO Corporate Anti-competitive behavior, Governance Compliance, Supplier Solutions for developing Assessment for Impacts on countries and emerging Society, Grievance markets Mechanisms for Impacts on Microinsurance Society. G4-SO1/ GC 1 This indicator has little Percentage of operations with relevance for Munich Re as a implemented local community financial services provider: in engagement, impact assessments, contrast to other sectors of the and development programs economy, we have only a comparatively small impact on the local community with our office-based business operations. G4-SO2/ GC 1 This indicator has little Operations with significant actual and relevance for Munich Re as a potential negative impacts on local financial services provider: in communities contrast to other sectors of the economy, we have only a comparatively small impact on the local community with our office-based business operations. G4-FS13 Solutions for developing Access points in low-populated or countries and emerging economically disadvantaged areas by markets type Microinsurance G4-FS14 Solutions for developing Initiatives to improve access to countries and emerging financial services for disadvantaged markets people Microinsurance Munich Re Foundation Anti-corruption G4-SO3/ GC 10 Corporate governance No Total number and percentage of Anti-fraud management operations assessed for risks related to Risk management corruption G4-SO4/ GC 10 Corporate governance No Communication and training on antiAnti-fraud management corruption policies and procedures G4-SO5/ GC 10 Corporate governance No Confirmed incidents of corruption and Anti-fraud management actions taken Risk management ERGO Corporate Governance Public Policy G4-SO6/ GC 10 Facts and figures/social No Total value of political contributions by commitment indicators country and recipient/beneficiary Anti-competitive Behavior G4-SO7 Code of Conduct (CWS) Data not reported No Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Compliance G4-SO8 Code of Conduct (CWS) Munich Re was not subject to No Monetary and non-monetary sanctions any fines or sanctions in the for non-compliance with laws and reporting year regulations Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-SO9 Supply chain management 100% No Percentage of new suppliers that were Procurement Principles (PDF, screened using criteria for impacts on 84 KB) society G4-SO10 None No Negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-SO11 Annual General No Number of grievances about impacts Meeting/Countermotions on society Product Responsibility GRI G4/UN Global Compact Link/Page Additional Comment/ External Aspects and Indicators CR-Portal Reason for Omission Assurance Corporate Website (CWS) MR Annual Report 2014 (AR) Customer Health and Safety G4-DMA Code of Conduct (CWS) This DMA applies to the No Our guiding principles aspects Product and Service Client and Client Labeling, Marketing Relationships, p. 108 (AR) Communication, Customer Privacy and Compliance G4-PR1 not material G4-PR2 not material Customer Health and Safety G4-DMA Code of Conduct (CWS) In accordance with our codes No (FSS): Policies for the fair design and Commitment of conduct, we are fair and sale of financial products and services open in our business relations. (former FS15) Munich Re endeavours to give Initiatives to enhance financial literacy clients the best possible advice by type of beneficiary (former FS16) and the information they need to take sound decisions. Munich Re’s product and service range – from development and marketing to conclusion of the business – is subject to strict quality controls. Hence no significant product or service categories are covered by and assessed for compliance with such procedures. To further clarify insurance terms and conditions, especially our primary insurance group ERGO has significantly improved the transparency of all documents. Customers receive all the information they need on the conditions of liability relating to their insurance protection in a clear and transparent format. G4-PR3 Munich Re’s product and No Type of product and service service range – from information required by the development and marketing to organization's procedures for product conclusion of the business – is and service information and labeling, subject to strict quality and percentage of significant product controls. Hence no significant and service categories subject to such product or service categories information requirements are covered by and assessed for compliance with such procedures. To further clarify insurance terms and conditions, especially our primary insurance group ERGO has significantly improved the transparency of all documents. Customers receive all the information they need on the conditions of liability relating to their insurance protection in a clear and transparent format. G4-PR4 Not applicable No Total number of incidents of nonFor us, adherence to high compliance with regulations and ethical and legal standards is a voluntary codes concerning product matter of principle and is and service information and labeling, regulated by our Code of by type of outcomes Conduct. G4-PR5 Stakeholder dialogue No Results of surveys measuring Client and client customer satisfaction relationships, p. 108 (AR) Marketing Communications G4-PR6 Compliance Sale of banned or disputed products Code of Conduct (CWS) ERGO Code of Conduct (CWS) Practical Implementation Interview Dr. Astrid Zwick and Stephan Laemmle G4-PR7 For us, adherence to high No Total number of incidents of nonethical and legal standards is a compliance with regulations and matter of principle and is voluntary codes concerning marketing regulated by our Code of communications Conduct. To our best knowledge, no cases of noncompliance occurred during 2014. Customer Privacy G4-PR8 For us, adherence to high No Total number of substantiated ethical and legal standards is a complaints regarding breaches of matter of principle and is customer privacy and losses of regulated in our Code of customer data Conduct and our safety regulations. To our best knowledge, Munich Re has not received any information about material breaches of privacy rules. rules. Compliance G4-PR9 For us, adherence to high No Monetary value of significant fines for ethical and legal standards is a non-compliance with laws and matter of principle. To our best regulations concerning the provision knowledge, no cases of nonand use of products and services compliance occurred, and no fines were paid during 2014. Financial Sector Supplement Aspects: Product Portfolio GRI G4/UN Global Compact Link/Page Additional Comment/ External Aspects and Indicators CR-Portal Reason for Omission Assurance Corporate Website (CWS) MR Annual Report 2014 (AR) Product Portfolio G4-DMA (former FS1-FS5) Corporate responsibility in Further specialised No Policies with specific environmental business units/panels for early ESG risk and social components applied to Integrating ESG aspects detection include: business lines Practical implementation Reputational Risk Committee Procedures for assessing and Managing investments (Group annual report 2014, screening environmental and social Infrastructure investments page 125) risks in business lines Insurance concepts for Emerging Risks Think Tank Processes for monitoring clients’ renewable energies (Group annual report 2014, implementation of and compliance Ecological insurance page 136). with environmental and social solutions Internal control system (ICS), a requirements included in agreements Solutions for developing uniform worldwide system for or transactions countries and emergings managing operational risks Process for improving staff markets integrated across all risk competency to implement the Microinsurance dimensions and areas of the environmental and social policies and NATHAN-Geointelligent Group that both meets Group procedures as applied to business solutions management needs and lines SystemAgro satisfies local legal and Interactions with clients regarding Climate change regulatory requirements. environmental and social risks and (Group annual report 2014, opportunities pages 120 f.) Organization–wide goals regarding In 2007, Munich Re performance including plans to established the Corporate improve implementation of policies/ Climate Centre (CCC), forming procedures the link between geoscientific research and operative underwriting. G4-FS6 Consolidated financial No Percentage of the portfolio for statements and notes, pp. business lines by specific region, size 198-201 (AR) (e.g. micro, SME, large) and by sector G4-FS7 Objectives and measures Only partial data available. No Monetary value of products and Managing investments Our General Investment services designed to deliver a specific PRI Guidelines stipulate that the social benefit for each business line Responsible Investment vast majority of our own broken down by purpose Strategies investments in shares and bonds should satisfy sustainability criteria. These SRI criteria include human rights issues. Our asset management arm, MEAG, offers different sustainable investment funds: MEAG Nachhaltigkeit and MEAG FairReturn. G4-FS8 Environmental management Only partial data available. No Monetary value of products and Operational ecology Our General Investment services designed to deliver a specific Guidelines stipulate that the environmental benefit Risk Report, pp. 117ff. vast majority of our own Auditor’s Report, p. 302 investments in shares and Report of the Supervisory bonds should satisfy Board, p. 23 (Audit sustainability criteria. Committee) Audit G4-DMA/ former FS9 Environmental management No Coverage and frequency of audits to Operational ecology assess implementation of environmental and social policies and Risk Report, pp. 117ff. risk assessment procedures and Auditor’s Report, p. 302 organisation-wide goals regarding this Report of the Supervisory Aspect Board, p. 23 (Audit Committee) Active Ownership Active Ownership G4-DMA/ former FS12 MEAG analyses whether Voting policy(ies) applied to corresponding shareholder environmental or social issues for resolutions are in line with shares over which the reporting long-term ESG considerations organisation holds the right to vote and MEAG’s corporate shares or advices on voting. objectives, its voting being Organisation-wide goals regarding determined on that basis. performance relevant to this Aspect, including any relevant audit results. Shareholdings in other jointstock companies make up a relatively low percentage of Munich Re's investments at the present time. We exercise our right to vote primarily at the annual general meetings of German companies, since exercising such rights outside Germany entails substantial costs. G4-FS10 MEAG also holds in-depth Percentage and number of companies talks with individual companies held in the institution’s portfolio with aimed at improving their SRI which the reporting organisation has performance. interacted on environmental or social It is difficult to put a precise issues. figure on the number of companies with which we interact on social or ecological issues. In the course of our business relationships, our asset management has dealings with the managements of several hundred companies, these contacts also being used to address environmental issues in the context of our comprehensive risk analyses. Munich Re’s commitment to the Principles for Responsible Investment reinforces the relevance of such issues to our relationships with our partners. Although engagement cannot be tracked at a global level, MEAG does engage with companies in its investment portfolio, particularly those included in its socially responsible investment funds. G4-FS11 Managing investments Percentage of assets subject to PRI positive and negative environmental Responsible investment or social screening strategies *GC: Global Compact Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Facts and figures SRI indices, SRI ratings and awards Related topics SRI indices, SRI Positive rating for Munich Re's corporate Management: Sustainability and ratings and awards responsibility strategy Munich Re shares received Open and transparent dialogue with our national and international stakeholders on the implementation of our strategy and on our commitment in the areas of corporate responsibility and sustainable responsible investment (SRI) is an essential part of our corporate culture. GRI reporting and Global Compact Munich Re's inclusion in many sustainability indices, our good to very good results in many different SRI ratings, and the awards we have received show that the corporate SRI indices, SRI ratings and awards responsibility strategy we pursue is successful and authentic. Memberships and partnerships SRI indices Included in the DJSI for many years Munich Re has been continually listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices since 2001, with a valuation always above average. Munich Re listed in ethical indices The Italian investment advisory firm ECPI has included Munich Re in the following indices: ECPI Euro Ethical Equity, ECPI Global Ethical Equity, ECPI EMU Ethical Equity, ECPI Global Developed ESG Best in Class Equity, and ECPI Global Climate Change Equity. Represented again in two Forum Ethibel indices Munich Re is represented in the ESI (Ethibel Pioneer Index) Excellence Europe and in the ESI Excellence Global, both of which are based on ratings results from Vigeo. Ethibel is an independent French consulting agency, specialised in socially responsible investments. Continuous listing for Munich Re in the various FTSE4Good index series Since this rating was established in 2001, Munich Re has been continuously listed in various FTSE4Good indices. The FTSE4Good is a series of indices measuring sustainability and corporate governance criteria that is published by the London service provider FTSE. Munich Re represented in Vigeo indexes In 2013, Vigeo created a new index family that lists the top-rated companies from its corporate responsibility assessment. Munich Re is among the companies that have met these stringent standards and is part of Euronext Vigeo World 120, Euronext Vigeo Europe 120, and Euronext Vigeo Eurzone 120. Recommended investment in Munich Re Independent French financial institute Oddo Securities rates Munich Re a suitable SRI investment. Since 2008, Munich Re has also been listed in the SRI European index investment universe. Munich Re listed in the STOXX® Global ESG Leaders Index The Global ESG Leaders Index lists the world's leading companies in terms of ESG criteria. The list is based on analyses conducted by Sustainalytics. SRI ratings Munich Re among the industry leaders Bloomberg analyses and evaluates corporate transparency in environmental, social and governance (ESG) aspects. Munich Re is among the companies evaluated annually. According to Bloomberg, clients using its 250,000 data terminals have access to all publicly available ESG data from 2,000–3,000 companies. Best financial services provider according to Imageprofile 2014 Munich Re enjoys an outstanding reputation among German companies in the financial sector. In its Imageprofile 2014 study, manager magazin polled some 3,000 board members, general managers and senior executive staff. Very good rating by MSCI Munich Re is rated AAA in MSCI's ESG rating. MSCI is a leading global provider of investment solutions. Prime rating Munich Re was again given a prime corporate responsibility rating by oekom research in 2014, maintaining its status as best in class in the insurance sector. oekom research is one of the world's leading SRI rating agencies. First place in industry rating from Sustainalytics In the 2014 industry rating by Sustainalytics, Munich Re placed a very good second in the insurance sector. Munich Re qualifies for sustainable investment products Munich Re's sustainability performance was assessed as high by Sarasin Bank, allowing it to be judged a sustainable investment product by the bank. Munich Re best in sector In the 2014/15 ESG rating from Société Générale, Munich Re is assessed as best in sector, with 88.9 of a possible 100 points, making it one of the top 30 Best-in-universe ESG Rated Companies. Awards Munich Re subsidiary DKV Seguros has Best Workplaces in Spain In the annual survey by Great Place to Work®, Munich Re subsidiary DKV Seguros in Spain was listed among the Best Workplaces in Spain 2015 in the category for companies with between 500 and 1,000 employees. The company placed fourth in the ranking for the 50 best workplaces for 2015. Apollo Munich, second place in India in the Insurance sector Each year, Great Place to Work® partners with more than 5,500 organisations with some 10 million employees worldwide to conduct the world's largest annual set of workplace culture studies. DKV earns the European EFQM +500 Seal of Excellence The company was awarded the Golden Seal of Excellence Europe 500+, or Five Stars. This award is the result of an evaluation carried out in 2014 by the Excellence in Management Club, which follows the European Foundation Quality Management (EFQM) model. DKV Seguros certified as a healthy company by Aenor The company was awarded the Healthy Company Certificate by AENOR in 2014, recognizing DKV as a committed company that provides health, security and wellness to its employees, as well as excellence and sustainability. EFR empresa : DKV Seguros DKV Seguros received certification as a Family-Responsible Company (EFR) from the Másfamilia Foundation, which promotes reconciliation processes in companies. Trendence Institute’s Graduate Barometer In 2015, Munich Re again ranked among the top 100 business sector employers in the Trendence Institute's Graduate Barometer. Universum Top 100 In Universum Communications' employer ranking, we continue to rank among the top 100 employers (business). German Education Prize Seal of Excellence Munich Re was honoured in 2013 for its exemplary knowledge-sharing among the Group's business fields; it won the Seal of Excellence of the German Education Prize in the category of innovation. Investors in People Gold Award and Investors in People Health & Wellbeing Award D.A.S. UK was the only employer in South West England to win two awards for its successful staff management system from Investors in People (IiP) – the Investors in People Gold Award and the Investors in People Health & Wellbeing Award. Company healthcare management seal of quality D.A.S. Austria was once again recognised for its successful health promotion projects with the company healthcare management seal of quality. D.A.S. Austria has received the seal of quality for sustainability assurance in company healthcare management for the period 2015 to 2017. Intern Review 2015 – Intern of the Year 2015 In December 2014, the CLEVIS Group and ABSOLVENTA Jobnet presented the Top Intern 2015 awards, based on the results of their Intern Review 2015. Career and Family Audit For its family-friendly human resources policy, ERGO has won the “audit berufundfamilie®” (family and career audit) four times for all its main administrative centres in Germany. This certificate is awarded by the non-profit Hertie Foundation. BOMA Awards for Munich Re America and Munich Re Toronto The office buildings of Munich Reinsurance America, Inc. and Munich Reinsurance Company of Canada received awards from the Building Owners and Management Association (BOMA) for their energy efficiency. BOMA 360 Performance Award The offices buildings of Munich Re America have received the BOMA 360 designation for being managed to the BOMA’s highest standards of excellence (including energy efficiency). BOMA 7 – Point Challenge Munich Re America was awarded special recognition for its outstanding energy reduction programme from the Building Owners & Managers Association as part of an international programme to reduce energy use by at least 30% across company portfolios. Energy Project of the Year Award Munich Re America was recognised by the Association of Energy Engineers at the World Energy Engineering Congress for its innovative energy management projects. FMXcellence Award Building Operating Management magazine recognised the Energy Reduction projects of Munich Re America with its FMXcellence award at the National Facilities Management and Technology Conference. Munich Re awarded DZ Bank's sustainability label DZ Bank Sustainable Investment Research evaluates economic, environmental, social and corporate governance criteria. Sustainable investments are awarded the DZ Bank's sustainability label. MENA Insurance Awards 2015 Munich Re was named Most Innovative Reinsurer for the MENA (Middle East and North Africa) region and presented with the MENA 2015 Insurance Award. MedNet won the award for Third Party Administrator of the Year in the MENA region. Munich Re in Bronze Class Munich Re attains Bronze Class ranking from RobecoSAM for the best and most sustainable companies. RobecoSAM assesses the sustainability performance of all global players and determines the composition of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. Munich Re wins the German Investors’ Award for Responsible Business Practices In December 2014, Munich Re won the German Investors’ Award for Responsible Business Practices (Deutscher Investorenpreis für verantwortliches Wirtschaften). This was the fourth occasion that publishing house DuMont Verlag and Deutsche Asset & Wealth Management presented the award to companies who see sustainability as a strategic objective and implement it in an exemplary way. ERGO receives service innovation award from YouGov Deutschland AG This award is given to innovative companies in the categories Informing and Consulting , Flexibility and Configuration and Helping and Supporting . ERGO received the quality seal for Best Service Innovation 2015 , taking first place for the award for the insurance industry from a large number of applicants. It won the award in the category Flexibility and Configuration for its flexible insurance cover for residential buildings in regions with a high risk of flooding. Canada’s 10 Most Admired Corporate Cultures of 2014 Munich Reinsurance Company of Canada was selected the best-in-class Canadian organisation for having a culture that has helped it enhance performance and sustain a competitive advantage. Canada's 10 Most Admired Corporate Cultures™ is founded and presented by Waterstone Human Capital. Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Facts and figures Memberships and partnerships Related topics Memberships and Membership in national and international Commitment partnerships bodies, initiatives and foundations For Munich Re, corporate responsibility means taking an active part in all partnerships as well as promoting initiatives. Besides this, the foundations set up by Munich Re constitute a central component of our social commitment. GRI reporting and Global Compact SRI indices, SRI ratings and awards Partnerships and memberships (in national and international bodies) Memberships and partnerships The cooperation partnerships and memberships in which Munich Re engages and shares its knowledge are numerous. The following list provides just a few examples of our social commitment: Acatech Charter of Diversity German Insurance Association (GDV) Global Earthquake Model (GEM) Global Volcanoe Model (GVM) Geneva Association GeoHazards International (GHI) Global Climate Forum Städtische Galerie im Lenbachhaus, Munich Munich Climate Insurance Initiative (MCII) OECD (Munich Re is member in the Advisory Board on Management of Large Scale Catastrophes) Principles for Sustainable Investment (PRI) Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) UNEP Finance Initiative UN Caring for Climate UN Global Compact Verein für Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit in Finanzinstituten e.V. (VfU) Water Benefit Partners (WBP) Australian Business Roundtable for Disaster Resilience and Safer Communities Cooperation with The Global Fund Initiatives and sponsorships For us, corporate responsibility also means assuming responsibility for the community in which we live and work. The following initiatives and sponsorships are a selection of our commitment in this area. 3-2-1 Ignition German Mathematical Society European Mathematical Society ergo: wir helfen e.V. Helfende Hand e.V. (“Helping hand” schools project) Interkultureller Rat in Deutschland e.V. (Intercultural Council in Germany) Klasse in Sport Madeleine Schickedanz-KinderKrebs-Stiftung (Madeleine Schickedanz Children’s Cancer Foundation) Munich University Society SingPause (schools singing project) Association for the Promotion of Science and Humanities in Germany Stiftung Pfennigparade (“Penny Parade” Foundation) Foundations Through the foundations we set up a number of years ago, we exercise social responsibility and deploy our extensive knowledge for the benefit of others. ERGO Youth & Future Foundation DKV Foundation “Integralia” Munich Re Foundation Dr. Hans-Jürgen Schinzler Foundation Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home About us Related topics Downloads Glossary FAQs Contact Useful information This section contains links and general information relating to the content and reporting scope of the CR portal, and to our previous reports, disclosures and publications. It also includes answers to frequently asked questions, and explanations of technical terms from the area of corporate responsibility. About Munich Re The CR portal presents Munich Re’s approach to corporate responsibility. Get to know our Group and find out more about the CR portal of Munich Re. About us Service Everything at a glance: Downloads, glossary, FAQs and how to contact our CR team. Service Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home About us Reinsurance munichre.com About us About Munich Re Strategy reinsurance Munich Re: NOT IF, BUT HOW External links Tackling the major challenges of the future is something we have been doing for Munich Re over 135 years. As a reinsurer, we operate internationally and apply a range of Munich Re (Group) ERGO disciplines to produce pioneering concepts that make tomorrow’s world Munich Health insurable. Our recipe for success is to anticipate risks and deliver needs-based Reinsurance MEAG solutions. This provides the impetus for profitable, long-term growth. Primary insurance Our success is founded on a solid capital base, in-depth risk expertise, market knowMunich Health how and an understanding of the refinancing and capital management of primary About CR portal insurance companies. We invest heavily in order to maintain our lead in the knowledge stakes, and our approximately 12,000 staff in reinsurance possess unique global and local know-how. This strength has earned us top rankings in client surveys. With premium income of around €27bn in financial year 2014, we are one of the world’s leading reinsurers. Tailor-made solutions for your success In these days of changing markets with ever more complex risks, our clients increasingly need customised solutions, consultancy and services that go far beyond traditional reinsurance. That is why we seek dialogue with them and take the time to listen to them. We can develop integrated concepts for our clients – from traditional reinsurance to managing large complex risks, and balance-sheet optimisation. We also develop innovative coverages for alternative energies and conduct in-depth geoscientific research. Risk management is our strength Our entrepreneurial passion for seeing change as opportunity and never standing still has made us an industry front-runner. We consistently expand and enhance our risk competence through our global network and exchange of knowledge with selected cooperation partners. That is how forward-looking solutions for tomorrow's world are born. Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home About us Primary insurance About us About Munich Re ERGO One of the major insurance groups in Germany and Europe Munich Re Group ERGO is one of the major insurance groups in Germany and Europe. Worldwide, Munich Re (Group) the Group is represented in over 30 countries and concentrates on Europe and munichre.com Reinsurance Asia. ERGO offers a comprehensive spectrum of insurance, provision and Strategy primary insurance services. In its home market of Germany, ERGO ranks among the leading Primary insurance providers across all segments. External links Munich Health About 46,000 people work for the Group, either as salaried employees or as full-time About CR portal self-employed sales representatives. In 2013, ERGO recorded a premium income of 18 Munich Re billion euros and paid out benefits to customers amounting to 17 billion euros. ERGO Munich Health “To insure is to understand” MEAG Our customers determine our actions. ERGO is strictly geared towards the wishes and needs of its customers and intends to constantly improve further in close dialogue with consumers. We are implementing our claim “To insure is to understand” in the form of offering needs-based advice which understands and picks up on customers’ personal concerns, in addition to communicating in a clear and understandable way and providing innovative services and swift support in the event of damage or loss. Sales channels Our customers can choose which form of contact with ERGO suits them best. We have the right sales channels for every client. Self-employed insurance agents, staff working in direct sales, as well as insurance brokers and strong cooperation partners – both in Germany and abroad – address private customers and corporate clients. We maintain partnerships with the major European bank UniCredit Group and other banks, both in Germany as well as in various European countries. Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home About us Munich Health About us About Munich Re Munich Health Pioneering Global Healthcare Under the single brand Munich Health, Munich Re has brought together its global Munich Re Group healthcare know-how in insurance and reinsurance. 3,000 experts at locations Munich Re (Group) worldwide benefit from the resulting synergy potentials as they devise munichre.com innovative healthcare solutions for clients and partners all over the world. Reinsurance Strategy Munich Health Primary insurance Munich Health, one of three business segments within Munich Re, alongside primary insurance and reinsurance was established in 2009. Its purpose is to pool the global Munich Health External links health expertise in reinsurance, primary insurance and risk-management. This set-up About CR portal specifically addresses identified opportunities with integrated, intelligent solutions to Munich Re individual local needs. The result: sustainable growth and excellence – to the benefit of ERGO all stakeholders. Munich Health MEAG Based on our unique, integrated focus on risk carrying and risk management in health, Munich Health delivers individual, sustainable solutions. The special combination of resources we offer enables our clients to achieve success and security in their respective markets. “Making quality healthcare affordable” – Munich Health stands for: Increased sales, profitability, customer satisfaction and retention based on innovation and enhancement of existing product and service design Improved risk management and risk transfer (loss ratio optimisation) Process reengineering and cost management (expense ratio optimisation) Provision of top-rated reinsurance As an expert in international health systems, we offer comprehensive consultancy services for product development, process optimisation and distribution strategy, with the aim of further developing reinsurance and primary insurance in the healthcare market. Munich Health serves insurance companies in more than 40 countries, and primary insurance clients in over 100 countries. GRI: G4-20; G4-21; G4-23; G4-28; G4-30 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home About us Downloads Service Downloads Corporate Responsibility Reports File Download Downloads Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/2014 Glossary (PDF, 7.7 MB) FAQ Corporate Responsibility Report 2012/2013 Contact (PDF, 2 MB) Corporate Responsibility Report 2011/2012 (PDF, 2.4 MB) Corporate Responsibility Short Reports File Download Corporate Responsibility Short Report 2014/2015 (PDF, 2.5 MB) Corporate Responsibility Short Report 2013/2014 (PDF, 2.7 MB) Corporate Responsibility Short Report 2012/2013 (PDF, 2 MB) Corporate Responsibility Short Report 2011/2012 (PDF, 2.3 MB) Communication on Progress File Download Communication on Progress 2009 (PDF, 347 KB) Since 2010, our annual Corporate Responsibility Report, which is prepared in compliance with the applicable guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), has also constituted our annual Communication on Progress (COP) for the UN Global Compact. Global Reporting Initiative results File Download Global Reporting Initiative 2014 ??????????? (PDF, 328 KB) Global Reporting Initiative 2013 (PDF, 328 KB) Global Reporting Initiative 2012 (PDF, 319 KB) Global Reporting Initiative 2011 (PDF, 355 KB) Group Annual Reports File Download Group Annual Report 2014 (PDF, 12 MB) Group Annual Report 2013 (PDF, 9.3 MB) Group Annual Report 2012 (PDF, 7.7 MB) Group Annual Report 2011 (PDF, 10.9 MB) Munich Re Foundation Annual Reviews File Download The Munich Re Foundation’s annual review: 2014 report (PDF, 6.7 MB) The Munich Re Foundation’s annual review: 2013 report (PDF, 3.5 MB) The Munich Re Foundation’s annual review: 2012 report (PDF, 4.1 MB) The Munich Re Foundation’s annual review: 2011 report (PDF, 3.3 MB) Munich Re Risk reports File Download Munich Re Risk report 2014 (PDF, 111 KB) Munich Re Risk report 2013 (PDF, 1.6 MB) Munich Re Risk report 2012 (PDF, 487 KB) Munich Re Risk report 2011 (PDF, 543 KB) Munich Re Codes of Conduct File Download Munich Re Code of Conduct (reinsurance) (PDF, 467 KB) ERGO Code of Conduct (PDF, 113 KB) Code of Conduct for Self-employed Sales Agents of ERGO Companies (PDF, 46 KB) Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) File Download PSI Disclosure 2012 (PDF, 1.2 MB) Corporate Responsibility in Business at Munich Re (Group) (PDF, 227 KB) TOPICS GEO – Natural catastrophes File Download TOPICS GEO – Natural catastrophes 2014 (PDF, 15.1 MB) TOPICS GEO – Natural catastrophes 2013 (PDF, 13.6 MB) TOPICS GEO – Natural catastrophes 2012 (PDF, 9.4 MB) TOPICS GEO – Natural catastrophes 2011 (PDF, 11.4 MB) Procurement File Download Munich Re Procurement guidelines (PDF, 84 KB) Environment and climate File Download Carbon Disclosure Report 2013 (PDF, 332 KB) Carbon Disclosure Report 2012 (PDF, 145 KB) Carbon Disclosure Report 2011 (PDF, 133 KB) Environmental guidelines of Munich Re 2012 (PDF, 222 KB) Munich Re Newables 2009 (PDF, 2.8 MB) SystemAgro 2009 (PDF, 1 MB) GRI: G4-29 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home About us Glossary A B C D E F Service A G H I J K L M N O P Q R Actuary Qualified expert who analyses problems from the area of insurance, home loans, S T U V W X investments and pensions using methods of probability theory and financial Y Z mathematics, and develops solutions with due regard to legal and economic Downloads parameters. Glossary Asset-liability management FAQ Often abbreviated to ALM, asset-liability management is a risk model for managing Contact both sides of the balance sheet (assets and liabilities). The aim of ALM is to manage all of the items in the balance sheet in such a way as to optimise the expected return without exceeding the desired level of risk. In an ongoing process, assets and liabilities are simultaneously analysed with regard to their returns and timing. From this, a strategy is developed to achieve the desired financial objectives within the given risk parameters. Asset management Management of an investment portfolio on the basis of risk and return considerations. It covers both the preparation and implementation of investment decisions regarding assets and the management of Special funds. Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home About us FAQ Service Frequently Asked Questions Here you can find answers to some of our stakeholders' most frequent questions regarding corporate responsibility. Downloads What does corporate responsibility (CR) mean? Glossary The terms corporate responsibility (CR) and corporate social responsibility (CSR), FAQ which are often used synonymously, refer to corporate management that weighs and takes into account economic, ecological and social principles. Contact The broader approach of CR also includes issues of corporate governance and corporate citizenship, i.e. a company's commitment to society. In order to bring about transparent communication and mutual trust while identifying important societal challenges and changes, CR is always based on dialogue with all important stakeholder groups, including shareholders, clients, rating agencies, staff members, media and NGOs. What role does CR play in today's economic life? In Germany and internationally, CR has meanwhile become largely a matter of course due particularly to the capital market's constantly growing interest in sustainable investments and general corporate responsibility. Clients' heightened sensitivity to CR affords the companies an opportunity to take action in order to realise competitive advantages in the area of CR. What does corporate responsibility mean to Munich Re? For Munich Re, corporate responsibility means accepting responsibility within society, i.e. also taking economic, ecological and societal aspects into account in our business an understanding that we have put into practice in our corporate responsibility strategy. We are convinced that we can secure our success over the long term only by bringing our entrepreneurial activities into harmony with our responsibility for our business environment. To underscore further this strong belief in corporate responsibility values, Munich Re joined the United Nations' Global Compact, the most important international standard for the implementation of sustainable corporate governance, in August 2007. We consider its ten principles on subjects such as the environment, labour standards, human rights and anti-corruption to be important action guidelines and standards for putting corporate responsibility into practice in our core business throughout the Group. We emphasise our claim of being a responsible company by voluntarily commiting to the implementation of the United Nations' Global Compact (UNGC), the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) and the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) in our insurance business and in our capital assets. Strategy and challenges Voluntary commitments How is corporate responsibility integrated into Munich Re's core business? A forward-looking, responsible approach is axiomatic for Munich Re (Group). It is essential for securing the long-term success of our business model, creating lasting value, and strengthening the confidence of our clients, investors and society in our work. Corporate responsibility is therefore a major component of our Group strategy and enshrined in our core principles. We document this externally through voluntary commitments such as the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), the UN Global Compact and the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI). All our investment strategies adhere to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), which Munich Re signed in 2006, as the first German company to do so. These six principles are the basis for action recommendations designed to take into account ecological and social factors, as well as aspects of good corporate governance, in making long-term investment decisions. For us, the PSI serve as a framework for anchoring the perspectives of ecology, social responsibility and good corporate governance (environmental, social and governance [ESG] aspects) more strongly in our core business. By taking them into account along the entire value-added chain of our business, we add important parameters to our risk management as these contribute to long-term business success. ESG aspects are also a component in the Group's reputational risk management. Solutions Strategy and challenges What fields of action are covered by Munich Re's corporate responsibility strategy? Our core principles and objectives are realised in five fields of action: strategy and governance, reporting and communication, corporate responsibility in business, environmental management and corporate citizenship. The first two of these provide the framework for the last three. Munich Re Fields of action How is corporate responsibility anchored in the Group organisation? Given the close link between corporate responsibility issues and Munich Re’s business strategy, a unit dedicated to this subject was set up at our Munich headquarters in 2008, subsumed under the Group Development division. This division is also responsible for further development of the Group strategy and reports directly to Munich Re's CEO. The department performs tasks for the Group and the Munich Health field of business. Corporate responsibility is also an integral part of ERGO's corporate strategy and an aspect handled directly by the Chairman of its Board of Management. A separate unit within the Group Communications division coordinates implementation among the departments. The Group Corporate Responsibility Committee (GCRC) at our Munich headquarters has been coordinating strategic implementation throughout the Group since 2013. Strategy and challenges What do risk management and investment management have to do with corporate responsibility? Risk management is an important part of corporate management and serves primarily to maintain the financial strength needed to meet our clients' requirements and create sustainable value for our shareholders. A responsible and forward-looking approach is our top priority with regard to investments, where our asset management company MEAG manages significant investments worldwide. That is why we were the first German company to sign the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) in 2006. Moreover, our General Investment Guidelines, which have binding for the entire Group since 2005, stipulate that a major part of all investments in shares and in government and corporate bonds should comply with sustainability criteria. Management: Risk management Management How do socially responsible investment (SRI) analysts rate Munich Re's social commitment? For many years, Munich Re has been awarded consistently excellent ratings by the leading rating agencies. Again in the financial year 2014, the outlook for all Munich Re ratings remained stable at a high level. Our positive results in the ratings and inclusion in relevant indices and funds clearly show that we are pursuing a successful corporate responsibility strategy and implementing it effectively. For instance, Munich Re has been a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the FTSE4Good continuously since 2001. The rating agencies oekom, Sustainalytics and Vigeo, which specialise in sustainability, also gave Munich Re very good ratings in 2014. Their ratings are taken into account in the weighting of sustainability indices such as the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) and the STOXX Global ESG Leaders index. Facts and figures: SRI indices munichre.com: Investor Relations How does Munich Re report on its activities in the field of corporate responsibility? Munich Re reports on all its activities in the field of corporate responsibility online. Its portal presents an annual corporate responsibility report that reviews the measures taken and successes achieved in the preceding year. Our news section on the portal homepage features reports on current events and developments in the field of corporate responsibility. All contents are available in German and English and can be downloaded as a PDF document. This document is also our Corporate Responsibility Report for 2014. Please do not hesitate to contact our experts if you have any questions regarding corporate responsibility at Munich Re. Contact News on corporate responsibility Downloads Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home About us Contact Notice Service Contact When you have completed all the fields marked with an asterisk (*) Please do not hesitate to contact us if you have any questions. please click Send, and your message will be sent to our experts on Georg Justus Schwarz and Dr. Philipp Hasenmüller Corporate Responsibility. Consultants Corporate Responsibility Privacy statement Downloads E-Mail: responsibility@munichre.com Glossary Telefon: +49 89 3891-0 FAQ Dr. Astrid Zwick Head of Department Contact Corporate Responsibility E-Mail: responsibility@munichre.com Telefon: +49 89 3891-0 Munich Re Königinstr. 107 80802 München Germany Contact Media Relations Your message to our Corporate responsibility experts Form of address* Ms. Mr. Surname*, first name Company Country* Please select E-mail* Subject* Your message* SEND RESET GRI: G4-31 Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home RSS Feed External links RSS-Feed RSS at Wikipedia Stay up to date on what's new on this website. All you need ist an RSS newsreader or an RSS capable Browser. English RSS feed: www.munichre.com/cr.en.rss.xml German RSS feed: www.munichre.com/cr.de.rss.xml 20 August 2015 Excellent UN PRI rating for Munich Re's holistic investment strategy 14 August 2015 POC21: Munich Re relies on innovations from creative minds 10 August 2015 Help for earthquake victims in Nepal: Munich Re donations flow into sustainable reconstruction projects 8 July 2015 Munich Re updates information in the Corporate Responsibility Portal 2014/15 3 July 2015 10 years of Munich Re Foundation Interview with Thomas Loster 12 June 2015 Climate protection at Munich Re 19 May 2015 Helping others to help themselves: Munich Re is extending to 2017 its financial commitment in the international earthquake and landslide risk reduction project in India 29 April 2015 Munich Re America gains “Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design” (LEED) Platinum certification for their Conference and Fitness Center 14 April 2015 Munich Re of Malta joins afforestation campaign in a local recreation area 18 March 2015 Australian partnership honoured with certificate of distinction in global disaster reduction awards 3 March 2015 Munich Re purchases three photovoltaic facilities in Great Britain 6 February 2015 21 January 2015: DKV Seguros once again gains EMAS recognition from the European Commission for its improved environmental management 5 December 2014 Munich Re wins the German Investors’ Award for Responsible Management 17 November 2014 Munich Re provides contribution to CRO Forum working paper “Human rights and corporate insurance” 22 October 2014 Munich Re earns lead rating for climate risk management practices 17 July 2014 New DKV Seguros headquarters with the highest qualifications in sustainability 8 July 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013/14 presents the objectives and progress of corporate responsibility within the Group. 2 July 2014 Munich Re and GIZ are cooperating on an agricultural model project in Peru 20 June 2014 Climate protection at Munich Re 21 May 2014 Munich Re defines new SRI rating strategy 15 May 2014 Munich Re concludes social partnership agreement with the Pfennigparade Foundation 17 April 2014 Munich Re meets with SRIs in London 26 March 2014 Keynote speech by Margareta Wahlström, UN Special Representative, at Munich Re 14 March 2014 Playtime – A Lenbachhaus exhibition on the working world 28 February 2014 Environmental management at ERGO Hamburg successfully certified for the first time 31 January 2014 High-level sustainability: Munich Re experts meet professors from Munich University of Applied Sciences 20 December 2013 MEAG donates to the Munich Children’s Hospice 16 December 2013 Lecture by primatologist Jane Goodall at Munich Re: “Reasons for Hope” 11 December 2013 Munich Re Foundation helps in Tacloban in the Philippine 15 October 2013 First Munich Re SRI (Sustainable Responsible Investment) Day 15 October 2013 Climate protection at Munich Re 5 September 2013 First Summer Festival of the Bayerische Philharmonie at Schloss Hohenkammer 6 August 2013 75% of Munich Re (Group) is already climate neutral 31 July 2013 Munich Re launches updated Corporate Responsibility Portal 2012/13 22 May 2013 DKV Seguros once again ranks as Spain's third best employer 18 April 2013 The Städtische Galerie in Lenbachhaus is collaborating with Munich Re in the area of contemporary art. 21 March 2013 New UNEP magazine with input from Munich Re 24 January 2013 Munich Re – reaching Silver Class at RobecoSAM 17 January 2013 Munich Re’s CEO, Nikolaus von Bomhard honored by St. John’s University‘s School of Risk Management as “2012 Insurance Leader of the Year” 30 November 2012 The bit-disposal days at ERGO – For the environment: Out with unused data 19 September 2012 Munich Re reaching top positioning in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index 14 September 2012 Carbon neutrality at Munich Re 3 July 2012 Börsen-Zeitung: Partnerships for a successful energy turnaround (PDF, 61 KB) 26 June 2012 DKV Seguros is the first insurance company in Europe to be carbon neutral 19 June 2012 Munich Re signs the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) of the United Nations Environmental Programme Finance Initiative 12 June 2012 Insurance solutions to help Caribbean nations – Among the worst hit by climate change 27 April 2012 Existing environmental management system at our Munich location successfully recertified 29 March 2012 Munich Re again listed in the FTSE4Good and classified one of the 30 most preferred sustainable companies in Europe by Oddo Securities 24 February 2012 Press release BMFSFJ: Companies strengthen civic involvement (PDF, 52 KB) 12 January 2012 Strategies for responsible investments – international panel discussion 6 December 2011 Global Leaders Discuss Economic Recovery at UN Summit 21 October 2011 Pole position for Munich Re in Newsweek’s Green Rankings 8 August 2011 Project cooperation on corporate responsibility between Munich University of Applied Sciences and Munich Re 4 August 2011 Environmental certification at Munich Re (Munich) and ERGO, Germany successfully confirmed 19 July 2011 Munich Re invests in solar parks 17 June 2011 Munich Re’s head office in Munich achieves carbon neutrality again in 2010 23 May 2011 Future UN PRI chair Wolfgang Engshuber meets UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon 19 May 2011 Sustainable Investment pays off 9 May 2011 Munich Re donates 7,500 books and DVDs to BOOKBRIDGE 17 March 2011 Global sustainable insurance initiative consultations launched in South Africa 16 February 2011 UN debate regarding disaster reduction and preparedness: Pointing out the strengths of insurance-based solutions 15 February 2011 Munich Re aid: Taking stock of our Pakistan and Haiti aid efforts 8 February 2011 Chief Administrative Officer of Munich Re America elected as new PRI chair 28 January 2011 PRI Workshop at MEAG 22 November 2010 6th International Microinsurance Conference in Manila 25 October 2010 Recently opened: The Munich Risk and Insurance Center (MRIC) 12 October 2010 Munich Re launches new portal providing information on corporate responsibility 15 September 2010 Sustainability indices give Munich Re top ratings 15 September 2010 Professor Höppe speaks at international conference on the importance of renewable energies 27 May 2010 First milestone reached: Munich Re’s Munich offices carbon-neutral since 2009 21 May 2010 Munich Re cited as one of “Europe’s Greenest Companies” by Institutional Investor magazine 21 May 2010 Confirmation of Munich Re’s prime status as a sustainable investment 19 April 2010 Munich Re sponsors 2010 Easter tour of the Gustav Mahler Jugendorchester 22 March 2010 Desertec: Enel Green Power, NAREVA Holding, Red Eléctrica de España and SaintGobain Solar become part of joint venture Dii 15 March 2010 Munich Re Signs Photovoltaic Module Guarantee Cover for LDK Solar Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Privacy statement Links Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint The protection of the private sphere and of your personal data are important to us. Because we do not want to collect any personal data relating to you without your knowledge and express consent, we would like to describe below what information we would record and what purposes we would use it for. What information do we record and what purposes do we use it for? Whenever you access this website, certain information required for data-security purposes (for example, your IP address, the date and time) is automatically saved on our server for a period of 30 days. These data are used exclusively for security purposes (for example, to identify and trace any persons gaining or attempting to gain unauthorised access to our web server). Munich Re will treat with strictest confidence any personal details sent when you access our homepage in accordance with the ruling provisions governing data protection at the Company’s head office. If you send us an e-mail or complete and submit online forms on our website, we will use any personal data you provide (such as your name and e-mail address) only to correspond with you, i.e. to send you the documents or information you requested, or for the other purpose(s) stipulated on the individual form. Your personal data will not be made available to third parties. Whenever users visit our website, we record anonymised usage data (such as the date, time of day, pages viewed, navigation, software used, visitor’s country of origin, etc.) for the purpose of analysing usage behaviour. We use cookies to retrace usage behaviour in anonymised form. Anonymised usage data are recorded, processed and utilised only to help us gear our website to our users’ needs. We also use cookies for technical reasons, but not to collect any personal information about you. If you use our internet services, you are always free to decide whether to accept these cookies or to deactivate them in your browser settings. However, our website does include a few areas or features (such as online job applications, contact forms and the Shareholders Portal) that absolutely require a secure connection. In order to establish such a connection, you must enable or allow cookies in your browser settings. Areas of our website that are reserved for users with special access (such as the Shareholder Portal) and record additional personal data for technical and/or legal reasons, display in each case a special notice to inform visitors of this fact. Protective measures We take suitably up-to-date technical and organisational security measures to protect data against accidental or intentional manipulation, loss, or destruction, and against access by unauthorised persons. We use Secure Socket Layer (SSL) encryption to protect any information you enter in dialogue forms on our web pages. SSL encryption protects the data you send us against unauthorised third-party access. For your own security, please always use these dialogue forms. If you send us unencrypted data in a standard, unprotected email, it is possible that unauthorised persons may gain knowledge of or modify your data while it is being transferred through the internet. Do you have any other questions? If you have any further questions relating to data protection in connection with Munich Re’s website or regarding the processing of your personal data, please contact Munich Re’s Data Protection Officer at the following address: Münchener Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft Data Protection Officer 80791 München Germany or by e-mail: datenschutz@munichre.com Changes to this privacy statement The updating of our internet pages requires us to make periodical adjustments to our privacy statement. Please note the latest version of our privacy statement (current status: 17 September 2012). The previous version of our privacy statement (from 17 November 2009) is available here. Privacy statement (from 17 November 2009) Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Legal notice Links Legal notice Privacy statement Imprint Copyright © Copyright 2000–2014 Münchener Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft Aktiengesellschaft in München ( Munich Re ). All rights reserved. Texts, pictures, footage and graphics and their appearance in the Munich Re website are protected under copyright law and other protective legislation. These materials or any portions thereof may be used solely for personal and non-commercial purposes. An exception shall be the use of pictures and footage downloaded from the database in the picture archive and the press footage by representatives of the media if and insofar as such pictures are used in publications with editorial relevance to Munich Re. Any contents and components of the Munich Re website stored, reproduced or distributed, provided that permission has been granted to do so, must contain a reference to Munich Re's copyright. Pictures and footage as well as articles from newspapers and magazines appearing in the Munich Re website may also in certain instances be subject to the intellectual property rights of third parties. Trademarks Münchener Rück , Munich Re and the Munich Re logo are internationally protected registered trademarks. All other company names, logos and product names appearing in the Munich Re website may be the registered trademarks of their respective owners. Disclaimer and Reservation of Right of Modification While Munich Re has used its discretion, best judgement and every reasonable effort in compiling the information and components contained in this website it may not be held liable for the completeness, correctness, topicality and technical accuracy of any information contained herein. Likewise, Munich Re may not be held liable for any loss or damage caused by computer viruses when users retrieve or download data from this website. Munich Re reserves the right, without the need to give prior notice, to modify or supplement information and components in this website. Links to Third-party Sites Clicking on certain hyperlinks on the Munich Re website allows you to leave the Munich Re site. The linked site is not under the control or influence of Munich Re and the latter is not responsible for the contents and design of or for any changes made to the linked site. Munich Re therefore shall be liable neither for offsite material contained in linked sites nor for any links contained in a linked site. Sitemap Contact RSS Feed Privacy statement Legal notice Imprint Deutsch MUNICH RE STRATEGY AND CHALLENGES MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT US Home Imprint Links Imprint Legal notice Privacy statement This imprint applies to all telemedia services of Münchener RückversicherungsGesellschaft. Münchener Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft Aktiengesellschaft in München Königinstr. 107 80802 München Germany Tel.: +49 (89) 38 91-0 Fax: +49 (89) 39 90 56 E-mail: contact@munichre.com Münchener Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft (Munich Reinsurance Company) is a reinsurance company organized under the laws of Germany. In some countries, including in the United States, Munich Reinsurance Company holds the status of an unauthorized reinsurer. Policies are underwritten by Munich Reinsurance Company or its affiliated insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries. Certain coverages are not available in all jurisdictions. Any description in this document is for general information purposes only and does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any product Board of Management: Dr. Nikolaus von Bomhard (Chairman), Giuseppina Albo, Dr. Ludger Arnoldussen, Dr. Thomas Blunck, Dr. Doris Höpke, Dr. Torsten Jeworrek, Dr. Peter Röder, Dr. Jörg Schneider, Dr. Joachim Wenning Commercial Register Munich, No. HRB 42039 Supervisory authority: Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (BaFin), Bonn VAT registration number: DE 129274139 Insurance tax number: 9116/802/00663 Stock quotations supplied by OnVista AG. Munich Re does not guarantee the accuracy of the data. © 2000–2015 Münchener Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft Group Communications
