BALDHA GROUP Communication on Progress YEAR 2015 Contents:  About the company  Message of the CEO  PRINCIPLE 1 HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights  PRINCIPLE 2 HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.  PRINCIPLE 3 LABOUR STANDARDS Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining  PRINCIPLE 4 LABOUR STANDARDS the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor  PRINCIPLE 5 LABOUR STANDARDS the effective abolition of child labor  PRINCIPLE 6 LABOUR STANDARDS the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation  PRINCIPLE 7 ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges  PRINCIPLE 8 ENVIRONMENT Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility  PRINCIPLE 9 ENVIRONMENT Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies  PRINCIPLE 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery About Baldha Group Baldha is an Italian Word; it means ‘The Best and the self-confident’. In the memory of The Baldha Garden which is located in the old part of city of Dhaka, Bangladesh (1909); the Company started its Journey in January 1st 2010. Empowering the strategy followed by integrity and efficiency the company has been growing very successful businesses in sectors ranging from garments to agriculture, Telecom, media, publication and Properties. Each successive venture demonstrates our devotion to pick the right market and the right opportunity. Our companies are part of a family rather than a hierarchy. We want to make our dream into solution which is the growth and development of businesses for mankind. Mission We want to support mankind through our innovation, strategy and unique business platform. Vision We want to be known around the world for our values and extraordinary creation. From the CEO From near and far tree gives us shadow, fruits, and flowers: she does all these for us not for her. Just like a tree I would like to build my organization Baldha Group as an icon to serve others. I am pleased to confirm that Baldha Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact’s ten principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication .We are very honored and happy to support United Nations Global compact and its 10 principles. Facing all the challenges for being a new start up organization I believe Stepping into United Nations Global compact is definitely a positive energy for us to pursue all the goals in prospective to UN principles; I hope that on behalf of Baldha Group I will be able to support all the principles of UN Global Compact and I will be able to be one of their strongest and successful business initiator forever. Thanks Sincerely Farah M Saddha CEO Baldha Group We support UN Global Compact Human Rights Baldha Group should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights And make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. COMPANY POLICY Baldha Group follows the local and international legislation regarding the aspect of human rights. The values we support are concern for our customers, employees, partners and shareholder. Our aim is to influence our employees, all our business partners and stake holders to understand and respect the fundamentals of Human rights .We wanted to make sure that all the employees of our organization are treated equally and they do not become the victims of their race, nationality, ethnic background, language, religion, social status, sexual orientation. These procedures are periodically updated by the members of the managerial team and by the team in the Quality Assurance department. Our employees have the right to equal salary for equal work, to an equitable and satisfying remuneration, right to medical care, to social security and to social services. Our shareholders, suppliers, partners and collaborators respect the human rights. In the relations among employees, we encourage integrity and honesty. Through the educational projects developed in partnership with our nonprofit organization NGO ANDRA we share fundamental moral values and we make sure that all our business serves the man kind. ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE LAST YEAR from Baldha group of companies for Human rights Kaler Jatra publication Ltd About Kaler Jatra Publication Ltd Kaler Jatra strives to be an author friendly publisher, treating its authors as full partners in the highly competitive publishing business .Kaler jatra means the journey of time and we preserve this time with the touch of our knowledge .We do multifaceted jobs like editing, consulting, designing, producing, distributing, promoting and marketing. It is the publication which is aimed to bring change in the literature world. Our recently published books are Princess of the tide, The Global rose and Literature Magazine kaler jatra. We also own an online news portal www.kalerjatra.com  In all our Monthly meeting we have discussion about human rights among the team and we submit the guideline about human rights it in the meeting minutes report  We have submitted an hand out to all our Employees and stake holders About human rights .  We have published a book Global Rose A non-Fiction Nobel based on Human rights http://www.kalerjatra.com/cat_view.php?news_id=1090  We have launched an On line New portal Kalerjatra.com and we carry articles and news regarding the awareness of Human rights  We have published article about human rights http://www.kalerjatra.com/cat_view.php?news_id=1062  We have published news coverage for the Global Compact Asia Pacific regional Conference which was held on June 2014 at Dhaka, Bangladesh. http://www.kalerjatra.com/cat_view.php?news_id=1089  Our press is continuously printing the flyers and paper materials to generate awareness about human rights for the community, stake holders and our employees. RESULTS There was no reported case of human rights abuse Environment  PRINCIPLE 7 ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges  PRINCIPLE 8 ENVIRONMENT Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility  PRINCIPLE 9 ENVIRONMENT Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Company policy Baldha Group supports the UNGC principles on the Environment. The principles have been included in our CSR policies and our Code of Conduct. As leader on the media, our company assumes responsibility towards the environment, by promoting good practices in environmental issues and cultivating these values through its policies of partnerships, through involvement in programs developed by organizations from the business environment and our nongovernmental sector Andra. About Tarar Porne Production House Ltd Tarar Porne Production House is a full-service documentary, film, video and multimedia company; managing the production process from script to screen. As a reliable resource for everything from crews to location scouting, grip and electric packages to high definition and standard definition post production and duplication. We offer solutions and resources to assist in your project be it film or TVAs the company bears a solid grasp on a highly targeted vertical market, advertising sales has become an important part of the company's business. The Tarar Porne brand is heavily based on the content that it procures. The staff of the company is constantly seeking cutting-edge films, ads and documentaries that the audience would enjoy. Actions Taken Place  We have encouraged our employees for internal and external communication via email and encouraged them the slogan ‘Go paperless ‘  For Office Utilities we have taught the employees to preserve water, gas and other utilities by turning of the lights. Fans and water faucets.  We have produced a show Beautiful Bangladesh which was broad casted in the local channel and distributed among the shareholders, local community and diplomatic circles. The aim of this show is to create awareness to protect and preserve Environment .Here is the news and link for the show The news on kaler jatra.com http://www.kalerjatra.com/cat_view.php?news_id=3147 The video production link https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FQYOHM3jeNYa travel show about the Beauty, culture and heritage of Bangladesh. H  We have made documentaries about Flood and other natural disasters to create awareness in the mass about environment safety Flood In Bangladesh https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQQaxzgtRWw&feature=youtu.be  We have preserved the wastage of paper in the office by making 0 wastage on paper and our slogan as ‘Go Paperless ‘  We made investments in appliances with low energy consumption: computers, servers, displays, peripherals, lighting fittings, electrical equipment.  All the waste in Baldha Group is sorted, and materials such as paper and plastic are recycled. Other waste goes to incineration. Hazardous waste consists mostly of discarded computers and screens.  Our Instructions for business Travel states that environmental impact is to be taken into consideration when choosing means of travel for business journeys. This means choosing bus over car, rail over air, electronic tickets over paper tickets and renting class 1 eco-cars etc. Phone conferences should always be considered as an option to traveling. Result 0 report about environment safety . Labour Rights  PRINCIPLE 3 LABOUR STANDARDS Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining  PRINCIPLE 4 LABOUR STANDARDS the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor  PRINCIPLE 5 LABOUR STANDARDS the effective abolition of child labor  PRINCIPLE 6 LABOUR STANDARDS the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Company Policy Our company encourages equal opportunities. Neither employee is subject to any form of discrimination based on gender, race or physical abilities, or religion. Any form of physical or verbal harassment is strictly forbidden. . All employees are free to be part of any association or nongovernmental foundation. Every employee has the right to negotiate his/her salary . Our shareholders, suppliers, partners and collaborators respect the Labour rights. In the relations among employees, we encourage integrity and honesty. Baldha apparel Ltd Baldha Apparel Ltd is a marketer, manufacturer, and distributor of high quality branded knit, woven and sweater apparel. Company specializes in selling a variety of wear tops and bottoms, for the ever-changing apparel market. Baldha Apparel mission is to become a recognized manufacturer, importer and distributor of high quality apparel and textile products to the USA Canada and Europe at the lowest possible price and with delivery times superior to any in the industry. It is equally committed to always exceeding the customer expectations and shareholder value. Action Taken  When we place any order to the factories we make sure that factory is complaint with the international labor rights. In our last order for the pajama set we actually provided the free lunch for the workers as a compliment. We have made a production video. Here is the link https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hGGryYZKhAw  During the manufacturing Process we always make sure that the workers are paid for over time, receive the sick leave and treaded with respect.  We always arrange monthly team meetings to share our employees about their expectations, contributions and ideas for the future road maps of the organization.  All employees have benefitted from private medical insurances and annual medical check up  At the company’s premises have been arranged facilities necessary to disabled persons Result No conflict or discrimination report has been submitted PRINCIPLE 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery COMPANY POLICY Baldha Group fights against any forms of corruption including bribery, political influence, external pressure or extortion. . ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE LAST YEAR  We have developed and updated the company’s anti-corruption manual; every employee is trained and audited for knowing and applying it.  The possibility for signaling any corruption act was made available to all employees  We have promoted among our partners, customers, and public to aware about corruption and held seminars on ‘zero corruption’.  Baldha Group has participated the Anti-corruption convention in NY on Dec, 2013. Here is the link for the news http://www.kalerjatra.com/view.php?cat_id=19 . RESULTS No employee has been involved in corruption actions How will we publicize this information? The 10 Principles will be made available to employees, suppliers, shareholders, mass media, as well as to the large audience on our website www.baldha.com Contact person Farah M Saddha CEO Baldha Group +8801729860251 ceo@baldha.com
