SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 Table of Contents 1 About Our Report 2 Message from the CEO 4 CCI At a Glance 6 Performance Highlights 8 CCI’s Sustainability Achievements 10 Integrating Sustainability 21 Sustainability across the Value Chain 29 Corporate Governance and Ethics 32 me 40 we – Employees 54 we – Community 64 world 84 Performance Indicators 92 Glossary 93 CCI Reporting Guidance 98 GRI G4 Content Index for “In Accordance: Core” 105 Independent Assurance Letter 106 Greenhouse Gas Verification Statement About Our Report considered to be below 5% by the verifier. The assurance About Our Report statement of SGS is included on pages 106-108 of this report. This is the seventh Sustainability Report published by In addition to this verification, the selected information as Coca-Cola İçecek (CCI). This report includes our practices defined in the Independent Limited Assurance Report on and performance results obtained during the period page 105 of this report received limited assurance from from January 1 to December 31, 2014 for four of the independent audit company EY. In 2014 we obtained, 10 countries in which we operate: Azerbaijan, Jordan, for the fourth time, limited assurance on Selected Kazakhstan and Turkey. In the report, we refer to these Information* from our operations in Turkey. The Selected countries as our “four countries of operation.” Information covered total energy data, per-product energy use, total water data and per-product water use, This year, we have extended the scope of the report as described in the CCI Reporting Guidance included and started providing both qualitative and detailed on pages 93-97 of this report. Within the context of quantitative data from our Pakistan operations. In cases this audit, 2014 data from CCI’s Turkey plants were where Pakistan data is included, we refer to these assessed to reach a conclusion of “limited assurance” in countries as our “five countries of operation”. We have accordance with the international standard “Assurance also extended the contents to respond to the information Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical needs of the Borsa Istanbul Sustainability Index. Financial Information” (ISAE 3000). In addition, for the first time, the same Selected Information* (total energy Standards Used data, per-product energy use, total water data and In preparing this report, we were guided by the three per-product water use) for our operations in Pakistan principles of the AA1000 Assurance Standard: materiality, have received limited assurance in accordance with the inclusiveness and responsiveness. We measure and international standard “ISAE 3000”. report our social, environmental and ethical performance using leading standards and methodologies such as Feedback those adopted by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Collecting stakeholder feedback is vital in helping us G4, CDP, the International Labor Organization (ILO), the improve both our practices and our reporting processes. United Nations Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC) We closely examine every issue that comes to our and the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol developed by attention, and use any feedback from our stakeholders the World Resources Institute (WRI). to continuously improve our practices. The contents of this report have been prepared in We invite our stakeholders to forward any opinions, accordance with the core option of the G4 Sustainability suggestions or complaints via mail to Reporting Guidelines of the GRI. The report also serves corporate.affairs@cci.com.tr, as our Communication on Progress (COP) to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). or by contacting Corporate Affairs Department at +90 216 538 40 00, Verification or through the “contact us” tab on our website For the fourth consecutive year, certain data in this report cci.com.tr. were independently audited. The GHG emissions of CCI Turkey’s manufacturing, sales and distribution operations for 2014 were audited, as in the last two years, by a third-party auditing organization, SGS, and verified in accordance with the International Organization for Standardization’s ISO 14064-3 2006 Standard as meeting the requirements of ISO 14064-1. CCI’s Turkey operations have successfully passed the audits. Both GHG Protocol’s Scope 1 emissions (direct GHG emissions from stationary and mobile combustion, process emissions, and fugitive emissions) and Scope 2 emissions (indirect emissions such as those arising from purchased electricity) were verified as a result of this process. The level of assurance was deemed “reasonable” and the materiality was * The Selected Information is covered on page 105 of this report. 1 Message from the or even an entire industry to make a meaningful difference single-handedly. We believe we must work in conjunction with businesses, governments, and civil society organizations in CEO order to make a real difference. For example, our 3.2.1. Move! program, through which we inspire, empower, and engage a generation of youth to appreciate an active and healthy With annual sales exceeding 1 billion unit cases to make lifestyle, was developed in partnership with Mercy Corps. In us the fifth-largest bottler of the Coca-Cola system, Coca2014 we expanded 3.2.1 Move! such that it touched the lives Cola İçecek is acutely aware of how significant an impact of more than 50,000 young people in Turkey, Pakistan and our business operations may have on the environment and Iraq, and in 2015 we plan to launch it in Kazakhstan and on society. Forever striving to be the best FMCG company Azerbaijan. across our markets, we continuously seek to better integrate our sustainability efforts into our daily actions. Given the Also, our Coca-Cola Grassroots Football Tournament is the volatility, uncertainty and the complexity of today’s business result of partnerships between the Coca-Cola Company environment, we know that the success of our business and grassroots organizations in the communities we serve. depends on integrating sustainability into the very heart of Since its launch in 2006 in Kazakhstan, this tournament our enterprise, where we endeavor to create value for our has successfully spread throughout CCI’s entire operating stakeholders and even their stakeholders. geography, and in 2014 as many as 650,000 young people from Azerbaijan, Jordan, Kazakhstan and Pakistan We continued our sales growth in 2014, another challenging participated in these games. year for our business due to ongoing economic, political, and security-related volatility in our operating geography. Still, we we: Employees enjoy the privilege of operating in the second-largest market It is the capabilities of our people that will enable our company of the Coca-Cola system in terms of population, and we to move forward toward our goal of building a highly capable recognized that this area remains a great growth potential for organization and being the employer of choice. In this regard, us. Our sustainability efforts this year also faced important not only did we continue to develop capabilities in 2014, but challenges, which constrained our progress with respect to we also rolled out the iLead leadership training program in all our goals. We know that sustainability is an ongoing journey, our operations. and we are recommitting ourselves to seeking out innovative methods of working with all our stakeholders to further Additionally, the health and safety of our employees progress towards our sustainability goals. remains of paramount concern for us. Thanks to extensive improvements, we reduced the lost time incident rate (LTIR) Changes in Our Reporting in 2014 in Kazakhstan, Jordan and Azerbaijan, though, As with our 2013 sustainability report, the contents of this regrettably, we saw a slight increase (0.12) in Turkey’s LTIR. report also have been developed in accordance with the It is with heavy sadness that I report that a fatal accident at Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Reporting Guidelines. Where one of our Pakistan plants resulted in the tragic loss of one of this year’s report differs, however, is that for the first time our employees. Responding immediately, we implemented we have included selected key performance indicators corrective and preventive measures after conducting a (environmental, health and safety, and employees) of our detailed analysis of the incident. With the gravity of this Pakistan operation. This data covers all six plants in Pakistan incident informing us as we move through 2015 and beyond, and has been audited by an independent third party auditing we will strive to ensure even better safety and security for all firm. In the next year’s report we plan to include full data for our employees and stakeholders. our Pakistan operation. we: Building stronger communities In order to improve our sustainability and reporting Creating value for our communities is necessary to build performance, we formed an external report review committee. strong, sustainable societies. We care about the needs and Committee members provided us with valuable feedback, expectations of everyone in the communities where we and we implemented some of their suggestions directly in this operate, and we are proud to be in a position to propose year’s report. We will endeavor to implement the remainder and support solutions that directly address local issues. For in coming years. The committee’s recommendations are also instance, because we see the value in creating partnerships included in this report. within our communities and with our stakeholders, we teamed up with WWF to implement the Clean Water Project me: Enhancing personal well-being in Pakistan where access to clean drinking water remains a We continue to support The Coca-Cola Company’s four global very serious public health problem. We aim to provide clean commitments on the well-being of our consumers: offering drinking water to more than 500,000 people across Pakistan lowor no-calorie beverage options, providing transparent by the end of 2016 via this program. nutrition information on our products, marketing responsibly, and supporting programs which promote physical activity. Additionally, the economic empowerment of women, which is essential to building stronger communities, remains one of our In our world marked by many seemingly insurmountable top priorities, and we therefore became a signatory to the UN obstacles to overcome, it is not realistic to expect a business Women’s Empowerment Principles. In 2014, we initiated and 2 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 sponsored a number of projects and events in Azerbaijan, Message from the CEO Jordan, and Kazakhstan to help women in communities in those countries overcome some of the common social and economic barriers they encounter as female entrepreneurs. In 2015 we expect to have all the foundations in place so that we may launch a women’s empowerment project in Turkey in partnership with The Coca-Cola Company. world: Environment We recognize that there is a vital connection between a clean environment and a sustainable business, and we understand the significance of this relationship. As such, CCI aims to produce more by consuming less. Not only are we amongst the top-performing bottlers in the Coca-Cola system in terms of water and energy conservation, but we continue to make progress towards our 2020 environmental performance targets regarding reductions in energy and water use and waste generation. Clean, accessible water is critical to the good health of communities and to the sustainability of ecosystems. Because water is the main ingredient in our beverages and therefore essential for our business, we place a high value on water conservation and have thus identified water scarcity as one of CCI’s major risks for the medium term. We understand the priceless value of water, and we strive to reduce our water use ratio by focusing more on water reuse and recycling We are very pleased that CCI’s sustainability efforts are projects in all CCI operations. We have achieved significant recognized by various platforms. For example, at the 2015 reductions in water use ratios in Turkey, Jordan, Azerbaijan, Coca-Cola Eurasia and Africa Sustainability Awards we and Kazakhstan since 2006, the first year we began reporting, received three awards: CCI Turkey was awarded Grand and we continue to work towards challenging reduction Prize for “Best Country Bottling Operation” and also the targets for 2020 across our operating region. In 2014, we Excellence Award in the Well-being category while CCI invested on water use reduction studies and succeeded in Turkey’s Izmir plant was named the “Best Performing Plant” saving 635,300 tons of water in Turkey, Kazakhstan and in the Environment category. Additionally, our Azerbaijan and Pakistan. We are working toward achieving water neutrality Kazakhstan operations were nominated for Grand Prize. in Turkey and expect to reach this important threshold by the end of 2015. CCI remains firmly committed to adhering to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) related to the Global warming remains one of the biggest concerns for environment, human rights, labor and workplace rights, and everyone, everywhere. CCI continues to take voluntary action anti-corruption measures. We will continue to integrate these regarding climate protection and reducing our environmental principles into our overall business strategy as well as assist and carbon footprint. We set goals in order to reduce our our suppliers to integrate them into their business strategies. GHG gas emissions and to conserve energy, implementing We will continue to measure our progress and improve our energy-saving programs and technological innovations to performance against these UNGC principles. reach these goals. In 2014, we achieved an energy savings of 54 million MJ in our five countries of operation, corresponding On behalf of everyone at CCI, I am pleased to present our to a reduction of 4,640 tons of GHG emissions. 2014 sustainability report, and I thank you for your interest in our sustainability journey. Reducing total generated waste and recycling packaging waste are two other environmental priorities for us. We will Sincerely, continue our efforts to extend lightweight projects in all CCI operations and increase the use of PlantBottle in Turkey Burak Başarır, CEO operation. Transparency In 2014 we submitted our first Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Water Report and participated in the 2015 CDP Water Program in Turkey. We have been responding to CDP Turkey’s Climate Change Program since 2011, and in 2014 we issued our fifth report which won us recognition as one of the top transparency leaders in Turkey's CDP Climate Change Program. 3 CCI At a Glance CCI is the fifth-largest bottler in the Coca-Cola System in terms of sales volume. CCI produces, distributes and sells sparkling and still beverages of The Coca-Cola Company (TCCC) across Azerbaijan, Iraq, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Syria, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Turkey. CCI employs more than 10,300 people and has a total of 25 plants*, offering a wide range of beverages to a consumer base of more than 370 million people. In addition to sparkling beverages, its product portfolio includes juices, waters, sports and energy drinks, teas, and iced teas. CCI’s shares are traded on the Borsa Istanbul (BIST) under the ticker “CCOLA.IS,” American depositary receipts (ADR) are traded over the counter in the United States under “COLAY,” and Eurobonds are traded on the Irish Stock Exchange under “CCOLAT”. Key Financial and Operational Indicators 2013 2014 Sales Volume 1,130.6 unit cases Sales Volume Increase TURKEY INTERNATIONAL CONSOLIDATED 6.9% 0.7% 14.2% 6.9% Net Sales 5,985.4 million TL Net Sales Increase TURKEY INTERNATIONAL CONSOLIDATED 15.4% 5.1% 11.9% 15.4% EBIT 628.5 million TL EBIT Increase TURKEY INTERNATIONAL CONSOLIDATED 5.8% (15.8%) 11.0% 5.8% EBITDA 961.5 million TL EBITDA Increase TURKEY INTERNATIONAL CONSOLIDATED 7.8% (13.7%) 12.2% 7.8% * As of December 31, 2014, CCI owned 23 plants. 4 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 CCI At a Glance KAZAKHSTAN KYRGYZSTAN AZERBAIJAN TURKEY TURKMENISTAN TAJIKISTAN SYRIA IRAQ PAKISTAN JORDAN Countries 10 Consumers > 370,000,000 Employees > 10,300 Sales Points > 700,000 5 Performance Highlights in 2014 Sustainability across the value chain We identified and implemented Operational Excellence (OE) projects and improvements worth approximately 7.9 million $ . We provided nearly 640 training sessions on numerous technical and personal development topics. These trainings were attended by 9,700 employees of our distributors. me Enhancing personal well-being 8,000 associates CCI’s 3.2.1 Move! Program kicked off in 46 schools in Iraq and additional 5,000 and Pakistan and 52 schools in Turkey. We have touched the employees from CCI's lives of more than 50,000 young people in Turkey, Pakistan and Iraq through this program in partnership with customers and distributors Mercy Corps. have participated in Ambassador Program about products, Around 650,000 young people participated the Coca-Cola ingredients and CCI's Grassroots Football Tournaments in sustainability perspective Jordan, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan and since 2011. Pakistan. we Building stronger communities Workplace A total of 70,000 man-hours of training (corresponding to 16.9 hours of training per employee) was given in the four countries of operation. Community CCI donated 3% of pre-tax profits, An economic impact study which was conducted equivalent of TL 3.6 million, to The by Lums and IBA Karachi proves that CCI Anadolu Foundation for charitable causes. Pakistan operations employs over 5,000 An additional TL 500,000 was donated to individuals directly and over 70,000 other foundations. people indirectly throughout its value chain. The Coca-Cola Belestery program We supported around The Pani Clean Water Initiative in provided business skills trainings 3,600 young partnership with WWF aims and green technologies opportunities entrepreneurs with Startup to provide clean drinking water to over to around 3,400 women Weekend Program in Jordan and with 500,000 people across Pakistan in 52 villages in Kazakhstan. Youth Inc. Program in Azerbaijan. by the end of 2016. 6 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 Performance Highlights world Protecting the environment 3,700 man-hours four countries of operation. of environmental training was provided to our employees in the Energy Efficiency & Climate Protection 59% of all coolers in Turkey are HFC-free coolers. Thanks to our eco-friendly coolers, in Turkey we managed to prevent emitting CO2 that By installing EMDs in our coolers in Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan is equivalent to the amount that 14.6 and Azerbaijan, we prevented: million trees trees extract annually from the environment. Approximately 185,000 tons of CO2 emissions in 2014. 84% of our coolers are equipped Approximately with EMD (energy management 545,000 tons of 29% in device) in Turkey, CO2 emissions between Kazakhstan, 5% in Jordan and 2009-2014. 50% in Azerbaijan. Through the OE projects conducted at our Turkey, Kazakhstan, Jordan, Azerbaijan and Pakistan plants, we achieved total annual energy savings of 54.1 million MJ. Through these savings we 4,640 tons of CO2 emissions, an amount equivalent to the amount of managed to prevent CO2 that 386,667 trees extract annually from the environment. Water We submitted our first report to CDP Water Program after being invited to take part. Between 2006-2014, we achieved a water use reduction rate of Our water replenishment rate in Turkey reached 58% (up from 28% in 2013), equal 19% 41% 26% 13% to about 1.8 billion liters of water, roughly the consumption of approximately Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan 21,400 households. We achieved approximately Our Izmir plant marked a big success in water 3.3% reduction in water efficiency by achieving an annual average water consumption from 2012 to 2014 in usage ratio of 1.18 L/L for 2014, one of the 1.18 L/L the four countries of operation. top performances globally within TCCC system. Sustainable Packaging and Waste In 2014, we reduced the glass weight of 200-ml returnable We use 30 % plant resin in plantbottle in Turkey. glass bottles (RGB) in our Turkey operations by 21% and achieved savings of 1,170 tons of glass at our supplier. As a result of our “Lightweight” project Our total waste recycling rates at plants were implemented in 2014, we saved 3,827 tons of resin: 1,471 tons 97% 90% 92% 94% in Turkey, 1,875 tons in Kazakhstan, and 481 tons in Azerbaijan. Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Unless otherwise stated, the figures provided are related to the four countries of operation: Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. 7 CCI’s Sustainability Achievements company in Turkey to respond to Operation Grand Prize, the Best The First Half of 2015 the CDP Water Questionnaire. Performing Plant for Quality and • Turkey’s Elazığ plant achieves the the Best Performing Plant for the • CCI Turkey operation receives three LEED v2009 Gold Certificate in the Environment. awards, including the Grand Prize of “Best Country Bottling Operation” “existing building” category. • CCI announces its new Code of at the 2015 Coca-Cola Eurasia • CCI’s Corporate Governance Rating Ethics, Workplace Rights Policy and and Africa Sustainability Awards. score as measured by SAHA CCI Ethics Service. In addition, CCI’s Azerbaijan and increased to 9.25 from 8.8. • CCI Turkey receives ISO 14064-1 Kazakhstan operations were • CCI is awarded the Grand Prize certificate for its greenhouse gas among the 10 finalists nominated in the ÇEVKO Green Dot Industry emissions. for this prize. CCI Turkey also Awards, which recognizes • CCI becomes the first and only received the “Excellence Award” in companies with environmentally company in Turkey and within the individual “Well-being” category sustainable practices. TCCC system to be included in the and the “Best Performing Plant” UN Global Compact 100 Index. • Turkey’s Ankara plant is awarded award in the environment category “Best Performing Plant for Quality” • CCI is named one of Turkey’s carbon for its Izmir plant. and CCI’s Izmir plant is awarded disclosure and performance leaders • CCI becomes a signatory to the UN “Best Performing Plant for the by CDP in its “Turkey 100 Climate Women’s Empowerment Principles. Environment” in the 2014 TCCC Change Report 2013.” • CCI submits second CDP Water Eurasia & Africa Group (EAG) • CCI Turkey is awarded a “Gender Report as part of CDP Water President’s Sustainability Awards. Equality Certification” by KAGIDER. Program in Turkey. • Turkey’s Bursa and Sapanca • CCI’s fifth Sustainability Report is plants received National Quality published in accordance with the 2014 Excellence Awards. GRI’s A+ application level. • CCI’s sixth Sustainability Report is published in accordance with the 2013 2012 GRI G4 “core” option. • All plants in all operating countries • CCI recognized as one of Turkey’s • The Izmir plant receives an award in complete the Top 10 Energy-Saving top two carbon performance the “water management” category Challenge Program. leaders of 2012 by CDP. from the Green Business Platform. • CCI receives the Ethics Award • The Izmir and Mersin plants • CCI receives the second-highest from the Ethical Values Center complete the Top 10 Energy-Saving score and wins second place in the Association. Challenge of TCCC and WWF (the “transparency” category at the CDP • CCI wins three prizes at the 2013 World Wildlife Fund). Turkey Climate Leadership Awards. TCCC EAG President’s Sustainability • CCI is named among the • CCI becomes the first and only Awards: the Best Country Bottling companies with the best 8 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 sustainable development practices, • CCI signs the “2°C Communiqué” CCI’s Sustainability Achievements representing Turkey in the Rio+20 against climate change. 2006 Innovation Competition. • The Ankara plant receives the first • The Ankara plant takes EFQM’s 2010 ISO 22000 Food Safety Quality (the European Foundation for Management System certification. • 2020 Vision and Strategic Quality Management) “Taking Framework is defined. Responsibility for a Sustainable 2004 • The Izmir plant wins the TCCC Future” prize. EAG President’s Environmental • The Izmir plant receives the first • The fourth Corporate Social Award. HACCP TS 13001 Food Safety Quality Responsibility (CSR) report receives • CCI wins TCCC EAG Environment Management System certification. a GRI Check as an A+ level report. Award for Best Country Bottling • Turkey, Azerbaijan and Jordan Operations. 2003 operations are among the • CCI publishes second CSR finalists in TCCC EAG President’s • The Ankara plant wins TCCC report, which includes Jordan Sustainability Awards. CCI Eurasia Africa Group Presidency and Kazakhstan operations and Turkey wins Best Country Bottling Quality Award. becomes Turkey’s first GRI B-level Operation Grand Prize. The Ankara • The Ankara plant receives the first report. plant is recognized as the Best OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health Performing Plant for Quality and the and Safety Management System Izmir plant as the Best Performing 2009 certification. Plant for the Environment. • CCI places first in Turkey for its Accountability Rating. 2002 2011 • CCI signs the United Nations Global • CCI’s first environment policy is put • Jordan wins the Occupational Compact. in place. Health and Safety Management • CCI receives its first ISO 14001 Award. 2008 Environmental Management • The third CSR report is published System certification. • The Corporate Governance and includes operations in Committee is established. Turkey, Kazakhstan, Jordan and 1997 • The first CSR report is published, Azerbaijan. becoming the first GRI-checked CSR • The Mersin plant obtains the first • CCI becomes a charter member report in Turkey. ISO 9001 Quality Certificate and of the Climate Change Leaders Certificate of Compliance with The Group. 2007 Coca-Cola Quality System. • CCI becomes Turkey’s first food & beverage company to participate in • CCI implements Lean Six Sigma projects. 1994 the Carbon Disclosure Project, and one of the country’s five carbon • CCI places fifth in Turkey for its • CCI signs up to TCCC water usage disclosure leaders. Accountability Rating. savings commitment. 9 INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY CCI 2020 Vision & Strategic Framework Vision: To be the outstanding beverage company by leading the market, inspiring people and adding value through excellence. Mission: To build a sustainable and profitable business by refreshing consumers, partnering with customers, delivering superior value to shareholders and being trusted. Values: Passion: We put our heart and mind into Building Blocks of our Culture: what we do. We trust in each other Teamwork: We collaborate for our collective We focus on customer success. We act like owners Accountability: We act with a high sense We inspire innovation of responsibility and hold ourselves We collaborate for success accountable. We are agile Integrity: We are open, honest and ethical, We are inclusive and we trust and respect each other. We have fun and enjoy CCI Target Fields Our Goals People and Build a highly capable organization and be the employer of choice. Organizational Leadership Commercial Leadership Profitably deliver superior value to consumers and customers at the optimal cost to serve. Supply Chain Be the best-in-class consumer demand fulfillment organization that exceeds customer expectations, highest in quality and lowest in cost, in a sustainable, socially-responsible manner. Operational Create a culture of Operational Excellence to support continuous improvement of our Excellence business process and systems. Sustainability Ensure the long-term viability of our business by being proactive and innovative in protecting the environment and be recognized as one of the most responsible corporate citizens by all stakeholders. Our key strategies: 1. Embed sustainability in our culture to achieve our commitments. Environment: Minimize our environmental footprint by reducing our energy, water and material use, GHG emissions and packaging waste. Marketplace: Consistently provide the highest-quality and food-safety-compliant beverages. Workplace: Ensure a safe place to work, respect human rights and be fully compliant with workplace rights. Community: Make a difference in our local communities by encouraging employee volunteerism and by corporate involvement. 2. Develop in all employees and business partners a desire to become proud ambassadors of our products and company. 10 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability Management field operations. The strategic orientation and objectives INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY that emerge from upper-level management processes As an integral part of CCI’s operational framework, are conveyed to functional management in order to be sustainability is managed together with our core transformed into field applications. The Corporate Affairs business strategy, thereby effectively deploying the function is responsible for the disclosure, reporting and sustainability concept throughout every layer and level of communication of sustainability targets and performance the organization. results. The CCI Board of Directors’ Corporate Governance The committee is supported by the “Climate Protection Committee has the ultimate responsibility in & Energy Management and “Environment & Water determining and implementing the sustainability Management” Working Groups. These working groups strategy. This responsibility is undertaken by the CCI are composed of plant energy coordinators, and the Executive Committee, headed by the CEO, and by the Logistics, Cooling Equipment, Procurement, Engineering, CCI Sustainability Steering Committee, which will be Corporate Affairs, Administration and TCCC Technical operational in 2015. The CCI Executive Committee is & Public Affairs functions managers. These working comprised of senior management, and the Sustainability groups meet at least quarterly, develop the sustainability Steering Committee is composed of the Finance, roadmap, calculate annual and short-term environment Corporate Affairs, Legal, Human Resources and Supply and climate protection goals, identify and implement Chain Directors. improvement measures to achieve environmental goals, The main responsibilities of the Sustainability Steering support sustainability verification and reporting projects, Committee are: including the Sustainability Report and CDP, and conduct • To set the long-term sustainability vision, strategy, plan Climate Change & Water Risk Assessments. and goals, and to submit these for the CEO’s approval; Moreover, our employees are key enablers in allowing • To make decisions on capital expenditures regarding CCI to integrate sustainability into its business practices. sustainability; Our technical operators, in particular, play a significant • To review quarterly progress and performance on key role in achieving “supply chain” and “operational performance indicators (KPIs); and excellence” targets through the improvements they • To give the final approval on sustainability disclosures. make in production processes by maintaining maximum levels of operational efficiency, maintenance and quality The function heads of CCI at both the Group and Country while maintaining minimum levels of waste, energy and level integrate the sustainability targets set by the resource consumption, and environmental impact. We committee into their respective functional objectives. All work hard to embed a sustainability culture throughout CCI function heads play a critical role in making sure CCI operations by recognizing our employees through that sustainability priorities and targets are connected to awards programs such as CCIdea. CCI Executive Committee Corporate Governance Committee CCI Sustainability Steering Committee Operational Sustainability Group Environment & Water Climate Protection & Energy Management Working Group (TR) Management Working Group (TR) 11 CCI’s Roadmap for Sustainability Reporting We have employed an external review committee to review CCI's Sustainability Reports, and aim to extend our reporting scope in terms of geographical operations, starting with our 2014 report. 2010 Materiality analysis to determine key sustainability pillars 2011-2012 Update of the materiality analysis 2013 Stakeholder panel to review CCI 2011 CSR Report 2013 Stakeholder mapping workshop 2014 Materiality analysis in line with GRI G4 2014 Review of sustainability report by an External Report Review Committee 2014-2015 Extend reporting scope in terms of country operations Sustainability Approach Sustainability is one of the five main pillars of our 2020 Vision and Strategic Framework. Our overall sustainability goal is to ensure the long-term viability of our business by being proactive and innovative in environmental protection and to be recognized as one of the most responsible corporate citizens by all stakeholders. In line with this approach, our sustainability strategy focuses on issues that are material for our stakeholders as well as for our company. CCI’s Sustainability Framework and Core Sustainability Areas ME WE WORLD Enhancing personal well-being Building stronger communities Protecting the environment Energy Management and Product Safety and Quality: Workplace: Climate Protection: We aim to maintain high safety and quality We aim to provide a happy, safe and We strive to reduce our energy consumption requirements with our products. motivating workplace where our employees and GHG emissions, and to contribute to global can fulfill their true potential. efforts to combat climate change. Consumer Well-Being: Community: Water Management: We are committed to offering lowor noWe strive to build stronger communities We strive to protect watersheds, reduce risks to calorie beverage options in our markets, wherever we operate and build local water supplies and move towards balancing providing transparent nutrition information partnerships focusing on social needs, such our water use through reducing, recycling and and marketing responsibly. as women empowerment, youth development replenishing. and environmental protection. Sustainable Packaging and Active, Healthy Living: Waste: We are committed to helping people get We aim to minimize the environmental impact moving by supporting physical activity of packaging and to achieve our ultimate goal programs. of “zero waste to landfill.” 12 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 Our sustainability framework – what we call “me, functions with our senior managers. These managers INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY we, world” – is our shared vision with TCCC for how shared not only their own opinions on what is important we can work together to create social value, enable for CCI but also the expectations of stakeholders, with positive change for the consumers and communities we whom they are in constant communication. For the serve, and help preserve our environment. While this purpose of reviewing the contents of this report and framework was developed by TCCC, CCI has adapted revising material issues, we received feedback from an it to suit our needs. Under this framework, we have external report review committee. identified eight material areas that we manage closely, which are listed in the table above. The contents of our sustainability report reflect our commitments and External Review progress in these areas. “The emphasis of the operating companies in CCI on embedding sustainability into their long term Defining Report Content G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, strategy was a rewarding experience for me as the G4-21, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 former chairman of the Global Reporting Initiative While defining report content, we consider issues that and chairman of the International Integrated are material to our sector, company and stakeholders. Reporting Council. We identify issues based on the GRI G4 aspect list, I have read the recent sustainability report which stakeholder engagement activities, desktop research on covers all issues material to the business of CCI broad-based societal expectations, and benchmarks and is set out in clear, concise and understandable with other food and beverage companies. Within the language. It is also encouraging to read the clear context of sustainability reporting, our key stakeholders, statement of strategy, performance, the targets in order of importance, are: investors, non-governmental which were set and the level of achievement of organizations (NGOs), opinion leaders, shareholders, those targets. financial institutions, our employees and TCCC System. CCI can be proud of the role it is playing in When developing the contents of our report, we use GRI’s integrating into its strategy, the resources essential four Principles for Defining Report Content: sustainability to its business and the relationships with its context, materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness and stakeholders. This integrated thinking will lead to the completeness. creation of value in the long term in a sustainable We conducted our first comprehensive materiality manner. analysis in 2010 using TCCC’s global sustainability I wish CCI good fortune in its financial year ahead.” framework as a guide. Since then, each year we review and revise our material issues regarding their relevance Mervyn King and importance for our stakeholders as well as their Chairman – International Integrated Reporting impact for our business. At the beginning of 2014, we Council (IIRC) conducted a materiality analysis of various business External Report Review Committee Finance, Governance & Sustainability, Founding With the aim of improving our sustainability Director management and disclosure performance, we • İbrahim Betil, Founder of Sen-de-Gel Association established an external report review committee in 2015. • Ozan Çakmak, International Labour Organization, The Review Committee is comprised of four members Turkey Office, Policy and Partnerships Officer who contributed valuable commentary to the draft version of our 2014 Sustainability Report. Many of those comments were suitable for inclusion in the final version of this 2014 Report, while others require either additional actions or additional disclosure. We will be reporting our progress on these additional comments in our 2015 Sustainability Report. Review Committee members: • Asst. Prof. Tamer Atabarut, Boğaziçi University, Director of Lifelong Learning Center & Deputy Director of Sustainable Development and Cleaner Production Center • Prof. Güler Aras, Yıldız Technical Univ. Center for 13 Main Comments of the External Report Review Committee Content and boundary of the Report: CCI’s 2014 • Comparison of previous years’ performance results Sustainability Report clearly expresses both the with targets commitments and the efforts of CCI to improve its RECOMMENDED ACTION: The Committee is of the sustainability performance. The Company has taken opinion that CCI could provide more disclosure about into account all relevant stakeholder groups to provide its challenges and areas for improvement. extensive information on its annual sustainability practices. PROGRESS: We have attempted to implement this recommendation in this Report. Meeting the general expectations and needs of CCI's stakeholders, this Report includes: Ease of reading: Message from the CEO, “CCI At a Glance,” and “Performance Highlights” provide a • Commitment of top management on sustainability good summary for readers. Overall, the wording in issues the Report is clear, however not all readers may be • Focus on material social, environmental, and familiar with all of the detail and technical text. economic issues RECOMMENDED ACTION: Simplifying long sentences • Consultation with stakeholders on the content of the and using fewer photos may help readers to digest the Report content more easily. • Sustainability governance and approach to PROGRESS: We have attempted to implement this sustainability recommendation in this Report. RECOMMENDED ACTION: While the Committee is well Quantitative information: The Report provides a wide aware of the challenges of collecting reliable data range of qualitative and quantitative information. in the geographic regions where CCI operates, it RECOMMENDED ACTION: Sharing quantitative recommends extending the boundary of the Report by results of the programs implemented on community including all of CCI’s active operations in future. investment and active, healthy living as well as PROGRESS: In this year’s Report, we added selected disclosing references related to the socio-economic data for Pakistan. We are seeking to extend the effects of the projects is strongly recommended. boundary and scope of the reporting. PROGRESS: This action has been partially implemented RECOMMENDED ACTION: It is recommended that in this Report. In next year’s report we will improve our we increase the level of transparency regarding the disclosure performance. perceived impact of Coca-Cola product’s on individual health and also on the Company’s success in Women Empowerment: Since CCI is recognized as a managing the environmental impacts of raw material leader in sustainability, the Company is also expected suppliers. to take a leading role on women’s empowerment. PROGRESS: To increase the level of transparency on RECOMMENDED ACTION: It is recommended that those subjects, we will work in partnership with TCCC, we review our 2020 goals related to women’s the owner of the brand and the supplier of our main empowerment and that we set more ambitious goals. ingredients. PROGRESS: We will try to implement this recommendation in the next reporting cycle. Reliability & Transparency: The Report contains elements which contribute positively to the reliability Workplace Rights Policy (WRP): CCI has a very and transparency of the Report. These include: comprehensive WRP covering many essential topics. • Disclosing performance indicators against This year’s Report includes more detailed disclosure benchmark data and comparing our current years than last year’s Report. results with commitments and results of previous RECOMMENDED ACTION: To keep its leading role, CCI years. should set more ambitious goals and further improve • Reference to TCCC’s own standards as well as its practices such as extension of paid parental leave, international standards for comparison purposes birthday bonus, provision of pre-school support, etc. • External assurance and verification of selected PROGRESS: We will take up this suggestion in our information and a detailed “Report Guidance” Board of Directors’ Compensation and Benefits section Committee. 14 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 Stakeholder Reputation Survey Material Issues (G4-19, G4-20, G4-21) INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY At the end of 2013 and the beginning of 2014, we The results of the materiality analyses, external conducted for the first time an extensive stakeholder stakeholder panel, corporate reputation survey, and survey of our corporate reputation and perception. The external report review committee opinions, as well as survey canvassed the opinions of more than 2,600 feedback we received in 2014 via various stakeholder people, including our employees, national and local dialogue platforms led to the material issues illustrated opinion leaders, members of local communities and below. neighboring facilities and residents of Turkey. Those issues listed in the top right corner of the The survey sought to measure the perception of CCI's matrix are material issues that are relevant to most stakeholders regarding CCI’s performance on reducing of our stakeholders and important to the success of environmental impact, social investment, workplace our company. These issues have a relatively high conditions, financial stability, product and service quality, environmental, social or economic impact, and are management quality, and similar areas. We also asked therefore included in our priority list for managing and opinion leaders to indicate sustainability topics that they improving our performance. This report focuses on these consider to be material to CCI. Some of the issues that material issues. were raised as important by more than one stakeholder Issues that are important to some of our stakeholders, group included water use, energy efficiency, product or issues that we believe have less impact on our safety, and health and safety. GHG emission is a business, are listed in the middle of the materiality material issue for CCI and investors but according to the matrix. We actively monitor and manage these issues stakeholder survey results, this issue is not as important and communicate our actions and performance through as other significant topics. different media, including our sustainability reports. CCI Pakistan also planned to conduct a stakeholder The bottom left corner of the materiality matrix includes reputation survey in 2015. The results of the survey will be the list of issues that we have assessed but do not find shared in next report. material enough to report our performance on in this report. Although these issues are less material to our stakeholders, we still monitor and/or manage them. High • Product Quality and Labeling • Consumer Health and Safety and Well-Being • Occupational Health and Safety Influence on Stakeholder Assessment and Decision • Energy Efficiency and Carbon Reduction • Packaging and Waste • Wastewater • Water Use • Corporate Governance • Compliance • Anti-competitive Behavior • Business Ethics • Economic Performance • Supplier and Distributor Assessment • (Raw) Materials Sourcing • Indirect Economic Impact • Transport • Diversity and Equal Opportunity • Human Rights Assessment • Community Engagement • Labor Conditions • Emissions to Air • Child Labor and Forced Labor • Biodiversity • Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining • Customer Privacy • Grievance Mechanism • Indigenous Rights • Training and Education • Security Practices • Investment and Procurement Practices • Equal Remuneration for Women and Men • Financial Assistance Received from Governments Low 0 4.0 4.6 Low Significance of Environmental, Social and Economic Impact High Note: The issues that are highlighted in red are also material for our supply chain (e.g. our suppliers, distributors, customers, consumers and TCCC). Note: The issues given in the quadrants above are not listed in terms of importance. 15 Aspect Boundaries G4-20, G4-21, G4-23 During the materiality analysis we conducted with the senior managers, we assessed the issues not only for our own operations, but also for the operations of other stakeholders in the supply chain, namely suppliers, distributors and customers. While conducting this assessment, we took into account our influence on the issue. For example, energy efficiency and carbon emissions reduction are important issues both for our own operations and for our customers. We help our customers reduce their energy consumption by offering them energy-efficient coolers. Another area where we have direct influence is in the health and safety performance of our contractors. We actively manage and closely monitor both of these issues. Stakeholder Mapping In 2013 a comprehensive stakeholder-mapping workshop There are other issues where we do not have direct was held with the participation of representatives from all influence, such as those managed by TCCC. For CCI Turkey business units, headquarters, Turkish plants example, child labor and biodiversity issues with regard and the commercial team to identify key stakeholders to our suppliers’ agricultural operations are managed and devise engagement plans. AccountAbility’s AA1000 by TCCC through Supplier Guiding Principles (SGP) SES Standard and the EFQM Business Excellence audits conducted by third parties. Detailed information Model were utilized in mapping and prioritizing our is available on pages 25 and 26. In the matrix on the stakeholders. The engagement methods and frequency previous page, the issues that are also material for our of engagement with our key stakeholders were mapped supply chain and where we have influence are indicated during the workshop. in red. Information on our efforts and performance on these issues are available in this report. In 2014, as a part of the materiality analysis, we conducted a stakeholder prioritization analysis with Stakeholder Engagement G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, our senior managers of various business functions. G4-27 Through these stakeholder mapping and prioritizing At CCI we find it important to be in an ongoing dialogue exercises, within the context of sustainability reporting, with our stakeholders. We strive to develop longwe identified our key stakeholders as: investors, NGOs, term relationships, and to create platforms for open opinion leaders, shareholders, financial institutions, our and honest dialogue. We conduct our stakeholder employees and the TCCC System. For business continuity, engagement efforts within the framework of international we also engage regularly and intensively with other principles and standards such as the AA1000 stakeholders, including our distributors, customers and Accountability Principles. suppliers. Borsa Istanbul (BIST) Sustainability Index and Transparency Practices in Corporate Reporting Assessment CCI’s disclosure performance was assessed for the first CCI’s Sustainability Index Working Committee completed time in 2015 as part of the assessment to be included their study in the context of the 2015 BIST Sustainability in the BIST 50 Sustainability Index and as well as within Index Assessment and disclosed further information on the scope of “Transparency in Corporate Reporting CCI’s corporate website in June 2015. The BIST Sustainability among BIST 100 Companies” study. CCI’s practices Index launched by Borsa Istanbul in 2014 aims to provide and reporting performance in corporate governance, a benchmark for Borsa Istanbul companies which perform environmental management, climate change mitigation, well on corporate sustainability measures and to increase biodiversity, human rights, health and safety, antithe awareness, knowledge, and practice of sustainability corruption, supply chain standards, and labor practices in Turkey. The Index offers companies the opportunity to were assessed and reported by third party organizations, compare their sustainability performance on both local EIRIS and Transparency International. These assessments and global levels, thereby allowing them to further develop presented both challenges and opportunities for us to their risk management abilities for corporate transparency, be more transparent with regard to CCI’s environmental accountability and sustainability. This, in turn, allows management and reporting, human rights, ethics and companies to gain a competitive edge. Inclusion in the anti-corruption mechanisms, which is essential for creating Index will also increase the visibility and enhance the long-term stakeholder value. reputation of participating companies. 16 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 How do we respond to stakeholders’ questions and concerns? G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY Stakeholders Engagement Platforms Frequency of Examples of issues that were brought engagement up by stakeholders in 2014 Investors Annual report, investor conferences, Regular and CCI’s financial, operational and sustainability and financial analyst meetings, investor presentation, often performance; future investment plans. institutions webcast, e-mail distributions, special case Example: We responded to the CDP Water announcements, Public Disclosure Platform, Questionnaire for the first time in 2014. We direct feedback forms through CCI’s corporate were also invited to respond CDP Turkey website, sustainability report, CDP Climate Water Program in 2015. Change Report, CDP Water Report, BIST Example: We were requested to respond to Sustainability Index Questionnaire the BIST Sustainability Index Questionnaire in 2015. NGOs Project partnerships, corporate and employee Regular CCI’s operational, environmental, quality memberships, participation in conferences and and community-related performance; presentations, Reputation Survey, Stakeholder transparency and reporting. Engagement Panel Example: CCI Pakistan operations and WWF-Pakistan signed a memorandum of understanding under which both organizations will jointly work to improve access to safe drinking water. Example: CCI became a signatory to the Women’s Empowerment Principles established by the United Nations Global Compact and UN Women. Example: CCI Jordan operation and Jordanian Food Bank extended their partnership and launched a new winter campaign to provide clothing and shelter for families in need and refugees in Jordan. Opinion leaders Reputation Survey, sustainability report, External Regular CCI’s operational, environmental, quality Stakeholder Review Committee, Stakeholder and community-related performance. Engagement Panel Example: Please see previous page. Shareholders General Assemblies, website, Public Disclosure Regular Financial and operational performance Platform and reporting. Employees Employee Engagement and Satisfaction Survey, Regular Business results, environmental Newsline, Newsletter, CokePort, Vision 2020 performance, community projects, awards (CCI Turkey Magazine), press releases, CCI and recognitions, compensation and training programs, leadership development benefit topics. trainings, Reputation Surveys, CCI Community Example: We launched CCIdea, a new Champions Awards, CCIdea platform where all our employees have the opportunity to share their ideas. TCCC System Regular meetings, TCCC’s Sustainability, Public Regular, very CCI’s and its suppliers’ sustainability Affairs and Communication Summits often performance. Example: TCCC shares its sustainability vision and strategy at Eurasia Sustainability Summit in June each year. Distributors/ Customer Interaction Center, Distributor Periodic Business performance, commercial plans, Sellers Satisfaction Survey, distributor meetings and satisfaction scores. trainings, regular visits, plant visits, distributor Example: We provided capacity-building portal, CCI Call Center trainings to the owners and employees of our distributors. Customers Trainings, support programs, regular visits, Periodic Business performance, commercial plans, plant visits, Coca-Cola Customer Road Show, products, marketing plans. Customer Satisfaction Survey, CCI Call Center, focus group studies 17 Stakeholders Engagement Platforms Frequency of Examples of issues that were brought engagement up by stakeholders in 2014 Suppliers Training programs, improvement audits, plant Regular Quality of the materials and services, visits, supplier days, supplier performance future plans, strategic initiatives, business scores, supplier satisfaction surveys, performance, sustainability, workplace cooperation portal, Green Supplier Awards, rights, innovation in cooling equipment. industrial development and pilot activities Public Information for contribution to sector Annual CCI’s operational, environmental, quality Institutions and development, compliance with laws and reputation and community-related performance; Organizations regulations, support for infrastructure survey, regular compliance with regulations. investments, Reputation Survey, Environment meetings Days, Presentations, expertise sharing in public conferences Consumers Coca-Cola “Open to Curiosity” Platform, CocaRegular Product quality, consumer satisfaction, Cola Social Interaction Center, informative lowand no-calorie product alternatives, publications, plant visits, product labels nutritional labeling, product ingredients. Union Union representation, collective labor Regular Human and workplace rights. agreements, representative meetings, plant visits Sector Groups Corporate memberships, joint projects, Regular Industry-wide issues, regulations, legal meetings compliance, speaking engagements at conferences, benchmark visits to plants. Local community Stakeholder Survey, voluntary practices, Annual CCI’s operational, environmental, quality donations, plant visits, field studies, needs and community-related performance; analyses for community investment projects, sponsorship and donation requests. economic impact assessments Example: 3.2.1 Move! Program aims to support social and physical development of young people and promote active and healthy lifestyles in our communities. Society Coca-Cola “Open to Curiosity” Platform, Regular Product quality, product ingredients, donations, plant visits, voluntary practices, marketing and promotion campaigns, product labels, advertisement and marketing sport tournaments. activities, social engagement projects, field studies, meetings, survey and eliciting opinions, Sustainability Report Media Periodical information, statements, support Regular Products, marketing and promotion programs, regular visits, plant visits, Reputation campaigns, product ingredients, Survey sustainability performance, community development projects. University Conferences, career days, plant visits, Regular Sustainability performance, career sponsorship, volunteering for community development opportunities. development projects Example: Students from Virginia Tech University conducted a study taking the CCI Izmir plant as a best case. They visited the plant and gained more information about processes. After the visit, we responded their additional questions by e-mail. Example: We sponsored the Global Sustainability Summit of Boğaziçi University. 18 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 Our Corporate Memberships • Equality at Work Platform, established by the Ministry INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY of Family and Social Policies of Turkey within the scope CCI continued in 2014 as a member of the following of the World Economic Forum’s Closing Gender Equality NGOs and business associations: Gap Program. • ÇEVKO (Environmental Protection and Packaging • United Nations Global Compact Waste Recovery and Recycling Trust) • Turkish Climate Platform of the Turkish Climate Change • TÜSİAD (Turkish Industry and Business Association) Leaders Group • YASED (International Investors Association) • The 2°C Challenge Communiqué of the Prince of • MEDER (Beverage Industry Association) Wales’s Corporate Leaders Group • KALDER (Turkish Quality Association) • Women’s Empowerment Principles (March 2015) • DEİK (Foreign Economic Relations Board) • SUDER (Packed Water Manufacturers Association) CDP Water Program • MEYED (Fruit Juice Industry Association) In 2014, CCI prepared and submitted for the first • TEİD (Turkish Ethics and Reputation Society) time its CDP Water Report and responded to • TÜYİD (Investor Relations Association) Turkey’s first CDP Water Program in 2015. These reports, submitted to the CDP Water Program, • TOBB (Union of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges provide information on how CCI identifies, manage of Turkey) and mitigate risks and opportunities related to • TGDF (Federation of Food and Drink Industry water. CCI’s Water Disclosure Report, submitted Associations of Turkey) in September 2014, focuses on water information • Brand Protection Group regarding CCI Turkey operation, and CCI prepared • UN Global Compact Network Turkey a summary report based on Source Vulnerability Assessments and 2013 water performance results at By taking part in business NGOs and sector NGOs, CCI Turkey plants. CDP is an international, non-profit we follow topics related to reputation and regulations. organization providing the only global system for Additionally, as one of the founding members and companies and cities to measure, disclose, manage steering committee members of ÇEVKO, we plan to and share vital environmental information. Some initiate a partnership on environmental awareness in the 573 institutional investors with $60 trillion in assets near future. are signatories to the CDP Water Program. CCI has been reporting to the CDP Climate Change Program Initiatives to which we are Signatories since 2011, and will continue reporting to both CDP • CDP Climate Change Program Programs in the coming years. • CDP Water Program 19 External Recognition also quality, environment and contribution to society. CCI’s Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan operations were also Water Management Award among the 10 finalists nominated for the Grand Prize of CCI Turkey’s Izmir plant was honored at the Sustainable “Best Country Bottling Operation” within the Eurasia and Business Awards of the Green Business Platform in Africa region. 2014, receiving an award in the “Water Management” category for its efficient water management and usage In addition to the Grand Prize, CCI Turkey received project. The plant has reduced its water use ratio by the “Excellence Award” in the individual “Well-being” 25%, from 1.69 liters in 2007 to 1.27 liters in 2013, or category with its 3.2.1 Move! active youth lifestyle by 190,000 m3 of water annually. The Sustainable program, and the “Best Performing Plant” award Business Awards are distributed to leaders who set in the environment category for its İzmir plant. The an example of sustainability and genuinely pursue an “Excellence Award” came in recognition of CCI’s 3.2.1 endeavor to widen the extent of sustainable business Move! active youth lifestyle program, which has been models in the categories of water management, expanding successfully in Turkey since its launch in carbon and energy management, sustainability 2013. Meanwhile, this year the İzmir plant received communication, and more. the “Best Performing Plant” award in the environment category for the fourth time, following on its awards in 2009, 2012 and 2013. Having successfully embedded environmental sustainability principles into all of its operations, CCI’s İzmir plant has firmly established its position among the top-performing plants in environmental practices within the global Coca-Cola system. CDP Climate Change Program CCI received the second-highest score and won second place in the “transparency” category at the CDP Turkey Climate Leadership Awards. CCI also became one of five Turkish companies listed in the CDP Climate Disclosure Leadership Index inaugurated in 2014. CSR Award for Bylgary Dop In 2014, Coca-Cola Almaty Bottlers (CCAB) received a CSR award from the European Business Association of Kazakhstan (EUROBAK) for its Coca-Cola Bylgary Dop project. EUROBAK is a non-commercial organization representing Kazakhstan’s European business community. Once every year, EUROBAK organizes an official awards ceremony where Kazakhstan’s most important social responsibility projects are presented. TCCC Sustainability Awards CCI Turkey operations received three awards, including Green Point Industrial Award the Grand Prize of “Best Country Bottling Operation,” at CCI Turkey received the Green Point Industrial Award the Coca-Cola Eurasia and Africa Sustainability Awards for large-scale businesses, given for the first time in ceremony organized in June 2015. Turkey marked a 2014 by ÇEVKO. The Green Point Industrial Award unique success this year by receiving this prestigious program aims to encourage companies to assume award for the third time, after receiving it in 2009 and more responsibility in the field of sustainability 2012, competing with more than 50 candidates in more in Turkey. The award is yet another important than 80 countries within Eurasia and Africa. The Grand endorsement of CCI’s sustainability strategy, which Prize is given each year to the operation that has the focuses on water and energy management, climate best performance not only in terms of business, but change, and sustainable packaging. 20 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS THE VALUE CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS THE VALUE CHAIN CCI is one of TCCC’s 250 bottling partners worldwide, manufactured by TCCC and sold to bottling operations, and manufactures, packages, merchandises and including CCI. distributes the final branded beverages to its customers, who then sell the products to consumers. We have Meeting the expectations of our stakeholders at every access to close to 700,000 sales points through our level of our business is our top priority. We work in extensive sales and distribution network. More than 370 compliance with TCCC Standards and consider the million consumers enjoy our products in the 10 countries regional characteristics of the geographic areas in which in which we operate. we operate. We expect our business partners, namely our suppliers and distributors, to comply with TCCC We purchase ingredients and packaging material from Standards and engage only with those that display the the “strategic suppliers” selected and authorized by best environmental, social and economic performance. TCCC. Concentrates, beverage bases and syrups are CCI's Value Chain AGRICULTURAL PACKAGING INGREDIENTS ENJOYING BY CONSUMERS MANUFACTURING REFRIGERATION LOGISTICS AND TRANSPORT CUSTOMERS DISTRIBUTORS 21 Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2014 Goals Performance in 2014 Status 2015 Goals Excellence at To continue involving our We implemented Operational O To continue involving our distributors in our Operations distributors in Operational Excellence projects with our new Operational Excellence projects in Excellence projects in distributors. Turkey. Turkey. The training sessions under the Sales To implement the The Sales Force Capability O Force Capability Development Program Sales Force Capability Development Program was will continue. Development Program launched in February with the within the framework of participation of sales executives To receive “Recognition for Excellence the C4E Program, and to from all of our countries of 5-Stars” for Turkey operations, increase the organizational operation. including plants, logistics, planning and capability in our countries purchasing. of operation. To receive external EFQM Two of our plants in Turkey were A assessments at two of assessed externally in line with our plants in Turkey, and the EFQM Excellence Model to apply for the Kalder and received “Kalder Excellence National Quality Award. Award.” Five of our plants in Turkey have received “Recognition for Excellence 5-Stars” from EFQM. Sustainability at To conduct a Supplier This survey will be conducted in O To conduct a Supplier Satisfaction our Suppliers Satisfaction Survey every 2015. Survey in 2015. two years. To attain a success rate of 91% for To attain a success rate of The SGP success rate was 78% for N the SGP audits in Turkey, Jordan, 88% for the SGP audits in these four countries. Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. Capacity To continue conducting In 2014 we conducted a series A In 2015 we plan to provide Building at our training programs for our of specific “Distributor Business Occupational Health and Safety Distributors distributors. Development” trainings aimed at trainings to our distributors. owners, sales representatives and all employees of our distributors. Customer To achieve a customer According to a study conducted A To achieve a customer satisfaction Satisfaction satisfaction performance by a third party, we achieved a performance score that is above the score that is above the customer satisfaction performance average score of our competitors. average score of our score that is above the average competitors. score of our competitors. A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved Our Operations adding value through excellence,” our Turkey operations initiated a comprehensive program in 2012 called We conduct bottling (manufacturing) and distribution “Change for Excellence (C4E).” The program is based on operations at 23 plants in 10 countries. After legal the all-encompassing 2013 EFQM Business Excellence compliance, continuous improvement and excellence in Model, which helps companies achieve and sustain our operations are key priorities for the sustainability of outstanding levels of performance that meet or exceed our company. the expectations of their stakeholders. With the C4E Program, we aim to define clearly the CCI way of doing CCI’s Journey to Excellence business, and also to identify features of our corporate To reach our 2020 Vision “to be the outstanding beverage culture, taking into account the expectations and needs of company by leading the market, inspiring people and our stakeholders. 22 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 Operational Excellence (OE) participation of more than 300 employees. Approximately SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS THE VALUE CHAIN 50% of the 100 OE projects realized were developed One of our target fields in CCI’s 2020 Vision is at our production plants. As a result of the OE projects “operational excellence,” where we defined our target as completed in Turkey in 2014, we implemented measures “to create a culture of Operational Excellence to support that will save us $6.2 million per year. continuous improvement of our business processes and systems.” Operational Excellence (OE) is also the name The 81 OE Projects that were implemented in Jordan, of the model that we have integrated into our systems Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan and Pakistan in 2014 resulted in and apply to all of our functions, called the OE Model. annual savings of $1.7 million. The focus of the OE Model is to maximize quality and efficiency while minimizing failure and waste. Since introducing our OE Model, we have implemented a total of 838 projects in Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Our OE Model was developed using Lean Six Sigma Azerbaijan and Pakistan, and we have received 556 methodologies. We have been training our employees in certifications. the OE Model since 2008. Thanks to our OE Projects, we managed In 2014, 38 Green Belt and 61 Yellow Belt Certifications to identify and implement improvements were achieved for joining the ranks of continuous improvement in Turkey. Moreover, 119 out of 135 OE worth approximately $7.9 million in the five Projects were successfully implemented with the operating countries in 2014. Achievements in Turkey 2008 2014 Actual 2014 Actual 2020 Projected (Cumulative since 2008) (Cumulative since 2008) 6 Projects 135 Projects 518 Projects 1,200 Projects 42 Certifications 99 Certifications 418 Certifications 1,320 Certifications $1.2 million per year in savings $6.2 million per year in savings $45.5 million* savings $110 million* savings *Calculated on a yearly basis. CCIdea Supply Chain Capability Development “Harnessing creativity and Innovation” is one of the Program fundamental concepts in the EFQM Model. To full fill CCI’s Supply Chain Capability Development Program this need with a more systematic approach, in June is designed to enhance the capabilities of our Supply 2014 we launched CCIdea, a new platform where all of Chain employees, enable planned succession with our employees could share their ideas. At the outset, regard to critical positions, and develop future Supply around 130 experts (key users and evaluators) were Chain leaders. This project was initiated in late 2012 identified based on their expertise in the subject areas with an overall budget of more than $2 million and and were then trained in the evaluation method. In will continue until 2016. It is a comprehensive on-the2014, employees from all countries of operation sent job training program of technical and managerial a total of 685 ideas, 388 of which came from Turkey. training modules as well as post-training project After selection of feasible ideas, key users support the assignments. The duration of the program is 12 weeks idea-owners in developing a project proposal. In total, for production engineers, four weeks for quality 102 project proposals have so far been developed engineers, and one week for warehouse employees. based on these ideas. After conducting further Ten participants are targeted from each plant in order feasibility studies, we will implement the projects that to create a common working culture and to foster are most feasible in terms of resource use and financial networking opportunities among all CCI Plants. Each return. trainee is given the goal of initiating 30 replication projects in his or her operation. So far, 2,851 projects CCIdea also has a capability to develop special have been implemented. At the end of each training campaigns. As an example, we organized the “Supply program, an assessment of all trainings, trainers Chain of the Future” campaign to promote the launch and trainee performance is made and shared with of the CCIdea platform in Turkey. Within this campaign, the HR Department. (Note: within the context of this 255 ideas were submitted and three projects were program, “Supply Chain” refers to CCI’s all operational selected for further implementation. All idea-owners processes including production, logistics and were given awards, and the idea-owners of the top distribution, warehouse, procurement, quality and three projects received cash awards. planning functions.) 23 Continuous Improvement and Excellence at We owe this success partly to the self-assessment Turkey Plants and external assessment methodologies conducted at the plants according to the EFQM Excellence Model. All of our plants are assessed and audited regularly by The EFQM approach helped us not only to identify our TCCC for their compliance with its operating requirements strengths and improvement areas but also to put action (KORE), their possession of relevant and applicable plans in place. Through self-assessment, we gained a certifications, and their engagement with approved holistic overview of our production operations. The fact excellence programs. The results of these assessments that excellence is engrained in the operations of our are consolidated into a “Maturity Continuum” factories also plays an important part in this success. consisting of five categories: Risk, Compliance, Process, Improvement and Excellence. Each plant in TCCC system is categorized according to the Maturity Continuum During the reporting period, eight CCI plants based on its progress towards these requirements. in Turkey reached the “Excellence” category During the reporting period, eight CCI plants in Turkey in the Maturity Continuum, which represents reached the “Excellence” category in the Maturity Continuum, which represents about 50% of the plants about 50% of the plants in the entire TCCC in the entire TCCC system that reached this category. system that reached this category. CCI Turkey’s Quality Award Journey 2009 2010 2010 2012 2014 2015 Goal Bursa Plant: Ankara Plant: Headquarters Ankara plant: Bursa and Bursa plant: To Recognition for National and Çorlu plant: EFQM prize Sapanca Plants: apply for the EFQM Excellence 4-Star Quality Prize Recognition for KalDer Turkey Excellence Award. Excellence Excellence Sapanca plant: To 5-Star Award apply for the KalDer Ankara plant: İzmir, Çorlu, Turkey Excellence National Quality Mersin, Award and to Award Köyceğiz and receive the Grand Elazığ Plants: Prize. Recognition for To receive Excellence 5-Star Recognition for Excellence 5-Star for Turkey operations, including plants, logistics, planning and purchasing. CCI Plant Certification 2015, we plan to obtain the ISO 50001 certificate for our Burundai Plant in Kazakhstan. As of the end of 2014: • All plants in Azerbaijan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, • In 2014, the Elazığ plant in Turkey was awarded the Pakistan and Turkey hold certificates for the following LEED v2009 Existing Buildings Gold Certificate, and it is Standards: ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and FSSC the first plant in the whole TCCC System to receive this. 22000. • 84% of all CCI plants hold certificates for the following Standards: ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and FSSC 22000. We plan to complete the certification of our plants against all these standards in 2015, except our Turkmenistan and South Iraq plants, where we plan to achieve OHSAS 18001 certification in 2016. • All of our plants that produce preforms hold PAS 223 Packaging certificates. • All of our Turkish plants, sales operations and offices are certified against ISO 50001 Energy Management and ISO 14064-1 Greenhouse Gases Standards. In 24 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 Standards and Policies SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS THE VALUE CHAIN In the Coca-Cola System, the set of operating requirements known as KORE governs food safety and quality, environment, and health and safety performance at our plants. KORE is consistent with the external standards and principles listed in the table below. All of our production processes operate in accordance with the requirements of these standards, and required audits are conducted annually both by third parties and by TCCC internal auditors. Issue Internal Policies Related External Standards and Principles Environmental Management CCI Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Policy ISO 14001 TCCC HSE Policy KORE EOSH Requirements Water Management KORE EOSH (*) Requirements ISO 14001 Energy Management & Carbon KORE EOSH Requirements ISO 14001, ISO 50001, ISO 14064-1, GHG Emissions Protocol Sustainable Packaging & Waste KORE EOSH Requirements ISO 14001, PAS223 Management Quality Management KORE OE ISO 9001, EFQM Business Excellence (Production Process) Model, Lean Six Sigma Product Quality & Safety KORE ISO 9001, ISO 22000, FSSC 22000, GFSI (**) Occupational Health & Safety KORE EOSH Requirements OHSAS 18001 Marketing Responsibly TCCC Responsible Marketing Policy, Global School Beverage Guideline Sustainable Supply Chain Supplier Guiding Principles UNGC, GRI Anti-corruption CCI Ethics Code, Workplace Rights Policy UNGC Community Involvement TCCC’s Policy UNGC Overall Code of Business Conduct, KORE UNGC, GRI * EOSH: Environmental and Occupational Safety and Health ** GFSI: Global Food Safety Initiative Our Suppliers Together with TCCC, we work closely with our suppliers to improve our suppliers’ sustainability performance. We source ingredients, raw materials, equipment and We make use of various tools and methods to embed services from our suppliers. Most of our products are sustainability criteria into our procurement processes. made from concentrates and syrups that are supplied These range from Supplier Guiding Principles (SGP) to by TCCC directly. In addition, we buy ingredients for international standards. our products and packaging material from authorized strategic suppliers of TCCC. These include sugar, juices, carbon dioxide used in making our products, and Supplier Guiding Principles packaging materials such as aluminum, PET plastic, The SGP set out the minimum requirements to which we corrugated cardboard and shrink-wrap. A detailed expect our suppliers to adhere, just as all CCI operations, overview of the types and amounts of materials used is including laws and regulations on labor rights, human provided under the “Performance Indicators” section of rights, health and safety, environment, and business this report. ethics (see below for a list of issues covered). 25 The SGP have been a part of supplier agreements have seasonal production, which results in overtime. since in 2002, applicable to direct suppliers to TCCC, We are working with these suppliers to solve their authorized suppliers of TCCC and direct suppliers to overtime issues and to become SGP compliant again. bottlers. All of our suppliers receive a copy of our SGP In Pakistan, 17 direct suppliers were audited and 82% when we establish a business relationship with them compliance was achieved. For issues that are identified and they are expected to distribute the principles for improvement, an action plan for remediation is sent throughout their workforce. By communicating the SGP to the supplier and follow-up visits are organized. In the to our suppliers and conducting SGP audits, we expect last three years, TCCC has audited all of CCI’s suppliers our suppliers to develop and implement appropriate of ingredients and packaging. The full text of the SGP can internal business processes to ensure compliance with be viewed at this link: the SGP requirements. http://assets.coca-colacompany.com/1b/ d5/9c8554554fd29678c97791e27c83/SGP_ Alongside audits conducted by a team of TCCC’s and Brochure_ENG.pdf CCI’s own trained personnel, TCCC routinely utilizes independent third parties to assess supplier compliance with the SGP. These assessments include confidential Supplier Satisfaction Survey interviews with employees and on-site contract workers. In 2013 we conducted a supplier satisfaction survey If a supplier fails to uphold any aspect of the SGP for the first time, with the goal of improving our requirements, that supplier is expected to implement collaboration by creating a platform where we can corrective actions. TCCC reserves the right to terminate learn their opinions and welcome their suggestions an agreement with any supplier that cannot demonstrate for a better and more effective business relationship. that it is upholding the SGP requirements. In practice this Our suppliers assessed CCI under four categories: means that, as CCI, we also stop purchasing from such tendering and order management, payments, a supplier. approach, and communication. We have been The frequency of audits depends on a number of factors, conducting supplier assessments for many years, including the results of risk assessment, and they may but this was the first time our suppliers had the vary from once a year to every three years. The findings chance to assess us. We achieved an overall score of the audits, including non-conformities, are reported to of 84%, indicating that our suppliers are mainly TCCC’s global audit team and are recorded and tracked satisfied with CCI. For those areas identified as on the global audit system, which can be reviewed by requiring improvement, we have already begun authorized CCI staff. Alongside our audits, we provide taking action. We aim to conduct this survey every support to our suppliers in various ways – for example, two years to measure the strength of collaboration to improve their performance on SGP topics, or to help with our suppliers and to improve our already strong them investigate options for producing HFC-free cooling business relationship with them equipment. Of the 63 direct suppliers in Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan that were audited in 2014 for compliance Supplier Compliance with Standards with SGP, 78% of them passed without any major issues. Just as our plants are required to hold one of the Major findings of 2014 SGP audit were related with certificates recognized by the Global Food Safety Initiative working hours especially night shifts, rest day violation, (GFSI), so also are our strategic suppliers. Therefore health and safety in Turkey and excess over time issues, regarding food safety, all of our authorized strategic fire safety and contract worker issues in Pakistan. In suppliers hold a relevant and current certificate, such 2014, our SGP success rate has decreased compared to as FSSC 22000. Suppliers that hold the FSSC 22000 last year and we could not achieve our goal of 88%. This certificate are also required to have ISO 9001 Quality is due to the fact that some suppliers of glass and sugar Management Systems in place. Our Supplier Guiding Principles outline minimum requirements and address the following key areas: Laws and regulations Freedom of association and collective bargaining Health and safety Child labor Discrimination Environment Forced labor Wages and benefits Demonstration of compliance Abuse of labor Work hours and overtime 26 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS THE VALUE CHAIN Quality, Environmental, and Health and Safety Certificates of our Suppliers: • 100% of our strategic suppliers’ plants hold a relevant and current certificate for the ISO 9000 Quality Management System and FSSC 22000 (or similar). • 75% of our strategic suppliers’ plants have been awarded a certificate for the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System. • 63% of our strategic suppliers’ plants have been awarded a certificate for the OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety Management System. • 13% of our strategic suppliers’ plants have been awarded a certificate for the ISO 50001 Energy Management System. • 4% of our strategic suppliers’ plants have been awarded a certificate for ISO 14064-1 GHG Emissions. Note: This data refers to the 21 plants of our top 10 strategic suppliers, which supply us with packaging materials and ingredients. Working with Local Suppliers At CCI, we make direct and indirect contributions to the local economies where we carry out our operations. Through our local spending, we contribute directly to the economies where we operate. The proportion of spending disbursed to local suppliers (within the same country) for raw materials is provided in the table below. Local Procurement (%) Turkey* Jordan** Kazakhstan*** Azerbaijan*** Pakistan 2014 98 65 12 54 95 2013 96 68 17 48 94 2012 96 20 12 41 * Concentrate is not included. ** In Jordan we switched to local suppliers for sugar, can and preform in 2013, which resulted in an increased percentage. *** There are no approved suppliers in these local markets for some product and service categories. (There are no local suppliers available for some of the product categories with high spend. Selection and approval of the suppliers are done by TCCC). Our Distributors activities, working in tandem with our sales teams. These sustainable and long-term relationships benefit us in Distributors play a critical role in our sales operations. In many ways, including the achievement of 100% market Turkey we work heavily with distributors, while in other sales monitoring. countries of operation where distributor networks are not common, we work with third-party partners. To improve business relations with our distributors, we engage with them on different platforms, such as Distributors are our strategic business partners, and our Customer Interaction Center, Distributor Business we share our know-how and expertise with them. We support them in building at their end the same highDevelopment Projects and Distributor Satisfaction quality systems that we have adopted. Our overall goal Surveys, where we learn about their needs, wishes and is to bring our business partners up to our standards as complaints. we hand over to them our distribution responsibilities. Under the “people” dimension of the Distributor Business As of the end of 2014, we work with 273 distributors in Development Project, we provide a series of capacityTurkey, which conduct around 75% of our distribution building trainings to the owners and employees operations. The responsibilities of our distributors include of our distributors. In 2014 we provided about 640 warehousing, order taking, distribution, invoicing and training sessions on numerous technical and personal collection. Some of our distributors even generate orders development topics, which were attended by a total of and conduct merchandising and account management 9,700 participants. 27 Distributor Satisfaction Survey To evaluate the satisfaction level of our distributors, a third-party service provider, IPSOS, conducts a Distributor Satisfaction Survey, which includes an evaluation of our company image. The results of these surveys for the last four years are provided in the table below, which illustrates an increase in the satisfaction scores. 93% of our suppliers participated in the 2014 Survey. Distributor Satisfaction Survey 2011 2012 2013 2014 Satisfaction Score 76.0 83.8 84.0 84.9 Company Image 81.6 89.2 88.4 87.8 Our Customers Customer Satisfaction Survey In all CCI countries of operation, we have around 700,000 CCI’s Turkey operations has been conducting annual sales points, including supermarkets, restaurants, customer satisfaction surveys since 2005. Other CCI convenience stores, hotels and other retail outlets. operations (excluding Syria, South Iraq and Tajikistan) conducted this study for the first time in 2012 since then, CCI Customer Engagement Studies surveys are conducted once every two years. Increasing the level of satisfaction among our With the help of customer satisfaction surveys, we aim customers is a key factor in achieving our vision. We to determine customer satisfaction levels in all CCI aim to develop strategies that focus on maximizing operations. We also reveal and track to what extent their customer satisfaction. To this end, we apply a holistic expectations have been met, assessing criteria such approach to customer engagement. In countries such as company image, consumer promotion, sales team as Turkey, where we have strong distributor channels, composition, commercial support, order and delivery, we include evaluations of our distributors’ customers in and product portfolio. During the 2014 survey, faceour customer engagement studies. With this approach, to-face interviews were conducted by local research we create the opportunity to broadly assess customers’ agencies – separately for each CCI operation. Reporting levels of satisfaction and learn about their expectations. has been carried out by third party research agency, GfK, The results of these engagement surveys help us identify using the exact same methodology for all countries. improvement areas against which we develop action plans. An independent research company conducts Approximately 2,000 customers from Turkey and 3,700 these surveys by telephone, questionnaires and face-tofrom other CCI operations took part in the 2014 survey. face meetings. As noted in the graph below, four of the eight CCI To engage with our customers, we use the following: countries scored highest while three scored second best • Annual Customer Satisfaction Surveys among the companies assessed in the study. • Quarterly Distributor Customer Satisfaction Surveys • Annual Distributor Satisfaction Surveys • Focus Groups with Customers CCI Best Competitor 100 100 100 99 100 98 100 100 100 98 100 95 95 94 81 61 N.IRAQ KAZAKHSTAN KYRGYSZTAN AZERBAIJAN PAKISTAN TURKMENISTAN TURKEY TURKEY (NARTD) (BEVERAGE) Graph scores indicate the competitive advantage/disadvantage of CCI versus its next best competitor. 28 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2014 Goals Performance in 2014 Status 2015 Goals Risk To monitor action plans Progress on the action plans was A Utilize CCI Portal for communication Management that were prepared as monitored. and develop an awareness program a result of corporate risk for ERM. assessment. Continue to share best practices with To share best practices with Best practices were shared within A other bottlers in October during the other bottlers in September CCI and TCCC at the meeting in Coca-Cola System ERM Exchange. during the Coca-Cola September. System Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Exchange. Information -A CCI policy on information New Create awareness of information security Security security was developed and and give training to our employees, published. starting with the Group Office. Business Ethics To continue giving training In Turkey, we provided four-hour A To give training on the Foreign Corrupt to our employees on the training sessions on the CCI Ethics Practices Act and anti-bribery policy to CCI Ethics Code. Code to 1,050 employees in 13 management teams. locations, including sales points and plants. Business To complete validation by The IMCR Validation Program was P To complete the IMCR validation Continuity the Incident Management completed in Pakistan, Jordan and Program in Turkey. and Crisis Resolution (IMCR) Azerbaijan. in Turkey, Pakistan, Jordan To provide IMCR training to teams in and Azerbaijan. Kazakhstan and Jordan. To provide IMCR training IMCR training was delivered A to country executive to teams in Turkey, Jordan, committee members in Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan. Turkey, Jordan Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan. A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved Corporate Governance are independent, elected by the General Assembly. There are three committees under the CCI’s Board CCI conducts all of its operations within the framework of Directors: Audit, Corporate Governance and Risk of existing regulations and the “Corporate Governance Detection. All members of the Audit Committee, and Principles” as outlined by Turkey’s Capital Markets the chairman of other committees, are independent. Board. In line with these principles, we publish an annual Likewise, the chief executive/general manager does not Corporate Governance Principles Compliance Report have a role in any of the committees. CCI’s Corporate which includes information corresponding to each item Governance Committee oversees the determination and of the Corporate Governance Principles. implementation of the sustainability strategy. CCI has a strong corporate governance structure. For further details on corporate governance at CCI please It is managed and represented by a Board of see the CCI Annual Report and the investor relations Directors comprised of 12 members, four of which page of cci.com.tr. 29 Risk Management In order to mitigate operational risks, we use a system that provides real-time operational results and improves CCI’s management has the primary ownership for the efficiency of the internal control system. the Risk Management and Internal Control System. Enterprise Risk Management (ERM), which directly reports to the Risk Committee, acts as a facilitator and Information Security provides assurance and consultancy services in the risk CCI places utmost importance on information security. In management area. 2014 we developed an official CCI policy on information security and started conducting a number of actions to Upon a resolution of the Board of Directors dated June increase employee awareness on this topic, including 2013, the Risk Committee was established. The mission hanging posters and distributing leaflets. A new intranet of CCI’s Risk Committee is to ensure early determination site on information security for our employees became and mitigation of risks that may endanger the presence, operational in 2014, and we began giving training to our growth or continuity of the Company. employees, starting with the Group Office. Under the ERM framework, CCI’s management identifies important opportunities and threats, and manages these according to the Company’s risk appetite using a Ethics systematic and disciplined approach that is integrated Besides passion and teamwork, the other two values into the Strategic Business Planning process. of our 2020 Vision are integrity and accountability. These values are of vital importance to enhancing our CCI’s ERM team determines risks on both a country and reputation and representing our company and brands a group basis, and it submits these to management for in the most appropriate way. Our brand presents very evaluation. High-priority risks and mitigation action plans important qualities, such as its esteem with respect to are presented to the Early Risk Detection Committee for honesty and reliability. This esteem, in turn, comes from reporting to the Board of Directors. We also give training shared values, and especially from fastidiousness about to our employees on risk management. continuing the Company’s activities in the best way possible. We developed the CCI Code of Ethics to guide our employees to live our values and “do the right thing.” The Code was updated on April 30, 2013 and expanded so as to apply to all of the countries in which CCI operates. An Ethics and Compliance Committee has been formed and the CCI Ethics and Compliance Director and Local Ethics and Compliance Managers have been appointed. In addition, new ethics communication channels, a website and a communication line, managed by an independent third party, were created. CCI’s management assesses business risks in accordance with the pillars defined in the company’s Code of Ethics strategic business plan. Among the risk events that The CCI Code of Ethics, which provides guidance to are evaluated under our “sustainability” pillar are all uphold our corporate values, highlights four main environmental risks including energy, climate change, principles: community relations, water scarcity, waste water, • Act with integrity and honesty. air emissions, and noise. Risks such as packaging, • Safeguard business and financial records and keep water, supplier management, quality, and food safety them accurate, complete and correct. are evaluated under the “supply chain” pillar. Bribery, • Safeguard the interests of CCI and avoid any conflicts corruption, ethics, and all compliance risks are assessed of interest. under the “legal & compliance” pillar, whereas workplace • Deal with everyone we encounter fairly and in & human rights and health & safety risks are defined accordance with the law: and assessed under the “people” pillar. These risks are assessed periodically by the management of each • Take particular care when evaluating a third party country operation, and mitigation plans are monitored by who might interact with a government authority on top management and the Risk Committee. Environmental behalf of the Company. risks such as water, climate change and recycling, legal • No pecuniary or non-pecuniary interest may be compliance, water scarcity, health, safety and security offered to a government official. were among CCI’s priority risks during 2014-2015. • Bribes are prohibited. 30 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 Communication Channels to create and maintain an efficient and integrated CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS Our employees have alternative channels of structure for preventing and managing incidents. communication to express their thoughts and concerns. Through the IMCR Program, we build and maintain a They can directly contact their managers or their Local robust capability to protect our tangible assets: people, Ethics and Compliance Officers. Alternatively, they can products, infrastructure (our offices, plants, supply use the CCI Ethics Service, which is available 24/7 to all chain, distribution channels), information and financial our employees. There are translators providing translation assets. Protection of these tangible assets leads to the services online in Arabic, English, Russian and Turkish. protection of our valuable intangible asset, the image and reputation of our business system. Implementing CCI Ethics Service communication channels are the IMCR Program is a key management activity, but it is 1. E-mail: the employee’s e-mail address and name are everyone’s responsibility at CCI. kept confidential. To ensure that we prevent or reduce the impact 2. CCI Ethics and Compliance websites of incidents on our business, we have incident www.ccietikhat.com (in Turkish) and management teams in each country of operation. Each www.cciethicsline.com (in English, Russian team joins our annual trainings, and collectively they and Arabic): employees can login to the page work on simulations of complex incidents. As a part anonymously and enter their message. of the IMCR Program, each country conducts the IMCR 3. Dedicated phone number. Validation Program, which aims at creating readiness for crisis situations, building awareness, identifying gaps The Corporate Governance Committee has also and developing action plans to make improvements. developed necessary mechanisms for stakeholders to In 2014 the IMCR Validation Program was completed in report any illegal or unethical practices in the company Azerbaijan, Jordan and Pakistan. to the Corporate Governance Committee or the Audit Committee. CCI’s Disaster Recovery Center At CCI, we place utmost importance on business Procedural Rules and Available Sources continuity and disaster recovery. In 2012, file servers and CCI‘s Corporate Governance Committee ensures full terminal servers were transferred to the data center in implementation and enforcement of the Code of Ethics. Istanbul. Additionally, CCI’s Disaster Recovery Center Implementation of the Code is the responsibility of the was restructured in line with international standards Ethics and Compliance Officer and the Local Ethics and in order to take action in case of an emergency and to Compliance Officers. All investigations concerning Code ensure business continuity. In case of an emergency, violations are handled by the Internal Audit Department. the Disaster Recovery Center will ensure that the main All decisions regarding Code violations are made by the systems in Azerbaijan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Pakistan Ethics and Compliance Committee. Certain categories and Turkey are operational within 24 hours. Additionally, of decision-making authority may be delegated to local functions such as e-mailing, instant messaging, video managers in accordance with the Guidelines for Handling conferencing and corporate portal applications are to be Code of Ethics Matters. provided by the Disaster Recovery Center via the internet Our employees received highlights of the Code of Ethics in case of an emergency. on paper, and a detailed “Code of Ethics Handbook” and “Guidelines for Handling Code of Ethics Matters” Case: Ethics and Competition Law Training in were shared electronically. Starting in 2013, we began Kazakhstan training our employees on the renewed Code of Ethics, Upon adaption of the CCI Code of Ethics and the Code of Ethics Handbook and procedural provisions. approval of its Ethics Regulations, CCAB launched CCI management has provided necessary advice on training sessions related to ethics and competition interpretation of the Code of Ethics, and has conducted law. CCAB’s Legal Department, with the support investigations on complaints made by relevant parties from the Human Resource Department’s “Trainer’s since the launch of the revised version of the Code of School” program, developed two types of trainings: Ethics. In 2014, we provided 4,200 man-hours of training staff training and full-day training for supervisors on the CCI Ethics Code in 13 locations, including sales and managers. Participants enjoyed role-playing points and plants in Turkey. and other activities that allowed them to “live” the essence of ethics regulation and competition Business Continuity law, and understand the importance of compliant CCI implements TCCC’s Incident Management and behavior. Crisis Resolution (IMCR) Program, which is designed 31 me Goals and Commitments Product Safety and Quality Consumer Well-being Active, Healthy Living 32 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 me Enhancing Personal Well-being In our sustainability framework, “me” implies providing highquality, safety-compliant beverages while working to inspire happier, healthier lives. Our longstanding commitment to consumers’ well-being begins with ensuring that each and every beverage we deliver is safe. Furthermore, we work to inspire consumers to pursue happier, healthier lives through the wide variety of products we offer, our transparent labeling practices, our responsible marketing practices and the many physical activity programs we support around the world. Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2014 Goals Performance in 2014 Status 2015 Goals Product safety To increase the number of We increased the number of A To apply for TCCC Global Supply Chain and quality projects submitted by our projects submitted by all CCI Award with a minimum of one project plants for TCCC Quality & plants from 17 to 24 for the TCCC for each CCI plant. Food Safety Award. Global Supply Chain Award. To have zero major findings in food safety and quality audits. Consumer To launch the “Open to We launched the “Open to A To continue with the “Open to Curiosity” Well-being Curiosity” (Merak Ettim) Curiosity” (Merak Ettim) Platform (Merak Ettim) platform as a means to Platform. in Turkey. communicate with our customers. To re-launch the plant We re-launched the plant tours in A tours. a number of CCI countries. Active healthy To reach 50,000 young We reached almost 50,000 young A To inspire more than 60,000 young living people in 50 schools in people in 52 schools within the people in 10 cities in Turkey to be more Turkey to inspire them to be Program in physically active, support 80 schools more physically active. Turkey. and reach 100 physical education teachers. To launch We launched A Program in Pakistan and in Pakistan entitled “3.2.1 Bhago!” To train 7,000 youth and inspire in total Iraq. and in Iraq entitled “1.2.3 Entalik!”, more than 60,000 young people in in which 4,900 young people Pakistan and Iraq to be more physically regularly participated. active. To launch the Program in Kazakhstan and reach-out to 18 underprivileged schools. A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved 33 Product Safety and Quality Consumer Well-being Our commitment to well-being begins with our We are engaging with our consumers, the public and commitment to product safety and product quality. We health professionals about the role that our products play implement rigorous product standards designed to within a balanced lifestyle. TCCC’s support of evidenceensure the safety and quality of each of our products. based, scientific research as well as educational and awareness raising programs are important components We make sure that all actors in our value chain, including of our engagement as we work to expand the broader our own plants and our strategic suppliers, comply understanding of our beverages and how they can be with international food safety standards and/or TCCC’s part of an active, healthy lifestyle. Operating Standard (KORE). At our plants we implement various globally accepted standards such as the FSSC Our business commitments to help promote consumer 22000 Food Safety Standards. well-being include offering lowor no-calorie beverage options in every market, providing transparent nutrition Our strategic suppliers, such as suppliers of ingredients information and marketing responsibly. and packaging material, are required to hold a certificate that is recognized by the GFSI. Compliance with product Awareness Raising safety and quality requirements is regularly audited – We strive to provide our consumers with clear, unannounced – by TCCC. In 2014, 11 CCI plants were understandable and scientific information regarding our audited and nine of them passed the audit successfully; products. This approach not only satisfies our obligation in the other two plants corrective actions were taken to comply with local legal requirements, but also to comply with the requirements. In addition, thirdrepresents our commitment to a policy of transparent party external audits on compliance with the FSSC communication about our products. 22000 Standard are conducted, resulting in either recertification or follow-up. We organize seminars, trainings and plant tours to inform our stakeholders. We offer our stakeholders a Since 2011, TCCC has been conducting a competition booklet called “Straight Facts about our Beverages,” a called TCCC Quality & Food Safety Award. In 2014, compilation of frequently-asked questions regarding the scope of the award was expanded to include all calories, vitamin index, caffeine, aspartame, food operations, such as plants, logistics, planning and additives and obesity. A Turkish-language version of the purchasing, and the title was changed to “TCCC Global booklet may be found at: Supply Chain Award”. Some 275 projects were submitted www.cci.com.tr/UserFiles/pdf/mesrubatlarfor the award from global TCCC operations, 24 of hakkinda-merak-ettikleriniz.pdf which were CCI plants. The Bursa plant was awarded third prize for a project aimed at improving product “Open to Curiosity” Platform quality and decreasing the use of resources. (Further As a response to a healthy perception of our products information about the quality processes is provided among stakeholders, we have launched a transparent under the chapter “Sustainability in the Value Chain.” consumer communication campaign in Turkey in order to address concerns at the consumer level. The “Open to Curiosity” (Merak Ettim) Platform was launched in 2014 for continuous consumer interaction. Open Door Policy: Plant Tours We organize tours for those interested in visiting our plants. Consumers may either physically visit our plants or attend virtual tours online to experience the production phases of Coca-Cola products. In 2014, we organized tours for students in Jordan and Azerbaijan, and for media representatives in Turkey. For more information: coca-colafabrikasi.com 34 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 Lowor No-calorie Beverages me CCI puts on the market various products with different calorie contents, including lowor no-calorie beverages. We indicate the amount of energy per serving as kilocalories, calories or kilojoules on the packages. The graphic below contains a sample of CCI-produced beverages available in Turkey, based on their calorie content. Among the products that were sold in Turkey in 2014 (excluding tea, including water), 19% were in the category “without energy” (< 4kcal/100 ml). For a Coca-Cola Ambassador Program breakdown of the products, please see the “Performance “Coca-Cola Ambassador” is a global initiative Indicators” section of this report. designed to ensure that all CCI employees use the same language when talking about our company and its products, and that they are strong ambassadors CCI provides front-of-pack energy of Coca-Cola. This year CCI continued to train its (calorie) information on its beverage employees throughout its operating geography, along products. with the employees of its customers and distributors. As of the end of 2014, the total number of CCI employees who took the Ambassador training since the program was launched in 2011 exceeded 8,000. Responsible Advertising and Marketing Moreover, an additional 5,000 employees from CCI’s In line with our principle of complying with legal customers and distributors have been trained during regulations, we practice only responsible and lawthe same period. abiding advertising and promotional practices across all CCI countries, all advertising media, and all of our beverages. In addition to legal requirements and the Transparent Nutrition Information expectations of our stakeholders, TCCC’s standards and We are committed to providing transparent nutrition policies serve as our fundamental guide in our marketing information about all of our products, so that consumers practices. The Global School Beverage Guidelines, as can make choices that fit their lifestyles. We follow set by TCCC, grounds our approach to responsible nutrition labeling requirements in the countries where marketing. We have chosen to cease conducting sales our products are sold, and in many places we exceed operations for sparkling beverages in all elementary these requirements. At a minimum, our labels provide schools throughout our operating geography. Moreover, basic nutritional information of the beverage, such as honoring the rights of parents and caregivers to make the amount of energy (kilocalories, calories, kilojoules), the appropriate choices for their children, we do not protein, carbohydrates, fats, total sugars and sodium. engage in advertising or marketing activities targeting Our corporate policy exempts bottled water products that children under 12 years old. Details for our responsible are not flavored or sweetened, since water is inherently marketing policy can be found at: free of calories. www.coca-colacompany.com/stories/responsibleAmong the products (excluding tea) that were sold in marketing-policy Turkey in 2014, 2.16% had increased nutritional content. kcal per 100 ml 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.2 0.6 0.9 1.5 2.8 29.0 37.7 41.0 45.0 47.6 56.1 35 Active, Healthy Living Promoting active and healthy lifestyles in our Turkey communities, especially for youth, is one of TCCC’s Launched in three pilot cities in October 2013, the global commitments. It is also one of the main focuses program expanded to seven cities in the 2014/15 of CCI’s community engagement programs. Our vision is academic year, inspiring more than 50,000 young to inspire, empower and engage a generation of youth people to live a more physically active and healthy life. regarding the importance of an active, healthy lifestyle In the 2014/15 academic year, the program was carried that includes a balanced diet and regular physical out in 52 secondary schools and high schools in the activity. We put this vision into practice through a number provinces of Istanbul, Mersin, Bursa, Sakarya/Sapanca, of projects and programs, which are making a great Van, Ordu and Hatay. The projects were developed and difference in the lives of youth. These include 3.2.1 Move! implemented under the leadership of physical education in Turkey, Iraq and Pakistan; Coca-Cola Grassroots teachers, where CCI supported them by providing Football Tournaments in several CCI countries, the Active internal and external physical activity grounds as well as Family Project in Azerbaijan and the Coca-Cola Life Plus sports equipment. Through these projects, young people Foundation’s “Let’s Play” project in Turkey. have started taking active part in various activities, such as athletics, gymnastics, table tennis, basketball, volleyball, dance, step, korfball, bocce, archery, handball and badminton. Turkey: 7 Cities 285 applications 52 schools activated 50,000 young people Iraq: 114 coaches and youth leaders 22 schools trained 2,500 young people Pakistan: 153 coaches and youth leaders 24 schools trained 2,400 young people We developed and launched the Program in partnership with Mercy Corps in 2013 with the vision to support the social and physical development of young people, raise their awareness on active and In 2014, the Physical Activity Festival was organized at healthy living, and help them develop a lifelong habit of Mersin University with the participation of close to 1000 physical activity. Both regular (trained) and non-regular young people from 22 participating schools. For an entire (activated) participants attend the Program. In 2014 day, participants had the opportunity to come together we touched the lives of about 50,000 young people in with their peers and take part in activities at 12 different Turkey, Pakistan and Iraq through game stations. They did friendly matches and dance We will continue to expand the program in 2015 to reach performances that illustrate the project activities they thousands more. had done within the past year. Using the festival motto “movement is happiness,” the participants underlined the importance of doing at least 60 minutes of physical activity every day. Academic field research was conducted in order to measure the effects of the projects implemented in the participant schools on the physical and social development of young people. The results indicated that 92% of youngsters regularly participate in the project activities and 80% of the participants become more active as a result of the program. The research revealed that 98% of the participants had improved their physical and social development through the program. 36 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 Pakistan and Iraq sports and physical activity as an important way to learn me The pilot phase of the program in Iraq (1.2.3 Entalik!) and connect with their peers. Some 90% of parents are and Pakistan (3.2.1 Bhago!) was carried out in selected reporting that their children are more active now than secondary schools and high schools in Lahore, Pakistan before the program and, even more incredibly, have and Baghdad, Iraq during the 2014/15 academic year. reported that their children are demonstrating better Through the program, about 4,900 young people were health and better study habits. trained on critical life skills through games and inclusive sports activities. Overall, the program has reached in total over 20,000 youth through school-wide and community events, and was projected to reach an additional 20,000 young people by the end of the school year. In the 2015/16 academic year, we aim to increase the number of young people reached through the program by 40%, which means training over 7,000 youth and reaching 60,000 young people through events and activities in Pakistan and Iraq. Throughout the year, young people learned how to get and stay active while developing critical life skills in leadership, communication, teamwork and resilience. After six months, 80% of youth reported that they are more physically active now than before. For example, 50% of girls in Pakistan had never even participated in sports activities prior to the program, and now they see 37 covers all regions of Azerbaijan. One of the important Coca-Cola Grassroots Football elements of the School CUP is that every football team Tournaments must have a female player. Some of the schools that participated in the Coca-Cola School CUP move on to Azerbaijan: Started in 2011 250,000 young people professional leagues. A joint group of experts evaluate participated in 2014 the impact of the project based on the number of school children involved, their performance at school and their Jordan: Started in 2014 640 young people plans to continue physical activities. participated in 2014 Jordan Kazakhstan: Started in 2006 396,000 young In Jordan, Copa Coca-Cola was organized in partnership people participated in 2014 with the Ministry of Education for the first time in May 2014. Some 64 schools and 640 children participated in Pakistan: Started in 2013 – 3,000 young people the tournament, with matches played in three locations. participated in 2014 The closing ceremony, along with the semi-final and final matches, took place at Coca-Cola premises in Madaba. The first of the Coca-Cola grassroots football The winning team, from Zarqa province, took a trip to tournaments, aimed at promoting love of football among Istanbul as a reward. (Source: Annual report) children and young people, was organized in 2006 in Kazakhstan under the name “Kazakhstan Bulgary Dop.” Kazakhstan Next, Azerbaijan and Northern Iraq organized School In Kazakhstan, the eighth season of Coca-Cola Bylgary CUP tournaments in 2011 and 2012, respectively. With Dop, Kazakhstan’s most popular youth football organizations such as the “Kyrgyzstan Bylgary Dop,” tournament, started in September 2013 and ended the “Baghdad Copa Coca-Cola,” and the “Coca-Cola in August 2014. Around 396,000 young people from Mekdep Kubogy” in Ashgabat, Turkmenistan,” and the 5,500 schools all across the country participated in the “Coca-Cola Football League” in Pakistan, Coca-Cola tournament, with matches played in the cities of Taraz, grassroots football tournaments have spread throughout Semey and Karaganda. The winning school’s three best the entire CCI operating geography. players attended the opening ceremony of the 2014 FIFA World Cup in São Paulo, Brazil. Azerbaijan Since 2011, nationwide Grassroots Football Tournaments Pakistan have been taking place in partnership with the Football activities in Pakistan began in 2013 with a Association of Football Federations of Azerbaijan and football tournament featuring 60 teams organized in the Ministry of Education. Every year more than 250,000 Karachi. In the second year, the format was expanded school children participate in the School CUP, which and a league that featured 140 teams was organized. 38 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 After successful football events in Karachi, the Cocame Cola Football League was organized as a standalone competition in Multan in August 2014, which featured leading clubs from across the country. The league ran for two weeks, during which 32 teams from all over Pakistan played 39 matches. The final match of the tournament was played on Pakistan’s Independence Day and was followed by a colorful celebration. A platform The Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation’s like the Coca-Cola Football League not only provides an “Let’s Play” Project opportunity for youth to channel their energies positively, but also teaches them values like teamwork, leadership 50 Cities 400 Schools 3,200 Playgrounds and perseverance. Target: To reach 1 million children in 50 cities at 500 schools in Turkey Project Partners: The Ministry of National Education, the Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation, the Active Living Association The “Let’s Play” project is a partnership between the Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation, the Ministry of National Education and the Active Living Association. The project aims to encourage children to include more physical activity in their daily routines by creating play areas in primary schools. The project ensures that play lies at the core of the learning process. In this way, children are able to develop their creative sides, become physically more active and develop communication abilities with their peers Feal Ailem, Sağlam Alem (Active while playing games. The “Let’s Play” project creates “game clubs” which develop new games and carry Family, Healthy Community) out in-school activities. Azerbaijan: Started in 2013 40,000 young people and their parents participated in 2014 Target: To reach 70,000 people in 2015 and about half a million people by 2018 Project Partners: The National Olympic Committee and the Ministry of Education Starting in 2013, Coca-Cola Azerbaijan launched the Feal Ailem, Sağlam Alem (FASA) program in partnership with the National Olympic Committee and the Ministry of Education. This is a five-year program that is carried out in the form of regular and entertaining sport activities among schoolchildren together with their parents. In 2014 more than 5,000 parents and 35,000 school children participated in the national tournament, which covered 20 regions. Winning families from the regions then participate in the series of contests in the finals, held in Baku. In 2015 we are expecting more than 70,000 people to participate in the FASA games. The scale and regularity of the games will help encourage hundreds For more information: of thousands of people in Azerbaijan towards active, www.hayataarti.org/disari_oynayalim.html healthy living in the next five years. 39 we Employees Our Workplace Goals and Commitments Employee Profile Diversity and Inclusion Recruitment and Placement Talent Management Performance Management Learning and Development Compensation and Benefits Employee Engagement Occupational Health and Safety 40 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 we – Employees Our Workplace The business success of CCI depends on our employees. The CCI Head of Human Resources (HR), who reports While developing, incorporating and retaining the best directly to the CEO, is responsible for the development talents, CCI’s priority is to provide a happy, safe and and implementation of the WRP across all CCI countries. motivating workplace where our employees can fulfill A directorate that has been established under the Group their true potential. HR Department coordinates the implementation process. All HR associates and people managers are given WRP At CCI we celebrate our diversity; we come from training in order to embed WRP components into CCI’s 10 different countries. We are an equal opportunity day-to-day operations in all countries of operation. The employer; we hire and promote our employees on an WRP and Code of Ethics are also included in the training equal basis, whether they are young people or older provided to newly joining employees during the onpeople, disabled or non-disabled, women or men. boarding and orientation period. We value our relationships with our employees, and achieve success through the contribution of each one Workplace Rights Policy of them. We are determined to develop open and CCI’s WRP supports our values and establishes a set of participatory workplaces that are based on recognizing fundamental standards on human rights and working universal human rights. Each and every employee is conditions. It is based on international standards of valued and encouraged to do his or her best. human rights according to the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Respecting the human rights of our staff, and creating an Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles environment for them to succeed, is a moral as well as a and Rights at Work, and the United Nations Global business imperative. We have outlined a clear policy on Compact. workplace rights and issued our human rights statement. These documents clearly state our commitment to the In the event that the WRP provides broader protection fundamental principles of international, human and than the applicable laws, policies or common law workplace rights in every place that we do business. in the countries in which we operate, this policy is applied. Local standards are applied where applicable Workplace Rights laws, policies or common law provide more extensive In line with the target priorities in our 2020 Vision, we protection for employees. fully integrate human and workplace rights into our practices, our corporate values and our sustainability strategy. Our respect for human and workplace rights is engrained in our culture and guides our interactions with suppliers, customers, consumers, employees and the communities we serve. For CCI operations, we are guided by the CCI Workplace Rights Policy (WRP), and our suppliers are required to comply with the Supplier Guiding Principles (SGP), which also cover all the issues of WRP (see chapter on “Our Suppliers” for detailed information on the SGP). At CCI, we implement the three components of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, which were adopted by the UN Human Rights Council in 2011. These are: • A policy commitment to fulfill the responsibility to respect human rights; • A due diligence process to identify, prevent, mitigate and be accountable for human rights abuses; and • Processes to enable the remediation of any adverse human rights impacts which CCI causes or to which it contributes. 41 The WRP was launched and communicated to all CCI we establish a safe, healthy and efficient work employees in October 2013, and is available in English as environment. well as in all of the main local languages in our countries • Workplace Security: Our Company is committed to of operation. It is also available online on our website at providing a workplace environment free from violence, www.cci.com.tr/IK/workplace_rights_at_cci harassment, threats and other insecure or disturbing The WRP covers the following elements: conditions arising from threats from both inside and • Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining: outside The Company. Security protection is provided Our Company respects the right of our employees for our employees when required and with due regard to join or not to join a union, or to establish a union to the employee’s privacy and reputation. without fear of retaliation, threat or harassment. We • Community and Stakeholder Engagement: Our undertake to establish a constructive dialogue with Company accepts the influence it wields on the the representatives who are chosen freely by our societies in which it operates. While carrying out our employees to represent them in a union recognized business, we undertake to establish relationships by law and authorized according to legal regulations. with our stakeholders in these societies in order Our Company is committed to bargaining with these to listen to their opinions, obtain information and representatives in good faith. show that we take their opinions into account. When • Prohibition of Forced Labor: Our Company forbids the appropriate, we undertake to establish a dialogue use of all forms of forced labor, including prison labor, with our stakeholders about business and workplace indentured labor, bonded labor, military labor or slave rights within our field of operation. We believe that labor. local problems are solved most appropriately at the local level. Additionally, through locally connected • Commitment Not to Employ Child Labor: Our enterprises we undertake to create economic Company abides by the minimum age provisions opportunities and to develop good will within the stated in the applicable laws and regulations. The societies in which we operate. Company forbids the assignment of people under 18 to positions requiring dangerous work. Our Company’s WRP Processes prohibition against child labor complies with the We have a due diligence process in place to identify, standards of the International Labor Organization. prevent, mitigate and be accountable for human rights • Arbitrary Discrimination: Our Company values all of its abuses. Alongside our WRP implementation efforts, employees and the contributions they provide, and has independent audits on WRP take place for our own a long-established commitment to equal opportunity operations, and SGP audits take place at our suppliers’ and against tolerating arbitrary discrimination. The operations. Company is determined to keep its workplaces free from any arbitrary discrimination or physical or verbal harassment based on race, sex, color, nationality or social origin, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation or political view, or any other status protected by applicable laws. Selection, recruitment, placement, training, wage-setting and advance payment in The Company are all performed on the basis of capability, performance and experience. • Working Hours and Wages: Our Company establishes its wage policy according to the sector conditions and the local labor market. We carry out our activities in full compliance with the applicable laws, including those regarding wages, working hours, overtime and benefits. We offer our employees opportunities through which they can develop their abilities and capacities, and we also provide opportunities for advancement. • A Safe and Healthy Workplace: Our Company offers a safe and healthy workplace environment. By minimizing the factors that could lead to industrial accidents, occupational diseases and health risks, 42 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 When a CCI operation is found to be non-compliant within CCI, including those that involve violation of the CCI we – Employees with WRP components, an action plan is developed Code of Ethics and WRP. Claims can be reported to CCI’s and implemented. After completing the action plans, Ethics and Compliance Committee anonymously through an independent auditing company conducts a followour independent service provider, CCI Ethics Line, and up audit to check the results. In 2014, our plants in are subject to investigation. In addition, CCI employees Northern Iraq, Turkmenistan, Pakistan (four plants) can report their claims directly to their manager, or and Turkey (four plants) were audited, and all plants to representatives of the HR or legal departments. except that in Turkmenistan received a “green score” Investigations of claims are coordinated by the CCI Group with zero negative findings. Our target is to achieve Employee Relations Department, and all necessary 100% compliance in all WRP and SGP audits, with zero parties are involved in the investigation process. If a negative findings. An action plan for the Turkmenistan reported breach is proven, appropriate corrective action operation was developed, and corrective actions were is performed in order to improve the situation. Each completed as of the first quarter of 2015. country has a disciplinary procedure that is aligned with the local and international legal requirements. Managers The recently established CCI Ethics procedure allows our are held responsible for breaches of policy within their employees to report claims regarding harmful practices areas of responsibility. Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2014 Goals Performance in 2014 Status 2015 Goals Workplace To complete the The implementation process for A To obtain “green scores” on WRP audits Rights implementation of the the WRP was completed. for all CCI operations in 10 countries. WRP throughout all CCI operations. Diversity and To continue focusing Recruitment processes were O To maintain the current female-male Inclusion on increasing female enhanced to ensure an increase in ratio (which is 14.6%). participation in our the number of female candidates, workforce. the way our recruiters reach out to To continue working on business female talent was improved. processes that concern The Company’s gender equality goal. Leadership To implement the The iLead2020 Program for senior A To provide top-level managers and Development iLead2020 Program with leaders and mid-level managers supervisors with two new programs: mid-level managers in all was completed for almost all CCI the Manager on Board Program and CCI operations. countries. the Supervisor on Board Program. To complete the iLead2020 Program for mid-level managers in Pakistan. Work-life To set annual leave usage All CCI countries except Iraq and A To set annual leave usage targets as a balance targets as a part of our Turkmenistan have achieved their part of our management objectives. management objectives. targets. To launch the “bonus leave” The bonus leave policy was A policy in order to incentivize launched and successfully annual leave usage. implemented in Turkey. Employee -We conducted the Employee New To conduct the Employee Engagement Engagement Engagement Survey in all Survey in all countries of CCI operations countries of CCI operations. The in 2016. participation rate was 91% and our sustainable engagement score increased by three points compared to the previous survey. A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved 43 Priority Areas 2014 Goals Performance in 2014 Status 2015 Goals OHS policy, To develop and share CCI OHS Standards were A To make sure that all countries of procedures internally the CCI OHS published and shared internally. operation develop and publish their and systems Standards. own disciplinary procedures. To conduct legal We conducted legal compliance A compliance assessments assessments in all countries in all CCI countries of of operation and shared their operation. results with the managers in each country. To publish the Golden Rules We published the Golden Rules A Disciplinary Procedure Disciplinary Procedure Guidelines. Guidelines. OHS To conduct a five-day CCI We organized our first CCI OHS A To conduct a four-day CCI OHS summit awareness OHS summit for all OHS summit, where 13 employees for all OHS managers. and training managers in four countries participated, including the OHS of operation. managers of all CCI countries. To conduct additional leadership safety training in Pakistan for all people To provide leadership We provided 500 man-hours of A managers. safety training for the leadership safety training to 50 leadership teams in four employees in four countries of countries of operation. operation. Safe Driving To launch the CCI Safe We launched the CCI Safe Driving A To make sure that all CCI countries Driving Policy. Policy. have defensive driving training. To provide practical and We provided 4,000 man-hours of O To install GPS Devices in all suitable theoretical “defensive practical and theoretical defensive Turkey and Group Office vehicles. driving” training for driving training to 750 employees employees who drive in Turkey and Pakistan. To plan and conduct an RTM workshop company vehicles. in Pakistan. To install tracking devices In Turkey, we installed tracking A in 50% of company vehicles devices in 50% of company in Turkey. vehicles. To conduct a five-day We organized a five-day fleet A fleet safety workshop in safety workshop in Azerbaijan, in Azerbaijan. which 34 employees participated. OHS To further reduce the LTIR to The LTIR was 0.62 for the four A To further reduce the LTIR to a performance a maximum of 0.65* in the countries of operation and 0.58 for maximum of 0.50 in the four countries four countries of operation. all CCI countries. of operation, and to a maximum of 0.45 for all countries of operation. OHS along the -In 2014 we developed plans to New To develop and share CCI contractor supply chain improve the OHS performance of safety procedures in all CCI countries. our business partners. Every CCI country prepared annual OHS To develop and share CCI distributor Plans by considering the top seven safety procedures in Turkey. risks and strategic priorities. To train the employees of our distributors in six countries on KORE requirements. A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved * This goal is revised. 44 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 Employee Profile we – Employees At CCI we enjoy having diverse teams in all of our operations. Details of our employee profile (on gender, contract type and employment category) in the five countries of operation are indicated in the table below. In this year’s report, we began reporting the Turkey employee profile in two separate categories: Group Office and Operations. As of the end of 2014, some 10,341 people were employed by CCI in the 10 countries of operation, of which 8,315 are from the five countries of operation. Number of Employees by Gender, Employment Type and Contract Employees by Gender, Country Male Female Employment Type and Contract (%) 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Blue Collar Turkey – Group Office 0.0 0.0 98.8 98.8 1.2 1.2 Turkey – Operations* 98.5 1.5 Jordan 100.0 100.0 99.5 0.0 0.0 0.5 Kazakhstan 98.9 99.3 98.8 1.1 0.7 1.2 Azerbaijan 97.7 97.5 97.4 2.3 2.5 2.6 Pakistan** n/a n/a 99.2 n/a n/a 0.8 White Collar Turkey – Group Office 58.4 41.6 79.5 76.6 20.5 23.4 Turkey – Operations* 77.1 22.9 Jordan 92.1 91.8 90.4 7.9 8.2 9.6 Kazakhstan 75.0 75.2 77.7 25.0 24.8 22.3 Azerbaijan 76.9 77.7 78.2 23.1 22.3 21.8 Pakistan** n/a n/a 93.2 n/a n/a 6.8 * Turkey operations include plants and sales offices. ** The blue-collar/white-collar distinction is based on permanent employees since Pakistan does not have this information for its temporary workers. In the four countries of operation, we employ no part-time employees. We employ a limited number of temporary employees, often to replace an employee on maternity leave or to conduct a short-term project. During high season, we employ seasonal workers in Turkey and Azerbaijan. In 2014 we hired 379 seasonal employees in Turkey and 240 employees in Azerbaijan. Number of Employees per Employee Senior Management Other Employees Category 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Turkey – Group Office 9 157 10 14** 2,812 2,759 Turkey – Operations* 7 2,335 Jordan 4 4 6 396 405 391 Kazakhstan 23 25 25 657 724 820 Azerbaijan 5 6 6 314 367 384 * Turkey operations include plants and sales offices. ** This figure includes all senior managers in the CCI Group office and CCI Turkey Operations. 45 Diversity and Inclusion As of the end of 2014, some 14.6% of CCI’s employees in the four countries of operation were female, At CCI, we implement an equal opportunity approach in with representation rates of 5% in Jordan, 13.8% in all HR policies, procedures and recruitment processes. Kazakhstan, 12.3% in Azerbaijan, 15% in Turkey and 41% CCI’s philosophy in pursuing diversity and inclusion in the Group Office located in Turkey. We aim to increase incorporates the following: the percentage of female employees in Turkey to 20% by 2020. • Recruiting and retaining a high-performing, talented workforce which is reflective of the diverse marketplace We also take an active role in many different platforms we serve. in order to support the employment of women. For • Fostering an inclusive culture which helps us embrace example, we launched a Women’s Leadership Steering differences and impacts our ability to meet our 2020 Committee in Turkey with the aim of facilitating Vision goals. communication among women in leadership roles, In the geographical areas where CCI operates, there are expanding employment opportunities for women and major challenges for female employment. Production and increasing the representation of women in leadership sales positions in the operations in which the majority roles. In addition, as discussed in detail in the “we – of our employees work and on which the majority of community” chapter of this report, we support Women’s our recruitment efforts focus also do not attract female Clubs and networking events for women entrepreneurs. candidates as a first choice. Major efforts therefore revolve around encouraging female recruitment in both CCI’s operations and those of our partners. Employees by Gender (%) 2013 2014 Male Female Male Female Turkey – Group Office 59.0 41.0 83.7 16.3 Turkey – Operations* 85.0 15.0 Jordan 95.6 4.4 95.0 5.0 Kazakhstan 84.9 15.1 86.2 13.8 Azerbaijan 88.2 11.8 87.7 12.3 TOTAL 85.4 14.6 85.8 14.6 * Turkey operations include plants and sales offices. Recruitment and Placement to reach out to “Generation Y” while focusing on a positive candidate experience to enhance The Recruiting the right people with capabilities that are Company’s reputation. aligned with CCI’s culture is a strategic business priority • Use technology to automate TA processes, and define of our 2020 Vision. Our Talent Acquisition (TA) roadmap and implement TA KPIs to monitor and improve TA includes the following key priorities: capabilities. • Install structured, standardized and simple TA processes, integrated with talent management processes (called Organizational Development Talent Management Platforms, ODPs) and aimed at inducting top talent At CCI, we recognize all our employees as “talent.” across all CCI countries. We promise to invest in our talent based on our organizational needs and the competencies we wish • Introduce and implement objective assessment tools to develop. Talent management is the mechanism (psychometric, assessment centers etc.) to make through which CCI ensures that it has the right people, better selection decisions that result in acquisition optimally deployed and properly engaged to deliver The of the capabilities CCI requires and contribute to a Company’s strategy and produce business results. Talent performance-driven organizational culture. management is also a key business accountability that • Build and enhance CCI’s Employer Value Proposition is shared by all of our People Managers, who co-create through effective use of social media applications and encourage feedback and development. 46 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 In line with our 2020 Vision, we are constantly improving feedback to our employees at management level every we – Employees our approaches to talent management with the aim of two years. Based on the outcome of these evaluations, training our HR and structuring our leadership teams, managers are able to define their personal and which we consider crucial to reaching our strategic professional development objectives. objectives. We continue to conduct our ODPs and strengthen the process in order to fill positions with right In the coming years, we aim to work on increasing our people. people management capabilities, such as setting smart business objectives, providing feedback and coaching, Furthermore, we facilitated transfer of crucial knowledge, handling performance review discussions and evaluating experience and talent by exploiting opportunities in both team success in an objective manner. international and local career moves within a larger framework. We filled critical positions from our internal At CCI, performance assessment processes are talent pool by creating opportunities to gain experience implemented for all employees regardless of gender. abroad for 42 of our employees. In order to support and be more effective in career Learning and Development planning process, we also make use of a platform called Capability development, both at the individual level as “My Career Talk.” This platform helps CCI employees to well as the organizational level, is a top priority for CCI. identify their career goals, establish a plan for pursuing Therefore, we create an environment where learning and those goals and take personal responsibility for making development is highly valued. Capability development those goals a reality. programs in leadership, professional and commercial areas are instrumental in ensuring that all employees In order to support and be more effective in career are equipped to meet strategic business and personal planning process, we also make use of a platform called development objectives. Acquiring knowledge and “My Career Talk.” This platform helps CCI employees to developing managerial and leadership skills are highly identify their career goals, establish a plan for pursuing encouraged at CCI. those goals and take personal responsibility for making All training and development solutions are designed those goals a reality. in line with CCI culture and values and only after a thorough needs analysis of strategies, business needs, Performance Management leadership requirements, challenges and opportunities. Our Performance Management System ensures that we remain able to deliver successful results by improving We encourage our employees to take responsibility in performance and developing the capabilities of both their own development. As such, “individual development teams and individuals. We focus not only on business planning” is conducted in line with performance review results but also on the way in which we do business and meetings, and potential evaluation sessions are tracked the development of our employees’ behavior, creating on a web-based learning management system. opportunities for them to obtain feedback about which of their personal qualities we find to be strong and which have room for improvement. CCI’s Performance Management System is comprised of two performance cycles: developmental objectives, and business objectives. We use “SuccessFactors” as our HR technology platform. SuccessFactors includes performance management, e-recruitment, and 360-degree evaluation to support development objectives and succession plans. Succession plans include potential assessment questionnaires as well as learning and development plans. Our employees use SuccessFactors to follow their performance and development plans. There are also two different performance segments in CCI based on job grades: target-based evaluation and competency-based evaluation. Comprehensive 360-degree evaluations are an important management tool that we use to provide 47 In addition, there is a defined leadership development path supporting all roles, from supervisor to general iLead2020 Program manager. Leadership development programs that iLead2020, our flagship program on leadership, we offer include: iLead2020, Manager on Board and continued with the participation of more than 200 Supervisor on Board. Furthermore, the Supply Chain, mid-level leaders in Turkey, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, HR and Finance Departments have their own capability Jordan, and Iraq. The program is scheduled to development programs in order to leverage employees’ technical knowledge and support them in their functional commence in Pakistan in 2015. Program modules roles using digital platforms, on-the-job learning and inare aligned with CCI’s 2020 Vision and are designed class training programs. to reinforce leadership qualities, encourage and enhance engagement, increase business acumen, Commercial teams have various development programs and develop skills necessary for future leaders. ranging from e-learning simulations to one-month on-thejob training programs such as the Sales Force Capability Publicly and globally acclaimed for its success, Development program and Sales Field Coaching. There the program received a CUBIC Award from the are also country-based certificate programs run in International Quality and Productivity Center (IQPC) in collaboration with prestigious universities. the “Learning Leader of the Year” category as well as In 2014, the planned total training hours in Turkey was an “Excellence in Practice” award from the Association lower than that of previous years. This is due to the fact for Talent Development (ATD), one of the world’s that each year we develop a training schedule based on most highly regarded accredited institutions in talent the requests and needs of our employees. These were development. lower in 2014 compared to previous years. Total Training Hours 2012 2013 2014 Average Hours of Training Per 2013 2014 (man-hours) Employee Turkey – Group Office 6,255 Turkey – Group Office 37.7 32,550 56,429 20.3 Turkey – Operations* 19,540 Turkey – Operations* 8.3 Jordan 13,681 10,788 13,916 Jordan 26.4 35.1 Kazakhstan 9,251 10,091 24,757 Kazakhstan 13.5 29.3 Azerbaijan 5,574 4,145 5,481 Azerbaijan 11.1 14.1 TOTAL 61,056 81,453 69,949 TOTAL 18.9 16.9 * Turkey operations include plants and sales offices. * Turkey operations include plants and sales offices. Compensation and Benefits key lever to reach this objective is to focus our policies on “beyond base salary” and even “beyond pay.” We aim to provide competitive, holistic, performancedriven and fiscally reasonable compensation and • “Pay for performance” in order to focus efforts on CCI’s objectives. Our key lever to reach this objective benefits to all employees in order to attract and retain is to link all possible reward elements to performance the best people. Our key lever in working towards this conditions, starting with base salary increases and objective is remaining market sensitive in all of the variable pay programs, countries in which we operate. We work with both global and local consultancies in order to obtain accurate • “Fiscal management” in order to ensure fiscal reasonableness to improve the sustainability of our market data, on which we base our policies related to: business. Whatever decisions we make, we ensure • “Total rewards” in order to provide a holistic view of that CCI pursues long-term affordability in order to CCI’s offerings and foster employee engagement. Our provide competitive “total rewards.” Benefits Provided to Full-time Employees in 2014 Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Private health insurance Yes Yes Yes Yes Private life insurance Yes Yes No No Individual pension funds Yes No No No Company products Yes Yes Yes Yes Seniority service awards Yes No Yes Yes 48 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 Employee Engagement The jurisdiction dispute of two different unions proceeded we – Employees to court, thereby disrupting the collective bargaining As part of our 2020 Vision we aim to be the process. These judicial proceedings were still ongoing as employer of choice in all of the markets in which we of 31 December 2014. operate. To achieve this, we have been conducting Employee Engagement Surveys since 2008 in order In addition to Turkey operations, CCI’s Pakistan to understand our employees’ insights and thoughts operations also feature unionized employees. and to get feedback about our strengths and areas Employee representation in CCI’s Turkey operations is for improvement in our people processes, culture and ensured at the following committees: work environment. At CCI, we decided to conduct these a) The Occupational Health and Safety Committee; surveys every two years in order to give ourselves the opportunity to understand areas for improvement and b) The Meal and Cafeteria Service Quality Improvement take the necessary actions to make these improvements. Committee; c) The Disciplinary Board; and In 2014 we changed our engagement approach to d) The Accident Evaluation Committee. “sustainable engagement.” Our methodology has also been revised. Opinions and feedback from our stakeholders and employees have been heard during all Percentage of Employees Number of % steps of the Employee Engagement Survey and during Covered by Collective unionized Bargaining Agreements employees the post-survey evaluation stages. As in previous years, in 2014 we implemented brand Turkey – Operations 2013 38 4.1 new tools and data such as benchmarks, “key drivers” 2014 41 4.3 analysis, comment analysis tools, online action planning Pakistan 2013 2,156 50.0 tools, and interactive and snapshot reports. Post-survey communications continued, such as result-sharing 2014 1,881 45.0 meetings and focus groups. Note: These percentages were calculated by using the number of unionized employees and the total number of blue-collar employees. White-collar Participation in the Employee Engagement Survey employees are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. reached 91% in 2014, compared to 88% in 2013. According to survey results, the overall score for employee engagement has risen by three points, and our strengths are “involvement and innovation,” “cultures Internal Communication Channels and values” and “safety and work environment.” We At CCI, we employ various channels for internal will continue to focus on improvement areas; efficiency, communication to keep our employees informed and career & development and rewards & recognition, in line engaged. CCI’s corporate communications portal, with our 2020 Vision. CokePort, serves users simultaneously in Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Jordan, Pakistan and Turkey as a safe The results of the 2014 Employee Engagement Survey and user-friendly working platform. CokePort helps revealed that the physical working conditions at our our operational information to flow smoothly. We also workplaces needed to be improved. With the aim of make use of “SoCCIal,” a social media platform for increasing our employees’ motivation, we developed the CCI employees in Turkey. Through this platform, our “Happy Office” project. Within this context, cafeterias and employees share activities, news, comments and ideas kitchens in the Ankara Sales Center, the Çorlu Plant and with each other. the Group Office were completely renewed. In-house publications such as the monthly CCI News Union Rights and Employee Line, CCI Newsletter and 2020 Magazine, issued Representation specifically for our Turkey location every two months, are important media for communication among our At CCI, we respect the rights of our employees to join (or employees. not join) unions and to establish a union without fear of retaliation, threat, or harassment. CCI is committed to We have a simple yet comprehensive framework, constructive dialogue with employees who are members CCIdea, for creating and harvesting new ideas in our of legally-recognized trade unions. Only employees of daily operations at CCI. Our employees share their ideas Mahmudiye and Hazar plants in Turkey are covered through this platform, which is an important part of the by an ongoing collective bargaining agreement. The working culture across CCI. unionization ratio of the Mahmudiye and Hazar plants is 65%. The collective bargaining agreement covering all other plants in Turkey ended on 31 March 2012. 49 With the aim of integrating social responsibility into Company culture and encouraging employee OHS Golden Rules volunteerism in support of community development CCI believes that our people are our most valuable programs, in 2013 we launched the CCI Volunteers asset. Providing a safe and healthy workplace and initiative and started establishing Employee and Family a sustainable environment is one of our primary Volunteering Clubs in the countries of operation. These responsibilities and is fundamental to our success. clubs also create a platform for our employees to This belief is part of our culture, and this policy improve internal communication. applies across the CCI system. CCI has developed 12 Golden Safety Rules to focus Occupational Health and Safety attention on common causes of major accidents and (OHS) serious injuries known from the industry and from experience. These rules are; Approach • Safety first We believe that a safe and healthy workplace is both • Always learn emergency procedures and a fundamental right of every person and a business participate in health and safety trainings imperative. Our Workplace Rights Policy requires that we take responsibility for maintaining a productive and • Always fasten your seatbelts safe workplace by, among other things, working towards • Never exceed speed limits minimizing the risk of accident, injury and exposure to • Never use a phone while driving a vehicle or health hazards for all of our employees, contract workers operating machinery and visitors to our operations. Our ultimate goal with • Never drive or operate a machine while fatigued respect to OHS is to achieve “zero OHS incidents” in all of or under the influence of alcohol or drugs our operations. • Always isolate powered systems We reach more than 700,000 sales points every day with • Always work at height safely 14,000 vehicles covering approximately 400,000 km in • Always obtain work permits for hazardous works order to offer a wide range of beverages to consumers. • Always use appropriate Personal Protective More than 10,300 CCI employees work at our 23 Equipment (PPE) production plants and numerous administration offices • Always control and manage contractors effectively spread across 10 countries. • Always manage change and design processes While the scope of this report is limited to four countries effectively and assess risks of operation, our OHS approach, as with any other sustainability approach, applies to all CCI countries of operation. OHS Management OHS Policy The Coca-Cola Operating Requirements (KORE) define the policies, standards and requirements for managing Our Environment and OHS Policy specifically seeks to: safety (as well as environment and quality) throughout • Protect the most valuable and important resource of our operations. Additionally, all our plants in the four our company – our human capital – from any OHS countries of operation covered in this report and Pakistan risks or hazards; have OHSAS 18001 Management System certification, • Protect the environment and minimize the impact of which is a framework for an effective OHS management CCI’s operations on the environment while ensuring a system. OHS issues are also handled within the context sustainable business; of collective bargaining agreements signed with labor • Ensure that OHS is an integral part of our business and unions. is actively supported through management leadership We believe that leadership is crucial in OHS and commitment; management; hence, OHS is a priority area for plant • Protect The Company from any legal challenges managers. While managers make sure that the rules by complying with (at a minimum) local legal are properly applied, it is the responsibility of all our requirements and applying industry best practices to employees to behave safely in our offices and plants as set higher standards than such legal requirements; well as on the road. At CCI, every employee has the right and and is obliged to stop any operation that is deemed a • Protect all other resources and assets from any potential risk. Furthermore, employees may report such losses that may be caused by work-related risks and threats to an immediate supervisor, HR manager, OHS hazards. manager or even to the CEO. 50 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 In 2014 we conducted our first Health and Safety Summit, newcomers the OHS Golden Rules, which guide our we – Employees a five-day workshop in which 13 employees participated, efforts to put our policy into practice in our offices, in including OHS managers of all CCI countries. We plan to our plants and on the road. We communicate the OHS organize this Summit regularly. Golden Rules extensively across our operations. OHS Practices In 2014, as many as 38,475 man-hours of OHS training were provided to our employees in the five countries In 2014 we implemented a number of initiatives on OHS of operation. The main topics of the training sessions issues and worked hard to make OHS an integral part included site induction, first aid training, confined space, of our daily operations and business culture. Below are working at height, emergency response, CCI’s Golden some examples of the initiatives that were taken in 2014 Rules, and forklift safety. to support our targets. OHS managers at CCI plants have started to effectively Total Man-hours of 2013 2014 use the KPI reporting and recording system. KPIs are OHS Training tracked, measured and reported by all CCI countries Turkey 9,268 17,751 on a monthly basis. Based on the KPIs, the OHS Jordan 1,043 1,562 performance of our plants and of CCI as a whole is Kazakhstan 4,370 2,118 analyzed periodically. Azerbaijan 916 1,218 In order to increase leadership engagement for the OHS Pakistan n/a 15,826 program, we conducted Leadership Safety Workshops at TOTAL 15,597 38,475 all CCI countries with the participation of all Leadership Team members. We aimed to have more involvement by the Leadership Team in the CCI OHS program. Focus on Road Safety Additional OHS topics were included in the scope of the Route-to-market (RTM) safety remains our single biggest CCI Turkey Workplace Health Audits, which are carried safety challenge, and is accordingly a significant area out by CCI’s Internal Audit Department. In 2014, the of focus. A very significant portion of the risks to our Internal Audit Team visited eight CCI Turkey locations employees emerges outside the plants (e.g., on the in 2014, and a CCI Turkey safety audit was conducted roads while distributing our products). Driving safely to at seven CCI locations with the participation of Turkey’s eliminate traffic accidents is therefore a priority area. In OHS Manager as a joint auditor. Similarly, OHS issues line with this priority, we developed the CCI Safe Driving were included in the scope of international audits in Policy and launched it in 2014. cooperation with the Group OHS Manager. By the end In 2014 a total of 249 accidents involving CCI-owned of 2015, the Internal Audit Team will have visited all CCI vehicles took place in Turkey, Kazakhstan, Jordan and operations. Azerbaijan, a reduction from 309 in 2013. We achieved The Legal Compliance Assessment Project was this improvement mostly through effective defensive conducted by a third-party auditing company at all CCI driving trainings and RTM workshops in Turkey and Countries in order to see the status of each country Azerbaijan, with the participation of all OHS Supervisors in terms of compliance of local OHS regulations. As a and Fleet Managers from all CCI Countries. result, all CCI countries comply with local OHS rules and The root cause analysis shows that unsafe behavior regulations apart from minor issues. is the number one cause of these road accidents. Reporting “near miss” cases is another initiative that We therefore put substantial effort into continuous was started at all CCI locations in 2014. We believe improvement of our employees’ driving behavior. We that reporting and investigating near misses will help offer training on defensive and safe driving for our sales decrease the number of major accidents and incidents. teams. As an additional measure, we have begun installing tracking devices in company vehicles in order OHS Training to trace speed limit violations in Turkey, and we aim to extend this to other countries. We constantly work towards building a company culture regarding OHS, and trainings play an important role in this. Employees, regardless of gender, are offered targeted OHS trainings based on their functions. Periodic refresher training for all employees and contractors conducting work on our behalf are also provided. In 2014, at every CCI location, we continued to teach 51 OHS Performance • Disciplinary Procedure on OHS non-compliances were developed and implemented. At CCI we follow a systematic approach for OHS and undertake a wide range of initiatives to improve our OHS • A presentation on lessons learned about the accident performance. In Turkey, the lost time incidents value was prepared and delivered to all CCI Pakistan staff. increased substantially in 2014 compared to previous • All extension boards and industrial sockets which years. The main reason is the improved quality and supported portable electrical equipment were fitted coverage of the OHS reporting. In this report, we also with ground fault Interrupters. included OHS performance data for Pakistan. In 2014, a • An inspection regime was implemented for all portable fatal accident occurred in Pakistan where an employee electric equipment at all plants. received an electrical shock from an extension board. • Near-miss reporting stations were provided in all areas After the accident, OHS experts conducted field research for people to easily access blank forms and report and determined what lessons were to be learned. They near misses. prepared a report that included the immediate and root causes of the accident as well as corrective actions. • All ambulances of all plants are to be certified by 1122 Major corrective/preventive actions are: authority, a hired doctor/paramedic, and a proper treatment room in each plant. • All extension boards were checked at all plants. Any • PPEs were enforced 100% as per requirement of risk non-standard extension boards or those with no name assessment in all areas. or brand were removed immediately and destroyed. The table below provides consolidated OHS performance • Third party electrical assessments of all plants were data for the four countries of operation. Pakistan data is implemented to identify unsafe conditions and failures, provided separately. This is to make it easier to compare assure safety, and meet international standards. the 2013 and 2014 data. OHS Performance Lost Time Incidents Lost Time Incidents Number of Fatalities Indicators (workdays lost) (number) Employee Contractor Total Employee Contractor Total Employee Contractor Total Turkey 2012 240 204 444 29 22 51 0 0 0 2013 208 79 287 21 12 33 0 0 0 2014 648 98 742 30 7 37 0 0 0 Jordan 2012 186 56 242 12 0 12 0 0 0 2013 140 20 160 10 0 10 0 0 0 2014 146 0 146 9 0 9 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 2012 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2013 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2014 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 2012 0 43 43 0 2 2 0 0 0 2013 0 21 21 0 1 1 0 0 0 2014 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 OVERALL* (excluding Pakistan) 2013 348 120 468 31 13 44 0 0 0 2014 794 94 888 39 7 46 0 0 0 Pakistan 2014 156 28 184 10 4 14 1 0 1 *Total values for the four countries of operation 52 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 we – Employees OHS Performance Indicators LTIR LTISR Total Vehicle Vehicle Accident Accident Rate Turkey 2012 0.90 7.84 250 15.33 2013 0.55 4.75 241 13.87 2014 0.67 8.83 164 14.22 Jordan 2012 2.62 52.78 34 19.40 2013 1.56 27.67 54 23.80 2014 1.54 24.91 50 22.02 Kazakhstan 2012 0.00 0.00 5 1.47 2013 0.00 0.00 8 2.93 2014 0.00 0.00 27 9.89 Azerbaijan 2012 0.39 8.34 22 13.70 2013 0.17 3.58 6 3.40 2014 0.00 0.00 8 4.28 OVERALL* (excluding Pakistan) 2013 0.55 5.90 309 12.97 2014 0.62 11.87 249 13.68 Pakistan 2014 0.27 3.15 n/a** n/a** * Total values for the four countries of operation. ** In 2014, vehicle accident data for Pakistan was not prepared on consistent basis between plants. 53 we Community Goals and Commitments Community Development Volunteerism Economic Impact 54 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 we Community Building stronger communities As CCI, we strive to build stronger communities where and indirectly through local procurement. we operate. We build local partnerships focusing on As CCI Turkey, in 2014, we donated 3% of our pre-tax social needs such as women’s empowerment, youth profits, equivalent to TL 3.6 million, to the Anadolu development and environmental protection. We also Foundation for charitable causes and another TL encourage and support our employees in initiating 500,000 to 52 public schools that are part of 3.2.1 Move! and/or actively taking part in community development Program, and to other foundations. In addition, we projects in areas such as education, environmental continued to support the Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation protection and humanitarian aid. in Turkey in its efforts to promote active lifestyles and We make significant economic contributions in the protect the environment. countries where we operate, both directly through hiring, Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2014 Goals Performance in 2014 Status 2015 Goals Community To promote educational CCBPL launched the Pani Clean A To plant 20,000 trees through the Development/ awareness programs on Water Initiative to address the critical program “Plant a tree, give a gift to life” in Environment clean water and hygiene in issue of access to drinking water. Azerbaijan. Pakistan. To provide safe drinking water to at least 20,000 people from rural areas in Kazakhstan. To reach more than 10,000 youth in Kazakhstan to raise awareness about separate waste collection. Community --New To initiate a Women's Empowerment Development/ Project together with TCCC, in partnership Women with Boğaziçi University and The Union of Empowerment Chambers and Commodity Exchanges in Turkey, targeting to reach 1,000 women. To train 380 women in partnership with the UNDP and the State Committee for Family Women and Children Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan. To initiate an entrepreneurship program for women in Kazakhstan and to allocate grants to at least 10 applicants. Volunteerism To initiate various volunteering Through the Employee and Family A To continue conducting social projects at different locations Volunteering Clubs, we implemented development activities and projects in the in Turkey through the at least one activity or project in the local communities where we have plants. Employee and Families local communities where we have Volunteering Clubs. plants. To support the Clean We implemented a volunteer project P To achieve 500 participants in volunteer Binagadi Project through CCI on environmental protection in projects in Azerbaijan. volunteers in Azerbaijan. Azerbaijan. Economic To complete the economic This study has not been completed N No new target. Development impact research for CCI in Jordan, however our Pakistan Jordan operation. operation released its economic impact study. A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved 55 Program Azerbaijan in November 2014 to sponsor Community Development Economic and Social Empowerment of Young Women, a project aimed at creating opportunities for women and youth to fully participate in the economic and social We care about the needs of the local communities life of local communities. The project’s activities include where we operate. Through partnerships and training to build skills and knowledge on business startcollaboration with both local and international partners, ups, financial support to the best business proposals, we identify community challenges and needs, and the establishment of a Women’s Resource Center and develop and implement projects to address them. a communication campaign to build awareness of jobWe also encourage our employees and stakeholders related gender stereotypes and restrictive socio-cultural to take an active part in these projects. In Turkey, practices. on behalf of CCI the Anadolu Foundation conducts projects on community development focusing on Inspired by CCI’s goal of encouraging women’s women empowerment and youth employment, and the leadership and empowering women in the workplace Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation conducts projects on and community, ACCB established its Women’s Club environmental protection (and active, health living). comprised of all female employees in The Company. Subsequently, the first official meeting of the ACCB Women’s Club hosted Galya Frayman Molinas, President of the Turkey, Caucasus and Central Asia Business Unit of TCCC, who delighted attendees with an inspirational speech and answered questions from members. In 2014, the Women’s Club held an event for International Day for Protection of Children with the participation of around 100 children of employees. After a brief introduction to health and safety guidelines, the children toured the plant with Women’s Club members. In 2015 we plan to conduct a minimum of 12 internal trainings, six community activities and six charity initiatives within the Women’s Club of ACCB. Women’s Empowerment Unleashing the entrepreneurial potential of women is one of the most powerful and enduring ways to help families and communities prosper. It is also an important way to help make our business more sustainable. Studies show that women do 66 percent of the world’s work – 90 percent of which goes back to their families and communities – yet earn 10 percent of the world’s income. To help address this disparity, in 2010 TCCC launched “5by20,” its global commitment to enable Jordan the economic empowerment of five million women The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Jordan (CCBCJ) entrepreneurs across TCCC’s value chain. (Sources: sponsored the first MENA Women’s Empowerment UNICEF, Gender Equity: The Big Picture, 2007 and Phil and Leadership Conference in Amman in 2014. The Borges, Women Empowered: Inspiring Change in the event attracted 250 leading women’s organizations Emerging World, 2007.) As a bottling partner of TCCC, we from Jordan and the greater Middle East and North contribute to the goal of helping women entrepreneurs Africa region. CCBCJ presented its best practices for overcome the common social and economic barriers empowering women in surrounding communities – they face due to the lack of business skills training, through establishing special training sessions and financial services, assets, peer networks and mentoring. workshops, and partnering with local official and nonAzerbaijan official institutions in different topics, such as “Women Azerbaijan Coca-Cola Bottlers (ACCB) signed an in Jordanian Labor Law” and breast cancer awareness agreement with the United Nations Development under the umbrella of CCBCJ Women’s Club. 56 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 Kazakhstan to develop a business case and developing marketing we Community The Coca-Cola Belestery program, which started in 2013 strategies. Once they complete the training courses, in Kazakhstan, aims to develop entrepreneurship among young entrepreneurs get exposed to real business women. Our partners in the program are the Coalition management practices at selected companies, get to for Green Economy and Development of G-global and meet and talk to successful entrepreneurs, and then Public fund Social dynamics . The program provides become ready to access initial funds to start their business skills training and technical support to women businesses. Since the launch of the Program, seven new in Almaty and Astana on how to start and effectively run start-ups and 200 new jobs have been supported. a business. In March 2014, a new phase of Coca-Cola Belestery was launched in Astana with a round-table conference on addressing the employment problems of women in rural areas. Throughout 2014, the program focused on the development of female entrepreneurship in rural areas using green technologies. It provided business skills trainings and “green technologies” opportunities to around 3,400 women in 52 villages in the Almaty and Akmola regions. Additionally, 12 grants were given to the best business plans and business ideas proposed by the participants. Jordan CCBCJ partnered with Jordan Startup Weekends, an initiative established by a group of young students who conducted a series of workshops focusing on entrepreneurship and reached out to more than 1,600 participants over eight weekends. Startup Weekends hosted several key speakers, mentors and entrepreneurs during its implementation. Kazakhstan “Change the World Around You!” is a competition Youth Development program open to all students who aspire to become social The dynamic growth in CCI’s countries of operation entrepreneurs. The program, organized by the University requires a new generation of entrepreneurs, a of Central Asia’s School of Professional and Continuing new mindset, new approaches and new skills Education in collaboration with TCCC, has attracted that will drive the economy and improve the wellapplicants aged 19-28. Empowering young people for the being of communities. Development and economic country’s socio-economic development by reducing youth empowerment of youth is a key factor in achieving unemployment has been a key focus of the program. stronger communities. Together with local partners, we All applicants are invited to training sessions on how to encourage and support entrepreneurship among youth formulate a business idea, write a business plan and present it. Participants are also able to find solutions to a through education and skill-building. number of social issues through entrepreneurship. Azerbaijan In 2014 seven winners of the competition, who were In 2013 TCCC initiated its Youth Inc. Program, the goal selected based on the sustainability, feasibility, originality of which is to develop a new generation of young and social importance of their projects, received awards entrepreneurs who will establish and run successful businesses and become future leaders of the private at a ceremony held at the International Academy of sector in Azerbaijan. The program is supported by our Business in Almaty. The winning projects include incomeAzerbaijan operation and conducted in partnership with generating worm composting activities in Daulet village; Azerbaijan’s Ministry of Youth and Sports as well as with creating a resource book for the visually impaired; a the Debates in Civil Society Public Union. feature allowing university students to access printers from mobile phones; collection and recycling of The Program, consisting of five stages, is designed to plastic bottles in Almaty; a mini-sewing workshop for take place over five years. During the first phase of the employment of people with disabilities; a website to program, more than 2,000 young people participated inform young people about new opportunities through in 47 courses on various elements of business projects, competitions and events; and the purchase of management, such as how to start a business, how equipment for a training center in Semey town. 57 The Anadolu Foundation The Anadolu Foundation was established by Anadolu Group founders in 1979 with the aim of creating lasting works to serve where needed, focusing initially on education and health. The financial resources of the Anadolu Foundation are shaped entirely by donations from Anadolu Group companies. Group companies donate 1-5% of their earnings every year to the Foundation. As a Group company, CCI donates 3% of its Turkish pre-tax profits to the Anadolu Foundation. Mission: To make a difference in improving people’s quality of life by triggering development in education, health and social issues. In the field of education, the Foundation funded the Vision: To become a “Center of Excellence” in its region establishment of a conference and training center for by benefiting from globally innovative and pioneering the Efes Occupational and Technical High School in practices, with high social influence and corporate Kazan, Ankara. It continued to provide scholarships structure in social investments. to more than 1,000 students and provided financial support to maintain schools, hospitals and similar to those that were initially funded by the Foundation. In the last three years, the Anadolu Foundation has also been focusing on strategic community development approaches and initiatives. A mentoring program has been launched to create a sharing and learning platform between scholars and older generations. Through the “Young Social Entrepreneurs” project, which received funding from the “Financial Support for Children and Youth” program of the Istanbul Development Agency, young entrepreneurs In tandem with this mission and vision, the Anadolu have the possibility to develop their capacities Foundation: and develop joint projects with universities, local governments and NGOs. Within the framework of • Established more than 50 permanent buildings, the “My Dear Teacher” project conducted throughout including schools, dormitories, sports facilities, Turkey, more than 2,500 teachers and school university buildings, hospitals and community children attended more than 20 seminars on social healthcare centers. entrepreneurship and project development. The project • Provided scholarship to more than 20,000 students. offers the possibility for youth and teachers to develop • Established the Anadolu Health Center in sustainable solutions for their communities. cooperation with Johns Hopkins Medicine, which was selected as the best hospital in the United States 21 times in a row, and offered 85,000 physical examinations, 6,500 operations and 17,000 days of in-patient treatment as of the end of 2014. Anadolu Foundation 2014 Projects In the field of health, the Foundation offered free of charge to the patients in need 15,870 physical examinations, 1,957 operations and 5,776 days of inpatient treatment. Through the project “Healthy Children, Happy Future,” 2,200 children were reached, where For more information and annual report of the 6,380 physical examination, 1,500 circumcision, 250 Anadolu Foundation please visit: operations and 5,250 laboratory tests were provided. www.anadoluvakfi.org.tr/en 58 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 Environmental Protection CCBPL launched the Pani Clean Water Initiative to we Community It is essential for us to protect and enhance the address the critical issue of access to drinking water environment where we operate. We are working with in marginal communities suffering from an acute local communities and other local stakeholders on shortage of safe drinking water. The project aims to activities related to safe and sufficient water supply, local provide clean drinking water to over 500,000 people clean-up, and reforestation. across Pakistan. During the initial phase of the project, two filtration plants were built with contributions from Azerbaijan CCBPL, in partnership with Rotary International and In order to achieve its water replenishment targets and the Clean Water Trust, to provide clean and healthy contribute to environmental well-being of Azerbaijan, drinking water to the communities of Malir in Karachi Coca-Cola and ADA University launched a multi-annual and Youhanabad in Lahore. The Initiative was taken project in Azerbaijan entitled “Plant a Tree, Give a Gift to the next level by the signing of a MoU with WWFto Life.” The joint campaign envisages the planting of Pakistan in April 2015. As part of this new partnership, 100,000 trees, thus promoting massive afforestation CCBPL and WWF will install 15 filtration plants over the and reforestation in designated areas of the country in course of two years, with intensive community outreach order to preserve and replenish freshwater resources and mobilization opportunities. The initiative will be in Azerbaijan. The project started in 2014 and will be carried out in target areas selected on the basis of completed in 2020. 8,000 trees were planted in 2014. In clean water shortage, communities’ needs and their 2015, we plan to increase the number of trees planted to willing participation. Through the partnership, local 21,000. communities will be mobilized for capacity building and women’s empowerment regarding clean drinking water Jordan operations, and the concept of water stewardship will be CCBCJ collaborated with the Royal Society for the promoted. The communities will be selected according to Conservation of Nature on a series of clean-up their water situation, needs and level of participation in campaigns focusing on saving the environment in solving the issue. touristic areas and planting trees in cities. CCBCJ employees volunteered to join the clean-up campaigns and actively supported the Greater Amman Municipality and the Municipality of Madaba in the execution of the clean-ups and tree-planting projects. Kazakhstan CCI Kazakhstan operations (CCAB) launched a number of projects to address the issue of safe drinking water in rural areas. In four villages of Kazakhstan, about 2,000 people were provided with safe drinking water through improvement of the water supply system. More than 100,000 local people were informed about ways to use water efficiently, and hundreds of farmers were informed Turkey about water-saving technologies in agriculture. In Turkey, CCI supports the Coca-Cola Life Plus CCAB has initiated the Eco-cross Project, which aims Foundation in developing and implementing programs at encouraging collection of waste by separate to protect the environment. In 2014, the Foundation categories and thus contributing to environmental continued to conduct the “Life Plus Environment protection in Astana. The Eco-cross Project involves six Program,” which aims to foster a new approach to key universities, where 10,000 volunteers are gathered land and water management in line with adaptation to to become “eco-brigades.” The main objective of the climate change and decreasing water resources. eco-brigades is to stimulate students of the universities to collect plastic and paper waste separately. The teams Under the Life Plus Environment Program, two major will also compete with each other on the amount of projects have been launched: Agriculture of the Future and Night Irrigation at Harran. Through the Program, plastic waste they collect. 1.8 million liters of water in 13,000,000 m2 of agricultural Pakistan land was saved, and 100,000 saplings were planted as CCI Pakistan operations (CCBPL) collaborated with the a windbreak system in Konya Basin. The Program has Punjab Forestry Department to plant 30,000 trees in reached 1,415 people, including farmers, public and Lahore. Several employees participated to kick-start NGO representatives, and academicians. (For detailed the plantation in Jallo, a national park situated in the information on these projects see the “World” section of outskirts of Lahore. this report.) 59 The Coca-Cola Life Plus Volunteerism Foundation In Turkey, CCI supports the efforts of the Coca-Cola With the aim of integrating social responsibility Life Plus Foundation, which was founded in 2009 into Company culture and encouraging employee in Turkey. The Foundation has been conducting volunteerism in support of community development projects in partnership with about 135 NGOs, programs, in 2013 we launched the CCI Volunteers universities and public institutions in order to have initiative and began establishing Employee and Families an impact at the national level. In every project, Volunteering Clubs in the countries of operation. Through the Foundation focuses on public benefit, enabling the CCI Volunteers Initiative, we use our system muscle, stakeholder participation to ensure environmental as well as our people skills and passions, to build and social sustainability. stronger communities. The Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation has conducted more than 65 projects in more than 50 cities CCI Community Champions Awards in Turkey, reaching about 400,000 people and Encouraging and supporting employee volunteerism investing more than TL 26 million in social and is one of the building blocks of CCI’s organizational environmental development since 2009. culture. We hold our annual Community Champions The Foundation contributes to the sustainability of Award Program to acknowledge and reward communities and the environment via two main CCI employees who actively participate and initiatives: the “Life Plus Environment Program” and engage others in social projects that support local “Let’s Play.” (Please see the Chapters “world” and communities. Launched in 2010, CCI’s Community “me” for detailed information on respective topics.) Champions Awards Program celebrated new winners for 2014. Award winners for 2014 were recognized for various projects, such as providing free educational facilities to under-privileged students from urban and rural areas of Pakistan in order to help eliminate child labor; establishing libraries and distributing gifts to school children in Turkey; and founding a shelter home for needy blind women in order to provide them with basic vocational education. Azerbaijan Coastal Clean-up: In 2014, CCI Azerbaijan operations (ACCB) organized an initiative called Coastal Clean-up for the fifth time in Azerbaijan to help eradicate litter and debris from its Caspian Sea coast. ACCB attracted 400 people to participate, including associates, their friends and families, and volunteers – all from different age groups. Participants collected more than two tons of trash and covered more than two miles of coastline. Jordan Clean-up: CCI Jordan operations (CCBCJ) organized the Madaba Clean-up campaign, in collaboration with the city of Madaba and the Jordanian group “For a Better Jordan,” to clean the touristic areas in Madaba. Around For more information: www.hayataarti.org 100 volunteers participated in the campaign, 10 of whom were from CCBCJ. 60 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 Partnership with Food Bank: After having delivered Pakistan we Community monthly food packages to more than 900 families in Humanitarian Aid in Pakistan: Monsoon rains in 2014, Jordanian Food Bank and CCBCJ extended their Pakistan have left a trail of large-scale devastation partnership and launched a new winter campaign to across Punjab and Sindh. Thousands of households provide clothing and shelter for families in need and for in rural areas have been washed away. As part of its refugees in Jordan. The campaign’s scope was extended commitment to disaster relief, CCI Pakistan operations in 2015 to include nine out of 11 provinces in Jordan. The has donated over 150,000 liters of water to internally campaign is organized in collaboration with the Greater displaced people and to victims of earthquake and flood Amman Municipality and was announced publicly to a in Pakistan. large audience. It was also covered by local media and People of Substance Aspire to Inspire: In a bid to kickTV channels in order to encourage more Jordanians to start 2015, CCI Pakistan operations decided to invite all volunteer and participate in the campaign. of its employees across its seven territories in Pakistan to School Adoption Project: For more than a year, CCBCJ an event aimed at making people stop and think about employees have been maintaining the infrastructure of things around them. Called “People of Substance,” this Om Ayman School as well as standing in as trainers as event was a forum where people with disabilities from a part of its School Adoption Project, held in conjunction different walks of life were invited to talk about their with non-profit organization INJAZ. Dedicated employees experiences. recently completed a final project at the school, which included painting the school’s perimeter fence and Turkey CCI employees from Turkish plants participated in a fullpainting graffiti drawings related to health and safety in day training on volunteerism, where they gained knowa school environment. how in developing social responsibility projects. Kazakhstan In 2014 each of the Employee and Families Volunteering “All wishes will come true” concert: CCI Kazakhstan Clubs conducted at least one social responsibility project operations (CCAB) was sponsor of a charity concert called or community welfare activity based on the local needs “All wishes will come true.” This was an unusual concert of the communities in which we have plants. About 20 where the artists were orphan, disabled and autistic volunteer events were organized that, among other children. The aim of the concert was to show children things, supported primary schools in disadvantageous and parents that there are children with limited physical regions; contributed to the social development of children and mental conditions living among us, and that it is very through the Social Services and Child Protection Agency; important to interact with them. supported disabled young people in integrating into social Children’s Day: Every year volunteers of CCAB celebrate life; gave applied training at vocational high schools; Children’s Day on the 1st of June with disabled children in visited the elderly at old people’s homes; donated blood; the Almaty region and from the oncology center. and increased environmental awareness. 61 Economic Impact At CCI, we create direct and indirect economic impacts in the countries where we operate. To measure our economic contribution, we conduct economic impact assessment studies. Economic Impact of Coca-Cola in Turkey include the impact on customers, or a total of 118,000 jobs TCCC has been a powerful contributor to Turkey, (corresponding to 0.51% of Turkey’s overall employment) if providing a wide range of economic and social benefits. you take into account the full indirect impact. It not only makes strong contributions to Turkey’s The Coca-Cola System is a driving force in Turkey’s macroeconomic indicators but also improves the agriculture industry, where it contributed TL 685 million to country’s social and environmental welfare. GDP in 2012, and generated income for 145,000 farmers through its beet sugar, corn sugar, and juice concentrate Every 1 TL of value created by Coca-Cola Turkey translated purchases. into TL 6.8 for the Turkish economy. In addition, the Coca-Cola system enabled 20,000 full-time jobs through Coca-Cola Turkey’s presence with local retailers enabled its core operations and suppliers, or 77,000 jobs if you TL 2.5 billion of added value to be created. Every TL 1 generated by the Coca-Cola System in Turkey 1 TL yields TL 6.8 in the economy. 6.8 TL Coca-Cola Turkey System Coca-Cola Turkey + Coca-Cola İçecek Enables TL 2.5 billion value added in the retail business, supporting the industry. 62 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 The Coca-Cola System we Community enables a direct, indirect and induced employment impact of 1 = Represents 1,000 people. 118,000 people. Coca-Cola System represents 0.51 percent of total employment in Turkey. Created TL 685 million value added in the agriculture industry in 2012. The Coca-Cola System is one of the largest purchasers of The Coca-Cola fruit juice System enables a direct, indirect and induced concentrate employment impact of in Turkey. Generated income for 1 = Represents 1,000 people. 145,000 farmers. Note: “Overall impact calculation methodology including bottom-up calculations with targeted Input/Output multipliers” was used during the study which was 118,000 people. conducted by Mckinsey. Economic Impact of Coca-Cola Beverages Administration in Karachi and the Lahore University Pakistan of Management Sciences in Lahore. According to the Coca-Cola CCI Pakistan System operations (CCBPL) conducted0.51 represents percent ofresults totalofemployment an Economic the study, CCBPL’s output multiplier is 4.9, in Turkey. which means that its injection of PKR 10 billion generates Impact Study for the first time and presented the PKR 49 billion in the economy. CCBPL employs over results at the third Pakistan-US Business Opportunities 5,000 people directly and over 70,000 indirectly through Conference held in Islamabad in March 2015. The its value chain. A diverse range of sectors benefit from conference was inaugurated by Pakistan’s Minister of the production and distribution of CCBPL’s products, Finance, its Minister of Commerce and the US Secretary including the plastic, motor-vehicles, electricity, business of Commerce, and was attended by more than 300 services, trade, food, and agriculture sectors. According guests. to the study, CCBPL’s tax multiplier is 1.65, and since July The study was jointly conducted by research teams from 2009 it has contributed over PKR 47 billion in taxes to the two leading business schools, the Institute of Business Pakistani economy. 63 world Our Environmental Approach Goals and Commitments Energy Management and Climate Protection Water Management Sustainable Packaging and Waste 64 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 Protecting the environment world Minimizing our environmental impact by using fewer operate and in line with TCCC standards. All CCI plants, natural resources and generating less waste are among except water bottling plants, are required to obtain our top priorities. This approach is essential for the emissions permits according to the Air Pollution Control sustainability of our business as well as for the sustainability Regulation in five countries of operation. SOx, NOx, dust, and welfare of the communities in which we operate. CO and CO2 values are measured and reported to the regulatory authorities periodically. In 2014 there was no non-compliance at our plants on emissions to air. Emissions from our plants are both quantitatively and qualitatively insignificant given the sector in which we operate. Therefore, based on the materiality assessment conducted in 2014, we decided not to include detailed data on emissions in this report. Regarding biodiversity, our bottling plants are located in industrial zones, urban areas and in areas that do not have high biodiversity value. CCI Turkey operations are exempt from the environmental impact assessment (EIA) Our Environmental Approach commonly required by environmental legislation in Turkey. At CCI, we fully implement TCCC’s environmental policy Our environmental approach is based on the hierarchy and support projects conducted by the Coca-Cola Life Plus of prevention pollution, reduction, reuse and recycle. Foundation that focus on conservation of eco-systems. (For With our continuous efforts to minimize water further details see the “water” section of this report.) consumption, reduce our total carbon footprint and the amount of waste we produce in our operations, and At the end of 2014 we revised our sustainability conserve natural resources, we aim to deliver on our governance structure, which will be operational in sustainability commitments and inspire other companies 2015. The Operational Sustainability Group, which in our industry with our performance. reports to the CCI Sustainability Steering Committee, will be responsible for setting annual targets, reviewing In line with our environmental management approach, quarterly performance on KPIs and approval of data we have identified three main focus areas: for disclosure. Under this Group, we established two • Energy Efficiency and Climate Protection working groups to manage environmental issues: the • Water Stewardship Turkey Water and Environment Working Group, and • Sustainable Packaging and Waste the Turkey Climate Change and Energy Working Group. Environmental Management These working groups are responsible for, among other things, supporting the development of the contents of the In managing our environmental aspects, we are guided Sustainability Report as well as the CDP Climate Change first and foremost by legal requirements, and then by and CDP Water reports. In 2014 environment investment TCCC standards and industrial practices. In all of our and expenses totaled to $ 450,000 in Turkey. operations, we establish environmental management systems in order to monitor and improve our We believe that creating environmental awareness in our environmental performance. workplace plays an important role in helping us achieve our ambitious environmental targets. In 2014 we provided As of the end of 2014, all existing plants of CCI except 3,698 man-hours of environmental training to our for those in South Iraq, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan employees in Turkey, Jordan, Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan. (planned for 2015-16) hold ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Certificates. While complying with local legislation and TCCC Standards, we also engage Total Man-hours of Environment 2013 2014 with our stakeholders to learn about their expectations, Training and we try hard to respond to their expectations Turkey 2,490 3,342 regarding minimizing our environmental impact. Jordan 80 34 In addition to our main focus areas, namely energy Kazakhstan 63 98 and water use, GHG emissions, packaging and waste, Azerbaijan 79 224 we also monitor and manage our emissions in line TOTAL 2,712 3,698 with the national regulations of the countries where we 65 Key performance data In line with our priority areas, we keep track of four KPIs, of which performance in 2014 and targets for 2020 are provided in the table below. Key Performance Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Indicators 2014 2020 2014 2020 2014 2020 2014 2020 Target Target Target Target Energy use ratio* (MJ/L) 0.26** 0.23 0.41 0.35 0.40 0.24 0.39 0.30 GHG ratio *** (g CO2-e/L) 27.92 28.54 55.89 50.00 49.85 30.00 71.82 55.00 Water use ratio (L/L) 1.41** 1.20 2.04 1.50 1.55 1.25 1.82 1.40 Total waste recycling rate (%) 96.66 98.00 90.45 95.00 91.70 96.00 94.00 98.00 * Refers only to filling (core) operations in the plants, and excludes energy use for preform injection and CO2 production processes at plants in Turkey, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. ** These figures have received limited assurance from the independent assurance firm, EY. *** This figure refers to GHG emissions of CCI plants, excluding emissions from sales and fleet operations, divided by total production in liters. Note: For a more detailed description of these KPIs, see the Reporting Guidance section of this report. Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2014 Goals Performance in 2014 Status 2015 Goals Energy Efficiency To obtain, at a minimum, the Our Elazığ plant received the A To achieve the following energy use LEED Gold certification. LEED Gold certificate in the ratios: environmentally friendly buildings 0.26 MJ/L for Turkey rating system “LEED v2009 Existing 0.39 MJ/L for Jordan Buildings,” the first within the global 0.31 MJ/L for Kazakhstan Coca-Cola system ever to receive 0.39 MJ/L for Azerbaijan this. To establish energy management To achieve the following The results achieved: systems in Jordan, Azerbaijan energy use ratios: Kazakhstan by 2017. 0.25 MJ/L for Turkey 0.26* MJ/L in Turkey P 0.39 MJ/L for Jordan 0.41 MJ/L in Jordan P To initiate extended piloting of energy 0.32 MJ/L for Kazakhstan 0.40 MJ/L in Kazakhstan N excellence & Behavioral Energy Efficiency 0.40 MJ/L for Azerbaijan 0.39 MJ/L in Azerbaijan A Program in Bursa, İzmir & Çorlu plants. To establish energy We are working on developing an O management systems energy management system in in Jordan, Azerbaijan Jordan, Azerbaijan Kazakhstan. Kazakhstan by 2017. GHG Emissions To achieve a carbon The following results were achieved: To achieve a carbon emissions ratio of: emissions ratio of: 27 CO2 g/L in Turkey In Turkey 27.92 CO2 g/L P 27.5 CO2 g/L in Turkey 45 CO2 g/L in Kazakhstan In Kazakhstan 49.85 CO2 g/L N 45.0 CO2 g/L in Kazakhstan 60 CO2 g/L in Azerbaijan In Azerbaijan 71.82 CO2 g/L N 70.0 CO2 g/L in Azerbaijan In Jordan 55.89 CO2 g/L 52.0 CO2 g/L in Jordan To ensure that 100% of In Turkey the HFC-free cooler ratio O To ensure that 100% of all new cooler all new cooler equipment was 59%, thereby reducing the equipment purchased is HFC-free by end purchased is HFC-free by end fugitive GHG emissions by 294 tons. of 2015 (depending on the availability of of 2015 (depending on the the coolers). availability of the coolers). To increase our EMD-equipped coolers to To increase the share of our We increased our EMD-equipped A 89% of the total in 2016 in Turkey. coolers that are equipped coolers to 84% of the total in Turkey. with Energy Management Devices (EMDs) to 84% in 2014 and 89% in 2016 in Turkey. A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved * This figure has received limited assurance from the independent assurance firm EY. 66 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 world Priority Areas 2014 Goals Performance in 2014 Status 2015 Goals Water To continue water reuse, Our Izmir Plant conducted a water A To conduct second SVA study at the Stewardship reduce and recycle projects mapping study. Ankara, Mersin, Bakü, Lahore and Rahim to achieve our annual water As a result of water minimization Yar Khan plants. use ratio target. projects implemented, we achieved approximately 40,300 m3 water To achieve a water use ratio of: savings in Turkey, 20,000 m3 savings 1.36 L/L in Turkey in Kazakhstan and 575,000 m3 1.90 L/L in Jordan savings in Pakistan. 1.54 L/L in Kazakhstan A source vulnerability assessment 1.81 L/L in Azerbaijan (SVA) study was conducted at the Çorlu and Izmir plants. To submit our second CDP Water Program report. To achieve a water use The following results were achieved: ratio of: 1.41* L/L in Turkey P 1.40 L/L in Turkey 2.04 L/L in Jordan N 1.80 L/L in Jordan 1.55 L/L in Kazakhstan A 1.63 L/L in Kazakhstan 1.82 L/L in Azerbaijan P 1.80 L/L in Azerbaijan To submit a report to the CDP We submitted our first report to the A Water Program. CDP Water Program. Packaging and To continue implementing In Azerbaijan we saved 481 tons O To conduct a benchmark study covering Waste “Lightweight” and “Short of resin in preform thanks to all CCI countries of operation to map Neck” projects in Azerbaijan. “Lightweight” and “Short Neck” the amount of resin used for all sizes projects. In addition, by implementing of bottles and to share among the To start “Lightweight” and “Short Neck” projects, we decreased plants any best practices of lightweight “Short Neck” projects in the cap weight from 3.25 g to 2.45 applications. Jordan in 2015. g, resulting in savings of 175 tons of resin at our suppliers. To start “Lightweight” and “Short Neck” projects in Jordan in 2015. To save a minimum of We saved 27 tons of resin in 330-ml P 50 tons of resin with Damla bottles by implementing a To continue saving resin by replacing a “Lightweight” projects in 330“Lightweight” project. part of the resin with PlantBottle resin. ml Damla bottles in Turkey. To produce all 330-ml and 1-L Damla To increase returnable glass We converted an additional 3.5 A water bottles in Turkey using PlantBottle bottles to around five million million non-returnable bottles to resin. in Turkey. returnable bottles in Turkey. In total, 302.8 million returnable bottles were To achieve a total waste ratio of: sold in Turkey in 2014. 4.60 g/L in Turkey 2.20 g/L in Jordan To produce a portion of After obtaining permits from A 1.80 g/L in Kazakhstan Damla water bottles using regulatory authorities, we started 2.01 g/L in Azerbaijan PlantBottle resin. producing 330-ml Damla water bottles in Turkey by using PlantBottle To reduce the weight of 200 ml OWB from resin. 150 g to 140 g in Turkey by 2015. To achieve a total waste We achieved: To reduce 200 ml RGB from 230 g to 185 ratio of: g in Turkey by 2016. 4.5 g/L in Turkey 4.77 g/L in Turkey N 13.0 g/L in Jordan 3.29 g/L in Jordan A 1.6 g/L in Kazakhstan 1.82 g/L in Kazakhstan N 1.0 g/L in Azerbaijan 2.06 g/L in Azerbaijan N Environmental 100% compliance with legal Turkey, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan and P 100% compliance with legal Compliance** environmental limits and Pakistan plants achieved this goal. environmental limits and TCCC’s TCCC’s standards. Jordan was unable to comply with standards. waste water treatment specification, but corrective action was taken. A Achieved P Partial O Ongoing N Not Achieved * This figure has received limited assurance from the independent assurance firm EY. **Environmental compliance in air emissions, wastewater discharge, noise, waste management, environmental reporting etc. 67 Energy Management and Climate Protection Energy management and climate protection are a • Constructing new plants in line with green building priority in our sustainability strategy. We strive to reduce standards our energy consumption and GHG emissions both to • Calculating, verifying and reporting accurate data on achieve better financial performance and to contribute to the carbon footprint of our operations global efforts to combat climate change. • Preparing to calculate the carbon footprint of our There is a scientific consensus that global climate products change is occurring and that human-caused GHG • Researching and investing in clean and renewable emissions are a contributing factor. The implications of energy where possible climate change for our planet are profound and wide• Promoting climate protection awareness ranging, with expected impacts on energy and water resources, agriculture and biodiversity. As a bottling company in the Coca-Cola system, we recognize that LEED Certification for Elazığ Plant climate change may have long-term direct and indirect The U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy & implications for our business and supply chain. As a Environmental Design (LEED) program, which recognizes outstanding “green building” projects, awarded responsible company, we have a role to play in ensuring CCI Turkey’s Elazığ plant with its Gold Certificate for that we use the best possible mix of energy sources, environmentally friendly buildings, a first for any CCI plant improve the energy efficiency of our manufacturing among all Coca-Cola plants worldwide. processes and reduce the potential climate impact of the products we sell. At CCI, we set ambitious reduction targets for energy GHG Emissions Management use and GHG emissions, identify and implement energy While advancing towards our 2020 growth targets, we reduction measures, and explore low-carbon technology also take firm steps to track and minimize our carbon alternatives to achieve these targets. We systematically footprint, a measure that is essential for the sustainability seek measures to reduce our energy consumption and of the environment as well as of our business. Since 2011, related GHG emissions during production (packaging, we have been submitting annual comprehensive reports transportation and cooling processes) while improving to the CDP Climate Change Program on our climate efficiency and quality. change strategy and GHG emissions. The newly established Energy and Climate Protection According to a study conducted by Coca-Cola Enterprises Work Group in Turkey consists of energy managers at for its 2013/14 Sustainability Report, ingredients and plants as well as representatives from CCI Corporate packaging account for around 69% of the total GHG Affairs, Purchasing, Logistics, Cooling Equipment, footprint of our products as they move along the value Administrative Affairs, TCCC Public Affairs, and chain. Manufacturing and distribution account for a total Environmental and Occupational Health (EOSH) functions. of 14%, while refrigeration accounts for another 17%. We The responsibilities of the Work Group include, among focus our emissions reduction efforts on the value chain other things, preparing strategies and road maps with processes where we have the most control, namely regard to energy use reduction and climate protection; manufacturing, distribution, refrigeration and, to a lesser submitting these strategies and their budgets to top degree, packaging and ingredients. management for approval; and collecting and reporting data on GHG emissions. The Coca-Cola System launched a global initiative in Our energy management and climate protection strategy 2013 called “Reduce the CO2 emissions embedded in the drink in your hand by 25% by 2020” aimed at reducing focuses on the following: GHG emissions across its entire value chain. At CCI, • Increasing the energy efficiency of our plants and we are aligning our climate protection target with this offices, thereby reducing GHG emissions overall target in order to achieve comprehensive carbon • Reducing logistics-based emissions with effective fleet footprint reductions across our manufacturing processes, and fuel management practices packaging formats, delivery fleet, refrigeration • Reducing indirect emissions by focusing on our equipment and ingredient sourcing. This is a comprehensive approach, since the goal covers Scope 1, climate-friendly refrigeration applications 2 and 3 emissions. Our goal for Turkey operations is to • Increasing awareness of climate protection by achieve 144.7 g CO2/l GHG emissions by 2020 covering collaborating with our distributors, dealers, suppliers manufacturing, fleet and cooler functions. and other stakeholders 68 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 GHG Emissions in Turkey efficiency improvements in coolers; and the decrease in For three consecutive years at our Turkey operations, production volume. world we have had our GHG emissions externally verified by In 2013, in addition to reporting CO2 emissions due to a third-party auditing company, SGS, in line with the electricity consumption by coolers, we also calculated requirements of the ISO 14064-3. The carbon footprint and reported more of our Scope 3 emissions for Turkey calculations cover emissions from our plants, offices and for the first time, including emissions from domestic and vehicle fleet in Turkey, which follows the requirements of international air travel, employee commuting, product ISO 14064-1. Our total absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG distribution by third parties (excluding distributors) and emissions in Turkey were verified as 108,777 tons of CO2electricity use by coolers at our customers’ operations. equivalent emissions (CO2-e) for 2014, 3% lower than the 112,094 tons in 2013. This reduction was achieved as a In 2014, we changed the methodology to calculate result of the energy efficiency projects we implemented emissions due to transportation, and restated 2013 (approximately 2,030 tons of CO2-e) and the decrease in figures for the categories of employee commuting, production volume. More specifically, the decrease was business travel and downstream transportation. (In 2014 due to implementation of route optimization for our fleet; we started to use WRI/WBSCD GHG Protocol’s “GHG a recalculation of third-party fleet emissions; an increase emissions from transport or mobile sources” tool, version in the use of video-conferencing; restrictions on business 2.6 of May 2015, and calculated business and economy travels; implementation of energy-saving projects; flights separately for domestic and international flights.) GHG Emissions in Turkey (tons of CO2-e) 2012 18,309 11,661 19,474 64,212 338,381 24,617 n/a n/a 10% 14% 76% Scope 1 Scope 1+2 Scope 1+2+3 TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL 49,444 113,656 476,654 1,314 14,517 15,145* 19,555 62,877 328,628 9,668 37,415 2013 10% 13% 77% Scope 1 Scope 1+2 Scope 1+2+3 TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL 49,217 112,094 489,119** 1,157 4,733 2014 14,283 16,012 17,123 61,359 321,162 33,385 10% 13% 77% Scope 1 Scope 1+2 Scope 1+2+3 TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL 47,418 108,777 469,214 0 100.000 200.000 300.000 400.000 500.000 Scope 1 Stationary combustion emissions Scope 3 Cooler Scope 1 Fleet emissions Scope 3 Employee commuting Scope 1 Fugitive emissions from coolers and cooling systems Scope 3 Business travel Scope 2 Emissions (electricity) Scope 3 Downstream transportation * Scope 1 data related to fleet emissions are restated for 2013 due to changes in the methodology used during ISO 14064-3 audits. ** Scope 3 data related to transportation, employee commuting and business travel are restated for 2013 due to changes in the methodology used. Note: Since 2012, third-party auditing company SGS has verified CCI’s Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions for all of its operational facilities in Turkey according to the requirements of ISO 14064-1. 69 GHG Emissions in the Five Countries of Operation GHG Emissions (tons of CO2-e) 2012 2013 2014 Turkey Scope 1 49,444* 49,217* 47,418* Scope 2 64,212* 62,877* 61,359* Jordan Scope 1 1,873 786 866 Scope 2 3,203 3,412 3,990 Kazakhstan Scope 1 8,276 9,597 18,734 Scope 2 8,929 10,553 10,133 Azerbaijan Scope 1 6,454 5,335 9,215 Scope 2 8,319 10,399 8,817 Pakistan Scope 1 n/a n/a 35,554 Scope 2 n/a n/a 27,095 TOTAL Scope 1 66,047 64,935 111,787 Scope 2 84,663 87,241 111,394 OVERALL TOTAL 150,710 152,176 223,181 * Data on Turkey for 2012, 2013 and 2014 are verified by SGS according to the requirements of ISO 14064-1. Note: Figures in the table above include emissions from all processes, including filling, preform injection, CO2 production and electricity production (only in Kazakhstan) at our plants. In all CCI countries except Turkey, emissions from fleet and fugitive emissions are excluded. In addition to monitoring total emissions for each country Management System, the OE model and corporate KPIs of operation, we also monitor our GHG emissions ratio, related to operational plans. which represents grams of CO2-e per liter of product All of our plants in Turkey have been rewarded with produced. This ratio includes all Scope 1 and 2 emissions TS EN 50001 Energy Management System certificates. as included in the table above. In Azerbaijan, the GHG In other countries of operation, we continue to lay the emissions ratio has increased due to the start-up of “hot foundations for robust energy management systems. fill” operations, which consume more energy and crystal CCI’s senior management monitors and evaluates sugar. the performance results related to energy use. Energy coordinators implement the Energy Management System GHG Emissions 2012 2013 2014 at the plants in Turkey. Ratio (g CO2-e/L) Turkey 28.52 28.47 27.92 For our plants, we report our energy use in two categories. The first category is energy use for core Jordan 55.31 54.76 55.89 operations, namely bottling, while the second category Kazakhstan 41.07 39.22 49.85 includes all processes at the plants. For the purpose Azerbaijan 62.55 69.38 71.82 of benchmarking among plants, the figures for energy TCCC 37.81 37.10 36.89 use ratios (EURs) are calculated based only on the “core operations” values. For 2014, data related to total energy use as well as EUR for Pakistan are included in this year’s Energy Management at Plants report. The EUR value for Pakistan is calculated as 0.52 Processes related to energy consumption are managed MJ/L for 2014. (This figure has received limited assurance within the framework of CCI’s Energy Management from the independent auditing firm EY.) For detailed data System, in line with the ISO 14001 Environmental on energy use, see the “Performance Indicators” section Management System, the ISO 50001 Energy of this report. 70 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 world Energy Use for Core Operations (Million MJ) 2012* 2013* 2014 Turkey 720.91 709.66 712.23* Jordan 36.51 31.38 35.62 Kazakhstan 112.05 225.92 231.62 Azerbaijan 83.94 93.47 97.92 Pakistan n/a n/a 298.20* TOTAL 953.41 1,060.43 1,374.20 * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. Note: These figures exclude energy use for pre-form injection and CO2 production processes at plants in Turkey, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. Energy use for the electricity manufacturing process, which is present only at our Kazakhstan plant, is included in the 2013 and 2014 data. Energy Use Ratio (EUR) (MJ/L) Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan 1.12 0.47 0.44 0.41 0.39 0.41 0.40 0.72 0.67 0.28 0.41 0.39 0.26 0.26 0.26 0.26* 2006 2012* 2013* 2014 * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. At our Jordan, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan plants, we managed to reduce our EUR compared to 2006. In Turkey energy-efficiency has been a top priority at plants, where major improvement measures have already been completed. Additionally, due to new acquisitions, the start-up of new processes and lines, our product portfolio, and the start-up of “hot fill” operations, which consume more energy and crystal sugar in Turkey, the EUR values show a steady trend. Improvements in EURs between 2006 and 2014 (MJ/L) 2006 0.26 Turkey 2014 0.26* 2006 1.12 Jordan 2014 0.41 2006 0.72 Kazakhstan 2014 0.40 2006 0.67 Azerbaijan 2014 0.39 2006 0.49 TCCC 2014 0.42 0 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00 1.25 * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. 71 Energy and GHG Emissions Reduction Within the scope of the OE Program conducted in CCI plants, we identify and implement projects to reduce our energy consumption and decrease our GHG emissions. In Turkey, through OE projects related to energy efficiency, we achieved a total reduction of 28 million MJ of energy and 1,890 tons of GHG emissions. Energy saved and GHG 2013 2014 emissions reduced due to OE projects Energy (MJ) GHG Energy (MJ) GHG Monetary Emissions Emissions Saving ($) (tons of CO2) (tons of CO2) in 2014 Turkey 46,785,900 4,767 28,449,667 1,890 1,959,921 Jordan 910,560 108 4,671,332 515 112,605 Kazakhstan 2,148,329 224 8,987,850 1,499 40,958 Azerbaijan 118,340 11 822,807 59 22,209 Pakistan 5,697,333 560 11,112,062 674 529,329 TOTAL 55,660,462 5,670 54,093,718 4,637 2,665,022 Through the OE projects conducted at our Turkey, GHG Emissions Reductions in Turkey Kazakhstan, Jordan, Azerbaijan and Pakistan plants, In 2014, due to the various projects we implemented, we we achieved total annual energy savings of 54,1 million achieved a GHG emissions reduction of 181,976 tons of MJ, a reduction of 4,637 tons of CO2 emissions. Details CO2-e in Turkey. are shown in the table below. The total cost of energy reduction investments totaled to $694,363. Major 2014 Emissions Savings in Turkey Scope Amount energy-efficiency projects and savings in 2014 were: (tons of CO2-e) • In Turkey, we installed an exhaust gas analyzer to measure the concentrations of emissions and adjusted HFC emissions Scope 1 294 burners on the boiler for optimal combustion. reduction in coolers • In Turkey, we installed the Flash Steam Recovery system in our condensate collection system and saved significant amount of natural gas. Product distribution Scope 1 366 fleet improvement • In Turkey, we decreased the slurry pastor temperatures and saved of energy. • In Jordan, we installed a new LED lights for all locations. Fugitive emissions Scope 1 299 • In Azerbaijan, we implemented projects such reductions in as installation of automatic sensors in plant coolers lighting systems, optimization of the cooling water temperature of the blower machine and improvement Energy efficiency Scope 1+2 2,030 of pasteurization equipment in the control system. and low-carbon • In Pakistan, we modified and optimized parameters projects at plants for the blowing process to reduce breakdowns and improve line efficiency; replaced conventional lights Video-conferencing Scope 1+3 2,937 with efficient LEDs; provided combustion control with oxygen trim for boilers; and carried out many other projects to improve energy efficiency. Route optimization Scope 3 1,050 Renewable Energy Pilot Project at Izmir Plant In 2014 we implemented a pilot project where we installed photovoltaic solar system and a wind turbine Cooler EMD Scope 3 175,000 to provide energy to one of the production lines. This improvement installation produced about 3,000 kWh of energy in 2014, and we shared our experiences during this pilot implementation with other CCI plants. Total 181,976 72 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 Transportation and Logistics well as from leaking refrigerants. Therefore, reducing the We transport millions of goods and products from amount of energy consumed per refrigerator and switching world to HFC-free cooling equipment that contain refrigerants with our suppliers to our plants, and from our plants low global warming potential are important elements of our to our customers and distributors. CCI’s extensive 2020 energy management and climate protection targets. logistics network means that sales and distribution of our products, together, form the largest part of our operations. As such, optimization of logistics is crucial to our business performance. In addition, transportation accounts for about 7% of the total GHG emissions of our value chain. We continuously seek opportunities to increase our fuel efficiency and decrease our GHG emissions by minimizing the daily number of vehicle movements and the daily kilometers driven. In this context, we developed the “Route Optimization Project” in 2013 to further improve route planning for our sales and distribution teams. There are two subcategories of Route Optimization: Sales Route Optimization and Distribution Energy Management Device (EMD) Route Optimization. Program Since 2009 we have been working on our EMD Program to To support our efforts, we use a technological reduce GHG emissions resulting from electricity consumed platform called “Road Net,” which we established by our cooling equipment. Coolers equipped with EMDs for our Turkey operations in 2013. As of 2014, our 64 use about 42% less energy than conventional models. distributors use this platform in Turkey. In 2014 we also implemented Road Net for our five direct distribution As a commitment within our EMD Program, we purchase points. Additionally, we continued to test delivery route new coolers that are larger than 250 liters and equipped optimization software for use in Kazakhstan and Jordan. with an EMD. In addition, we convert our customers’ nonWe aim to start the software installation process for EMD coolers to EMD-fitted coolers. By the end of 2014, these two countries of operation in 2015. According to some 84% of our coolers in Turkey were equipped with our estimates, using Road Net in Turkey will result in a EMDs, an improvement over 77% in 2013. In Azerbaijan, reduction of 1.35 million km driven and approximately Jordan and Kazakhstan we have also been installing 1,050 tons of CO2 emissions, as well as $650,000 in fuel EMDs in existing coolers, the ratios of which are available savings. in the table below. In addition to minimizing the daily number of vehicle movements and the daily kilometers driven, we prefer EMD Ratios (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 vehicles with lower fuel consumption and carbon Turkey 35 59 77 84 emissions. In 2014 we replaced five trucks from the Jordan 5 5 5 5 year 2005 with 2014 models with Euro 5 motors, which helped us reduce CO2 emissions by 2% compared to the Kazakhstan 12 19 29 29 previous year. This reduction corresponds to about 365.7 Azerbaijan 50 50 50 50 tons of CO2-e. Cooling Practices EMD-Equipped Coolers in Turkey For the consumer to enjoy the best experience, it is 2009 2% important to serve most of our products cold. We have around 296,000 pieces of cooling equipment in Turkey 2010 13% alone and a total of about 600,000 in the four countries 2011 35% of operation. Cooler equipment is owned by Coca-Cola 2012 59% Satış ve Dağıtım A.S. (Sales Operations) but operated by our customers. 2013 77% Cooling equipment is a large source of GHG emissions 2014 84% in our value chain, accounting for about 17% of the total. 0 50 100 The GHG emissions result from electricity consumption as 73 As a result of the EMD program, in 2014 we reduced 2014 we achieved emission reductions of 299 tons of CO2 our energy consumption from refrigeration by with eco-friendly coolers (an amount equivalent to the approximately 381 million kWh and our of CO2 emissions contribution of 935 trees to the environment). by approximately 175,000 tons (equivalent to the amount of CO2 that 14.6 million trees extract annually from the environment) in Turkey. These results placed CCI among HFC-free cooling equipment in Turkey those companies that are closest to realizing the 2015 2009 0% refrigerator inventory goals within TCCC. 2010 11% Between 2009 and 2014, our EMD program in Turkey 2011 27% resulted in a total energy savings of about 1,123 million kWh (equal to the annual energy consumption of 197,000 2012 40% households) and a total reduction of approximately 2013 57% 515,000 tons of CO2 emissions (equal to the amount of CO2 that 43 million trees extract annually from the 2014 59% atmosphere). 0 50 100 In 2014, thanks to the EMD program, we managed to save approximately 402 million kWh electricity in the four countries of operation, resulting in a CO2 reduction of approximately 185,000 tons (equal to the amount Green IT Practices of CO2 that 15 million trees extract annually from the Integrated Communication and atmosphere). We will continue our efforts to reduce CO2 Cooperation Platform emissions resulting from our coolers. For detailed CO2 To tackle the challenge of operating in different emissions data see the “Performance Indicators” section languages, time zones and geographical locations, it is of this report. of importance to create an integrated communication More Efficient Lighting and cooperation platform that at the same time To reduce electricity consumption of coolers, in addition maximizes employee efficiency and supports our vision to using EMDs we have been switching to LED lighting of growth. Functions of the platform include e-mailing, systems, which reduce in-equipment lighting by 80%. As instant messaging, corporate portal, corporate of the end of 2014, approximately 85,000 of our coolers documentation and content management, employee in Turkey were equipped with LED lighting systems. and position searching, personal information, and individual and collective audio-visual communication. HFC-Free Coolers Hydroflorocarbons (HFCs) used as refrigerants in coolers Major benefits of this integrated platform include are known to contribute to global climate change. improvements in work-life balance thanks to fewer Together with its bottling partners, TCCC has established business trips, and risk reduction resulting from lower a goal that 100% of new cold-drink equipment will be traffic. In addition, telephone and travelling costs, GHG HFC-free by the end of 2015. Where a commercial HFCemissions and paper consumption have also been free solution is not currently available, we collaborate reduced. with our suppliers to develop new HFC-free solutions. Video-conferencing Compared to HFC versions, the global warming potential of HFC-free coolers is at least one thousand times lower. In 2014 we established six new video-conferencing rooms, and these were used efficiently in line with Refrigerants contained in cooling equipment may our travel policy. Hypothetically, holding 100 video slowly leak into the atmosphere during use or may leak conferences results in 20 fewer business trips. With completely if the equipment is not properly disposed 10,800 video conferences realized during 2014, we of at the end of its life cycle. CCI always ensures that assume that 2,160 trips were prevented, which translates coolers are properly emptied of any gases that may to a reduction of approximately 2,937 tons of CO2 remain. In 2014 a total of about 25,950 pieces of old emissions. Travel restrictions and an increase in the use cooling equipment (weighing approximately 1,815 tons) of video conferences at CCI reduced business travel, was disposed of properly by our Turkey operations. resulting in an emissions reduction of 51% in 2014 compared to 2013 emissions (9,668 tons). By the end of 2014, some 59% of the coolers we use in Turkey were HFC-free. Due to our use of HFC-free cooling equipment, we managed to reduce our total fugitive CO2 emissions by 1,053 tons between 2009 and 2014. In 74 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 Water Management world Water is the main ingredient in our beverages, and treatment facilities and replenish it through our is central to our manufacturing processes. It is also community projects. necessary for our suppliers to grow the agricultural products that we use as ingredients. A sufficient quantity At the local level, we conduct source vulnerability of safe, accessible water is essential to the welfare and assessments (SVAs) and implement the resulting good health of the communities in which we operate, plans to protect water catchment basins in the regions and is key to our business success. where our plants are located. As our business volume increases, our goal is “to produce more beverages by We have a particular interest in protecting the water consuming less water”. sources that sustain communities. Because the communities that host our bottling plants are also our We fully support TCCC’s ultimate goal of “replenishing every consumer bases, we sell our products where we make drop of water used.” As a bottling partner, we implement them. If those communities stay strong, our business TCCC's global water strategy, which focuses on: will stay strong; if the watersheds we share with them • Improving production facility performance through are preserved, those communities and our business can water efficiency, reducing water use ratios and reuse; thrive. Therefore, in addition to the ethical and ecological • Maintaining 100% compliance in wastewater imperatives that drive our water stewardship, we also treatment; have a vested business interest in preserving and • Protecting watersheds through conducting SVAs, improving local water sources. implementing source water protection plans and Given that water supplies are acutely stressed and restoration; increasingly threatened, especially as global demand • Replenishing used water; rises from growing populations, economic development and the impact of climate change, we use every • Supporting sustainable communities by facilitating opportunity to reduce the amount of water we use in access to safe water and water from productive use line with our water management policy and strategy. • Raising global awareness and activism regarding We reuse and recycle water, treat it via wastewater water challenges CCI’s Water Strategy Manufacturing System Reduce, Risk Source Sales Replenish Source Water Water Reuse, Volume Equal to Sales Protection Recycle Volume Water Use Ratio • Water source sustainability Community Water Partnerships • Industrial development & • Watershed Protection/Restoration population growth • Water for Productive Use • Economical • Water Access • Social • Natural (events) Wastewater Treatment Return 100% Compliance 75 Similar to the Energy and Climate Protection Work Group, Water Consumption we established a “Water and Environment Work Group” Since water is the main ingredient in our beverages, in Turkey consisting of representatives from our plants as our use of water resources is relatively significant in well as managers responsible for purchasing, logistics, the regions where our plants are located, but relatively administrative affairs, corporate affairs and TCCC. The insignificant in the countries where we operate. Through responsibilities of the Work Group include, among our ambitious target to preserve and replenish water other things, preparing strategies and roadmaps with resources in the areas of operation, we work hard to regard to water and the environment; conducting risk keep our impact to a minimum. assessments on water and climate change, submitting these strategies, risks, including their budgets, for top According to a study conducted by Turkey’s State management approval; and collecting and reporting Hydraulic Works, the amount of annual total usable data on water use and total waste. water in Turkey is 112 billion m3, of which 32 billion m3 is dedicated to agricultural use (irrigation), 7 billion m3 In 2014 we submitted our first detailed annual report to is used as drinking water and five billion m3 is used in the CDP Water Program, describing our water strategy industry. CCI’s Turkey operations account for 0.0038 billion and disclosing our SVA study summary update, the m3, or only 0.076% of Turkey’s industrial water usage. results of water risk assessments, and data on our water withdrawal, discharge and consumption. We will submit Turkey’s annual water consumption amounts to three our second report to the Program in 2015. times the volume of Lake Büyükçekmece in Istanbul. The use of water is distributed as follows: 11% to industrial operations, 15% to houses and 74% to agriculture. 112 TOTAL USABLE WATER 32 Case Study: In January 2015, students from Virginia Tech University’s Center for Leadership in Global Sustainability conducted a study to identify the 7 AGRICULTURAL primary factors leading to the launch and success USAGE of CCI’s leadership in industrial water efficiency, DRINKING USAGE taking the Izmir plant as a case study. In this study, students concluded that “CCI is committed 5 0.0038 to reducing water consumption not only for the INDUSTRIAL economic benefits, but also for the long-term USAGE CCI TURKEY'S sustainability of their business in the face of USAGE* water scarcity. CCI has managed to make water conservation relevant to all employees at all levels of the business. In doing so they created and now foster a culture of innovation and sustainability.” * In 2014, CCI replenished 58% of its water consumption in Turkey. Source: Report entitled “The State of Water Resources in Turkey and New Approaches to Water Management” published by the Turkish Business Council on Sustainable Development in 2013. 76 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 The amounts of our total water consumption in the four countries of operation over the last three years are provided world in the table below. Approximately 81% of our water comes from wells, 11% comes from spring water (spring water is used only in Turkey) and 8% comes from municipal water systems. In 2014, the total water consumption in the four countries of operation amounted to 5,363,424 m3, which is slightly higher than the value in 2013. Total Water Consumption by Region (m3) 2012* 2013* 2014 Turkey 3,914,531 3,912,240 3,832,252* Jordan 160,240 153,656 177,081 Kazakhstan 706,955 849,980 896,218 Azerbaijan 412,162 436,075 457,873 Pakistan n/a n/a 3,138,972* TOTAL 5,193,888 5,351,951 8,502,396 * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. Note: In 2013 and 2014, water withdrawal figures are the same as water consumption figures in the four countries of operation. Water Efficiency As our business grows, our production volume increases. Thanks to our OE projects at our plants, we manage to reduce the amount of water we consume per liter of product. In all countries of operation, we monitor our water efficiency through WURs, which indicate how much water is used for every one liter of product. We also set water use reduction targets based on this KPI and keep close track of our performance. In the four countries of operation, we managed to reduce our WURs compared to 2006. In all of these countries, the WUR value is lower than the average within the Coca-Cola System. Improvements in WURs between 2006 and 2014 2006 1.74 Turkey 2014 1.41* 2006 3.44 Jordan 2014 2.04 2006 2.10 Kazakhstan 2014 1.55 2006 2.10 Azerbaijan 2014 1.82 2006 2.56 TCCC 2014 2.03 0 0.50 1.00 1.50 2.00 2.50 3.00 3.50 * This figure has received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. 77 Water Use Ratio (L/L) Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan 3.44 2.10 2.06 2.00 2.04 2.10 1.90 1.92 1.82 1.74 1.76 1.65 1.55 1.39 1.41 1.41* 2006 2012* 2013* 2014 *These figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. In line with TCCC’s goal of improving the System’s water daily water consumption at each point. This map allows efficiency by 25% by 2020 (taking 2010 as a baseline), us to identify any problems that may occur at a specific CCI will continue to improve water use efficiencies per production location and to immediately take corrective liter of product through operational advancements. actions. Within the framework of this project, we installed additional water meters and started reporting to the top We achieved approximately 3.3% reduction in water management on the daily performance data obtained consumption from 2012 to 2014 in the four countries of from the water map. operation. Water Preservation and Replenishment Some of the achievements at our Turkish plants in We have a particular interest in conservation of water 2014 include: sources that sustain communities. Because the • We achieved approximately 19% water savings communities that host our bottling plants are also our per liter of product as a result of efficiency projects consumer bases, we sell our products where we make implemented from 2006 to 2014. them. If those communities stay strong, our business • Our Izmir plant marked a big success in water will stay strong; if the watersheds we share with them efficiency by achieving an annual average WUR of are preserved, those communities and our business can 1.18 L/L for 2014. This is the lowest annual average thrive. Therefore, in addition to the ethical and ecological our Izmir plant has ever achieved, and the lowest imperatives that drive our water stewardship, we also ever reached among our plants in Turkey. It is also have a vested business interest in preserving and one of the top performances achieved globally improving local water sources. within the Coca-Cola System. Water Assessment Since the end of 2009, TCCC has required all of its Water Minimization Workshop bottling partners to conduct a local SVA for their plants and to develop a source water protection plan (SWPP) Within the framework of the CCI Capability Development to mitigate water-related risks to our System and to Program, we provide training to CCI country the communities we serve. SVAs allow us to assess representatives on various topics, one of which is on vulnerabilities to community sources of water and help water use minimization. Representatives from CCI us to determine the potential impact of our water usage countries come together for a two-day workshop to and wastewater discharge. discuss the importance of water in our operations, technical measures to reduce water consumption Within the scope of SVA studies, the following issues are and our water use targets. On the second day of the considered: workshop, participants receive hands-on training by • The conceptual hydrologic model for the watershed visiting a plant. and groundwater basin; Case: Water Mapping Study at Izmir Plant • The sustainability and continuity of water supplies; In 2014 we developed a water map of our Izmir plant • Potential internal and external risk factors that affect to better identify opportunities to improve efficiency. On raw water quality and quantity; this map, we plotted water meters and monitored the • Historical issues with water quantity and quality; 78 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 During an SVA study, an analysis of water basins and SVAs are conducted every five years at all CCI plants. As sub-basins around our plants is conducted, and it of December 31, 2014, all CCI plants had completed their world includes the topographical, geological, hydro-geological SVA studies in all countries of operation. CCI plants in the and hydrological assessment of the study areas, as well four countries of operation have also developed a Source as identification of any risks to the quality and quantity of Water Protection Plan and have begun implementing water resources within these areas. improvement measures. Our Turkey plants will complete a second SVA study cycle by 2016, and all CCI operations SVA studies include processes such as field surveys, will do so by 2019, including our Iraq operations. stakeholder analyses, interviews with plant authorities or site representatives, interviews with local and national authorities, and desktop studies. These assessments TCCC’s Ambitious Replenishment Goal identify the social, environmental and political risks to the The Coca-Cola System aims to safely return to water sources that supply our facilities and surrounding communities and nature an amount of water equal communities. We evaluate the results of these studies, to what it uses in its finished beverages and their develop SWPPs based on the results and take actions at production. This is called “water neutrality,” and it is each plant. The SVAs are conducted by an expert water defined as: consultancy company with the participation of CCI Water 1) Returning the water we use back to the Resource Management Teams who are trained in specific communities we serve by treating all wastewater water issues, including but not limited to: hydrology and and giving it back to the environment at a level of hydraulics of surface water systems, biological health of purity that supports aquatic life. natural water systems, water balancing and budgeting, 2) Replenishing an amount of water equivalent to local and regional water rights, and water resource and our product volume through locally relevant water watershed management policy. and sanitation projects. In line with the information gathered as a result of the Between 2005 and the end of 2014, through assessment studies, various practices were conducted to 209 community water partnership projects in 61 avoid contamination, prevent decreases in water quality countries, TCCS balanced an estimated 94% of the arising from contamination by pesticides, and foster equivalent amount of water used in their finished water usage minimization and recycling. Other studies beverages (based on 2014 sales volume). This that were held in conjunction with assessments focused totals approximately 153.6 billion liters of water on alternative water resources, ensuring business replenished to communities and nature. Water continuity, improving the knowledge level of employees, replenishment rate in Turkey has reached 58% (from and explaining water policy and facts of TCCC to the 28% in 2013), equal to about 1.8 billion liters of water. community. Wastewater Management and treated wastewater as irrigation water and reusing final Reclamation rinse water for floor washing. “Zero wastewater generation” and “reclamation” are Water Discharge between 2006 and 2014 concepts that define our wastewater management In addition to monitoring and managing the quality of the approach. In addition to complying with national and local wastewater we discharge, we also monitor the amount laws regulating quality limits for wastewater discharge of wastewater discharged per liter of product. The water in all of the countries in which we operate, we are also discharge ratio of our Turkey operations increased due to required to comply with TCCC’s Requirements for Treated changes in sanitation standards and to the increase in the Wastewater Quality. In many cases the allowed maximum number of types of packaging used. In Kazakhstan and discharge values set by TCCC are much lower than the Jordan, discharged water decreased due to decrease in limits established by the local authorities. All CCI plants are WUR, increase in efficiency and implementation of water regularly audited regarding their compliance with TCCC’s reduction projects in the past. standards as well as by third parties within the scope of ISO 14001 Environment Management System audits. Water Discharge (L/L) 2006 2014 We monitor our wastewater parameters with periodic Turkey 0.39 0.41 analyses and reduce our environmental impact by Jordan 2.43 1.04 treating wastewater prior to discharge. In line with our OE Kazakhstan 0.87 0.42 objectives, we develop projects to reduce the amount of Azerbaijan 1.16 0.94 wastewater generated as a result of our activities. These Pakistan n/a 0.56 projects include, among others, reverse osmosis, reusing 79 The Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation’s “Life Plus Environment” Program We want to play our part in building thriving of the Future Project aims at promoting the “ecosystem communities in partnership with governments, NGOs services” approach in agricultural practices in order and universities. Turkey is considered to be a “nearly to conserve agricultural ecosystems and biodiversity water-scarce” country, with an average allowance of without reducing the prosperity of society. The project’s only 1,520 m3 of water per person, and more than 70% ecosystem services and biodiversity monitoring activities of the country’s fresh water is being used in agriculture. are summarized below. In this sense, water saving in irrigated farming will create value for communities and the environment. “The Ecosystem Services Approach in the Project Natural ecosystems provide various benefits, called Life Plus Environment” Program aims to foster a new ecosystem services, for human welfare directly or approach to land and water management in line with indirectly. Agriculture is a dominant human activity, and adaptation to climate change and decreasing water agricultural land covers nearly 40% of the terrestrial resources. surface. The ecosystem services used by agricultural Under the Life Plus Environment Program, two projects production can be provisioning (freshwater, genetic have been conducted: Agriculture of the Future and biodiversity etc.), supporting (soil structure and fertility) Harran Night Irrigation. The Program has so far saved or regulating services (climate regulation, pollination, 1.8 million liters of water on 13,000,000 m2 of agricultural biological control etc.). In the Agriculture of the Future land. Some 100,000 saplings were also planted as Project, the aim is to integrate the Ecosystem Approach windbreakers in Konya basin, and the Program has – a strategy for sustainable management of land, water reached 1,415 people, including farmers, public and and living resources – into agricultural activities. The NGO representatives, and academicians. Ecosystem Approach provides tools to minimize the conflicts between nature conservation and economic The Water replenishment project in Konya, initiated by activities, thus enhancing the sustainability of socioCoca-Cola has a budget of $1,500,000 distributed over ecological systems. The project is first of its kind to use three years. such a comprehensive approach in handling socioeconomic activities and environmental values together. Agriculture of the Future Project This Project has three objectives: to improve the waterHarran Night Irrigation Project holding capacity of soil, ensure the efficient use of land Harran Plain is one of the agricultural production centers and water, and increase the capacity to use “ecosystem of Turkey. In the summer months, irrigation is done in services” in agriculture through direct seeding and high temperatures, which increases evaporation. In windbreaks. The Project was conducted in partnership order to reduce the amount of water lost by evaporation, with the Coca-Cola Life Plus Foundation, the Ministry it is important to carry out the irrigation in the early hours of Food, Agriculture and Livestock, and the Nature of the day, in the evening or at night, instead of during Conservation Center. the daytime. Reducing water loss will also minimize environmental problems due to over-irrigation, such as salination, fungal diseases and pollution. With the implementation of this project, 550 million liters of water were saved in Cullap, and when the project results are disseminated in the region, a total of 4,320 million liters of water will have been saved in Harran Plain. In addition, farmers achieved a 15% yield increase. Biodiversity Conservation Aspect of the Project Conventional nature conservation activities focus on conservation of certain species or their ecosystems. The new approaches, such as ecosystem and biodiversity conservation, take into account the multi-sector nature of conservation practices and aim at sustainable use and conservation of natural resources. The Agriculture 80 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainable Packaging and Waste world It is important to us to deliver the quality beverages Since waste management and sustainable packaging our consumers expect from us as sustainably as are key components of CCI’s general environmental possible. We make progress toward this objective performance, we continuously monitor total waste ratios through packaging innovation, resource minimization, and total waste recycling rates against annual targets recyclability, use of recycled and renewable materials, at all our plants. Our ultimate goal is to recover 100% of and engaging consumers to join us on the journey. hazardous and non-hazardous waste resulting from our operations. Reducing, reusing and recycling packaging material helps conserve not only resources but also energy. Reducing Materials Used in Product Conserving energy and resources such as polyethylene Packaging terephthalate (PET) resin and glass helps us reduce our In line with our strategy of reducing the amount of natural total carbon footprint, and it also makes good business resources used in packaging, we have been testing the sense. We safely dispose of the waste that we cannot use of the minimal amount of resin (both for preforms and avoid, and support programs that encourage consumers caps) as well as glass, while making sure that we do not to recycle used beverage packaging. undermine the safe transport of our products. Plastic Our first use of the lightweight PET bottle was in 2008 at our Izmir plant, where we reduced the length of the bottleneck. Since then, we have continued to reduce the amount of resin in PET bottles through “Lightweight” and “Short Neck” projects applied to various bottle sizes at our Turkey, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan plants. In the coming years we plan to extend the implementation of these projects in other countries of operation. As a result of our “Lightweight” and “Short Neck” projects, Three fundamental principles define our approach to we saved 1,471 tons of resin in our Turkey operations sustainable packaging: in 2014, and 5,564 tons over the last three years. In • Reduce – Continuously reducing the amount of material Kazakhstan, we saved 1,875 tons of resin in 2014 and and energy used in the manufacturing of packaging 3,469 tons in the last two years; in Azerbaijan, 481 tons material, and using recycled materials as much as food of resin was saved. Our projects and design changes safety principles and technology allow (mainly Short Neck projects) have also resulted in savings at our closure suppliers in Turkey and in Kazakhstan. • Reuse and Recycle – Working together with various Some 723 tons of resin in Turkey and 365 tons of resin in stakeholders to establish an environmentally friendly Kazakhstan have been saved. and economically sustainable infrastructure for postconsumer packaging recovery and recycling Glass • Renewable – Exploring and testing alternative, Since 2010, we have been implementing Lightweight renewable materials such as PlantBottle. projects to reduce the amount of glass used by our suppliers. In 2014, we reduced the glass weight of 200Our Sustainable Packaging Strategy ml returnable glass bottles (RGB) in our Turkey operations from 235 g to 185 g, and achieved savings of 1,170 tons REDUCE PET and Glass Lightweight of glass at our supplier. In Kazakhstan, we worked with our supplier to reduce REUSE Returnable Bottles the amount of glass used in one-way-bottles (OWB) by 15 grams per bottle. The first application of its kind in the whole Coca-Cola system, this application resulted in an RECYCLE Post-Consumer Material Collection annual saving of 274 tons of glass. RENEW PlantBottle 81 Labels and traditional PET plastic bottles is that, instead of In 2015 we started working with our label suppliers in using petroleum and other fossil fuels to produce a key Turkey to develop and use lighter labels used on the ingredient in the plastic, PlantBottle packaging uses bottles with large surfaces (e.g., the 1-liter and 2.5-liter materials that are up to 30% plant-based. In essence, we bottles). Per label, we aim to reduce the density by are trading fossil fuels for plant-based materials without approximately 15% and the thickness by 9%. sacrificing performance or recyclability. In 2013 we conducted several trials at our plants using Recycling and Reuse of Packaging PlantBottle. After obtaining legal permits in 2014, we Materials started to produce 330-ml Damla water bottles in Turkey Our recycling efforts include several initiatives, such as using PlantBottle resin. We aim to start producing 1.5-liter encouraging our customers to use returnable bottles and Damla water bottles using PlantBottle resin in 2016. helping authorized business partners collect packaging waste. Detailed information about PlantBottle can be found at: http://www.coca-colacompany.com/stories/plantIn Turkey, there is legislation mandating recycling of bottle-basics and post-consumer packaging waste. The system in Turkey is based on a concept of extended producer's liability. http://www.damlasu.com.tr/pages/landing/index.html During the reporting period, the recycling rate in Turkey for plastics, glass, metal and aluminum packaging The innovative PlantBottle waste was 44%. We achieved this rate with the help of technology makes one of the our authorized business partner, the Çevko Foundation. two ingredients found in PET We aim to achieve a 60% post-consumer packaging plastic from renewable plant recycling rate in Turkey by 2020. material. Working with leading technology partners, TCCC We purchase, from our suppliers, glass and aluminum is well on its way towards packages produced from recycled materials. In Turkey, replacing the other ingredient the percentage of recycled material in our glass is about and commercializing the first 20-25% and in aluminum about 50%. While it is possible fully recyclable PET bottle made to use recycled plastic for PET bottles in some countries, 100% from plants. in Turkey it is not legally allowed to use recycled material in packaging material for use in direct contact with food. Waste Management In 2013, we formed a Recycling Task Force, a crossNext to post-consumer packaging waste, we also functional team with the aim of defining CCI’s long-term manage the waste that is generated by our plants. recycling strategy for post-consumer packaging material. These include waste due to production, construction, The Task Force has been established especially for the food service or other activities. CCI countries where there is no legal and organized recycling scheme. The Recycling Task Force conducted Waste management is a vital part of the ISO 14001 a study analyzing the waste infrastructure, legal Environmental Management System established in our background and stakeholder expectations regarding plants. Waste management is carried out in accordance recycling of packaging material in the countries of not only with CCI Environmental Policy, environmental operation. In Kazakhstan, one of our priority countries for legislation and ISO 14001 standards but also with TCCC’s setting up a recycling scheme, we started stakeholder EOSH standards. engagement efforts to create a common vision for Our approach to waste management focuses on the recycling in the country. hierarchy of “prevent pollution, reduce, reuse, recycle Renewable Packaging Material and recover”. To achieve our targets, we conduct OE Considering that about 60 percent of TCCC’s beverage projects in order to minimize waste generation and volume today is delivered in PET plastic packaging, and maximize recycling values. In order to reuse waste that in some countries we are not legally allowed to use generated from handling raw materials, CCI collaborates recycled plastic, TCCC invests in alternative technologies with suppliers. to reduce its environmental footprint due to PET use. We are committed to minimizing the discharge of waste Developed by TCCC, PlantBottle packaging replaces and its impact on the environment, as well as to ensuring the fossil-fuel-based ingredients traditionally used to that all waste is managed in an environmentally friendly make PET plastic with renewable substitutes made from and safe manner. Our ultimate goal is to achieve “zero plants. The key difference between PlantBottle packaging waste to landfill” at one of our Turkey plants by 2020. 82 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 All factory waste that can be reused is reused, and that For detailed data on waste see the “Performance which can be recycled and recovered is delivered to Indicators” section of this report, and for key definitions world licensed companies for these purposes. Waste which on waste see the “CCI Reporting Guidance” section. cannot be recycled or recovered is sorted according to specific, legally defined categories and delivered to Case: Improved Waste Disposal at Izmir Plant licensed disposal facilities or municipalities to be used In 2014, we started sending a portion of our as landfill or to be incinerated. According to our waste domestic waste with high-calorific value to a management standard, all waste disposal sites are licensed company for incineration. In this way, the evaluated before use, and periodically thereafter, to waste is recovered as energy, and we thus avoided verify and document site acceptability. All of the waste sending 200 tons of waste to landfills. disposal facilities that we work with should be able to demonstrate compliance with applicable regulations, operational performance, and environmental and Waste Recycling Rate financial sustainability. In addition, waste is stored in In Kazakhstan we changed the accounting procedure proper waste storage areas as defined in relevant for waste. Currently, solid waste is weighed instead of regulations, and these areas receive special attention calculated using coefficients. In addition, we now have regarding fire hazards, storm water pollution and pest more precise data. As a result, our waste recycling ratio controls. for 2014 is lower than that of 2006. Improvements in Total Waste Recycling Rate Between 2006 and 2014 2006 90.99% Turkey 2014 96.66% 2006 81.60% Jordan 2014 90.45% 2006 94.67% Kazakhstan 2014 91.70 % 2006 75.55% Azerbaijan 2014 94.00% 0 25 50 75 100 Total Waste Ratios between 2006 and 2014 Total Waste 2006 2013* 2014 In addition to monitoring our total waste amounts in Ratio (g/L) hazardous and non-hazardous categories, we also monitor the amount of waste we generate per liter of Turkey 3.74 4.99 4.77 product. Since 2006, in some countries we improved Jordan 15.72 6.44 3.29 our total waste ratio performance. In Turkey, however, Kazakhstan 4.14 1.59 1.82 the amount of waste increased, and therefore so did Azerbaijan 0.65 1.28 2.06 the total waste ratio value. This increase was due to the inclusion in the total of the amount of waste disposed of * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. from technical service buildings and due to renewing our wood pallets. In Azerbaijan one of the production lines was disassembled and the scrap metal resulted in an increase in the total waste ratio during 2014. 83 Performance Indicators This section contains additional data on CCI’s sustainability performance. Sustainability Across the Value Chain Materials Used (tons) Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Materials in product Concentrate and beverage base 40,951 42,169 4,878 213 5,115 4,672 1,809 1,878 Sugar 230,222 217,892 7,293 8,040 48,890 66,914 17,555 18,954 CO2 24,255 23,508 997 1,151 4,588 4,815 2,706 2,954 Packaging Steel crown 945 987 62 49 69 32 0 0 PE closure 4,112 3,419 105 121 1,263 1,411 817 896 PET preform and resin 55,369 43,168 1,056 1,247 16,305 17,418 9,939 7,171 Glass 25,664 27,941 7,005 4,942 6,124 3,974 0 0 Aseptic carton packaging 4,580 4,958 0 0 694 663 0 0 Carton 8,481 7,692 262 317 1,329 1,685 786 570 Aluminum cans and can ends 10,866 11,304 1,076 1,293 339 361 0 0 Plastic shrink and stretch 6,667 5,853 237 274 1,878 1,889 850 855 me Products that fall under the “without energy” category (< 4kcal/100 ml) Product names Sales (excluding tea), % of total Cappy Pulpy Lemonade Sugar-free 0.02 Coca-Cola Light 1.23 Coca-Cola Zero 2.55 Damla Natural Source Water 13.85 Damla Minera Natural Mineral Water 0.87 Gladiator Energy Drink Sugar-free 0.01 Fuse Tea Ice Peach Sugar-free 0.03 Sensun 0.35 Schweppes Soda Water 0.06 Sprite Sugar-free 0.01 Note: The above-mentioned values are for products sold in Turkey in 2014. 84 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 we – Employees Performance Indicators Employee Profile Number of Employees 2013 2014 Turkey – Group Office 166 2,773 Turkey – Operations* 2,342 Jordan 409 397 Kazakhstan 749 845 Azerbaijan 373 390 Pakistan 4,491 4,175 Iraq 1,349 1,137 Turkmenistan 348 419 Syria 9 9 Tajikistan 48 77 Kyrgyzstan 366 384 Total CCI employees 10,915 10,341 Employees Country Male Female Total by Gender, Employment Type and Contract (Number) 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Blue Collar Turkey – Group Office 0 0 0 883 873 11 11 894 884 Turkey – Operations* 851 13 864 Jordan 185 190 199 0 0 1 185 190 200 Kazakhstan 261 299 335 3 2 4 264 301 339 Azerbaijan 172 193 188 4 5 5 176 198 193 Pakistan n/a n/a 1,866 n/a n/a 15 n/a n/a 1,881 White Collar Turkey – Group Office 97 69 166 1,532 1,447 396 442 1,928 1,889 Turkey – Operations* 1,140 338 1,478 Jordan 199 201 178 17 18 19 216 219 197 Kazakhstan 302 337 393 104 111 113 416 448 506 Azerbaijan 110 136 154 33 39 43 143 175 197 Pakistan n/a n/a 2,008 n/a n/a 147 n/a n/a 2,155 Permanent Turkey – Group Office 97 69 166 2,391 2,319 404 451 2,795 2,770 Turkey – Operations* 1,990 347 2,337 Jordan 384 389 349 17 18 19 401 407 368 Kazakhstan 573 636 726 107 113 117 680 749 843 Azerbaijan 282 329 342 37 44 48 319 373 390 Pakistan n/a n/a 3,874 n/a n/a 162 n/a n/a 4,036 Temporary Turkey – Group Office 0 0 0 24 1 3 2 27 3 Turkey – Operations* 1 4 5 Jordan 0 2 28 0 0 1 0 2 29 Kazakhstan 9 0 2 0 0 0 9 0 2 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Pakistan** n/a n/a 136 n/a n/a 3 n/a n/a 139 * Turkey operations include plants and sales offices. ** The blue-collar/white-collar distinction is based on permanent employees since Pakistan does not have this information for its temporary workers. 85 Number of Outsourced Employees Outsource-Core jobs (*) Outsource-Auxiliary jobs (**) 2013 2014 2013 2014 Turkey – Group Office 0 0 902 673 Turkey – Operations 896 0 Jordan 7 0 53 55 Kazakhstan 0 0 86 106 Azerbaijan 164 153 33 42 Pakistan n/a 806 n/a 865 * Outsource-Core Jobs: Employees who are on the payroll of a third-party company and whose jobs are directly related to our own business (e.g., jobs in merchandising, sales, warehouse operations, production etc.) ** Outsource-Auxiliary Jobs: Employees who are on the payroll of a third-party company and whose jobs are not directly related to our own business (e.g., jobs in security, gardening, health services etc.) Percentage of Employees by Age (%) Under 30 Between 30-50 Above 50 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Senior Turkey – Group Office 0.0 77.8 22.2 Management 0.0 0.0 80.0 80.0 20.0 20.0 Turkey – Operations 0.0 100.0 0.0 Jordan 0.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Kazakhstan 4.3 4.0 0.0 78.3 76.0 76.0 17.4 20.0 24.0 Azerbaijan 0.0 0.0 0.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other Employees Turkey – Group Office 9.6 87.3 3.2 31.8 27.1 67.2 71.4 1.0 1.5 Turkey – Operations 23.5 74.6 1.8 Jordan 32.8 35.3 30.9 62.9 60.0 62.4 4.3 4.7 6.7 Kazakhstan 46.3 49.9 40.4 46.4 43.1 52.1 7.3 7.0 7.5 Azerbaijan 39.5 42.5 40.3 48.7 46.0 48.7 11.8 11.6 11.0 Number and Countries Male Female Percentage (%) of Employees by Gender 2012 2013 2014 2014 (%) 2012 2013 2014 2014 (%) Senior Turkey – Group Office 7 77.8 2 22.2 Management 7 10 3 4 Turkey – Operations 5 71.4 2 28.6 Jordan 4 4 5 83.3 0 0 1 16.7 Kazakhstan 18 18 18 72.0 5 7 7 28.0 Azerbaijan 3 3 3 50.0 2 3 3 50.0 Other Employees Turkey – Group Office 91 58.0 66 42.0 2,408 2,310 404 449 Turkey – Operations 1,986 85.1 349 14.9 Jordan 379 387 372 94.1 17 18 19 4.9 Kazakhstan 555 618 710 86.6 102 106 110 13.4 Azerbaijan 279 326 339 88.3 35 41 45 11.7 Note: 2013 Turkey figures include senior managers of CCI Group Office and CCI Turkey Operations. 86 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 New Employee Hires Performance Indicators Total Number and Rates of New New Hire Male New Hire Male Employee Hires Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) 2012 Turkey – Group Office 205 8.49 67 16.46 Turkey – Operations Jordan 215 55.99 2 11.76 Kazakhstan 153 26.29 15 14.02 Azerbaijan 13 4.61 2 5.41 2013 Turkey – Group Office 179 7.72 95 20.97 Turkey – Operations Jordan 136 34.78 5 27.78 Kazakhstan 188 29.56 28 24.78 Azerbaijan 82 24.92 1 2.27 2014 Turkey – Group Office 1 1.03 1 1.45 Turkey – Operations 135 6.78 44 12.54 Jordan 49 13.00 6 30.00 Kazakhstan 206 28.30 29 24.79 Azerbaijan 43 12.57 8 16.67 Note: “Employee turnover” refers to CCI employees who leave the organization voluntarily or due to dismissal, retirement, or death in service. Note: “New Employee hires” refers to new CCI employees joining the organization for the first time. Note: For CCI, “age group” is not material data. Therefore this data is not provided in the table above. Employee Turnover Total Number and Rates of Male Turnover Female Turnover Total Turnover (%) Employee Turnover Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) 2012 Turkey – Group Office 265 11.2 56 14.8 11.4 Turkey – Operations Jordan 84 21.5 3 17.7 21.7 Kazakhstan 54 9.3 16 15.0 10.2 Azerbaijan 24 8.5 7 18.9 9.7 2013 Turkey – Group Office 205 8.8 41 9.1 8.9 Turkey – Operations Jordan 40 10.2 3 16.7 10.5 Kazakhstan 109 17.1 19 16.8 17.1 Azerbaijan 25 7.6 5 11.4 8.0 2014 Turkey – Group Office 11 11.3 10 14.5 12.7 Turkey – Operations 342 17.2 64 18.2 17.3 Jordan 49 13.0 6 30.0 13.9 Kazakhstan 109 15.0 18 15.4 15.0 Azerbaijan 30 8.8 4 8.3 8.7 87 Local Employment Local Employment in International Local Senior Local White Collar Local Blue Collar Operations Management Employment Rate (%) Employment Rate (%) Employment Rate (%) 2012 Turkey – Group Office 90.0 99.8 100.0 Turkey – Operations Jordan 67.0 97.2 98.0 Kazakhstan 38.0 98.8 100.0 Azerbaijan 40.0 97.0 100.0 2013 Turkey – Group Office 99.6 100.0 90.0 Turkey – Operations Jordan 60.0 97.0 99.0 Kazakhstan 50.0 98.9 100.0 Azerbaijan 16.7 96.0 100.0 2014 Turkey – Group Office 100.0 97.0 0.0 Turkey – Operations 90.0 99.8 100.0 Jordan 67.0 100.0 100.0 Kazakhstan 50.0 99.2 100.0 Azerbaijan 16.7 96.0 100.0 Note: “Local” means from the country in question. Employee Breakdown by Seniority (Years of Service) Employee Breakdown by Seniority (%) 2012 2013 2014 0 – 5 Years Turkey – Group Office 53.00 56.84 53.81 Turkey – Operations 43.34 Jordan 59.21 55.01 53.15 Kazakhstan 60.59 61.15 60.00 Azerbaijan 57.05 58.45 55.13 6 – 10 Years Turkey – Group Office 32.00 21.29 24.49 Turkey – Operations 32.37 Jordan 13.27 14.91 15.87 Kazakhstan 27.94 27.77 26.63 Azerbaijan 27.27 27.88 32.31 11 – 15 Years Turkey – Group Office 4.00 13.43 10.01 Turkey – Operations 6.87 Jordan 19.66 18.34 14.61 Kazakhstan 5.73 5.34 7.93 Azerbaijan 6.58 4.56 3.33 16 – 20 Years Turkey – Group Office 5.00 6.84 9.36 Turkey – Operations 13.88 Jordan 7.86 11.74 10.58 Kazakhstan 5.73 5.74 4.73 Azerbaijan 9.09 9.12 10.51 20+ Years Turkey – Group Office 6.00 1.60 2.32 Turkey – Operations 3.54 Jordan 0.00 0.00 5.79 Kazakhstan 0.00 0.00 0.71 Azerbaijan 0.00 0.00 0.00 Note: Figures as of December 31 in 2012, 2013 and 2014. Note: 2013 Turkey figures include employees of CCI Turkey Operations and CCI Group Office. 88 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 world Performance Indicators Energy Management and Climate Protection GHG Emissions due to Electricity 2012 2013 2014 Consumption by Coolers (tons of CO2-e) Turkey 338,381 328,628 321,162 Jordan 20,511 27,073* 27,202 Kazakhstan 31,417 34,836 42,998 Azerbaijan 9,627 12,716 14,092 TOTAL 399,936 403,253 405,454 *This data is restated due to a calculation error. CCI uses two main KPIs to measure energy intensity: 1. Energy Use Ratios (MJ/L), which relate only to the core process, filling, so that the energy efficiency of core processes can be compared between plants. (For more information see page 94 of this report.) 2. Total Energy Use Ratio (MJ/L), which is the total absolute energy consumption (in MJ) from the plant divided by total production (in liters). Total Energy Use Ratio (MJ/L) 2012* 2013* 2014 Turkey 0.30 0.30 0.30* Jordan 0.47 0.41 0.41 Kazakhstan 0.69 0.68 0.64 Azerbaijan 0.74 0.75 0.72 Pakistan n/a n/a 0.59* * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. Energy Use in Core Fuel Plant Purchased Energy TOTAL Operations (Million MJ) * Heavy Diesel LPG Natural Electricity Steam fuel oil gas** Turkey 2012 0 4.38 58.09 254.51 403.93 0 720.91 2013 0 3.23 59.62 255.56 391.25 0 709.66 2014 0 1.75 55.69 269.10 385.69 0 712.23 Jordan 2012 0 12.59 3.53 0 20.39 0 36.51 2013 0 7.45 4.66 0 19.27 0 31.38 2014 5.28 3.41 4.00 0 22.60 0 35.29 Kazakhstan 2012 0 0 13.33 0 52.16 46.56 112.05 2013 0 0.54 13.90 106.65 50.20 54.63 225.92 2014 0 0.41 16.49 93.06 61.08 63.59 230.63 Azerbaijan 2012 1.30 0 5.79 30.06 46.79 0 83.94 2013 1.07 0.96 5.87 29.70 55.87 0 93.47 2014 0 0.71 7.34 29.30 60.49 0 97.84 Pakistan 2014 0 180.20 21.50 11.00 85.50 0 298.20 TOTAL 2012 1.30 16.97 80.74 284.57 523.27 46.56 953.41 2013 1.07 12.18 84.05 391.91 516.59 54.63 1,060.43 2014 5.28 186.48 105.03 402.46 615.36 63.59 1,374.20 Note: These figures exclude energy use for preform injection and CO2 production processes at plants in Turkey, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. Energy use for the electricity manufacturing process, which is present only at our Kazakhstan plant, is excluded from 2012 data but included in 2013 and 2014 data. * The figures for 2012 and 2013 in the four countries of operation and the figures for 2014 in Turkey and Pakistan have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. ** The increase in natural gas consumption from 2012 is due to a change in the methodology used: in 2012, fuels used to generate on-site electricity were reported within total energy consumption, whereas starting in 2013, energy consumption from on-site electricity generation was allocated to “core operations.” 89 Total Energy Use Fuel – Plant Purchased Energy TOTAL (Million MJ) * Heavy Diesel LPG Natural Electricity Steam fuel oil gas Turkey 2012 0 4.56 58.09 272.85 503.53 0 839.03 2013 0 3.23 59.64 273.13 482.22 0 818.22 2014 0 2.01 55.69 284.11 466.83 0 808.64 Jordan 2012 0 12.59 3.53 0 20.39 0 36.51 2013 0 7.45 4.66 0 19.27 0 31.38 2014 5.28 3.41 4.00 0 22.60 0 35.29 Kazakhstan 2012 0 0.16 13.33 134.59 83.42 46.56 278.06 2013 0 0.54 13.90 184.19 96.04 54.63 349.30 2014 0 0.41 16.49 188.45 110.62 63.59 371.47 Azerbaijan 2012 1.30 47.76 5.79 30.06 76.24 0 161.15 2013 1.07 49.52 5.87 29.70 84.30 0 170.46 2014 0 54.70 7.34 29.30 88.90 0 180.23 Pakistan 2014 0 434.85 45.81 57.81 233.57 0 772.04 TOTAL 2012 1.30 65.07 80.74 437.50 683.58 46.56 1,314.75 2013 1.07 60.74 84.07 487.02 681.83 54.63 1,369.36 2014 5.28 495.47 129.33 559.64 922.52 63.59 2,167.74 Note: This table includes data on energy use for all processes at the plants. * The figures for 2012 and 2013 in the four countries of operation and the figures of 2014 in Turkey have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm. Water Management Water Use Ratio (L/L) 2012* 2013* 2014 Turkey 1.39 1.41 1.41* Jordan 2.06 2.00 2.04 Kazakhstan 1.76 1.65 1.55 Azerbaijan 1.90 1.92 1.82 Pakistan n/a n/a 2.40* * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. Volume of Water Recycled and Reused (m3) 2012 2013* 2014 Turkey 114,582 284,782 40,337 Jordan 10,942 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 6,758 5,580 5,942 TOTAL 132,282 290,362 46,279 90 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 Performance Indicators Percentage of Water Recycled and Reused * (%) 2013 2014 Turkey 7.28 1.05 Jordan 0.00 0.00 Kazakhstan 0.00 0.00 Azerbaijan 1.28 1.30 TOTAL 5.43 0.86 * Percentage is calculated based on water consumption figures. Sustainable Packaging and Waste Total Weight of Waste by Type Turkey* Jordan Kazakhstan* Azerbaijan Pakistan and Disposal Method (Tons) 2013 Hazardous Reuse 0.0 0.0 0.8 0.0 n/a Recycle 15.4 0.0 0.2 0.0 n/a Landfill 7.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 n/a Incineration 8.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 n/a Recovery 609.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 n/a TOTAL 640.8 0.0 1.0 0.0 n/a Non-Hazardous Reuse 6.3 0.0 650.6 77.0 n/a Recycle 12,510.0 467.5 85.9 212.6 n/a Landfill 520.7 26.2 79.1 1.2 n/a Recovery 132.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 n/a TOTAL 13,169.6 493.7 816.6 290.8 n/a TOTAL 13,810.4 493.7 817.6 290.8 n/a 2014 Hazardous Reuse 2.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 4.0 Recycle 69.4 0.0 1.5 0.0 2.6 Landfill 5.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 28.0 Incineration 8.2 0.0 0.4 0.0 122.8 Recovery 415.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 501.7 0.0 1.9 0.0 157.4 Non-Hazardous Reuse 0.0 0.0 204.9 0.0 6,221.0 Recycle 12,032.5 260.3 757.8 486.0 10,630.0 Landfill 407.6 0.0 89.2 31.0 422.0 Recovery 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 12,440.1 260.3 1,051.9 517.0 17,273.0 TOTAL 12,941.8 260.3 1,053.8 517.0 17,430.4 * 2013 figures for Turkey and Kazakhstan have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. 91 Glossary Bottler: A business that buys concentrates, beverage Leased Vehicles: “Distribution” or “all other” vehicles bases, or syrups made available by TCCC and then leased by The Company. Rental cars for business manufactures, packages, merchandises and distributes travel would be included here only if the rental period the final branded beverages to customers and vending coincided with the entire reporting period. partners, who then sell those products to consumers. LTI: Lost Time Incident: a work incident or occupational Azerbaijan Coca-Cola Bottlers (ACCB): CCI’s affiliate in illness, including incidents involving death, that results in Azerbaijan. one or more days off work. CDP: CDP is an international, not-for-profit organization LTIR: Lost Time Incident Rate: (number of lost time providing the only global system for companies and incidents / occupational illnesses) x 200,000 / (total cities to measure, disclose, manage and share vital hours worked during reporting period) environmental information. LTISR: Lost Time Incident Severity Rate: (number of days Coca-Cola Almaty Bottlers (CCAB): CCI’s affiliate in lost due to occupational incidents) x 200,000 / (total Kazakhstan. hours worked during reporting period) The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Jordan (CCBCJ): PET Blowing process: A manufacturing process whereby CCI’s affiliate in Jordan PET bottles are formed from preforms. Coca-Cola Beverages Pakistan Limited (CCBPL): CCI’s Preform: An intermediate product used in the production affiliate in Pakistan of PET bottles. CokePort: CCI’s intranet portal. Preform injection process: The manufacturing processes for preforms. Concentrate: A product manufactured by TCCC or other beverage company and sold to bottlers to prepare The Coca-Cola System (TCCS): The term used to finished beverages by adding sweeteners and/or water. describe the corporate network, consisting of The Coca-Cola Company (TCCC) and more than 300 bottling Crash: Any collision in which a Company vehicle is partners around the world. involved (whether in motion, temporarily stopped or parked) that results in personal injury and/or material Unit Case: A unit of measurement equal to 5.678 liters, property damage, regardless of who was hurt, what or 24 8-ounce (US) servings. property was damaged, who was responsible, whether the incident was preventable, and/or whether the Vehicle Accident Rate: (number of accidents x total incident was legally required to be reported. number of vehicles) / 100 vehicles. Equivalent carbon dioxide (CO2-e): A measure that describes how much global warming a given type and amount of greenhouse gas may cause, using the functionally equivalent amount or concentration of carbon dioxide as a reference. Guideline Daily Amounts (GDAs): A guide to how much energy and nutrients are present in a portion of a food or beverage, and what each amount represents as a percentage of a person’s daily dietary needs. ISAE 3000: The International Standard on Assurance Engagements developed by the International Federation of Accountants. Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED): A green building tool that addresses the entire lifecycle of a building and that recognizes best-in-class building strategies. 92 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 CCI Reporting Guidance CCI Reporting Guidance This document is the CCI Reporting Guidance The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Jordan Ltd., Jordan (RG) for those indicators – included either For a full list of entities included in CCI’s financial statements, please see page 44 of the CCI 2014 Annual in the 2014 CCI Sustainability Report or Report, available at: in this year’s assurance readiness project www.cci.com.tr/UserFiles/pdf/cci_ar_2014_13nisan.pdf for Pakistan – which have been externally assured for the current or a prior period. Legal entities covered partially by this report include: Indicators that have been externally assured for this The indicators for Coca-Cola Beverages Pakistan Ltd. (our year’s report are asterisked in the report. Other indicators Pakistan operations) that are covered in this guidance covered in this Sustainability Report are reported in line document are included in this report. with the G4 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and are listed on pages 98-104. General Reporting Principles In preparing this guidance document, consideration has The data within the scope of this guidance document is been given to the following principles: for the financial year ending on December 31, 2014 and • Information Preparation – to highlight the primary concerns the relevant operations in Turkey, Kazakhstan, principles of relevance and reliability of information; Azerbaijan, Jordan and Pakistan. The referral to “The and Company” cover these five countries, unless otherwise stated. • Information Reporting – to highlight the primary principles of comparability, consistency (especially with 2014 Assurance Scope G4-17: regard to other data, including that of previous years), The RG document covers The Company’s data-gathering understandability and transparency so as to provide and reporting obligations for the indicators listed below. clarity to users. It is the responsibility of Company management to ensure that appropriate procedures are in place to Key Definitions prepare data related to these indicators in line with the For the purpose of this report, the following definitions RG in all material respects. apply: • The total energy consumption, energy usage ratio PLANT: All on-site facilities, including production (EUR), total water withdrawal and water usage buildings, water treatment units, wastewater treatment ratio (WUR) of The Company’s Turkey and Pakistan units, warehouses, laboratories, administration buildings operations were audited according to the ISAE 3000 and technical service operations. Standard.1 ENERGY: Electricity, natural gas, diesel, gasoline, fuel • GHG emissions of the Turkey operations were verified oil, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and steam. For in line with the ISO 14064-3 Standard. the purpose of this report, energy does not include alternative forms of fuel, such as bio-waste, biomass, • Total water discharge (G4-EN22), total solid waste bio-diesel, or renewable sources of energy such as (G4-EN23), environmental compliance as per G4-EN29, wind or solar energy, which collectively represent an injury data as per G4-LA6, training data (G4-LA9) and insignificant share of total energy consumption and employee data as per G4-10 of Pakistan operations carbon emissions. were included in the scope of a successful assurance ENERGY CONSUMPTION: The energy consumed during readiness project. the reporting year (January 1 to December 31). Energy Legal entities covered fully by this report include: consumption data covers energy used in the operation of Coca-Cola İçecek A.Ş., Turkey on-site industrial facilities and manufacturing processes, including electrical systems, heating, lighting, on-site Coca-Cola Satış ve Dağıtım A.Ş., Turkey transportation, air circulation and air conditioning (HVAC Mahmudiye Kaynak Suyu Ltd. Şti., Turkey system). Energy consumption also includes preform J.V. Coca-Cola Almaty Bottlers LLP, Kazakhstan injection for those plants which use this energy-intensive Azerbaijan Coca-Cola Bottlers Limited LLC., Azerbaijan process. Manufacturing processes refer to the energy consumed in the core bottling (filling) operation. Total 1 Please see external opinion statement on page 105. energy consumption also includes energy used for CO2 93 production processes at our plants in Kazakhstan and cardboard, metal, glass, sludge from water, waste Azerbaijan, and electricity manufacturing processes, oils, fleet waste (tires, batteries, coolants, oils, etc.) and which are present only in Kazakhstan. damaged ingredients or products, plus all hazardous ENERGY USE RATIO (EUR): MJ of energy consumed waste such as solvents, inks and lab waste. Liquid per liter of product produced, calculated as the sum waste disposed of through the wastewater system is not of all individual energy sources from the filling (core) included in the calculations as such waste is accounted for production processes (in MJ) divided by production in wastewater discharge volume and wastewater sludge. volume (in liters). To allow comparability between TOTAL WASTE RATIO (G/L): Grams of total waste different CCI plants, energy consumption during preform generated per liter of product produced. injection, an energy-intensive process, is excluded from WASTE RECYCLING RATE (%): Tons of waste recovered, the EUR since only a few sites employ this process. re-used or recycled divided by total waste generated Of those CCI operations which fall within the scope (in tons), i.e. the Waste Recycling Rate represents the of this RG, only the Turkish bottling facilities in Ankara portion of waste that is not disposed to a landfill or and Çorlu, the international operations in Kazakhstan incinerated. In the four countries covered by the 2014 and Azerbaijan, and the bottling facility in Lahore, CCI Sustainability Report, accredited waste contractors Pakistan employed an operational preform injection collected tons of waste for recycling and re-use. process during the reporting period. Moreover, energy WASTE DISPOSAL: Waste disposal has followed the consumption for CO2 production processes at our GRI G4 EN23 classification. To determine the method plants in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan is also excluded of disposal, CCI has used the legal categories laid from the EUR calculation. Starting in 2013, electricity out in the disposal documentation provided by its manufacturing processes, which are present only in accredited waste contractors. Based on the disposal Kazakhstan, are included in EUR calculations. Energy documentation, the categories of waste generated by consumption from preform injection, CO2 production CCI during the reporting period were recycling, re-use, and electricity production is included in total energy recovery, incineration and landfill. Some hazardous consumption, as explained in the “Energy Consumption” waste is sold for use as fuel in processes such as cement paragraph of this RG document. manufacturing. In accordance with the legal categories GHG EMISSIONS: Emissions during the reporting year of accredited waste documentation, this waste is (January 1 to December 31). The GHGs reported are those classified as recovery rather than as incineration. currently required by the United Nations Framework REUSED WASTE: Waste used again for the same or Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol. different purposes without re-processing, e.g., wood. These GHGs are currently: carbon dioxide (CO2), methane RECYCLED WASTE: Waste that is broken down into (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), raw materials, changed and reprocessed for use and perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) used for new products. Recyclable materials include and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3). Other GHGs, including many kinds of glass, paper, metal, plastic, textiles, those regulated by the Montreal Protocol, are excluded and electronics. The composting or other reuse of from “GHG emissions” and analyzed separately. “GHG biodegradable waste – such as food or garden waste – emissions” refers to emissions from all production is also considered recycling. Materials to be recycled are processes, such as bottling and preform injection, arising either brought to a collection center, or picked up from from The Company’s plants in Jordan, Azerbaijan, the curbside, then sorted, cleaned and reprocessed into Kazakhstan and Pakistan. In Turkey, CCI has been new materials bound for manufacturing. reporting its GHG emissions more extensively since 2012 in RECOVERED WASTE: Non-recyclable waste materials accordance with the ISO 14064-1 Standard for quantifying and the extraction therefrom of heat, electricity or energy and reporting GHG emissions at the organization level. through a variety of processes, including combustion, Consequently, GHG emissions reported for Turkey also gasification, pyrolyzation and anaerobic digestion. For include CCI’s GHG emissions from its non-plant buildings, example, if waste is incinerated in an incineration plant e.g. offices, fleet transport and fugitive emissions. to generate energy, then the waste is “recovered.” If Where a plant generates energy on-site, the related there is no use of energy during the process, then the energy consumption is defined as the energy of the fuel waste is incinerated. There are several ways to recover used for generation (e.g., for on-site, diesel-fired electricity energy from waste. Anaerobic digestion is a naturally generators, the energy consumption would be the diesel occurring process of decomposition whereby organic used rather than the electricity output of the generator). matter is reduced to a simpler chemical component in the absence of oxygen. “Recovery” also refers to WASTE: Waste generated at a given site includes waste incineration or directly controlled burning of municipal due to production, construction, food service or other solid waste in order to reduce waste and create activities. Examples of the types of solid waste generated energy. Secondary recovered fuel is energy recovered by The Company include paper, plastic, corrugated from waste that cannot be reused or recycled through 94 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 mechanical and biological treatment activities. Since divided by production volume (in liters). CCI Reporting Guidance most of the waste is recovered for energy at licensed WATER WITHDRAWAL: Total volume of water withdrawn facilities before storage, hazardous waste in Turkey is from any source during the reporting year (January 1 categorized as “recovery.” to December 31), including ground water, municipality WASTE STORED ON SITE: Waste stored initially before water and collected rainwater. the final treatment. Wood waste is treated in different WASTE EFFLUENT: The total volume of water discharges ways, and the final treatment method is confirmed with during the reporting period by discharge and quality, suppliers and categorized by operations. including treatment method. This indicator is aligned with Methods for reuse, recycle and recovery of hazardous GRI’s G4-EN22 indicator. waste are confirmed with CCI’s service providers for EMPLOYEE NUMBERS: CCI employees working in The waste management. For our Turkey operations, disposal Company’s headquarters, plants and sales offices. and treatment methods are decided according to the Employee figures are categorized as permanent, waste disposal codes defined in the Turkish Hazardous temporary and contractor workers, and these data are Waste Control Regulation. The amount of waste from recorded as year-end figures. This indicator is aligned coolers and two-way bottles generated by the market is with GRI’s G4-10 indicator. measured either by weighing it directly or by calculations ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE: The monetary value of using waste factors recorded after measuring the exact significant fines (over $ 200,000) and the total number weight of each part of the equipment. of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with LANDFILLED WASTE: Waste sent to landfills (of either a national Environmental Laws and Regulations. This municipality or an accredited company) and disposed of indicator is aligned with GRI’s G4-EN29 indicator. by burial. INJURIES AND LOST DAYS: Type of Injury, rates of WATER: Includes water from all sources, including well, injury, lost days and total number of work-related spring water, municipality and collected rainwater. fatalities, by region. This indicator is aligned with GRI’s WATER CONSUMPTION: All water used during the G4-LA6 indicator. CCI’s main injury metric is the Lost reporting year (January 1 to December 31). Water Time Incident Rate (LTIR), which is number of lost time consumption data includes water used for production, incidents/occupational illnesses multiplied by 200,000 water treatment, boiler makeup, cooling (contact and and then divided by the total number of hours worked non-contact), cleaning and sanitation, backwashing during the reporting period. filters, irrigation, washing trucks and other vehicles, TRAINING: Average hours of training carried out during kitchen or canteen, toilets and sinks, and fire control. the reporting period per employee, categorized in terms WATER USE RATIO: Liters of water used per liter of of OHS training, environmental training and total training. product produced, calculated as total water use (in liters) This indicator is aligned with GRI’s G4-LA9 indicator. Scope of Reporting The following tables summarize the activities that are currently reported within the scope of this Sustainability Report for energy consumption, GHG emissions, water consumption and solid waste. Total Energy Consumption Turkey Jordan Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Pakistan Industrial sites where bottling processes are conducted, together x x x x x with secondary operations such as preform injection*, bottle blowing and lift truck operations Technical service operations (e.g. repairing of coolers, etc.) x x x x x Administrative buildings located at industrial sites x x x x x Own transportation of materials and products within industrial plant x x x x x sites (e.g., forklift operations) Data adjustment for preform injection, CO2 production and Only None CO2 Only Only electricity generation processes for energy consumption figures* preform production preform preform process and preform process process processes * Adjustment is made to the EUR to allow comparability between plants by removing certain energy-intensive processes from the EUR, but not from total energy consumption. As explained in the RG section, an adjustment is made to the EUR for energy consumption for preform injection processes, electricity generation processes (present only at our Kazakhstan plant) and CO2 production processes (present only at our plants in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan). From 2013 onwards, energy use for electricity generation is included in the EUR data. 95 GHG emissions as CO2-e verification scope for Turkey Industrial sites comprising bottling facilities together with secondary operations such as lift truck operations x Technical service operations x Preform manufacturing, bottle blowing processes x Administrative buildings located at industrial sites x Administrative buildings located away from industrial sites and headquarters x Own transportation of materials and products within industrial plant sites (eg forklift operations) x Own transportation of materials and products out of industrial plant sites x Employees commuting with CCI-owned vehicles and sales fleet operations x Energy used in the cooling of products (off site) x Fugitive emissions from the cooling of products (off site) x Fugitive emissions from the cooling system (on site) x Fugitive emissions from fire extinguishers x Fugitive emissions of CO2 filling process x Fugitive emissions from off-site coolers x Fugitive emissions from on-site coolers x Water Turkey Jordan Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Pakistan Industrial sites comprising bottle facilities x x x x x Technical service operations at the site x x x x x Administrative buildings located at industrial sites x x x x x Waste Turkey Jordan Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Pakistan Industrial sites comprising bottle facilities x x x x x Technical service operations at the site x x x x x Administrative buildings located at industrial sites x x x x x Data Preparation • For fuels other than natural gas (diesel and heavy fuel oil), energy conversion factors (from liters or kilograms Energy Consumption to MJ) are obtained from the calculation tool provided Energy consumption data are reported for electricity and by TCCC Default Factors. primary fuel sources, including natural gas, diesel, LPG, • For LPG (MJ/L) a conversion factor (net calorific value) of heavy fuel oil and steam. Electricity and natural gas data 50.0 was used as part of the GHG verification process are obtained from supplier meters and reconciled with in accordance with the requirements of ISO 14064-1. internal meters (when available) and/or service provider • For diesel (MJ/L) a conversion factor of 39.0 was used. invoices. Diesel, LPG, steam and fuel oil consumption • Steam (GKAL): 4,186.8 MJ (Kazakhstan operations only) data are obtained from supplier invoices. GHG Emissions CCI Operations used the following published conversion GHG emissions are calculated by CCI using published factors: conversion factors. Conversion factors enable an estimate • For electricity, the unit of supply is invoiced in kWh. of the amount of GHGs released into the atmosphere To calculate energy use ratio, kWh is converted to per unit of energy consumed. Different types of energy megajoules (MJ) at a factor of 3.6. sources have different conversion factors that reflect their • For natural gas, the unit of supply for most suppliers is carbon dioxide intensity. In future periods, conversion invoiced in m3. To calculate the energy use ratio, cubic factors may be updated to reflect changes to, and/or meters is converted to MJ with a conversion factor of 37.3, improvements in, published data. During the current except for in Kazakhstan, where a factor of 34.4 is used period, the following conversion factors were used: based on 2013 analyses conducted by an accredited local laboratory on the natural gas used on site. For fuels such as natural gas, diesel and LPG, conversion 96 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 factors are derived from calculation tools based on GHG GHG emissions are obtained from the International CCI Reporting Guidance Protocol Standards found on the GHG Protocol website Energy Agency (IEA) and shared by TCCC among the (www.ghgprotocol.org). The Global Warming Potentials entire TCCC System. In this year’s report, we used 2012 (GWPs) used to calculate the emissions of different IEA factors (as there is a two year time gap for IEA to GHGs in terms of CO2-equivalents are taken from the publish the factors for a certain year). Combined factors Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s Fourth are used for all operations in the Sustainability Report. Assessment Report. This information is available in the internal document In 2014 we began using the “GHG emissions from entitled “SDW Fuel Conversion Factors”, which is updated transport or mobile sources” tool, version 2.6 of May every year by TCCC. 2015, from the GHG Protocol of the World Resources For our Kazakhstan operations, since electricity is Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable generated by a co-generation plant at the site, local Development to calculate the emission values for laboratory analysis results are used for the calculation employee commuting and business categories. of GHG emissions at these operations. The average GHG emissions of Turkey are taken from the report value of external laboratory analysis results are used to verified by auditing firm SGS in line with the ISO 14064-1 determine the chemical composition of samples of the Standard. natural gas used at the plant. Extrapolation Method used for Energy Use Water Consumption Calculation and Total Energy Consumption: Water consumption data is obtained from internal Since the period covered by invoices may not always fully meters where ground water is utilized. Moreover, align with The Company’s reporting period, adjustments separate data on water consumption is obtained from are made where needed to align the consumption data supplier meters and then reconciled with internal meters from the invoices with the reporting period as agreed (when available) and/or service provider invoices where with The Company’s verifiers. the water is supplied by the network. TCCC Default Factors for CO2 Emissions Restatements G4-22 Natural gas (MJ) : 0.05049 kg CO2 The measuring and reporting of assured environmental LPG (MJ) : 0.0594 kg CO2 data inevitably involves a degree of estimation. In Diesel (MJ, light fuel oil) : 0.0704 kg CO2 exceptional circumstances, restatements of data Heavy Fuel Oil (MJ) : 0.0735 Kg CO2 (Azerbaijan reported in a prior year may be required. Restatements operations only) are considered where the data differs by more than 5% Electricity (kWh) : For electricity, conversion factors for at The Company level. kg CO2/kWh electricity 2010 IEA Factors 2011 IEA Factors 2012 IEA Factors (Used for the 2012 Report) (Used for the 2013 Report) (Used for the 2014 Report) Turkey 0.445025 0.457314 0.4591454 Jordan 0.565506 0.637428 0.6356158 Kazakhstan 0.385311 0.395557 0.4608749 Azerbaijan 0.392798 0.444116 0.4936623 Pakistan Not used. Not used. 0.4176220 The Coca-Cola Company Requirements for Treated Wastewater Quality* 5-Day Biological Oxygen Demand < 50 mg/l pH Level 6.5-8** Total Suspended Solids < 50 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids < 2,000 mg/l Total Nitrogen < 5 mg/l Total Phosphorus < 2 mg/l * These are six of the 20 water quality parameters established for the Coca-Cola system. ** Depends on receiving stream water conditions. These values indicate the maximum allowable limit values unless applicable legal requirements are more stringent. 97 GRI G4 Content Index for “In Accordance: Core” This report has been developed in accordance with GRI G4 “core” option. The report was submitted to GRI for the Materiality Disclosures Service and GRI has verified that the Disclosures G4-17 to G4-27 were correctly located in both the table below and in the text of the final report. This index table lists our standard and specific disclosures with reference to G4 categories, aspects and indicators, and refers to the pages where these issues are addressed in this report. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference page/ External UNGC Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principle STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the CEO CEO Message Full 2-3 Not Assured ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization Full Coca-Cola İçecek Not Assured G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Full http://www.cci.com. Not Assured tr/en/our-company/ our-geography G4-5 Location of the organization’s Full Istanbul, Turkey Not Assured headquarters G4-6 Number of countries where the Full Out of 10 countries Not Assured organization operates, and names of of operation, this countries where either the organization report contains data has significant operations for Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan, and includes selected data for Pakistan. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Full 2014 Annual Report, Not Assured page 44 G4-8 Markets served CCI At a Glance Full 4-5 Not Assured G4-9 Scale of the organization CCI At a Glance Full 4-5 Not Assured G4-10 Breakdown of workforce we-Employee Full 45-46 Not Assured Principle 6 Performance 85-86 Indicators G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered we-Employees Full 49 Not Assured Principles by collective bargaining agreements 1, 2, 3 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply Sustainability Full 21 Not Assured chain Across the Value Chain 98 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 GRI G4 Content Index for “In Accordance: Core” Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference page/ External UNGC Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principle G4-13 Significant changes during the Full During the reporting Not Assured reporting period regarding the period there were no organization’s size, structure, significant changes ownership, or its supply chain in The Company's size, structure or ownership, or in its supply chain. G4-14 Addressing the precautionary world Full 65 Not Assured approach or principle G4-15 External charters, principles or Integrating Full 19 Not Assured initiatives endorsed Sustainability G4-16 Membership of associations and Integrating Full 19 Not Assured advocacy organizations Sustainability IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Report coverage of entities included in CCI Reporting Full 93 Not Assured the consolidated financial statements Guidance Out of 10 countries of operation, this report contains data for Turkey, Jordan, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and selected data for Pakistan operations. G4-18 Process for defining the report content Integrating Full 13 Not Assured and the aspect boundaries Sustainability G4-19 Material aspects identified Integrating Full 13, 15 Not Assured Sustainability G4-20 For each material Aspect, report Integrating Full 13, 15, 16 Not Assured the Aspect Boundary within the Sustainability All material aspects organization are considered material for all operations. G4-21 For each material Aspect, report Integrating Full 13, 15, 16 Not Assured the Aspect Boundary outside the Sustainability organization G4-22 The effect of any restatements of CCI Reporting Full 97 Not Assured information provided in previous Guidance reports G4-23 Significant changes from previous Full 16 Not Assured reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by Integrating Full 13, 16-17 Not Assured the organization Sustainability G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of Integrating Full 13, 16-17 Not Assured stakeholders Sustainability G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder Integrating Full 13, 16-17 Not Assured engagement Sustainability 99 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference page/ External UNGC Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principle G4-27 Response to key topics and concerns Integrating Full 13, 16-17 Not Assured raised Sustainability REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period Full 1 January 2014 to Not Assured 31 December 2014 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Full 2013 Not Assured G4-30 Reporting cycle Full Annual Not Assured G4-31 Contact point for questions Full Corporate.affairs@cci. Not Assured com.tr G4-32 “In accordance” option, GRI content Full In accordance with Not Assured index and external assurance. “Core” requirements. 98-104 (GRI Table) External Assurance Reports are provided on pages 105-108. G4-33 Policy and current practice regarding About our Full 1 Not Assured external assurance Report The CCI Board of Directors’ Corporate Governance and Ethics Committee was involved in seeking external assurance for this report. GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance and Ethics structure of the Integrating Full 11 Not Assured organization Sustainability Corporate 29 Governance and Ethics Full ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Values, principles, standards and Integrating 10 Not Assured Principle 10 norms of behavior, such as codes of Sustainability conduct and codes of ethics Governance 29, 30 and Ethics SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Economic G4-DMA Aspect: Economic Performance CCI At a Glance 5 Not Assured Principle 7 G4-EC2 Risks and opportunities due to climate world Full 68 Not Assured Principle 7 change (also provided in the 2014 CCI CDP Report) G4-DMA Aspect: Indirect Economic Impact we-Community Full 55 Not Assured G4-EC7 Development and impact of we-Community Full 58 Not Assured infrastructure investments and services supported 100 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 GRI G4 Content Index for “In Accordance: Core” Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference page/ External UNGC Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principle G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, we-Community Full 62-63 Not Assured including the extent of impacts G4-DMA Aspect: Procurement Practices Sustainability 27 Not Assured Across the Value Chain G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local Sustainability Full 27 Not Assured suppliers Across the Value Chain Environmental G4-DMA Aspect: Material world 81 Not Assured Principles 7, 8 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Performance Full 84 Not Assured Principles Indicators 7, 8 G4-EN2 Recycled materials used world Full 81-82 Not Assured Principle 8 G4-DMA Aspect: Energy world 68 Not Assured Principles 7, 8, 9 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the world Full 71 Assurance Principles organization Performance 89-90 statement of 7, 8 Indicators EY on page 105 G4-EN5 Energy intensity world Full 71 Assurance Principle 8 statement of EY on page 105 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption world Full 72 Not Assured Principles 8, 9 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements for world Full 73-74 Not Assured Principles products and services 8, 9 G4-DMA Aspect: Water world 75 Not Assured Principles 7, 8 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source world Full 77 Assurance Principles statement of 7, 8 EY on page 105 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Performance Full 91 Not Assured Principles recycled and reused Indicators 7, 8 G4-DMA Aspect: Emissions world Full 68 Not Assured Principles 7, 8, 9 G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) world Full 69-70 Assurance Principles statement of 7, 8 SGS on pages 106-108 G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) world Full 69-70 Assurance Principles statement of 7, 8 SGS on pages 106-108 101 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference page/ External UNGC Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principle G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) world Partial 69 Not Assured Data provided for Turkey operations only. G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions world Full 70 Not Assured Principle 8 intensity G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions world Full 72 Not Assured Principles 8, 9 G4-DMA Aspect: Effluents and Waste world 79, 81-82 Not Assured Principle 8 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and world Full 79 Not Assured Principle 8 destination G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and Performance Full 91 Not Assured Principle 8 disposal method Indicators G4-DMA Aspect: Product and Services world 81-82 Not Assured Principles 8, 9 G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold (and world Full 81-82 Not Assured Principle 8 their packaging materials) that are reclaimed, by category G4-DMA Aspect: Compliance Governance 29-30 Not Assured Principles and Ethics 8, 9 G4-EN29 Fines and sanctions for nonFull There were no Not Assured Principles compliance with environmental significant* fines. 8, 9 regulations. G4-DMA Aspect: Transport world 73 Not Assured Principle 8 G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of world Full 73 Not Assured Principle 8 transportation G4-DMA Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment Sustainability 25-27 Not Assured Principle 8 across the Value Chain G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were Full All suppliers were Not Assured Principle 8 screened using environmental criteria screened. G4-DMA Aspect: Employment we-Employees 45 Not Assured Principle 6 G4-LA1 New employee hires and employee Performance Full 87 Not Assured Principle 6 turnover by age group, gender and Indicators region. G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time we-Employees Partial 48 Not Assured employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees. G4-DMA Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety we-Employees 50 Not Assured G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce we-Employees Partial 50-51 Not Assured represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees 102 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 GRI G4 Content Index for “In Accordance: Core” Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference page/ External UNGC Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principle G4-LA6 Injuries, lost days, absenteeism and we-Employees Partial 52-53 Not Assured fatalities G4-DMA Aspect: Training and Education we-Employees 47-48 Not Assured Principle 6 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per we-Employees Full 47-48 Not Assured Principle 6 employee by gender, and by employee category G4-DMA Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity we-Employees 46 Not Assured Principle 6 G4-LA12 Composition of Governance and Ethics Performance Full 86 Not Assured Principles bodies and breakdown of employees Indicators 1, 6 G4-DMA Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Sustainability 25-27 Not Assured Practices Across the Value Chain G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were Full All our suppliers Not Assured Principles screened using labor practices criteria 1, 6 Social: Human Rights G4-DMA Aspect: Freedom of Association and we-Employees 49 Not Assured Principle 3 Collective Bargaining G4-HR4 Supporting right to freedom of Sustainability Full 26 Not Assured Principles association and collective bargaining across the 1, 2, 3 in risk areas Value Chain 49 we-Employees G4-DMA Aspect: Assessment Sustainability 25-27 Not Assured Principle 1 across the Value Chain G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of Partial All our operations are Not Assured Principles operations that have been subject subject to HR reviews 1, 2, 3, 4, to human rights reviews or impact and audits. 5, 6 assessments G4-DMA Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Sustainability 25-27 Not Assured Principle 2 Assessment across the Value Chain G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were Full All our suppliers Not Assured Principles screened using human rights criteria 1, 2, 6 Social: Society G4-DMA Aspect: Local Communities we-Community 56 Not Assured Principle 1 G4-SO1 Local community engagement, impact we-Community Partial 56-61 Not Assured Principle 1 assessments and development programs G4-DMA Aspect: Anti-Corruption Governance 29-30 Not Assured Principle 10 and Ethics G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of Partial All operations are Not Assured Principle 10 operations assessed for risks related assessed for risks to corruption, and the significant risks related to corruption. identified 103 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference page/ External UNGC Disclosure Reporting Explanations Assurance Principle G4-SO4 Anti-corruption training Governance Full 31 Not Assured Principle 10 and Ethics G4-DMA Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior Governance 29-31 Not Assured and Ethics G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for Full There was an Not Assured anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust investigation which and monopoly practices, and their was carried out in outcomes 2014 and closed in 2015 without any negative results. G4-DMA Aspect: Compliance Governance 29-31 Not Assured and Ethics G4-SO8 Fines and sanctions for nonFull We did not have any compliance significant* fines. Social: Product Responsibility G4-DMA Aspect: Customer Health and Safety me 33-34 Not Assured G4-PR1 Assessment of health and safety Full 100% of our products. Not Assured Principle 8 impacts of products. G4-DMA Aspect: Product and Service Labeling me 35 Not Assured G4-PR3 Product and service information me Full 35 Not Assured Principle 8 required by procedures for product and service information and labeling G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer Sustainability Full 28 Not Assured satisfaction across the Value Chain * Fines of $ 200,000 are deemed significant by CCI. 104 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 Independent Assurance Letter Independent Assurance Letter 105 GHG Verification Statement 106 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 GHG Verification Statement GHG Verification Statement 107 GHG Verification Statement 108 Coca-Cola İçecek Sustainability Report 2014 Contact Coca-Cola İçecek A.Ş. Atilla D. Yerlikaya Group Corporate Affairs Director corporate.affairs@cci.com.tr FSM Mah. Poligon Cad. Buyaka 2 Sitesi, No: 8 Kule 1 A Blok Kat: 20 Ümraniye 34771, Istanbul, Turkey Tel: +90 216 528 4400 Fax:+90 216 510 70 12 www.cci.com.tr Reporting Consultant www.3psustainability.com.tr Report Design Mehmet Edeoğlu Legal Disclaimer This Sustainability Report (the Report) has been prepared by Coca-Cola İçecek A.Ş. (CCI) within the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the United Nations Global Compact. It has been prepared solely for informative purposes and does not aim to form the basis for any investment decision. No information in this report constitutes a proposal or part of a proposal relating to the sale of CCI shares, nor an invitation to this kind of sales process, and the publishing of this report does not mean that a legal relationship of this kind has been established. All featured information and related documents are believed to be accurate at the time of this report’s preparation, and all information has been provided in good faith and relies on trustworthy sources. However, CCI does not make any kind of declaration, guarantee or promise in relation to this information. This report is printed on recycled paper. Esenkent Mahallesi Deniz Feneri Sokak No.4 / 34776 Dudullu Istanbul, Turkey Tel: +90 216 528 40 00 Fax: +90 216 365 84 67-68 www.cci.com.tr
