CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Responsibility KUONI GROUP MARKET REPORT 2014 105 BUSINESS CLIMATE CHAN GE: 14 80 0 TON N ES OF CO 2 WERE COMPEN SATED BY OUR SWISS CUSTOMERS IN 2014 – THAT’S LIKE REMOVIN G ALMOST 3 0 0 0 CARS FROM THE STREETS FOR ON E YEAR CLIMATE CHAN GE: THE KUON I, MYCLIMATE AN D CARITAS PROJECT CONVERTIN G USED COOKIN G OIL TO B IOD IESEL WILL SAVE 8 40 0 TON N ES OF CO 2 IN THE N EXT 1 0 YEARS CO 2 EMPLOYEE EN GAGEMENT: WATER MANAGEMENT: EMPLOYEES FROM 25 COU NTRIES KUON I HOTEL PARTN ERS HAVE TAKEN PART IN THE JOIN ED TWO WATER WEACT SUSTAINAB ILITY CHALLEN GE CHAMPION S TRAIN IN G SEMINARS IN THAILAN D 106 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY KUON I OFFERS TRAVELIFE SUSTAINAB ILITY SYSTEM AWARD ED HOTELS IN ITS TOUR OPERATIN G B USIN ESS. THESE HOTELS HAVE BEEN FOU N D TO HAVE FAIR WORKIN G CON D ITION S FOR THEIR EMPLOYEES, AMON GST VARIOUS OTHER SUSTAINAB ILIRY CRITERIA . KUONI GROUP MARKET REPORT 2014 107 BUSINESS ■■■ STATEMENT FROM THE CEO ■■■ INTRODUCTION “Kuoni’s is committed to the UN Global Compact, now and in the future; we support In this chapter, Kuoni informs its stakeholders about its continued its philosophy, values and principles. In Switzerland, Kuoni sits on the Board of the engagement during 2014 in the four areas of commitment defined Global Compact Network. As part of our by the UN Global Compact: human rights, labour, environment due diligence, we are dedicated to responand anti-corruption. This is Kuoni Group’s seventh official report sible tourism that respects people and the on Corporate Responsibility (CR). The last one was published as environment. In 2014 we strengthened the governance of sustainability management part of the 2013 Annual Report. All CR reporting, key performance within our company so that it is integrated indicators and targets are based on the latest guidelines of the more effectively into the company’s core Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G4). The GRI Index is available processes.” online (http://www.kuoni.com/corp-responsibility/gri-index-2013). – Peter Meier, CEO of the Kuoni Group ■■■ HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Kuoni strives to ensure human rights criteria are properly fulfilled in line with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. In 2014, Kuoni focused its activities on the following three pillars: (1) implementing the human rights action plans >> MITIGATION IN KENYA AND INDIA developed out of impact assessments in Kenya and India >; (2) assessing QUICK SEARCH human rights risks and impacts; and (3) further embedding human rights in Kuoni’s business practice. 14126 Based on its experience in assessing the human rights impact of An overview of actions undertaken in 2014 tourism, Kuoni contributed to the methodology used for a Sectorbased on the human rights impact Wide Impact Assessment (SWIA) of Myanmar’s tourist industry assessments can be found on kuoni.com conducted by the Myanmar Centre for Responsible Business. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. In 2014 Kuoni amended its Supplier Code of Conduct > to further reduce the likelihood of contributing to or being linked to human rights abuses within its value chain. 108 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY A new supplier monitoring system was tested at GTS and Kuoni UK >> SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT to assess the sustainability performance of accommodation providers. The Supplier Code of Conduct was revised in 2014 in line with the latest developments This online self-assessment – which will be rolled out further in 2015 in sustainable supply chain management, – will provide Kuoni with the data it needs to monitor compliance and then approved by the Group Executive with the Supplier Code of Conduct and identify opportunities for Board. Clauses on preventing bribery and corruption, making workplaces safe and partnerships. protecting animals have been added to the revised Supplier Code, which is signed by Kuoni has also developed internal guidelines for sustainable excuraccommodation and other service providers around the globe. sions. These provide recommendations for product managers and contractors across the Group on how to source ethically, how to consider human rights aspects and how to develop sustainable products. An QUICK SEARCH e-learning course has also been developed to raise internal awareness and understanding of the Supplier Code of Conduct and the Sustain14127 able Excursion Guidelines. This course will be launched in 2015. ■■■ LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. In its Statement of Commitment on Human Rights, Kuoni acknowledges the right to collective bargaining and freedom of association as outlined in the ILO (International Labour Organisation) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. In 2014, Kuoni entered into an informal partnership with the ILO to improve workplace cooperation at key accommodation suppliers in Kenya. Local consultants as well as workers and managers from Kenyan hotels participated in a training programme (based on the SCORE methodology) aimed at increasing productivity and service quality by improving worker-management relations. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. KUONI GROUP MARKET REPORT 2014 109 BUSINESS Kuoni’s Supplier Code of Conduct forbids all forms of forced labour. Through its human rights due diligence process, Kuoni regularly assesses where forced and compulsory labour occurs in tourism, and identifies preventive measures to protect especially those groups that are particularly vulnerable to exploitation. Kuoni pays special attention to protecting children from sexual exploitation in tourism, and fights child prostitution as a specific form of forced labour and modern slavery. >>THE CODE Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child Kuoni has been an active member of the labour. Code since 2006 and is represented on its board. As a member, Kuoni must inform its customers about child protection, conThe prohibition of child labour is a prerequisite for any business tractually oblige its partners to comply relationship between Kuoni and its suppliers. This is set out clearly in with ethical guidelines, and show its partthe Supplier Code of Conduct. Meaningful stakeholder consultation ner hotels and their employees how to respond if they come across any cases is necessary to identify the root causes driving child labour wherever of sexual exploitation of children in the it occurs. Kuoni has provided practical input to the development of course of their work. a tool launched in December 2014 by UNICEF that helps companies QUICK SEARCH to consult stakeholders on children’s rights. 14128 With the aim of furthering implementation of The Code of Conduct for the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation in Travel and Tourism > in Kuoni’s business units, the following country offices ■■■ NEW TRAVELIFE CRITERIA of Destination Management Specialist Asian Trails have signed up In recognition of advances in sustainability to the child protection initiative since 2014: Thailand, Cambodia, in the travel industry over recent years, new certification criteria were introduced Indonesia, Laos, Myanmar, Malaysia and Vietnam. by Travelife in 2014. As a member of the Travelife Steering Group, Kuoni contributed Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discriminato the development of the new criteria tion in respect of employment and occupation. and is promoting them to its accommodation providers. The Kuoni Code of Conduct outlines the company’s commitment to After three years of intensive work with ensuring that within its multicultural teams and working environaccommodation providers in Tunisia, five ment nobody is discriminated against because of their race, religion, hotels are undergoing an external sustainability audit in the spring of 2015 according beliefs, nationality, sexual orientation, gender, age or disability. to the latest Travelife criteria. 110 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ■■■ ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to >> STATEMENT OF COMMITMENT environmental challenges. In its Statement of Commitment on the Environment, Kuoni sets out its commitment to protect the environment in major desIn 2013, Kuoni published a Statement of Commitment on the Environtinations and operations worldwide. The ment > based on its own Code of Conduct and the precautionary most important areas that have the biggest impact on Kuoni’s business activities and principle. This was followed in 2014 by the implementation of detailed products were identified as climate change, measures relating to climate change, water management and biowater management and biodiversity. The diversity. It has become clear that Kuoni can contribute significantly Statement of Commitment details key interventions in each these three areas. to preserving the diverse natural resources and unique landscapes of holiday destinations, especially by working with stakeholders such as suppliers, employees, customers, NGOs and international QUICK SEARCH organisations. 14129 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Kuoni strives to sensitise its stakeholders along the whole value chain to the issues of climate change and environmental protection. In 2014 Kuoni, in collaboration with “Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ)”, launched a project to promote sustainability awareness at partner hotels in Morocco. One of the project’s aims is to train hotel staff in sustainability issues such as environmental management and resource efficiency. Fourteen hotels in Marrakesh and Agadir have already signed up to the project. 654 employees from 25 different countries The Sustainable Excursion Guidelines launched in 2014 ensure that took part in the WeAct Challenge, which showed employees how to environmental aspects are given due consideration when buying and live more sustainably by earning, selling daytrips. The Guidelines comply with the Convention on tracking and competing for points for International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora sustainable action. (CITES) and ensure that best practice codes for tourism – such as ABTA’s Animal Welfare Minimum Requirements – are followed. KUONI GROUP MARKET REPORT 2014 111 BUSINESS Kuoni continued its work on biodiversity with the International Union for Conservation of Nature in 2014. As part of a project launched in 2013 in Sri Lanka to support eco-tourism, further training was carried out in 2014 to help providers get into the market. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Kuoni aims to implement technical solutions and operational improvements that help reduce water consumption by hotels. A comprehensive user handbook was developed in 2014 to promote efficient water management in Thai hotels. The handbook gives hotels the tools they need to gradually introduce sustainable water management. 45 Kuoni partner hotels in Bangkok and Phuket learned about the Hotels participating in the Water importance of water in tourism at two workshops in November 2014; Champion programme in Thailand they were also introduced to the handbook. Once they have successhave saved up to fully implemented the processes described in the handbook, hotels can apply for the Kuoni Water Champion Award. 20% of water per guest per night. ■■■ ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment & Policy: Kuoni is committed to doing business ethically and believes that bribery and corruption are wrong and not acceptable. According to the Kuoni Code of Conduct (“CoC”), each employee is obliged to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations as well as with internal regulations and guidelines. The CoC also states that gifts and hospitality may not be given, offered or received with the intent or prospect of influencing decision making or other conduct and refers to Kuoni’s Group Anti-Corruption Regulation for further guidance. The Group Anti-Corruption Regulation has been issued by Kuoni’s Board of Directors. The VFS Global Division has issued its own Anti-Corruption Regulation in line with the Group Regulation. 112 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Implementation: In 2014 Kuoni established mitigating action plans ■■■ MANAGEMENT COMMITMENT on anti-corruption based on previous risk assessments covering the “The Kuoni Group is committed to conducting business around the world with the five key areas of communication, contracting, process-related training, highest degree of ethics and integrity. This general awareness raising and monitoring. Key leadership functions is key to keeping Kuoni one of the world’s throughout Kuoni Group have been handed responsibility for impleleading travel services provider. Ensuring our customers’ and stakeholders’ continumenting dozens of actions. For example, Human Resources functions ing trust is fundamental to the success of across the divisions were trained and tasked with integrating anti-corour business. As part of this commitment, ruption in the annual performance review process and in new-emKuoni’s Board of Directors and Executive Board fully endorses implementation of ployee orientation through e-learning as well as training on processes anti-corruption policies and processes.” related to clearance of gifts. Anti-corruption clauses have been added to supplier contracts, and this is being communicated to suppliers. – Peter Meier, CEO of the Kuoni Group Further, a dedicated compliance function has been established for VFS Global, and the Anti-Corruption Regulation is being communicated to local governments. ■■■ MONITORING All business units must maintain adequate compliance monitoring programmes and Group Internal Audit reviews the effectiveness of the Regulation and compliance with it. Findings are reported to the Audit Committee and the Group Compliance Officer. Kuoni urges all employees to report any violation of the Regulation. Reports to the Group Compliance Officer can be made on a confidential basis or anonymously (whistleblowing). KUONI GROUP MARKET REPORT 2014 113
