Sustainability at our Core The Innovation Group plc and subsidiaries Sustainability Report 2014 Contents 01 Embedding sustainability 47 Managing our Sustainability risks 02 Focusing on sustainability and opportunities 06 Sustainability at our Core 52 Sustainability Strategy 08 Moving towards our goals 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2020 What’s inside? 14 Themes (see below) 58 Glossary of terms and acronyms Theme 1: Theme 2: Theme 3: Impacts on society Impacts on the environment Carbon and climate change We must act in a responsible and We are committed to increasing We are focused on lowering ethical manner which respects the our resource efficiency and the carbon footprint of our own societies in which we operate. reducing our impact on the operations whilst supporting environment. our extensive global network of suppliers to lower their emissions also. See page 14 See page 16 See page 18 Theme 4: Theme 5: Theme 6: Employee engagement All stakeholders Supply chain management Our business depends on the The views of our stakeholders Our extensive global network talent and teamwork displayed are critical to the ongoing relevance of suppliers presents a real by our employees. We want our of our Sustainability Strategy. opportunity for Innovation employees to feel engaged Group to make a meaningful and motivated. and positive impact. See page 28 See page 36 See page 38 Theme 7: Theme 8: Innovation Governance Innovation is a continued Acting with integrity is one area for focus in order to meet of our core values and is our clients’ expectations central to everything we do. for sustainable products and services. You can find more out about Innovation Group or download our Annual Report and Accounts here: www.innovation-group.com See page 42 See page 44 You can find more out about our Sustainability Strategy here: www.innovation-group.com/ sustainability Chief Executive’s statement Embedding sustainability ”I am proud that Innovation Group has supported a statement by a leading group of global corporations and investors that was presented at the UN Climate talks in September of this year. This statement commits us to report and make use of climate change information on a common basis in mainstream corporate reports. We take this step primarily out of a sense of fiduciary responsibility. ”Our customers rightly expect that we should do our bit to protect the environment and the societies in which we operate, and minimise our own carbon footprint. I am pleased to reaffirm Innovation Group’s support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (‘UNGC’) in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. “What follows is an account of our progress in FY14 against our Planet, People, Profit centred Sustainability Strategy as well as publication of our new targets to 2020. We are focused, motivated and excited by “Climate change is now having a noticeable opportunities that sustainability can bring to impact on the Global Insurance Sector. our business and we are optimistic that by working together with our stakeholders With the number of catastrophic events on Innovation Group can make a difference.” the increase, it’s important that we work with our clients to help minimise the impact on their customers and their business. To this end we Andrew Roberts commissioned a research paper earlier this year Chief Executive Officer Innovation Group plc on how climate change is affecting the industry, and we are now in the process of speaking to our clients about the findings and key actions. The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 01 Introduction Focusing on sustainability “We have a clear vision to have ‘Sustainability at our Core’ and we are all working hard to embed this within our wider corporate strategy and our everyday business. “We have reduced our Scope 1 & 2 carbon emissions per person by 15.7% and achieved the reduction target set for 2020. I am particularly pleased that we doubled our Carbon Offset commitment from 828 tCO2e to 1,656 tCO2e in FY13 and extended this to 2,890 tCO2e in FY14. “The award winning Gold Standard Carbon Credits scheme that we support provides more efficient cooking stoves for families in Kampala, Uganda. It will go a good way towards helping people in challenging environments as well as preventing emissions from entering the atmosphere. “This year we extended our Strategy and I am particularly excited by some of the planned initiatives such as the ‘Voices for the Future’ programme where children of our employees will have the chance to take part in meaningful climate action. We also have an ambitious plan to extend our UK Carbon Managed Supply Chain “I am very pleased with the progress that project to our global network. Innovation Group has made against our FY13“I look forward to watching our new Strategy to FY15 Sustainability Strategy. As the highlights 2020 unfold and help shape our business.” on page 7 show, there has been a lot of activity over the past year. James Liddiard Group Company Secretary, Chief Legal Officer and Chair of the Sustainability Committee. 02 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Sustainability for growth leading cost efficiencies and offer a great At Innovation Group our vision is to have customer experience. By offering these Sustainability at our Core. This means that services in an effective and efficient way we can we must ensure that our wider business save resources and reduce the impact of our strategy focuses on environmental protection, own business as well as that of our clients. and social justice, as well as our bottom line. This Planet, People and Profit ethos Our impact permeates throughout our business. We believe that our business is one with relatively low risk to the environment and We have taken steps to understand the societies in which we operate. We are an office expectations of our stakeholders and use this based organisation with services delivered information to inform our strategy and largely by call centre operations and field management systems to ensure that we personnel (e.g. client liaison, assessors and operate in an environmentally and socially loss-adjusters). Some offices are very small (less responsible way whilst bringing long-term than ten employees) and some staff are home economic benefit to our shareholders and based. Field people travel predominantly by car, stakeholders. although rail or air travel may be involved. This report summarises our progress and Some specialist divisions within the UK ambitions with regards to our Corporate business do present a slightly higher risk Responsibility and Sustainability Strategy, and where we own elements of the supply chain supplements our Annual Report and Accounts. (e.g. subsidence, arboriculture, groundworks and drainage services). In addition to this report, the following documents are also available at this web page: We are a responsible business and are managing www.innovation-group.com/sustainability issues such as energy, waste, paper use and water as explained later in the report. In the • Sustainability policy. UK business and Stuttgart office in Germany, • Anti-Bribery policy. we have Environmental Management Systems • Code of Conduct. (‘EMSs’) in place to ensure that we understand • United NationsGlobal Compact our significant aspects and minimise our impact Communication on Progress. on the environment. • GHG Emissions Inventory report FY14 However, we do have an extensive supply chain Our business made up of a broad range of organisations of We manage the complete insurance process, different sizes and sectors. These include from policy through claims for major motor garages, plumbers, builders, electricians and property insurers, other risk carriers, and and repair service providers, for instance. their customers. As a Group we employ over We acknowledge that we have a responsibility 3,000 people in 14 of the largest insurance to minimise the risk to the environment and markets worldwide and we effectively manage society associated with our own direct impacts approximately 4m incidents a year on behalf and in addition to this, our clients also expect of our clients. us to support our supply chain to minimise their impact. Core operating principle We believe that the business of insurance In particular, we are committed to reducing should be viewed and run as a complete our own carbon emissions whilst actively end-to-end optimised and collaborative working with our supply chain to lower their process, rather than a series of individual emission levels. We are progressing this transactions. We apply this principle through through the Carbon Fix Foundation, a our industry-leading business process and data not-for-profit organisation assisting services, flexible software products, extensive businesses to take effective action to repair networks and innovative commercial reduce their contribution to climate change. models that allow insurers to gain marketThe Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 03 Introduction Focusing on sustainability Our culture and company values We aim to be a ‘Future-Ready’ business Our values by being informed and educated and • We act with integrity. using this knowledge to develop innovative • We respect our clients, their customers, solutions for our clients, as well as supporting our colleagues and suppliers. our extensive global supply chain network • We are reliable. towards our common goal of better • We are innovative. sustainability performance. • Our solutions are sustainable. Climate change and the insurance industry Our promise The most recent report from the • For our customers: reduce costs and risks, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change improve efficiency and increase customer (‘IPCC’1) confirms that warming of the planet satisfaction and loyalty. is unequivocal and scientists are 95-100% • For our employees: provide meaningful certain this has been mainly caused jobs and a fulfilling working environment. by human activities. • For our shareholders: focus on delivering market-leading returns. Many scientists feel that we may be unable to prevent a rise of global temperatures above 2ºC It is clear that sustainability underpins our (above pre-industrial levels), the level which is values and promise. At Innovation Group, commonly considered safe. What’s more we are we aim to be the organisation of choice for now on track for a world that could be 4ºC customers, shareholders and employees, warmer (or more) by the end of this century. not just because of what we do, but because It is widely accepted that an increase exceeding of the way we do it. 2ºC could be a tipping point of change from which many natural systems would not be able Sustainability is integrated into to recover. Even before this tipping point is core business strategy reached, experts model that the extra energy Sustainability runs throughout our core being kept in our planet’s system, 93% of which business strategy and is a consistent item on is being absorbed into the oceans, will cause sea the Audit Committee agenda. All senior leaders level rise, increased precipitation, which will be of the Group including our CEO and the entire uneven geographically, as well as increased Board are committed to driving sustainability incidences of extreme weather including floods, within the organisation. droughts, heatwaves and storms. Innovation Group’s global CEO, Andrew These increased extreme events are predicted Roberts, along with the full Board and the senior to have significant economic costs globally. management team, have all completed an Accumulated costs linked to climate change advanced in-house, three hour e-learning are expected to reach US$4tn by 2030 (4.6% course in sustainability. This course is also open of global Gross Domestic Product (‘GDP’), to all employees and completion of it attracts with some regions being hit worse such as the title of ‘Sustainability Ambassador’. There South East Asia at 5.3% of GDP2. are 66 qualified Sustainability Ambassadors within the organisation and more than 100 employees have indicated that they would like to complete the course. Note 1 – Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (September 2013) First Assessment Report (WGI AR5) Note 2 – Protecting our capital. How climate adaptation in cities creates a resilient place for business CDP Cities Report, 2014. 04 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 The UK government and the Association of British Insurers (‘ABI’) are in consensus that Examples of predicted impacts managing the risk that flooding poses to people of climate change on the UK and property is of great importance. This has Insurance Sector: been evident through the 2007 and 2013 floods The following predictions are based on a throughout the UK. The floods had devastating model of a 4ºC rise (above pre-industrial effects including loss of life, displacement of levels) in temperature with the current thousands of people and massive economic population and environment (calculated losses for both victims and insurance by the Met Office and AIR Worldwidecompanies. As similar incidents increase, catastrophe modelling experts3). insurance companies will be increasingly dealing with the financial and social costs associated. • Annual insured flood losses to In June 2014 a hailstone storm damaged increase 14% to £633m. around 50,000 vehicles in central Germany. We have completed a comprehensive analysis • 1 in 100 year events could increase of the risks and opportunities that climate in frequency by 30%, raising insured change presents to Innovation Group. damages to £5.4bn. The impacts of climate change are likely to • 1 in 200 year events could increase by lead to increased operational costs and 32% with the cost of insured losses potential disruption through the supply chain. rising to £7.9bn. • Insured wind losses could rise by 25% However, despite the financial and physical to £827m for annual events. risks that we face through climate change, we know that there are also opportunities Cost to the EU of the 2013 Central for our business. At Innovation Group we European floods were reported to reach €6b. recognise that increased extreme weather events have the potential to increase our volumes of business with our partners due to peaks in demand for services. We know that our commitment to operating in an ever increasingly sustainable way is a differentiator in the market and makes us a preferred partner. Because of this and our determinism to reduce our impact on climate change, we remain fully committed to our Sustainability Strategy and work to help our partners throughout our supply chain to reduce their impact as well. Note 3 – Met Office (2011) The financial risks of climate change. www.metoffice.gov.uk The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 05 Our vision Sustainability at our Core Our approach and mapped on the Materiality Matrix below. We have completed a review of internal This matrix was then used to inform the and external stakeholder opinions about themes and actions within the Sustainability sustainability. Each sustainability topic has Strategy (see pages 52-57 ). been analysed, both in terms of stakeholder concern and its relevance to the Company, Materiality matrix • Product service • Customer innovation satisfaction High • Human rights • Waste • Diversity and equal opportunities • Labour rights • Employee health, • Employment/ safety and wellness jobs Importance to stakeholders • Compliance • Employee training and development Medium • Anti bribery and corruption • Supply chain standards and performance • Our energy use • Our carbon emissions and reduction • Materials and We have published our resource depletion • Climate change risks and Sustainability Charter extreme weather events which is displayed in every • Emerging markets (eg from climate office in every region • Procurement practices change, or electric Low vehicles) • Biodiversity loss • Market presence • Water quality and diﬀerentiation and scarcity • Charity work and investing in local • Pollution communitites We have reviewed and updated our ever evolving Low Medium High Sustainability Strategy. At the back of this report Inﬂuence on business success (pages 52-57) you can find targets set through to 2020. At the heart of this strategy are 45 initiatives that are grouped around the following eight themes. T FI 1. Impacts on society. I mp a ance ct 2. Impacts on the O ver n soci s on ety environment. PR Go 3. Carbon and climate e change. on t h n c t s en t at i o 4. Employee engagement. pa m 5. All stakeholders. Innov Im viron PLANET 6. Supply chain en management. Sustainbility 7. Innovation. at our Core Ca in 8. Governance. h a nt m rbon ly c ate Supp eme an g cha d mana nge cli st ee t ak Al l oy eh l E m p men olde e rs engag E PL PEO 06 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Highlights of our progress FY14 6. Our online e-learning course has been 1. We have achieved1 a Scope 1 & 2 tCO2e per launched this year giving every employee FTE carbon intensity reduction of 15.7% an understanding of the importance of against our base year2. This reduction is 2.5 sustainability and how it is integral to times that of our target and a year ahead of our operations. schedule. When Scope 3 Business Travel is also considered there is a reduction of 12% in 7. We have extended our stakeholder our intensity ratio of emissions per person involvement to ensure that we are (‘FTE’). We have also achieved a reduction in recognising and acting upon the most our absolute emissions of Scope 1 and 2 important areas of sustainability according Supplychain workshop emissions of 5% against our recalculated to the people who are most important to base year2. us. In doing so we have sent questionnaires to all employees to record their feelings and 2. We have developed and implemented a opinions around sustainability and engaged Carbon Abatement Plan with targets in with our senior executives, customers and each region. (see case studies 3 -7 on suppliers. (See more on page 37). pages 24-27). 8. We have used the results of our stakeholder 3. We have, for the first year, submitted our Clean cookstoves carbon offsets engagement programme to develop our complete carbon emissions data for first materiality matrix which has informed assessment through the CDP (formerly the our ever evolving Sustainability Strategy Carbon Disclosure Project), We received a (see page 6). disclosure score of 80 (out of a possible 100 points), (see page 22 for further details). 9. We have continued to act upon our The CDP is an international, not-for-profit strategy of embedding innovation into our organisation providing the only global business through our Kairos team of high system for companies and cities to measure, calibre employees who have created disclose, manage and share vital ‘Sustainovation’. The team have come up environmental information. with an innovative new service aimed at preventing certain types of property claims 4. Last year we doubled up on our previous arising (see Case Study 14 on page 43). target of offsetting 6% of our emissions and offset 12% of our FY13 emissions through 10. We have maintained our commitment to a Carbon Fix Foundation endorsed and the United Nations Global Compact. This Ashden Award winning, Gold Standard includes our commitment to Human Rights, premium quality carbon credits clean Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. cook stove scheme in Kampala, Uganda. This year we extended this to 2,890 tCO2e 11. We have maintained our listing on the to represent 20% of the FY14 footprint FTSE4Good index for FY14. The Supersector (see Case Study 6 on page 26). relative score places Innovation Group in the 86th percentile (where 100 is the highest). 5. All suppliers of our Subsidence Management The Supersector relative score provides an Services Division of UK Property business indication of how each company on the index are required to report their annual carbon scores relative to others in its Supersector. emissions via the web-based SmartCarbon™ tool as part of their contractual obligations. 12. Innovation Group Subsidence Management Through this system we can assist our Services have been awarded Gold standard supply chain partners to reduce their by Investors in People for FY14 ahead emissions. We plan to expand the of target. introduction of this system Europe wide and then Globally through a phased roll-out. Note 1 – Whilst we have a high degree of confidence in the data reported, and have completed several internal checks and audits of the figures and evidence for each region, we have decided to arrange an external audit by an independent third party in Q1 of 2015 to verify FY13 and FY14 figures. Further detail is available in our separate GHG Emissions Inventory report online. Note 2 – This base year figure has been recalculated from the figures in our FY13 Annual Report and Accounts. The recalculated figure now includes emissions for Crashworth Limited and LAS Claims Management Limited which were acquired on 31 January and 13 March 2014 respectively. The recalculation has been completed in line with the GHG Protocol guideline. We have recalculated under the fixed base year approach where emissions sources from an acquired company are included both with their emissions in the base year (when the acquiring company didn’t control these sources yet) and in the current years. Emissions have also been recalculated for the entire year (all-year option), rather than only for the remainder of the reporting period after the structural change occurred (the pro-rata option). Further detail is available in our GHG Emissions Inventory report at this link: http://www.innovation-group.com/sustainability. The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 07 Our progress Moving towards our goals Progress against Innovation Group’s Note that items recorded as achieved have been removed from the strategy going forward. All other items are carried over to our Sustainability Strategy FY13-FY15 new Strategy from FY14-FY20 that can be found at the back of this report. Brief comments regarding our progress against each item is included below. Further information can be found in the (This strategy was first reported in our Sustainability Report FY13) corresponding chapters1. Objectives1 Targets Delivery Progress Comments 1.0 Carbon 1.1 Calculate our 1.1.1 Appoint in-house Carbon 1 October 2013. Achieved. • Team established and training complete. global carbon Champions certified by This team attends quarterly conference calls footprint on an The CarbonFix Foundation to provide peer support. As the team evolves annual basis. (www.carbonfix.it) in each operational new joiners are required to complete the region of our global operation. Carbon footprint training via our online platform. 1.1.2 Ensure Carbon Champions drive 1 November 2013. Achieved. • Achieved for FY13 and FY14. This is now the annual collection and uploading standard practice going forward and a of Carbon data from all operational procedure for Carbon management forms regions into the SmartCarbon™ part of our ISO 14001 Sustainability web-portal allowing web-based Management System. quantification of Carbon emissions. 1.2 Report our 1.2.1 Delivery of an accurate 1 November 2013. Achieved. • FY13 base year has been recalculated global carbon Scope 1 & 2 Carbon emission following the acquisitions of Crashworth Ltd footprint on an report for base year FY13. and LAS Claims Management. annual basis. 1.2.2 Extend reported footprint 1 November 2014. Achieved. • Achieved ahead of target as Scope 3 business to include some Scope 3 travel emissions were included in FY13 emissions for FY14 onwards. reported figures. 1.2.3 Increase the scope of 30 September 2015. On track. • Carbon Champions are currently collating reported emissions to include waste data and additional carbon footprinting further Scope 3 emissions from training is scheduled for Q1 2015. indirect non-owned or controlled sources such as waste emissions. 1.3 Reduce the 1.3.1 In order to comply with the 30 September 2015. On track. • Energy audits are scheduled to take place as carbon intensity Energy Efficiency Directive (2012/27/ part of our ISO 14001 Sustainability of the Group. EU), all large companies will need to Management System. These will be complete an assessment of their completed by competent lead assessors and energy consumption every four the results reported to the regulatory years, the first of which must be authority before December 2015 deadline. completed by December 2015. 1.3.2 Develop a schedule of 30 September 2015. On track. • As above, our audit schedule ensures these energy audits to be conducted audits are planned to meet the requirements by a competent energy auditor of our own system as well as the legislation. to meet these requirements. 1.3.3 Establish a Carbon 1 October 2014. On track. • Our first global Carbon Abatement Plan was Abatement Plan for the Group. produced in 2012 with reference to regional audits of more than ten key offices completed by WSP. • Progress against this plan was reported to CDP in May 2014. • The Carbon Abatement Plan is revised and updated on an annual basis. Key n Achieved target n On track to achieve target Note 1 – The theme numbers in this table may not correspond with the themes as numbered in other sections of this report due to our ever n Behind target evolving strategy and the addition of a new theme ‘Impacts on society‘. 08 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Objectives1 Targets Delivery Progress Comments 1.3.4 Expand Carbon Abatement 30 September 2015. On track. • We will provide further support for our UK Strategy to our supply-chain. managed carbon supply chain to manage their carbon emissions in line with the GHG management hierarchy. 1.3.5 Establish measured 30 September 2015. On track. • In FY13 we implemented regional projects with carbon reduction projects in an estimated annual saving of 857.27 tCO2e. all operational regions. 1.3.6 Deliver a 6% reduction in 30 September 2015. Achieved. • We have achieved2 a Scope 1 & 2 tCO2e per our carbon emissions per FTE by FTE carbon intensity reduction of 15.7% FY15 based on FY13 base year. against our base year3. This reduction is 2.5 times that of our target and a year ahead of schedule. When Scope 3 Business Travel is also considered there is a reduction of 12.24% in our intensity ratio of emissions per person (FTE). We have also achieved a reduction in our absolute emissions of Scope 1 and 2 emissions of 5% against our recalculated base year3. 1.3.7 Deliver a 15% reduction in 30 September 2020. Achieved. • As above, we have achieved2 this target in one our carbon emissions per FTE by year. We have scheduled an external audit to FY20 based on FY13 base year. verify reductions and inform new target setting. 2.0 Environment 2.1 Reduce the 2.1.1 Pilot the development of 30 April 2015. On track. • Project team established and foundation environmental an Environmental Management documents developed including: impact of our System (‘EMS’)for the Head Office in –– Sustainability policy operations. Whiteley, UK and consider suitable –– Sustainability charter EMS certification schemes. –– Sustainability aspects register –– Sustainability legal and other requirements register –– A wide range of procedures (e.g. to manage carbon, stakeholder engagement and supply chain network). 2.1.2 Establish baseline and 1 October 2013. Achieved. • See Carbon Chapter for details of FY13 base key performance indicators year KPI for carbon intensity. (‘KPIs’) for Carbon intensity. 2.1.3 Establish a baseline and KPIs for 1 October 2014. Behind • KPI data collection under way in each region waste to landfill and waste recycled. target. globally. 2.1.4 Establish a baseline 1 October 2014. Behind • KPI data collection under way in each region and KPIs for water use. target. globally. 2.1.5 Establish a baseline and 1 October 2014. Behind • KPI data collection under way in each region KPIs for paper consumption. target. globally. Key n Achieved target n On track to achieve target n Behind target Note 1 – The theme numbers in this table may not correspond with the themes as numbered in other sections of this report due to our ever evolving strategy and the addition of a new theme ‘Impacts on society‘. Note 2 – Whilst we have a high degree of confidence in the data reported, and have completed several internal checks and audits of the figures and evidence for each region, we have decided to arrange an external audit by an independent third party in Q1 of 2015 to verify FY13 and FY14 figures. Further detail is available in our separate GHG Emissions Inventory report online. Note 3 – This base year figure has been recalculated from the figures in our FY13 Annual Report and Accounts. The recalculated figure now includes emissions for Crashworth Limited and LAS Claims Management Limited which were acquired on 31 January and 13 March 2014. The recalculation has been completed in line with the GHG Protocol guideline. We have recalculated under the fixed base year approach where emissions sources from an acquired company are included bothv with their emissions in the base year (when the acquiring company didn’t control these sources yet) and in the current years. Emissions have also been recalculated for the entire year (all-year option), rather than only for the remainder of the reporting period after the structural change occurred (the pro-rata option). Further detail is available in our GHG Emissions Inventory report at this web page: http://www.innovation-group.com/sustainability. The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 09 Our progress Moving towards our goals Objectives1 Targets Delivery Progress Comments 2.2 Reduce the 2.2.1 Collaborate with our key 1 October 2014. Achieved – • The Kairos project team held discussions with environmental customers to explore expectations ongoing. key parties to establish attitudes and impact of our for low impact or preventative expectations with regards to low impact products. insurance products. products. • Our CEO Andy Roberts has also spearheaded a programme to discuss sustainability directly with key suppliers. 2.3 Minimise 2.3.1 Review the risk to the business 30 April 2015. On track. • The risks have been detailed within the the impact of of resource scarcity as part of the aspects register in our Sustainability environmental EMS development and plan access Management System as well as in the concerns (e.g. to resources (such as energy). risk register in this report. The risks are resource scarcity) relatively low however, we are in the process on the business. of planning appropriate management responses to these risks. 3.0 Employee Engagement 3.1 Engage 3.1.1 Launch global e-learning course 1 October 2014. Achieved. • The course has been launched in every region further with and to be available to entire workforce. globally. The evaluation reports indicate that improve employee the course has been well received. We plan to understanding of run the employee survey again in Q1 FY15 to the Sustainability establish if the course has had a meaningful Strategy impact. empowering them to implement 3.1.2 Global newsletter to include 31 March 2014. Achieved. • First newsletter sent in February 2014 and effective change. regular sustainability items. there is now a regular programme of newsletters scheduled. 3.1.3 Distribute a global questionnaire 30 June 2014. Achieved. • Survey went to all staff globally in a phased to promote employee engagement in release starting in June 2014. the sustainability agenda and assess • We do aim to rerun the survey approximately how to support our employees in six months after the initial release to measure reducing our environmental impacts. the impact of the training course and other supporting communication activities. 3.1.4 All employees are to 31 December 2014. On track. • Mandatory anti-bribery and corruption complete ‘Code of Conduct’ training has been rolled out globally. and ‘Anti-Bribery’ training. • Code of Conduct training to be disseminated before 31 December 2014. 3.1.5 All UK employees are to 1 October 2014. Achieved. • Mandatory Data Protection training has been complete ‘Data Protection’ rolled out to all UK employees. online training. 3.1.6 Continue to generate 31 March 2015. On track. • We are currently developing a procedure to options for employees to invest improve how we promote and manage charity in the local community through giving and community projects. volunteering opportunities. 3.2 Develop 3.2.1 Establish baseline KPIs for 1 October 2014. Behind • KPI data collection under way in each region sustainability absenteeism, development, company target. globally. indicators for community investment, disabilities, our people. gender and internal complaints. Key n Achieved target n On track to achieve target Note 1 – The theme numbers in this table may not correspond with the themes as numbered in other sections of this report due to our ever n Behind target evolving strategy and the addition of a new theme ‘Impacts on society‘. 10 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Objectives1 Targets Delivery Progress Comments 3.3 Continue to 3.3.1 Further develop the Kairos 1 October 2014. Achieved. • A Sustainability module has been added to the invest in our people. programme to include sustainability Kairos programme as standard going forward. learning on the syllabus and a This is mandatory for all Kairos graduates. sustainability project as an output. • In FY13 one of the project teams in the Kairos project was assigned the task of developing a sustainable product/service that we could offer clients. (Read more in Case Study 14 on page 43). 3.3.2 InFront Innovation to achieve 31 December 2014. Achieved. • Achieved ahead of schedule (May 2014). Investors in People (‘IiP’) gold status. 3.4 Improve health 3.4.1 Select a pilot location to review 1 October 2013. Achieved. • Pilot project complete. and wellbeing health and wellbeing of our staff to (See Case Study 9 on page 33). of our staff. identify enhancement opportunities with a particular focus on enabling healthy workplace behaviours. 4.0 All stakeholders 4.1 Engage with 4.1.1 Develop a programme to 31 March 2014. Achieved. • We have developed and implemented a our internal communicate with our stakeholders stakeholder engagement plan to ensure that and external so that we understand and we use relevant and appropriate mechanisms stakeholders. respond appropriately to their key to engage with each stakeholder group. This concerns on sustainability issues. ensures all groups have had the opportunity to contribute their views to our Sustainability Strategy. (Read more on page 37). 4.1.2 Use the results of stakeholder 1 October 2014. Achieved. • Materiality review completed (see materiality engagement to complete a materiality matrix on page 6). review and inform further evolution • Results of materiality review have been fed of the Sustainability Strategy. into new strategy to 2020 (see pages 52-57). 4.2 Communicate 4.2.1 Develop new Sustainability 31 December 2013. Achieved. • There are three separate hubs on the intranet more effectively Hub on intranet with three as listed below. with internal and different sections for Sustainability –– Sustainability Hub for all employees. external parties Ambassadors, Carbon –– Sustainability Hub for on sustainability. Champions and all employees. Sustainability Ambassadors. –– Sustainability Hub for Carbon Champions. 4.2.2 Develop a new Sustainability 31 December 2014. On track. • New page on internet is under development. Hub on the internet site. • Current sustainability page can be found at this web page: http://www.innovation-group. com/sustainability. 4.2.3 Maintain effective governance 28 February 2014 Achieved and • We produce a range of reports annually and annual reporting of our and annually ongoing. including: sustainability performance. thereafter. –– Section within Annual Report. –– Sustainability Report. –– GHG Emissions Inventory report. –– UNGC Report. –– CDP Report. –– FTSE4Good Report. –– EIRIS Report. –– In Germany we also produce an EMAS Report. –– In France we also produce Eco-Vadis Reports. –– Client requests for information. –– Supplier questionnaires. Key n Achieved target n On track to achieve target Note 1 – The theme numbers in this table may not correspond with the themes as numbered in other sections of this report due to our ever n Behind target evolving strategy and the addition of a new theme ‘Impacts on society‘. The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 11 Our progress Moving towards our goals Objectives1 Targets Delivery Progress Comments 5.0 S  upply chain management 5.1 Establish 5.1.1 Support 75% of InFront 31 December 2014. On track. • Four workshops delivered to current measured Innovation’s top suppliers (based members of our approved supplier network. Carbon reduction on spend) to calculate and report • Free access to e-learning course provided. throughout our their carbon footprints. • Data collection and footprint calculation global supply chain. in progress. (Read more in Case Study 11 on page 40). 5.1.2 Roll-out this supply chain 30 September 2015. On track. • Project plan is under development to roll out project across our global network. the UK Carbon Managed Supply Chain model across our global network. 5.2 Influence 5.2.1 Establish a Sustainability Code 31 December 2014. On track. suppliers to meet of Conduct for our UK suppliers our Sustainability including Sustainability Criteria. Code of Practice. 5.2.2 Establish a Sustainability Code 30 September 2015. On track. of Conduct for our global suppliers including Sustainability Criteria. 6.0 Innovation 6.1 Embed 6.1.1 Continue to work with our 31 December 2014. On track and • We have a full stakeholder engagement Innovation for suppliers and employees to assess ongoing. programme which includes visits with Sustainability into options so as to reduce the impact customers (see page 37). our core business of motor and property repairs in • We have proactively engaged our supply solutions. the claims handling process and to chain in our Subsidence Management collaborate with our key customers Services Division of UK Property business to assess demand for low impact or (see Case Study 11 on page 40). preventative insurance products. • We have sent a survey to all employees globally (see more on page 37). • Our Kairos programme included a project to engage with customers to develop a new sustainable product or service (see Case Study 14 on page 43). 6.1.2 Engage with our customers 31 December 2014. On track. • We have a full stakeholder engagement to better understand how we can programme which includes visits with transfer our technical knowledge customers (see page 37). to reduce the environmental and social impact of claims and repair handling business. 6.1.3 Continue to invest in innovative 30 September 2015. On track. • Read more in Theme 7 on page 43. ‘Future-Ready’ technological solutions such as the development of our Insurer suite of software products. Key n Achieved target n On track to achieve target Note 1 – The theme numbers may not correspond with the themes as numbered below due to our ever evolving strategy and the addition n Behind target of a new theme ‘Impacts on society‘. 12 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Objectives1 Targets Delivery Progress Comments 7.0 Governance 7.1 Achieve 7.1.1 Maintain listing on 31 January 2014 and Achieved. • We have maintained our listing on the best practice FTSE4Good index. annually thereafter. FTSE4Good index for FY14. The Supersector in sustainability relative score places Innovation Group in the governance. 86th percentile (where 100 is the highest). The Supersector relative score provides an indication of how each company on the index scores relative to others in its Supersector. 7.1.2 Maintain listing on United 31 January 2014 and Achieved. • We have maintained our commitment to the Nations Global Compact. annually thereafter. United Nations Global Compact. This includes our commitment to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. 7.1.3 Consider registration with 31 March 2015. On track. • We have initiated this process with other sustainability initiatives. ClimateWise. 7.1.4 Report to the Carbon 31 May 2014. Achieved. • We are delighted to be able to say that Disclosure Project. Innovation Group has been awarded a score of 80/100 for our level of disclosure, three points higher than average in our sector. We were assessed as Band D for performance (from bands A-E). This is the average band for a first time FTSE 350 responder. As this was our base year now we can aim to show a year-on-year improvement in this area (see more detail on page 22). Key n Achieved target n On track to achieve target Note 1 – The theme numbers may not correspond with the themes as numbered below due to our ever evolving strategy and the addition n Behind target of a new theme ‘Impacts on society‘. The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 13 Our progress Theme 1 : Impacts on society 14 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 The Group recognises that it Our policies are available on our website and all of our employees are required to must act in a responsible and take online training so that they understand these requirements and can behave in an ethical manner which respects ethical manner. the societies in which we Our Code of Conduct sets out our business operate. We have developed principles that we will uphold including: all human rights issues e.g. discrimination, child and implemented relevant labour and labour standards, adhering to minimum work ages and ensuring that forced policies, procedures and labour does not occur within the Company. training to ensure we protect These principles further state that Innovation Group recognises and respects worker’s these communities. We also rights to organise and join trade unions. Furthermore, the application of the Code of run a number of charity giving Conduct ensures that there is no place for and community programmes any kind of discrimination at Innovation Group. Our employees must be recruited, selected, across the Group and have and promoted on the basis of objective criteria only. Harassment or discrimination based on established objectives to race, colour, sex, religion or on any other basis, increase support for local is not tolerated by Innovation Group. communities in our Disabled employees The Group is committed to a policy of Sustainability Strategy. recruitment and promotion on the basis of aptitude and ability without discrimination. Acting with integrity is one of our core values The Group gives full consideration to and is central to everything we do as a Group. applications for employment from disabled Fraud, bribery and corruption are not only illegal persons where the requirements of the job but also represent a significant reputational and can be adequately fulfilled by a disabled person. financial risk. Data protection also represents a Where existing employees become disabled, material risk. it is the Group’s policy, wherever practicable, to provide continuing employment under It is Innovation Group’s policy to conduct normal terms and conditions and to provide business in an honest way, and without the use training and career development and promotion of corrupt practices or acts of bribery to obtain to disabled employees wherever appropriate. an unfair advantage. The Board of Directors, as well as regional and We are committed to adhering to the business area management, are responsible for Universal Declaration on Human Rights ensuring that this Code of Conduct is and International Labour Organization (‘ILO’) communicated to and observed Core Conventions. by all employees. We have responded by implementing These commitments are reaffirmed in controls including our ‘Code of Conduct’ our submission to the United Nations and ‘Anti‑Bribery and Corruption policy’, Global Compact available at: to support legal, ethical and responsible www.innovation-group.com/sustainability. behaviour in all our business interactions. The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 15 Our progress Theme 2: Impacts on the environment 16 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 At Innovation Group we are However, we regard ourselves to be a company with relatively low environmental committed to running our impact, although some divisions of our business, where we own parts of the supply business in an environmentally chain, do give greater environmental risk than responsible manner. We others (e.g. subsidence, drainage and ground works).Not only are we concerned about our recognise that the nature of direct impacts, but we are also working closely with our partners across the supply chain, our business requires the use encouraging them to also operate with a sustainable mindset. of energy, water and resources such as paper and fuel for business related travel. Case Study 2: ISO 14001 in the UK We are currently developing a 1. Greater expectation for top comprehensive Sustainability management to understand the Management System (‘SMS’) which organisation’s environmental issues, will be implemented at head office, support the SMS and champion Whiteley, UK by April 2015 and improved performance; Case Study 1: EMAS throughout the UK business by 2. Broader strategic consideration of September 2015. We plan to have the organisation’s environmental in Germany the system certified to the context, including the interests of forthcoming updated ISO 14001 stakeholders and the direction of the In the Stuttgart office in Germany we hold standard. The SMS ensures that business; and operate an externally verified Ecowe are fully compliant with all social 3. Making specific commitments to Management and Audit Scheme (’EMAS’). and environmental requirements, sustainable development and social At the end of each business year, we publish both legal and other, and promotes responsibility; a summary of the achieved targets and the continual improvement of 4. Extending environmental influence most effective measures. Some examples environmental performance as into the supply chain, with of key achievements include: standard, as well as prevention implications for procurement; • Since September 2011, we have obtained of pollution. 5. Embracing opportunities for using our electricity from 100% renewable environmental design as a tool for energy sources. Our system, as noted above, improvement; • Through the increased use of video is a SMS, expanding beyond the 6. Being able to demonstrate an conferences, using the train instead of coverage of a traditional understanding of the organisation’s flying and restructuring of management, Environmental Management environmental compliance status at CO2 emissions from business travel have System (‘EMS’), to incorporate fully all times; and reduced by 39% since 2011. society and economy alongside 7. Using performance indicators to • The number of printouts per employee the environment. Not only does track improvement. reduced by 14% by the end of 2013 this help us keep sustainability at compared with 2012 figures. With the our core, but it also accounts for We have established the core elements number of cases processed as a the revisions being made to of our system including our: reference value. ISO 14001 standard in early 2015. • Sustainability policy. • The number of printers in our offices was The ISO standard is undergoing a • Sustainability charter. halved. From this we expect to reduce fundamental revision with far • Aspects register. printing‑related energy use by 25%. broader implications for businesses • Legal register. • Our vehicle leasing offers have been who are certified. In readiness of • Sustainability Strategy. expanded to Category C and E lowthese changes, Innovation Group • Objectives and targets. carbon vehicles. As a result, we are in a is ensuring that our SMS will satisfy • Procedures for: position to offer environmentally friendly the proposed revisions. –– Stakeholder engagement. cars to all our partner companies as –– Carbon management. courtesy car options. The proposed revisions are expected –– Internal and supplier audits. to expand the scope of the ISO –– Resource efficiency and standard and focus on1: waste management. Note 1: Reference – Conestoga-Rovers & Associates (Europe) Ltd (‘CRA Europe’) website: www.cra.co.uk (2014) The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 17 Our progress Theme 3: Carbon and climate change 18 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 As published in the fifth IPCC Innovation Group has made a commitment to achieve the fourth goal of the initiative: report, climate scientists state ‘Provide climate change information in mainstream findings’ and has therefore that warming of the climate signed the ‘Statement on Fiduciary Duty and system is unequivocal and Climate Change Disclosure’. that they are more than 95% We, like dozens of other large companies who have also pledged their commitment, will certain that human activity produce and use climate change information in our mainstream corporate reports out of our is the dominant cause of sense of fiduciary and social responsibility. As a this warming¹. signatory to this goal we believe that a lack of disclosure in climate change information is Our clients in the insurance industry know that preventing investors and businesses from climate change is already happening. We know sufficiently considering climate change risk and that mitigation of risk is better than adapting to opportunities. This information gap undermines impact. Innovation Group wants to show our the efficiency by which markets are able to stakeholders that we are focused on lowering allocate capital to its most productive uses over We have now achieved3 the carbon footprint of our own operations the medium to long term – a crucial enabler of the Group’s global carbon whilst supporting our extensive global network strong and sustainable economic growth. By intensity reduction of suppliers to lower their emissions also. signing the Statement, we have agreed to work targets set last year toward the production and use of climate The road to Paris change related information in mainstream As part of our continuing efforts to show our corporate reports, using a recognised support for change towards a low carbon future, international framework such as the CDSB we have voluntarily entered ourselves into a Climate Change Reporting Framework. We have The Group’s global carbon game-changing commitment co-ordinated by also included a target in our strategy to review intensity reduction target the Climate Disclosure Standards Board the suitability of the other commitments and we (set last year) (‘CDSB’) and supported by the UNEP Finance will support these also where possible. Reduce our full time Initiative. CDSB’s board members include the equivalent Scope 1 and CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) Our carbon performance: Scope 2 emissions intensity and other influential groups including CERES Our Scope 1 & 2 emissions for year ending (tCO2e/FTE) by 6% by (NGO leading an investor group with total 30 September 2014 were 10,180 tCO2e the end of FY15 against a value exceeding £11bn) and the World compared with 10,734 tCO2e2 for our base year FY13 base year. Extend Resources Institute. The commitment is ended 30 September 2013. Our intensity this reduction to achieve part of the CDP initiative titled ‘Road to Paris performance for FY14 was 3.45 tCO2e per FTE. 15% by the end of FY20. 2015: Highlight Business Leadership on This is a 15.7% reduction against our base year Climate Change’ initiative. It aims to get intensity ratio of 4.09 tCO2e per FTE2. This is businesses to sign up to one or more of six particularly good news as, it appears that, we commitments they have set in order to have not only achieved the target we set to demonstrate the business community’s reduce our emissions by 6% per FTE by FY15 support for action to keep below a 2ºC rise. but we have also achieved the 15% per FTE The support from participating organisations reduction target we set for FY203. We have also has been highlighted by CDP at the 2014 UN achieved a reduction in our absolute emissions of Climate Summit and will also contribute to the Scope 1, and 2 emissions of 5% despite organic 2015 negotiations in Paris, arguably the last growth. However, as noted below, we will be best chance of creating a policy framework carrying out an independent external audit in that can achieve a sub-2ºC rise. early 2015 to further validate this data. We also observe that the milder weather in many of our locations have contributed to this achievement and are not complacent about the need to seek out further measures to deliver a sustained Note 1 – Reference Intergovermental Panel on Climate Change (September 2013) First Assesment Report (WGI AR5) reduction in our overall emissions. Note 2 – This base year figure has been recalculated from the figures in our FY13 Annual Report and Accounts. The recalculated figure now includes emissions for Crashworth Limited and LAS Claims Management Limited which were acquired on 31 January and 13 March 2014. The recalculation has been completed in line with the GHG Protocol guideline. We have recalculated under the fixed base year approach where emissions sources from an acquired company are included both with their emissions in the base year (when the acquiring company didn’t control these sources yet) and in the current years. Emissions have also been recalculated for the entire year (all-year option), rather than only for the remainder of the reporting period after the structural change occurred (the pro-rata option). Further detail is available in our GHG Emissions Inventory report at this link: http://www.innovation-group.com/sustainability. Note 3 – Whilst we have a high degree of confidence in the data reported, and have completed several internal checks and audits of the figures and evidence for each region, we have decided to arrange an external audit by an independent third party in Q1 of 2015 to verify FY13 and FY14 figures. Further detail is available in our separate GHG Emissions Inventory report online. The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 19 Our progress Carbon and climate change In addition to reporting our Scope 1 & 2 This has reduced to 4.66 tCO2e per FTE in FY14 emissions as required by legislation, we think which represents a 12.24% reduction2. CO emissions it is appropriate to also report our Scope 3 (total annual tCOe) emissions from business travel. In FY13 the These reductions have been achieved for FY14 total scope 1, 2 and 3 intensity performance through a number of actions managed across was 5.31 tCO2e per FTE1. our global network as detailed in our Carbon Abatement Plan. Table 3.1 Greenhouse Gas (‘GHG’) Emissions disclosure The quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e) resulting from activities for 14,452.2 which the Group is responsible has been calculated for year ended 30 September 2014 as follows: (less 2,890 oﬀsets) FY13 tCO2e FY13 tCO2e (as reported (including base in FY13 year adjustment % change Annual to account for FY14 FY13 revised Emissions source Report) acquisitions1) tCO2e to FY14 Scope 1 emissions (including combustion of fuel, 2,694 3,238 3,122 -3.58 Total Scope 1 & 2 tCOe fugitive emissions and emissions from owned or per FTE = 3.45 controlled vehicles) ● 3,122 Scope 1: Fuels Scope 2 emissions (including purchase of electricity) 7,468 7,496 7,058 -5.84 (vehicles and non-transport) ● 7,058 Scope 2: Electricity Total Scope 1 & 2 tCO2e 10,162 10,734 10,180 -5.16 ● 3,572 Scope 3: Business Total Scope 1 & 2 tCO2e per FTE 4 4.09 3.45 -15.65 travel Total Scope 1 & 2 tCO2e per m2 0.28 0.28 0.24 -14.29 ● 678 Scope 3: Transmission and distribution Scope 3 emissions (including business travel in aeroplanes, 2,921 3,211 3,572 +11.24 of electricity cars, taxis, trains, ferries buses and motorbikes) ● 22.1 Outside of scopes Total scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions tCO2e (excluding 13,083 13,945 13,752 -1.38 (UK biofuel) scope 3 transmission and distribution and distribution) CO emissions Total scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions tCO2e per FTE 5.15 5.31 4.66 -12.24 (excluding scope 3 transmission and distribution) (total annual tCOe) for FY13 Scope 3 transmission and distribution for electricity 711 716 678 -5.31 Outside of scopes (figures for biofuel blend for UK 11 11.7 22.1 +88.9 car travel only) Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 tCO2e 13,805 14,673.7 14,452.2 -1.51 Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 tCO2e per FTE 5.43 5.59 4.89 -12.52 14,673.7 Carbon credits purchased from certified offset projects. 828 1,656 2890 +74.52 (less 1,656 oﬀsets) (1,656)3 Total tCO2e less offsets 12,977 12,149 11,561.8 -4.83 (12,149)3 Note 1 – This base year figure has been recalculated from the figures in our FY13 Annual Report and Accounts. The recalculated figure now includes Total Scope 1 & 2 tCOe emissions for Crashworth Limited and LAS Claims Management Limited which were acquired on 31 January and 13 March 2014. The recalculation per FTE = 4.09 has been completed in line with the GHG Protocol guideline. We have recalculated under the fixed base year approach where emissions sources from an acquired company are included both with their emissions in the base year (when the acquiring company didn’t control these sources yet) and in the current years. Emissions have also been recalculated for the entire year (all-year option), rather than only for the remainder of the ● 3,238 Scope 1: Fuels reporting period after the structural change occurred (the pro-rata option). Further detail is available in our GHG Emissions Inventory report at this (vehicles and non-transport) link: http://www.innovation-group.com/sustainability ● 7,496 Scope 2: Electricity Note 2 – Whilst we have a high degree of confidence in the data reported, and have completed several internal checks and audits of the figures and ● 3,211 Scope 3: Business evidence for each region, we have decided to arrange an external audit by an independent third party in Q1 of 2015 to verify FY13 and FY14 figures. Further detail is available in our separate GHG Emissions Inventory report online. travel Note 3 – We reported the purchase of 828 tCO2e for FY13 in last year’s Annual Report and Accounts. However, we later doubled our offset ● 716 Scope 3: Transmission commitment and purchased a further 828 tCO2e to account for 12% of the Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions for FY13. and distribution of electricity ● 11.7 Outside of scopes (UK biofuel) 20 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Map 1. Percentage total Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions per region (absolute tCO2e in brackets). The map below shows the percentage total Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions from each region. The highest emitters for FY14 in absolute tonnes are the UK, North America and South Africa. However, these are our three largest regions with more employees and increased energy demand from servers. 1 9 7 5 8 2 6 1. UK 36% (4,934 tCOe) 2. North America 24% (3,360 tCOe) 3. South Africa 19% (2,607 tCOe) 4. Asia Paciﬁc 10% (1,414 tCOe) 5. Germany and Poland 4% (544 tCOe) 6. Pakistan 3% (476 tCOe) 4 7. France 2% (255 tCOe) 3 8. Spain 1% (93 tCOe) 9. Belgium 1% (69 tCOe) Map 2. Carbon footprint per region ranked by intensity ratio (tCO2e per FTE shown in brackets). The ratio adopted by management of the Group to quantify overall total Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions in order to gauge a reduction is that of emissions per full time equivalent (‘FTE’). The Group’s carbon intensity is 4.66 tCO2e per FTE. The map below shows the emissions of each region ranked by the intensity ratio. 2 9 8 7 4 1 6 1. North America (7.6 tCOe per FTE) 2. UK (5.6 tCOe per FTE) 3. Asia Paciﬁc (4.9 tCOe per FTE) 4. Spain (4.4 tCOe per FTE) 5. South Africa (3.4 tCOe per FTE) 6. Pakistan (2.9 tCOe per FTE) 3 7. Germany (2.7 tCOe per FTE) 5 8. France (2.3 tCOe per FTE) 9. Belgium (1.0 tCOe per FTE) The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 21 Our progress Carbon and climate change Our carbon footprint SmartCarbon™ web based tool. This has all We have been reporting our Greenhouse Gas been managed at a Group level by the Group Emissions in our Annual Report since FY11, Sustainability Manager. two years before it became a legal requirement for all quoted companies listed on the London Boundaries Stock Exchange. By proactively striving to The scope of our carbon inventory covers all reduce our environmental impact, we have activity within our Financial Control boundary created strong foundations and promoted a (as defined by the GHG Protocol). This includes culture of carbon measurement, management all our main buildings including regional head and reduction. As of FY13 we aligned our offices, call centres and data centres globally. reporting to the Green House Gas Protocol and We have excluded any Scope 1 (e.g. gas CDSB Climate Change Reporting Framework. consumption or fugitive emissions from These standards help ensure compliance with refrigeration equipment) and Scope 2 the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and (electricity use) from home workers as well as Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 and the serviced offices with ten or less employees. Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Directors’ Reports) However, we have reported Scope 3 (business Regulations 2013. The footprint published for travel) for all employees. financial year ending 30 September 2013 has been set as our base year1. Omissions and assumptions All data used in this calculation is based on This year, for the first time, we also voluntarily primary data retrieved by each regional submitted our data for assessment via Carbon Champion, with the exception of CDP’s 2014 climate change programme as the North America Region and LAS Claims we continue to evolve our commitment to Management within the UK Property Division. carbon reporting. The North American footprint is based upon a mixture of primary data which has been We are delighted to be able to say that supplemented with robust assumptions. Innovation Group has been awarded a score of LAS Claims Management was acquired by 80 (out of a possible 100 points) for our level Innovation Group on 13 March 2014 and as a of disclosure, three points higher than average result the task to gather 24 months data for in the FTSE 350 sample. We were assessed as FY13 and FY14, to enable us to recalculate Band D for performance (from bands A-E). our base year, was challenging. The majority (The average FTSE 350 first time responder of data for this period was primary data but was awarded a disclosure score of 58 and this has been supplemented with robust Band D for performance). As this was our base assumptions where gaps exist. year now we can aim to show a year-on-year improvement in this area. Verification There has been no external verification of our Methodology footprint data. However, the SmartCarbon™ The GHG protocol requires that companies tool has been designed to conduct a range of account for and report Scope 1 direct and automated verification checks of the data Scope 2 indirect emissions as a minimum against pre-determined comparison factors. to meet the voluntary corporate standard. Any shortfall is highlighted and must be checked We have also decided to report our Scope 3 before authorisation by the Group Sustainability emissions from business travel activities such Manager. Comparisons can also be run amongst as cars, taxis, aeroplanes and trains as we the intensity ratios of different offices and believe this to be a key area of our business regions as well as total footprints for each office activity that contributes to GHG emissions. over time, in order to highlight any potential irregularities in the data. In addition, our Carbon Champions in-house Carbon Accountant (Chartered) has We have a team of regional Carbon Champions completed an internal audit of the results. We who have all attended formal training on Carbon have arranged an independent, third party audit Footprinting and have taken responsibility for of our FY13 and FY14 data to verify reductions2. the upload of data for each region onto the Note 1 – This base year fi gure has been recalculated from the fi gures in our FY13 Annual Report and Accounts. The recalculated fi gure now includes emissions for Crashworth Limited and LAS Claims Management Limited which were acquired on 31 January and 13 March 2014. The recalculation has been completed in line with the GHG Protocol guideline. We have recalculated under the fi xed base year approach where emissions sources from an acquired company are included both with their emissions in the base year (when the acquiring company didn’t control these sources yet) and in the current years. Emissions have also been recalculated for the entire year (all-year option), rather than only for the remainder of the reporting period after the structural change occurred (the pro-rata option). Further detail is available in our GHG Emissions Inventory report at this link: http://www.innovation-group.com/sustainability. Note 2 –Whilst we have a high degree of confi dence in the data reported, and have completed several internal checks and audits of the fi gures and evidence for each region, we have decided to arrange an external audit by an independent third party in Q1 of 2015 to verify FY13 and FY14 fi gures. Further detail is available in our separate GHG Emissions Inventory report online. 22 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory report reduction targets. We are implementing a A full breakdown of boundaries, methodologies range of carbon reduction initiatives across and factors used; together with any assumptions the Company. In Whiteley, UK, for instance, and omissions and reasons for them is provided where we have installed new high efficiency in our separate Greenhouse Gas Emissions condensing boilers, we are implementing a Inventory report (FY14). This is at this link: phased lighting replacement plan and have www.innovation-group.com/sustainability. signed up to a green tariff. Carbon abatement In summary, we have adopted a range of carbon We understand that measuring our footprint is management actions that span across the IEMA only the start of reducing our environmental (Institute of Environmental Management and impact and we have developed a Carbon Assessment) Greenhouse Gas Management Abatement Plan with regional actions to reduce Hierarchy3 as shown below. our emissions, in order to achieve our carbon Greenhouse Gas Management Hierarchy3 Capture emissions (Carbon sequestration) • Marishal Thompson4 (which is a business that was acquired as a Division of UK Property in 2012) has previously planted over 2 million Native Broadleaf trees in the UK. This significant project was intended to contribute to enhanced habitat creation and biodiversity, but has also achieved the added benefit of carbon capture through sequestration as this planting vastly exceeds the rate of tree removal by the business which was approximately 2,000 p.a. during the period of planting (see Case Study 3 on page 24). Avoid emissions • We have developed an innovative, sustainable service which focuses on preventing certain property claims arising, therefore avoiding emissions associated with the claim handling process (see Case Study 14 on page 43). • We have a target to investigate the feasibility of making home working more widely available, which would avoid emissions associated with the commute of those employees following the policy. Reduce emissions • Our Carbon Abatement Plan implemented actions that are estimated to save 857.27 tCO2e in the first year (see Case Study 4 on page 24 and Case Study 7 on page 27). • Our employee ‘Introduction to Sustainability’ e-learning course is a carbon efficient way to deliver training to our global workforce and the course content promotes energy efficient behaviour. • We encourage virtual meetings. • In Germany, our vehicle leasing offers have been expanded to Category C and E low-carbon vehicles. As a result, we are in a position to offer environmentally friendly cars to all our partner companies as courtesy car options. Substitute emissions sources • Our UK Property Division approved supplier network includes a contractual requirement for suppliers to measure and report their carbon emissions (see Case Study 11 on page 40). • We are investigating opportunities to increase the amount of energy produced on site through renewables. Compensate for emissions • Our Gold Standard carbon offset credits compensate for 12% of our FY13 and 20% of our FY14 total emissions. This is a Carbon Fix Foundation endorsed and Ashden Award winning clean cookstove project in Kampala, Uganda (see Case Study 6 on page 26). • Planting trees has allowed us to compensate for trees removed though one division of our business (see Case Study 3 on page 24). • Several of our offices (e.g. Stuttgart in Germany and Whiteley in the UK) purchase electricity from a green tariff. Emit to atmosphere • The remaining portion of our carbon footprint is emitted to atmosphere. We are working hard to reduce this further. Note 3 – Adapted with permission from published IEMA GHG Management Hierarchy. Note 4 – Innovation Group completed the acquisition of Marishal Thompson & Co (Environmental) Ltd on 23 May 2012. The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 23 Our progress Carbon and climate change Case Study 3: Tree Case Study 4: Carbon planting to compensate reduction in South Africa for the activities of our Our South African region is showing the Subsidence Management greatest reduction in their carbon footprint. The Region has reduced absolute Scope 1, Services Division in the UK 2 and 3 emissions from 3,010 tCO2e in FY132 to 2,607 tCO2e in FY14, a reduction Background of 13.4%. Planted trees, Sandhall Lincolnshire. The operations of our Subsidence Management Services Division means that When looking at the emissions per person we remove an estimated 2,000 trees every (FTE), our standard intensity metric, the year. Unfortunately, it is not possible to reduction is even more impressive. In FY132 replace forest type trees (oak etc.) at the the region emitted 4.4 tCO2e of Scope property due to the risk of future damage. 1, 2 and 3 emissions per FTE. In FY14 this dropped to 3.4 tCO2e per FTE. A reduction However, through our work with the of 23% and a move from fourth to fifth Carbon Fix Foundation we have committed place in comparison with the other regions to re-planting trees with a number at least and well below the Group average of Tree planting, Beal, Northumberland. equal to those cut down through our 4.66 tCO2e of Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions operations. Through this we are offsetting per FTE. When this is considered in the the loss of carbon sinks caused by our context that the region’s national electricity activities and reducing our impact on supply is fossil fuel intensive and the ecosystems and the wider environment. Group’s business has continued to grow in this region, the reduction in emissions Since 1992 our Environmental Services is all the more notable. Division (previously trading as Marishal Thompson1) has planted in excess of So how have they achieved this? There has Planted trees, Lincolnshire. 2,000,000 broadleaf indigenous trees in been significant focus on communicating the UK and we are still committed to our the Group’s vision to have Sustainability at replanting programme. our Core and a co-ordinated marketing and communications campaign. This has been Deliverables supplemented by the global mandatory, ‘Introduction to Sustainability’, course for 1. We have carried out 156 site operations all employees, contributing to a culture this year which have required trees to be change and an increased focus on energy removed with approximately ten trees efficiency from staff. In addition, a being removed per site. dedicated and committed Facilities Planted trees, Causey Park, 2. We have committed to replacing this loss Manager, with access to an effective Northumberland. with at least the same number of trees or and well managed ‘Building Management more meaning we never create a deficit in System’ enabled optimisation of heating the number of trees through our and cooling across long-term (e.g. seasons) operations. and short-term (e.g. weekends) fluctuations 3. All trees we plant are native broad leaves. in demand. Finally, the region developed and implemented their Carbon Abatement 4. Specific planting events have been Plan. Specific actions are listed in the organised that have included school example internal communication in children and families with our partners the Case Study 5 opposite. Woodland Trust. 5. The CarbonFix Foundation estimates that when complete, the planting will capture 2,160 tonnes equivalent of carbon. 6. An annual report will be prepared until Note 1 – Innovation Group completed acquisition 2018 advising on progress of the of Marishal Thompson & Co (Environmental) Ltd in 23 May 2012. woodlands and biodiversity. Note2 – This base year figure has been recalculated from the figures in our FY13 Annual Report and Accounts. The recalculated figure now includes emissions for Crashworth Limited and LAS Claims Management Limited which were acquired on 31 January and 13 March 2014. The recalculation has been completed in line with the GHG Protocol guideline. We have recalculated under the fi xed base year approach where emissions sources from an acquired company are included both with their emissions in the base year (when the acquiring company didn’t control these sources yet) and in the current years. Emissions have also been recalculated for the entire year (all-year option), rather than only for the remainder of the reporting period after the structural change occurred (the pro-rata option). Further detail is available in our GHG Emissions Inventory report at this link: http://www.innovation-group.com/sustainability. 24 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Case Study 5: Example internal communication to staff in the South African region The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 25 Our progress Carbon and climate change Carbon offsets Clean cook stoves in Kampala, Uganda. Case Study 6: Carbon We recognise that achieving sustainability in business requires a diverse approach. We also offsetting through recognise that carbon reduction is the best way to reduce our environmental impact. clean cook stoves in However, we know that businesses produce Kampala, Uganda emissions despite reduction efforts and consequently we cannot prevent 100% of Through our partnership with the Carbon emissions. Through recognising this, we have Fix Foundation we have invested in a worked to help others reduce their emissions carbon offsetting project which reflects via a Carbon Fix Foundation endorsed, Caption sustainability values of Innovation Group. Ashden Award winning, Gold Standard premium The clean cook stove project allows us to quality carbon credits clean cook stove scheme offset 20% of our FY14 emissions whilst in Kampala, Uganda. The offsetting scheme delivering social, economic and produces carbon credits which we purchase, environmental benefits. The project in effect reducing our net emissions. Last year overcomes accessibility barriers faced by we doubled up on our previous target of poor communities by integrating carbon offsetting 6% of our emissions and offset 12% finance with market-based approaches to of our FY13 emissions. This has been extended increase supply and demand, driving the to 20% of the FY14 footprint. Clean cook stoves for sale. creation of a thriving cookstove market. This initiative supports local entrepreneurs Why purchase carbon offsets? to grow their businesses and ensure a In addition to reducing the amount of lasting supply chain. As a non-profit project, climate changing Green House Gases that revenues from carbon finance are are released in one part of the world (this is reinvested into scaling the project’s rigorously measured and independently activities. This project helps families reduce verified), purchasing carbon credits creates their fuel wood consumption by ⅓ meaning economic development opportunities, that an average of US$100 a year can be aids environmental conservation and realised with every stove. For the people helps improve people’s lives by delivering Clean cook stove in use. in these communities, predominantly household savings, health benefits among women, who spend up to six hours a day other social benefits. A recent report by collecting fuel wood, a reduced amount the International Carbon Reduction and of time spent on this task can allow Offset Alliance (‘ICROA’) and Imperial College generation of alternative sources of London1 demonstrates that every tonne of income. Each cookstove has the potential carbon offset can deliver up to US$664 in to save 2.8 tCO2e. As well as the primary economic, social and environmental benefits benefit of reducing carbon emissions outside carbon reduction. the scheme reduces deforestation and The project allows for increased production. reduces the health risks that those using traditional stoves face. These health risks are caused by the dangerous smoke emitted with the use of inefficient stoves which is estimated to cause 4m premature deaths per year, exacerbating poverty. This project has been awarded Gold Standard™ recognition as a premium carbon offsetting project. Inefficient traditional fire. Note 1: Reference: http://www.icroa.org/42/icroa-research 26 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Carbon Fix Foundation recognition Case Study 7: Australia – The Carbon Fix Foundation (www.carbonfix.it) has endorsed Innovation Group for our Carbon Abatement commitment to managing our carbon emissions and reducing the contribution of the The following have been implemented organisation to climate change. Carbon Fix across our Australian offices during Foundation recognition is based on a four level FY14 as we strive to reduce our scale with each ascending level requiring a more environmental impact: comprehensive commitment to reducing • New heating equipment was installed in climate change impact than the last. Level 1 Melbourne office replacing equipment requires an organisation to be aware of the believed to be around 30-years-old. issues surrounding climate change via a one The new equipment should result in day e-learning course. Level 2 requires an reduced gas usage while providing a organisation to use the learning from level 1 to more stable temperature during winter. report at least 12 months carbon data using the • Installation of secure bike parking SmartCarbon™ online reporting tool. facilities in the basement car park of the Melbourne building makes bicycle Innovation Group has been globally awarded commuting to work a more convenient Level 3 Carbon Managed status in recognition option for employees. While commuting that as well as reporting our emissions, we to work is not measured as part of have acted to reduce our FY13 emissions by Innovation Group’s current carbonimplementing our Carbon Abatement Plan and footprint reporting, the benefits in terms offsetting through a Carbon Fix Foundation of reducing carbon emissions are no less endorsed Carbon Offset project. As a result valid. As an alternative to using cars or we proudly display the Level 3 logo on our public transport, bike commuting also publications and email correspondence. provides health benefits. Further to this, our Environmental Services Division (within UK property) has been awarded Level 4 Carbon Managed status in recognition that all of the above steps have been completed and, in addition, the Division has engaged with their supply chain members to support them to also manage their carbon emissions following the same model. More information on this topic can be found at the following web page: www.innovation-group.com/carbon-managed. The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 27 Our progress Theme 4: Employee engagement 28 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Our business depends on the Investors in People Investing in and supporting our workforce talent and teamwork displayed is key to us. Innovation Group Subsidence Management Services, part of the UK Property by our employees. As such, Division of Innovation Group, has been awarded we consider it critical that our the Investors in People Gold standard, joining the top 7% of accredited organisations across employees feel engaged and the UK who believe in realising the potential of their people. Mr Sharpe, the Managing motivated to produce their Director of Subsistence Management Services, explained that the team set out to win the best in order to provide the gold award 12 months after achieving the silver best service possible to status. He said that to meet the standards, each employee was given a personal our clients. development plan, and there was a systematic Employee survey exercise to put “the right people in the right An internal global survey As a Group we employ over 3,000 people in job with the right skills.” He added: “The shows that 93% of those 14 countries, all of whom contribute to the management team underwent training to employees that responded success of our business. As required by develop new behaviours, including coaching agree that sustainability is legislation, we report the split of our employees and mentoring skills, and we also closed skills important and 90% feel that as detailed in Table 4.1 below. gaps that were holding managers back from Innovation Group has a high performance.” responsibility to care for Due to the geographical spread of our business, the environment and its we feel it is inappropriate to report diversity on We also continue to hold IiP Bronze status for local communities. Our any measure other than gender. our Environmental Services Division and have other sustainability done so for ten years. However, in line with activities, therefore, whilst Our employment policies meet the progressive values, we are aiming to achieve IiP making business sense in requirements of the local jurisdictions that we Silver standard in this part of the Division within their own right, are also operate in. We do not discriminate on any basis FY15. UK Motor also have a goal to achieve aligned to the interests of and we encourage our people to speak out if IiP Bronze by January 2015. our most valuable asset they believe something is wrong. We operate a – our people. whistleblowing telephone hotline and a whistleblowing web-reporting service. Table 4.1: Employee breakdown Female Male Segment Female Male (%) (%) AsiaPacific1 135 322 30 70 Germany 119 87 58 42 North America1 252 203 55 45 Rest of Europe 113 94 55 45 South Africa 444 397 53 47 United Kingdom 405 527 43 57 Total 1,468 1,630 47 53 Directors of the Company 1 4 20 80 Senior Managers of the Company2 7 34 17 83 1 Group and development employees included in their normal home country. 2 Senior management (excluding Directors) is considered to be those who form part of the senior management team within regions and make decisions which could impact the results of the Group. This includes all officers of subsidiary undertakings. The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 29 Our progress Employee engagement E-learning All three courses include advice on what the We are committed to providing our employees individual can do to reduce their personal with the information, education and support and the Group’s impact on the environment. they need to help us drive our Sustainability We have relaunched our Anti-Bribery and Strategy. In our efforts to achieve this we have Corruption training which is mandatory for all also developed the following bespoke innovative employees globally. Further to this all UK and exciting e-learning courses: employees must complete Data protection e-learning with training on the Company’s 1. Sustainability at our Core. This one hour Code of Conduct being launched in 2015. e-learning course provides employees with an introduction to the topic of sustainability. We are continuously communicating with It has been made available to all employees our employees keeping everybody up-to-date worldwide. The course is mandatory for all through staff email newsletters, the intranet Our introduction to sustainability employees and completion is monitored. and our Sustainability Hub which provides a e-learning course is mandatory for The course also encourages participants wide range of resources, providing our all employees. to move onto the advanced course, employees with the knowledge they need of ‘Sustainability for Ambassadors’ to act more sustainably. should they wish. 2. Sustainability for Ambassadors. Employees are also encouraged to become This advanced three hour course has involved in the success of the Company through been completed by all members of the our Sharesave scheme, so that they may benefit Sustainability Committee, the senior from the opportunity to acquire shares at a management team, the full Board and our discount in the future. CEO. It is available to any individual who would like to achieve Sustainability We want our employees to feel proud of Ambassador status. This is gaining growing Innovation Group’s sustainability performance interest within the organisation with more and have set a target to increase the proportion than 100 employees requesting a place. of staff who feel positive about our sustainability agenda. Currently 63% of employees who 3. Carbon Footprinting. This technical five completed our global survey have stated that hour course has been designed to provide they feel either pleased, encouraged or proud our Carbon Champions with the knowledge, of our Sustainability Strategy. skills and resources needed to contribute to the data collection, calculation and reporting of our global carbon footprint. It is also made available to members of our UK Carbon Managed Supply Chain. (see Case Study 11 on page 40). 30 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Kairos programme Our Kairos management training scheme, which takes employees from every region of Case Study 8: Kairos the Group, is allowing us to further support our South Africa employees with the information and guidance needed to continue driving towards our As a result of the Kairos programme, our sustainability goals. This investment into our operations in South Africa are introducing workforce provides technical skills to our career development plans and reviewing excelling employees who have the potential career opportunities within the Company. to drive our business’s future performance. Through this they aim to become an employer of choice leading to reduced HR The Programme, which has been developed costs, increased employee retention and a in conjunction with Cranfield School of happy workforce. As part of this, South Management, includes work on the most Africa run a junior management training significant challenges faced by Innovation programme and a Gibbs programme in Group, namely achieving targets for profitable addition to the Group wide Kairos growth. As part of this exercise, employees on Programme. In the last three years, this has this year’s Kairos project teams worked on allowed a total of 82 South African drivers of growth for the Company: Big Data, employees to gain further skills and Sustainability and Performance Culture. improve career opportunities. We believe that our Kairos programme is not only an investment in our employees but also an investment for the whole Group and all stakeholders, driving innovation and long-term Creating a performance culture sustainable growth. In FY14 we added a At Innovation Group we understand that the Sustainability module to the syllabus and set performance of our people underpins one team a Sustainability project to deliver. everything we aim to achieve. Because of this An example of the great work carried out by we are driven to create a high performance the Kairos team can be found in Case Study 14 culture within Innovation Group that fully on page 43. engages the skills and talents of our employees. Maximising the potential of our employees by ensuring they are given support, responsibility and trust not only ensures that our teams are at their most satisfied, but also gives us competitive advantage in industry and ensures we retain our outstanding pools of talent. Performance Culture is about ensuring that employees feel valued, feel secure in their roles, believe in the goals of Innovation Group and that they are enabled in making significant changes in the way things are done, the processes followed and products supported by the business, thus generating growth through team efficiencies and employee satisfaction. The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 31 Our progress Employee engagement Health & Safety (‘H&S’) Health & Safety data is recorded at all sites and Innovation Group takes Health & Safety very reviewed during regional Safety, Health and seriously. Each region in which our business Environment (‘SHE’) meetings. operates manages its own Health & Safety systems. Health & Safety data is reported to the All employees receive Health & Safety Board on a bi-annual basis from all the regions. awareness training which has recently been The UK business operates a comprehensive updated to a new E-learning system. New Health & Safety Management System which is employees receive awareness training during currently aligned to the requirements OHSAS their Induction and additional role specific 18001. The Management System comprises: training is provided where relevant, particularly • the Health & Safety Policy statement signed for those employees engaged in the higher risk CCTV Drainage survey carried out by by the Chief Executive Officer; activities undertaken. one of our Underground Services division • a breakdown of the roles and responsibilities operatives. Our safety management systems are carefully aligned to mitigate for the management of Health & Safety; and Innovation Group employs a team of full the hazards that are faced by our • a series of safe working procedures time, fully qualified Health & Safety Managers colleagues out in the field. supporting forms, checklists, permit systems to manage all of its UK based operations. and risk assessments for all work activities In addition, all accidents and instances of undertaken. absenteeism are recorded and monitored. Each incident is broken down and trend analysis Our UK Property division is a member of the is conducted on a regular basis in order to Safecontractor scheme. We are undergoing identify root causes enabling the Company assessment for and expect to attain full to implement corrective actions and actions to accreditation by late 2014. prevent reoccurrence. Health & Safety data is reported to the Board on a bi-annual basis Adherence to the UK management system aids from all the regions. the Company in complying with all relevant UK and European Health & Safety legislation and is The Company has identified Key Performance fundamental in achieving Company values. Indicators (‘KPIs’) for which it aims to establish a 2014/15 baseline, against which it monitor future Our UK H&S management system has global performance. performance improvement targets namely: • To increase efficiency of our H&S policy and Tree work operations conducted by our procedures by ongoing review, simplification Environmental Services Division involves and integration with operational function. management of multiple risks in a demanding work setting. Contractor • Promote a collaborative H&S effort through auditing and compliance is a vital safety enhancement of employee representation function of the Innovation Group. and communication. The Health & Safety Policy and supporting documentation is reappraised and updated at least annually or as required to take account of changing circumstances and applicable changes in legislation. On-site safety auditing is key to our safety management system and is integrated with what we do all day, every day. 32 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Charity giving and Community Case Study 9: Employee programmes in the UK In the UK, Cancer Research is our chosen engagement through Charity of the Year 2014, along with the charities we support every year, namely Comic/Sport wellness Relief, Children in Need and Movember. This year each site has chosen a local homeless We recognise that employees are charity to support in December. significantly more likely to be engaged and productive when wellness is a priority in the UK employees have done fantastically well, workplace. In 2012, we began to explore again raising money for charities, this year. how we might improve employee For Cancer Research we have had teams enter Innovation Group employees at a engagement through an enhanced focus Race for Life events in different areas of the Race for Life fundraising event for on employee wellness. In doing so, we Cancer Research. Country raising a combined total of £3,295. expect to reduce costs related to sickness absence and employee turnover, as well as Other UK events include: improving workforce effectiveness, thereby • A pancake day (made fresh on site). delivering commercial benefits. • Charity boxing match. • Raffles. We conducted a pilot study and are now • Themed days, e.g. Easter, Wimbledon. developing a wellness programme for the • Great British Bake Off style cake UK Motor Business. This programme is competition and cake sale. developed around twin themes of ‘Work • Ice Bucket Challenge. well and Live well’. For each theme we • Monthly Charity Dress Down Days. recognise a set of wellness drivers. Work • Tuck shops. well encompasses: behaviours and values; communication; employee involvement; Between January to end September 2014 training and development; and feedback employees have raised £9,243. (None of this is and performance management. For Live Company funded.) well we recognise: health support; mental and emotional resilience; physical activity and healthy diet. For each of these drivers we have identified our key strengths, key areas for development and a set of priority actions for implementation. We have implemented some of these actions in the UK (Motor Division) (see below). Our next steps will be to consider how to monitor their impact and introduce the programme across the rest of the business. Employee Wellness in the UK (Motor Division) 1. Maps of the park are provided to new and existing employees showing routes where people can walk during their lunch times in less than an hour. 2. Lunchtime running groups are available to all staff based at head office. 3. Sporting activities are promoted such as department rounder competitions and football matches etc. The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 33 Our progress Employee engagement Charity involvement and Community • H.A. Jack Primary School: H.A. Jack Primary programmes in South Africa School is a government owned school which Innovation Group South Africa places caters predominantly for learners from single great value on Corporate Social Investment parent homes. The school receives minimal programmes. Through these programmes, government funding and is dependent upon the Company is committed to supporting and assistance from the private sector in order to giving back to the communities in which it ensure optimal functioning. A critical need by and its employees operate. The Group’s the school highlighted during FY14 was to programme focuses on providing support provide adequate transport for their learners and assistance to the following: to and from the school. Innovation Group partnered with the school and assisted in • Harvest Aid: Harvest Aid assists orphaned purchasing a school bus which is now being Harvest Aid and vulnerable children through school used for this purpose. To showcase its further feeding projects, family food parcels, commitment to the school, the Group will be clothing banks, school uniforms, blankets, hosting its first annual charity golf day in school stationery and any other needed items November 2014 to raise funds to assist in to normalise the lives of children and ensure building on new classrooms. that they stay in school. For the period October 2013 – August 2014 the Group have • Mandela Day: Annually, on 18 July, South donated a total of R46,220.00 (£2,607) Africans unite to celebrate Mandela Day. towards Harvest Aid. Mandela Day is aimed at honouring the legacy of Nelson Mandela and giving back 67 minutes Ikholwa • Ikholwa Homes: Ikholwa is an organisation to organisations or communities that are in that assists children who have been affected desperate need of help – whether through or infected by HIV/AIDS. They provide these volunteer work or financial support. Various children with a home, food and education. initiatives are activated each year by the For the period October 2013 – August 2014 Group and for 2014 the following charities/ the Group have donated a total of R5,750.00 organisations were selected and supported: (£325) towards Ikholwa Homes. –– H.A. Jack Primary School: The Group • Animal Ambulance: Animal Ambulance is a donated various material to the school registered not for profit organisation (‘NPO’) which would be used towards upgrading that provides care and shelter for abandoned their classrooms, perimeter fencing Animal Ambulance and neglected animals. As an NPO they and playgrounds. receive no government funding and rely heavily upon donations from the public to look –– Animal Ambulance: Innovation Group after the animals in their care. Our employees employees donated a variety of items to contribute monthly to this initiative and the charity which included dog and cat volunteer their services to help clean up the food, towels and washing powder. shelter and to clean and feed the animals. For the period October 2013 – August 2014 –– Aurora Girls High School: The plight of the the Group have donated a total of R9,000.00 female learners of the school was brought (£508) towards Animal Ambulance. to the attention of the Group by a member H.A. Jack School of staff and the female employees of Innovation Group were able to collect and donate much needed sanitary items to these learners. Aurora Girls High School 34 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Case Study 10: Community Action in South Africa The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 35 Our progress Theme 5: All stakeholders 36 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Materiality and stakeholder Stakeholders are the people and organisations interested in and affected by what we do. Based on the research we have conducted amongst our engagement Our future depends on their views and actions. stakeholders, we have agreed By demonstrating that we are taking action to our priorities and considered This year we have further extended our ensure a responsible and sustainable service, these when developing our ever programme to communicate with our we can provide assurance to our stakeholders evolving Sustainability Strategy. stakeholders on sustainability, and more that we will protect brand value and minimise To be clear and transparent in importantly understand and respond to risk of non-compliance. In this way, effective explaining our priorities we have their key concerns on sustainability issues. engagement helps us manage our risks and decided to publish our first This materiality review will ensure the ongoing maximise opportunities. materiality matrix (see page 6). relevance of our sustainability activities and We will review this each year and focus our efforts on the issues that matter. We have completed a stakeholder mapping make adjustments if required, as Each year we will continue to have discussions exercise to identify our key parties (table 5.1). the external and business with our stakeholders, review how we are We know that working with all of these groups context changes. responding to their concerns, and where will help us broaden our perspective in relation necessary, adjust and refresh our related to sustainability which will help to influence strategies and programmes. our ongoing strategy. We have developed a stakeholder engagement plan to ensure that we use relevant and appropriate mechanisms to engage with each stakeholder group. This ensures all groups have had the opportunity to contribute their views to our strategy. Table 5.1 Stakeholder engagement plan Stakeholders Purpose of Engagement Method of Engagement Customers Ensure we are providing the products and services Customer interviews, review of customer websites and reports, they need, identifying opportunities for new products, review of Requests For Information. horizon scanning for emerging issues affecting our business, and getting feedback on the materiality of Andrew Roberts, our CEO, has spearheaded a consultative process our sustainability issues. with our key UK clients to identify opportunities for low impact or preventative insurance products. Employees Listening to and respecting our employees, Global employee survey, e-learning exercises, evaluation encouraging behaviour change and recognising questionnaires, newsletters, posters, email suggestions, their contributions as individuals. Sustainability Intranet Hub, employee committees and forums. Senior Focus on issues that are material to the organisation, Surveys, meetings and networks. executives engage in strategy building, exploring how each business unit can contribute towards reducing the sustainability issues and any innovative ideas that have not yet been fully explored. Business To ensure we are the partner of choice, and to In our Subsidence Management Services Division (within partners and support and assess supply partners on sustainability UK Property), we operate a Supplier Code of Conduct and suppliers issues and performance. have trained our suppliers to calculate and report their carbon footprint through workshops and e-learning courses. Investors To ensure transparency at every level we submit Annual Sustainability report, online FTSE4Good Index Series and other our information to leading global indexes. Sustainability Hub, results of measures the performance interested external benchmarking exercises: of companies against globally parties Results allow us and others to identify areas for recognised corporate improvement, and demonstrates to stakeholders United Nations Global Compact responsibility standards. how we perform compared to others. We work with the United Nations Global Compact (‘UNGC’), CDP (formerly the Carbon and other global businesses, Disclosure Project) measures to help deliver ten universally companies’ climate accepted principles. These are management performance, based on Human Rights, Labour, taking into consideration Environment and Anti-Corruption. risks and opportunities. The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 37 Our progress Theme 6: Supply chain management 38 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Supply chain management As discussed in the carbon chapter, we have Our extensive global network of suppliers calculated, reported and acted to reduce our presents a real opportunity for Innovation carbon footprint. However, we are also Group to make a meaningful and positive impact assessing emissions throughout the supply and our clients expect us to manage the risk in chain. In our Subsidence Management Services our supply chain. Division (within UK Property), we have trained over 84% of our top 20 suppliers to calculate “It is exciting for us as The Group is keenly aware that there are a wide and report on their carbon footprint, helping a business to be part range of potential environmental and social our partners to report, and hopefully of a bigger project impacts from the activities of our repair encouraging them to reduce their carbon which raises the profile services network and wider suppliers. Carbon footprints too (see Case Study 11 on page 40). of all contractors emissions, resource efficiency, business ethics, on this network and labour rights and health and safety, among In addition, we have set a target to roll out this to hopefully make a others, are all issues that we seek to manage managed carbon supply chain project across difference to the bigger within our supply chain. our supply chains in the UK, Europe and environmental issue so globally in a phased programme as detailed in we can all do our bit.” We are committed to supporting our supply our Sustainability Strategy. We also plan to partners on sustainability issues given that the extend our Code of Conduct to our global Liam Hanlon activities of our suppliers form part of the network. Our Code of Conduct sets minimum Forshaw Group Group’s overall environmental and social levels of sustainability standards which we footprint. We see it as our role to encourage our expect our suppliers to achieve and will form suppliers to be compliant with social and part of an annual audit process. In order to environmental regulations and to support them promote adherence to the Code, we will to improve their sustainability performance, develop assessment criteria which we will use whilst ensuring the highest quality of service to to monitor supplier performance. Where the customers of our clients. appropriate, we will share knowledge with our suppliers and collaborate to improve their sustainability performance. “I’m excited that we were invited to be part of this event. It is an opportunity to be part of something that is going to make a difference. If we can teach our employees sustainability, they can take it away and use it in their lives.” Mark Robinson Lanmarc Ltd The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 39 Our progress Supply chain management Case Study 11: Supply chain carbon management project We have developed a ‘Carbon Managed’ “The project is really supply chain project which has been piloted interesting… it also through the Subsidence Management makes you think about Services (‘SMS’) Division of UK Property. issues and what you It is now a contractual requirement for all can do as an individual suppliers to our SMS Division to report and a company. their carbon emissions to Group. We have Bringing individuals and provided workshops, e-learning and use companies together, of the SmartCarbon™ web platform to highlighting what we can support our suppliers with this requirement. all do enables us to come This will now be rolled out across the wider up with ideas which UK Property business as a whole, meaning we can put in place.” that over 80% of Innovation Group’s UK property business suppliers overall will Laura Baybutt be engaged on this project. We then plan Hawthorn NW to roll-out this programme across our supply chains in Europe and Globally. By supporting and enabling our suppliers to measure and manage their carbon emissions, we are able to bring the long-term benefits of reduced energy and material usage to our clients, suppliers and shareholders. This capability is seen by our clients as a differentiator. Our Subsidence Management Services Division has been awarded Carbon Fix Foundation Level 4 Carbon Managed status in recognition that the Division has engaged with their supply chain members to support them to also manage their carbon emissions (see page 27 for more information). 40 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Case Study 12: Root protection system for the supply chain ArborRaft creating sustainable infrastructure as cyclepath. ArborRaft protection for tree roots. ArborRaft protection for infrastructure. Through the Planning and Development Further to this, ‘ArborRaft’ provides a department of our Environmental Services sustainable drainage solution due to its Division (within UK Property) we have worked 90% void ratio, reducing surface runoff in partnership with InfraGreen, a creator of and the risk of subsequent flooding. It even innovative, tree protection and sustainable allows the potential for reduced fresh water land/water use management products to use in populated areas as water within the allow our supply chain to operate with lower layer can be used for grey water purposes. environmental impacts. We are now approved installers of their products and so are passing By having these systems installed, the policy the low impact benefits onto our customers holders of our customers are reducing the upon installation. impact on their local environments, allowing greater numbers of trees to be grown in A key product has been the ‘ArborRaft’, built-up areas thus improving local air quality. an urban tree root protection and planting This also adds to the global carbon sink system that is laid both above ground and which helps to absorb ever increasing carbon sub-surface with minimal disturbance and emissions and provides customers with the allows trees to grow freely in urban areas opportunity to reduce their environmental whilst preventing damage to infrastructure impacts by using grey water held in the such as pavements and roads. The system system for suitable purposes. is suitable to loading by all types of vehicle as the structure spreads the surface weight, preventing any underlying tree root systems from sustaining damage. The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 41 Our progress Theme 7: Innovation 42 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 There is a continued need to the industry and explore new ways to reduce impacts. for us to focus on using new technology and Our unique position in the claims handling process enables us to identify how new innovative thinking in order technologies can be used to streamline the claims handling process and to enable to provide our clients with us to reduce the length, and hence cost and environmental impact of an insurance the sustainable products claim’s lifecycle (e.g. by printing less paper and services that they expect and reducing the number of onsite loss adjusting visits). from Innovation Group. We have also set up a dedicated group from Technology is a catalyst to develop new products the Kairos programme, the ‘Sustainovation’ and services, as well as produce efficiencies team, to focus on generating innovative with our existing business model. Because of products and services for our customers this, we continue to invest in innovative software that are designed to prevent claims arising solutions to increase process efficiency (both therefore avoiding the impacts associated internally and for licensees of our Insurer Suite), with the whole lifecycle of the claim resolution assess the impact of new technology process, see Case Study 14 below. Case Study 13: Case Study 14: Examples of sustainable Developing new services solutions for clients • For UK Property Division, the aerial A key area of our Sustainability Strategy and digital imagery capabilities allow has been embedding innovation into our the use of technology to assess core business solutions. As part of this we subsidence risk and claims rather established a team of high calibre than having someone manually assess managers, engaged on our Kairos and map these, thus saving on Programme, to produce an innovative, carbon emissions. ’Future-Ready’, sustainable service for our • Our Innovation Insurer Suite, allows customers. for the use of electronic documents, pictures, mobile technology and The team generated an exciting solution. electronic communications. The proposed service has great potential in This straight through processing the market. The service will focus on (automation of business processes) identifying risks and recommending actions reduces or eliminates the need for paper. that could prevent losses arising in the • Innovation Symbility offers both a home that typically otherwise may result in field and desktop option for triaging a an insurance claim; thus saving our clients property claim depending on the scope money, enabling them to deliver value and complexity of the claim. By using this added services and enhance their brand software, our customers will reduce the with their end customer. This work from the need for paper files and allow the claim Kairos team represents an example of an to be processed faster. ideal sustainable solution by effectively • Our extensive suite of employee delivering economic, social and e-learning courses reduces the environmental long-term gain. environmental impact and carbon footprint of training our global workforce whilst also reducing down time. The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 43 Our progress Theme 8: Governance 44 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Our governance structure “FTSE Group confirms that Innovation supports the integration of Group has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria and at sustainability into our business the September 2014 review satisfied the requirements to remain a constituent of the decisions, ensuring that our FTSE4Good Index Series. The Supersector sustainability activities make a relative score places Innovation Group in the 86th percentile (where 100 is the lasting and worthwhile highest). The Supersector relative score provides an indication of how each company difference. on the index scores relative to others in its Supersector. We continue to demonstrate our commitment to good governance through our involvement “Created by the global index company FTSE with voluntary initiatives. Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in Our Environment, Social and Governance companies that meet globally recognised (‘ESG’) performance is subject to regular review corporate responsibility standards. by the Ethical Investment Research Services Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series (‘EIRIS’) Ltd., a global leader of reporting have met stringent environmental, social corporate governance performance. EIRIS and governance criteria, and are positioned maintain fluid, independent profiles of clients to capitalise on the benefits of responsible which are available to responsible investors. business practice.” In FY14, we were scored as being grade B (Scale of A-E) in a sector specific ranking indicating By doing so, business, as a primary driver of that at this time we are within the top 20% of globalisation, can help ensure that markets, Software and Computing Companies for ESG commerce, technology and finance advance in performance. It should be noted that these ways that benefit economies and societies scores are subject to change at any time. everywhere (UNGC, 2013). We have again successfully reported to UNGC for FY13, We also report annually to the United Nations demonstrating our continued commitment Global Compact (‘UNGC’). The UNGC is a policy to the ten principles. Our full FY13 UNGC initiative for businesses that are committed to report can be found at the following link: aligning their operations and strategies with ten www.innovation-group.com/sustainability. universally accepted principles in the areas of The table below summarises how we have Human Rights, Labour, Environment and integrated these principles into Anti-Corruption. our business practices in FY14. Ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact Read more at these locations Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Theme 1: Impacts on society internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Theme 1: Impacts on society the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Theme 2: Impacts on the environment environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Theme 2: Impacts on the environment responsibility; and and Theme 3: Carbon emissions Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Theme 7: Innovation friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Theme 1: Impacts on society including extortion and bribery. The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 45 Our progress Governance Sustainability infrastructure within Group Carbon Champions have responsibility Our Audit Committee is ultimately accountable for Greenhouse Gas Emissions data collection for our Sustainability Strategy. This allows us to and reporting onto the SmartCarbon™ offer full visibility for progress against our website in order to calculate and report Strategy at the very highest level. the carbon emissions for their region. The Carbon Champions must also contribute to, The Group Company Secretary and Chief and implement the Carbon Abatement Plan Legal Officer is the appointed Chair of the within their region to progress the Group Sustainability Committee and ensures the towards its’ published targets to reduce agenda is embedded within core business. carbon emissions. All Carbon Champions have completed advanced training in Our dedicated Group Sustainability Manager GHG reporting in line with the internationally is responsible for designing and implementing recognised Green House Gas Protocol. our Sustainability Strategy and reports to the There are regular Carbon Champion conference Group Company Secretary and the Audit calls throughout the year where there is the Committee regularly. opportunity to obtain support from the Chair of the Group Sustainability Committee and There is a global infrastructure of appointed Group Sustainability Manager as well as peers. Sustainability Ambassadors and Carbon Champions in each region. Each of these Regional Managing Directors’ contribute “Future generations individuals volunteered for their roles and are directly to the Sustainability Committee as motivated and committed. appropriate and a regular briefing document have no control over is sent to the Managing Director for each the environment Sustainability Ambassadors have region reporting progress against our they will inherit. Our responsibility for contributing to, and Sustainability Strategy. generation does. I am implementing the Group’s Sustainability keen to act positively Strategy within their regions. All Ambassadors to help ensure future have completed an advanced e-learning generations inherit a course in sustainability. Ambassadors attend better environment.” the quarterly Sustainability Committee meetings and the Sustainability conference, John Velezis which occurs every two years. Marketing Manager and Sustainability Ambassador, Australia Our sustainability infrastructure The diagram below shows the global infrastructure of sustainability roles across the Group. Innovation Group Audit Committee: Audit Committee Chairman Committee members Other attendees (including Chief Executive Oﬃcer, Group Financial Director and Group Company Secretary) Regional Managing Directors: Asia Paciﬁc (including Australia and India) Sustainability Committee: Staﬀ groups: Europe Central Group Company Secretary Senior mangement (including Belgium, Germany and Poland) Group Sustainability Manager Employees Europe South Team of appointed Regional ISO 4001 Systems Manager (including France and Spain) Sustainability Ambassadors ISO 14001 Project team North America South Africa United Kingdom Team of appointed Regional Carbon Champions 46 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Risks and opportunities Managing our Sustainability risks and opportunities Mitigating our risks and maximising Our challenges our opportunities In our mission to implement change to become Sustainability issues such as climate change more sustainable we have faced challenges have the potential to impact our business along the way. Despite this, our efforts to report directly in the short and the long term. As a our performance and our work on implementing responsible Company and business partner, it is initiatives have been largely successful as crucial that we develop a clear understanding of outlined throughout this report. the potential business risks and opportunities related to sustainability issues and in particular Our two main challenges this year have been: climate change. We also wish to demonstrate to 1. Collecting and reporting 24 months’ our clients and other stakeholders how we are carbon data for LAS Claims Management, working to manage and reduce both our own an organisation we acquired on 13 March impact on the environment and society, as well 2014 in order to recalculate our base year. as the impact of environmental and societal We overcame this challenge by working change on our business operations. We also with the ISO 14001 management recognise that process efficiency, doing more representative within LAS and providing with less, reducing energy intensity and doing training and support. Senior management things right first time, will all drive both cost and also ensured full support was provided. carbon efficiency. This will benefit us, our business partners and the environment. 2. Key Performance Indicator data. We are behind on our target to establish base lines We believe our operations have relatively low for Sustainability Indicators (other than environmental and social risk. We do not carbon). However, we wanted to prioritise produce any tangible products and our sector and focus on collecting and reporting and services are also low risk. Some Divisions of carbon data as this is our number one our business, where we own parts of the supply sustainability concern. chain, do pose a greater risk than others (e.g. subsidence, drainage and ground works). What we will do next Our 2015-2020 Strategy listed in the final Please note that in addition to the table on pages of this report shows all of our established pages 48-51 we hold a more comprehensive targets. Our Strategy for this period has in-house risk and opportunities register been based on what the Company and all of and report our climate related risks and its stakeholders have determined to be the opportunities in much greater depth In most significant issues (see materiality matrix our annual CDP response. on page 6). The strategy will continue to be reviewed annually to ensure that it evolves We believe this detailed risk and opportunities alongside the focus of the Company and register combined with our forward thinking our stakeholders. strategy promotes business resilience in an ever changing world of social, environmental and financial risk and opportunity. The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 47 Risks and opportunities Managing our Sustainability risks and opportunities continued Regulatory risk Implication Innovation Group’s response Mandatory Under the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic We have met this requirement with systems in place to carbon reporting report and Directors’ report) Regulations calculate and report GHG emissions for our global operations. requirements. 2013, quoted companies in the UK must This is reported in our Annual Report and Accounts as well as include in their Directors’ report the amount the Annual Sustainability report. of Greenhouse Gas (‘GHG’) Emissions their activities produced that year. Furthermore, we aim to achieve a reduction in the carbon intensity of our operations. Mandatory The European Parliament adopted on We currently report on all of the information annually. submission of 15 April 2014 the Directive on disclosure We will continue to report on all of these issues in our Annual Sustainability of non-financial and diversity information Report and Accounts as well as our more comprehensive issues within the by large public-interest entities with more than Sustainability report. Annual Report and 500 employees. Accounts. The Directive will enter into force once adopted by the Council and published in the EU Official Journal. Companies concerned will need to disclose information on policies, risks and outcomes as regards environmental matters, social and employee-related aspects, respect for human rights, anti-corruption and bribery issues, and diversity in their board of Directors. Energy audits. To meet the requirements of the EU’s In 2012 we appointed WSP to complete an energy audit of our Energy Efficiency Directive (2012/27/EU), offices globally. all large companies – those with more than 250 employees and an annual turnover We have set an objective in our Strategy to ensure an ongoing exceeding €50 million – will have to complete schedule of energy audits is planned and conducted by an assessment of their energy consumption competent energy auditors to meet these legal requirements. every four years. The assessment, the first of which must be completed by December 2015, must be completed by an ‘approved assessor’ and include a list of ‘cost-effective efficiency measures’ that the firm can implement. Additional Our own global operations and those of We have established a governance structure to ensure that environmental our suppliers are governed by a range our operations strive to achieve our Sustainability policy and or social regulations. of region specific regulations relating to include sustainability requirements in our suppler contracts in labour standards, health and safety and a number of our regions including the UK, France and Germany. environmental legislation. We have Environmental Management Systems in a number of regions which provide a framework for legal compliance. We have Policies, systems and controls are required to identified in our Strategy that we will extend the EMS for the head minimise non-conformance and ensure best office with a plan to roll this system out globally. practice throughout our value chain. 48 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Physical risk Implication Innovation Group’s response Extreme weather An increase in severe weather events will result We optimise the utilisation of our workforce to ensure events including in peak demands for our services. that we can meet additional demand following extreme changing weather events. temperature and This will impact the volume of claims managed rainfall patterns. during times of weather stress and will require We have a mature and extensive supply chain which enables the capacity to respond efficiently and without us to source support from a range of suppliers as required. delay. Extreme weather Climate change can directly influence our We continue to assess ways to improve the energy efficiency events including operating costs due to heating and cooling of our buildings. changing requirements in our buildings. temperature and We have undertaken site level energy assessments of our rainfall patterns. regional head offices and data centres globally to identify opportunities to improve building efficiency and reduce our carbon emissions and operating costs. We have invested in training and communication with our workforce to promote behaviour change and more efficient use of energy. Extreme weather Extreme weather could impact on staff We have a flexible variable staffing model and home working events including commute to work or supply chain speed options are promoted when appropriate. changing of response. temperature and We have a mature and extensive supply chain which enables rainfall patterns. Potential for flooding or other weather-related us to source support from a range of suppliers as required. damage to our premises or those of our supply chain members. Longer term impacts Wide ranging impacts such as increased water Our business model encourages the use of less resources to of advanced climate and resource scarcity and social pressures. achieve the correct outcome, therefore reducing both the cost change. of the claim, but also the use of energy intensive materials. We believe that our Sustainability Strategy promotes business resilience to the potential impacts associated with climate change. These risks and opportunities have also been considered in our aspects and impacts register. This forms part of the management system that we are developing to meet the requirements of ISO 14001. This ensures that we are indeed a ‘Future-Ready’ business. Reduced access to Reduced capacity to operate and therefore a Whilst this is considered low risk, we are investigating options energy supply. potential loss of money to the business. to further diversify our energy supply through increasing the amount of energy produced on site via renewable sources. Risk to the Biodiversity loss, pollution e.g. oil, chemicals, Our direct business operations pose relatively low risk to environment. CFC’s, HCFC’s, GHG’s. the environment. Our comprehensive Sustainability Management System has guidance and procedures to prevent pollution and minimise the impact of all unavoidable risks to the environment such as the release of GHG’s. Our carbon sequestration activity of tree planting will also help to counter biodiversity loss. The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 49 Risks and opportunities Managing our Sustainability risks and opportunities continued Reputational risks Implication Innovation Group’s response Reputational Failure to meet our publically disclosed carbon We understand the importance of the Sustainability Agenda to risks. reduction target and wider Sustainability our business brand and reputation. We have allocated objectives. resources and a budget to ensure our Sustainability Strategy is a success. We have set a target to arrange an audit and verification of our carbon footprint by an independent third party in FY15. Client requirements. There is increased focus in the insurance We have completed a stakeholder engagement exercise community on Sustainability and our to understand what is expected by our clients in the area of clients place a requirement on our business Sustainability and furthermore how to differentiate ourselves to demonstrate improvements in our from our peers to achieve best practice. Sustainability performance. This has presented opportunities to move beyond annual If we fail to adapt to this requirement questionnaire reporting towards a collaborative approach to and innovate in this area, then we will increase reduce the impact of claims handling and repairs. the risk of potential loss of our client base, thereby impacting the value Our CEO, Andrew Roberts, has launched a consultative to our shareholders. process with our key UK clients to identify opportunities for low impact and preventative insurance products. In order to obtain a top three market share in our chosen territories, it is clear that We are recognised for our achievements in sustainability by we have to be fully aware of the increased various voluntary initiatives such as FTSE4Good, EIRIS, CDP requirements of our customer base. and UNGC. Some of our key customers have also recognised our carbon-managed supply chain (UK Property Division) as a differentiator in the marketplace. 50 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Opportunities Implication Innovation Group’s response Increase in Some insurance companies are exploring Part of our Strategy is to engage with our clients to better demand for innovative options for new eco or preventative understand how we can transfer our technical knowledge to responsible insurance products that reduce the impact to reduce the impact of claims and repair handling business. insurance the environment products. and reduce the volume of claims. Collaboration with our clients in this emerging area would act to strengthen our relationship with them, differentiate us from The development of responsible products our peers and create new customer product choices. could influence the conventional methods that our suppliers employ for damage repair. We have a dedicated team focused on developing new and innovative solutions to the increasing demand for responsible There is an opportunity to use our technical insurance products. understanding of damage assessment and repair to contribute towards the development of low impact repair options. Increase in the We will need to ensure we have the capacity to We continue to invest in innovative technological solutions development of new adapt and utilise technological advancements such as the development of our Insurer software. technologies. to help improve efficiency in our operations and dealings with suppliers. We consider ourselves to be aware of relevant technology and we remain alert to opportunities to increase revenue and This will also impact the development of new efficiency through innovative solutions. products e.g. the accumulation and analysis of data from telematics in the motor industry can help tailor insurance products. Increased volume of It is possible that the impacts of climate We are deeply concerned about the predicted impacts of climate related change and the predicted increase in the climate change and are committed to reducing our own insurance claims number and severity of catastrophes could contribution to these, whilst also supporting our extensive could increase lead to an increased demand for Innovation global supply chain to reduce their contribution. revenue for the Group products and services. business. Cost savings Resources such as energy, water and We have invested in energy audits for each of our global as a result of paper cost money to acquire and to head offices and data centre locations and have identified improved resource dispose of. Any waste, therefore, is effectively opportunities for energy reduction. These are documented in efficiency. paid for twice. our Carbon Abatement Plan. By reducing the amount of resources We have set a global carbon reduction target and will meet used we can reduce our environmental impact this through a specific action plan. We are also committed to as well as save resources and compliance setting targets to reduce our consumption of water and paper costs. as well as waste disposal. Engagement We want to provide a healthy working We have completed a global employee questionnaire. Results with our environment for our employees as well as show that 93% of those that responded agree people and local supporting our employees to care for local that sustainability is important and 90% feel that the communities. communities and the environment. Group has a responsibility to care for the environment and its local communities. We believe that this will help us to continue to engage with our people who will have a We have an employee Sustainability Hub on the intranet positive perception of us as an employer and a dedicated email address to encourage employees and help ensure a productive and high quality to communicate ideas and increase awareness of our service. sustainability activities. This is supported by training, newsletters, posters and other forms of communication to encourage employee engagement. The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 51 Our strategy Sustainability Strategy 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2020 Our sustainability ambitions The following commitments summarises our full Sustainability Strategy for 2014-2020 and forms the basis of our submission to the UNGC. Objectives Targets Comments Delivery KPIs Theme 1: Impacts on society We have not set any specific targets within this theme as they have been integrated into the other Themes (e.g. 4.1.4, 4.1.5, 4.1.7, 4.2.1, 8.1.2) Theme 2: Impacts on the environment 2.1 Reduce the environmental 2.1.1 Pilot the development Progress has been made 30 April 2015. EMS Certificate. Impact for our operations. of an Environmental (see table on page 9). Management System Consider certification to (‘EMS’) for the Head revised ISO 14001 standard Office in Whiteley, UK and expected in 2015. consider suitable EMS certification schemes. 2.1.2 Roll out EMS globally. Once system is complete Phased roll out Document system for the UK business, share from 30 April 2018 on shared resource. this with other regions. – 30 April 2020. 2.1.3 Establish a baseline and Progress has been made 30 September 2015. Tonnes of waste to key performance indicators (see table on page 9). landfill per FTE. (’KPIs‘) for waste to landfill and waste recycled. 2.1.4 Establish a baseline Progress has been made 30 September 2015. m3 water use per FTE. and KPIs for water use. (see table on page 9). 2.1.5 Establish a baseline and Progress has been made 30 September 2015. Sheets of paper KPIs for paper consumption. (see table on page 9). used per FTE. 2.2 Reduce the environmental 2.2.1 Collaborate with Progress has been made 30 September 2015. Records of stakeholder impact of our products. our key customers to (see Case Study 14 on page 43). analysis. explore expectations for low impact or preventative insurance products. 2.3 Minimise the impact of 2.3.1 Review the risk to Progress has been made. 30 April 2015. Environmental Aspects environmental concerns the business of resource and Impacts Register. (e.g. resource scarcity) scarcity as part of the EMS on the business. development and plan access to resources (such as energy). 52 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Objectives Targets Comments Delivery KPIs Theme 3: Carbon and climate change 3.1 Reduce the carbon 3.1.1 Increase the scope Investigate feasibility of 30 September 2015. tCO2e for the intensity of the Group. of reported emissions to reporting emissions linked Group (Scope 3). include further Scope 3 to waste disposal. emissions from indirect nonowned or controlled sources. 3.1.2 Complete regular In order to comply with the 30 September 2015. Completed Energy energy audits across Energy Efficiency Directive Audit Reports including our business. (2012/27/ EU), we have planned recommendations an assessment of our energy for improvement. consumption every four years, the first of which will be completed by December 2015. 3.1.3 Establish measured Continue to implement Group 30 September 2015. tCO2e for the Group. Carbon Reduction Projects Carbon Abatement Strategy. in all operational regions. 3.1.4 Expand Carbon Provide support to encourage 30 September 2015. Carbon Abatement Abatement Strategy supply chain members to Plans. to our supply chain. develop and implement Carbon Abatement Strategies. 3.1.5 Deliver a 6% reduction We have achieved this target1 30 September 2015. tCO2e per FTE. in our carbon emissions (see page 20). Once this has per FTE by FY15 based been audited and verified on FY13 base year. we will set new targets. 3.1.6 Deliver a 15% reduction We have achieved this target1 30 September 2020. tCO2e per FTE. in our carbon emissions (see page 20). Once this has per FTE by FY20 based been audited and verified on FY13 base year. we will set new targets. 3.1.7 Commission external We have already committed to: 30 June 2015. Assurance statement. audit and assurance Audit and verify footprint statement for carbon data. figures for FY13 and FY14 and reported reductions1. 3.1.8 Review the We have already signed up to 30 September 2015. Documented 6 CDP and CDSB initiative 4 and we are reviewing commitments. ‘Road to Paris: Highlight the remaining 5 initiatives: Business Leadership on 1. Commit to GHG emissions Climate Change’ initiatives reduction targets that limit and establish which of global warming to 2ºC. the initiatives we can sign up to. 2. Commit to having a strategy in place to procure 100% of electricity from renewable sources. 3. Commit to removing commodity-driven deforestation from all supply chains. 4. Provide climate change information in mainstream findings 5. Responsible Corporate engagement in climate policy 6. Put a price on carbon. Note 1 –Whilst we have a high degree of confidence in the data reported, and have completed several internal checks and audits of the fi gures and evidence for each region, we have decided to arrange an external audit by an independent third party in Q1 of 2015 to verify FY13 and FY14 fi gures. Further detail is available in our separate GHG Emissions Inventory report online. The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 53 Our strategy Sustainability Strategy 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2020 continued Objectives Targets Comments Delivery KPIs Theme 4: Employee engagement 4.1 Engage further with 4.1.1 Establish bi-annual A new Sustainability e-learning 30 September 2016. Training records. and improve employee sustainability refresher course has been launched in understanding of the training for all employees. every region globally in FY13. Sustainability Strategy This course is to be updated empowering them to and reissued biannually. implement effective change. Sustainability has now been added to induction training and posters and other supporting material is also displayed. 4.1.2 Make optional advanced Update and refresh existing 31 March 2015. Training records. training for Sustainability advanced Sustainability available to all employees. Ambassador course. 4.1.3 Establish annual The first global survey was 31 December 2014. Analysis of completed employee surveys. completed in FY13 (see surveys. table on page 10). We plan to run it again to measure any change in six months then annually after thereafter. 4.1.4 Establish bi-annual 31 March 2015. Training records. Code of Conduct training for all employees. 4.1.5 Establish biA refresher of the Anti-Bribery 31 December 2016. Training records. annual Anti-Bribery and and Corruption e-learning Corruption refresher course has been launched in training for all employees. every region globally in FY14. 4.1.6 Establish bi-annual Data Data Protection training has 30 September 2016. Training records. Protection refresher training been launched in the UK for all employees all UK. 4.1.7 Continue to generate Develop a charity and 31 March 2015. Records of staff options for employees community engagement involvement in to invest in the local policy for UK. community projects. community through volunteering opportunities. 4.1.8 Increase the Currently 63% of employees 30 September 2014 % score on proportion of staff who who completed our global (and annually thereafter). employee survey. feel positive about our survey have stated that Sustainability agenda. they feel either pleased, encouraged or proud of our Sustainability Strategy. 54 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Objectives Targets Comments Delivery KPIs 4.2 Develop additional 4.2.1 Establish baseline KPIs Progress has been made 1 October 2015. • Community Sustainability KPIs. for community investment, (see table on page 10). investment £ per absenteeism, development, annum disabilities, gender and • Days absent per FTE. internal complaints. • Development days per FTE. • % of employees with disabilities. • % of employees male/female. • Number of internal complaints raised against number of internal complaints satisfactorily resolved per annum. 4.3 Support employees. 4.3.1 Review options to 30 September 2016. Flexible working policy. promote flexible working within one region. 4.3.2 UK Motor Division 31 January 2015. IiP certificate. to achieve Investors in People (IiP) Bronze status. 4.3.3 Implement 30 September 2015. Health and findings from Health and Wellbeing report. Wellbeing pilot project in UK Motor Division. 4.4 Incentivise sustainability 4.4.1 Establish programme Some progress has been made. 30 September 2015. Programme of good practice. of incentives to encourage incentives. and reward sustainability good practice. 4.5 Engage the next 4.5.1 Establish annual Employees to invite their 30 September 2016. Video clips. generation. ‘Voices for the Future’ children to produce and submit project in UK initially. ‘Sustainability message’ video clips to Company competition. Three winning videos will be produced to a professional standard and posted on our website whilst also being used to influence policy. 4.5.2 Establish annual 30 September 2017. Video clips. ‘Voices for the Future’ project globally. The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 55 Our strategy Sustainability Strategy 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2020 continued Objectives Targets Comments Delivery KPIs Theme 5: All Stakeholders 5.1 Engage with our 5.1.1 Develop a Progress made 30 June 2015. • Procedure. stakeholders. procedure for continual (see pages 39-40). • Records of stakeholder engagement engagement. in UK and regular review • Updated materiality of materiality matrix. matrix. 5.1.2 Develop a procedure 30 June 2017. • Procedure. for continual stakeholder • Records of engagement across our engagement. global network and regular • Updated materiality review of materiality matrix. matrix. 5.2 Communicate more 5.2.1 Develop a new Under development. 31 December 2014. Completed Sustainability effectively with internal Sustainability Hub on Hub on our external and external parties the internet site. website. on Sustainability. Theme 6: Supply chain management 6.1 Encourage carbon 6.1.1 Support UK Property Progress has been made 31 December 2014. Training records reduction throughout top suppliers (by spend) (see table on page 12 and and data upload on our global supply chain. to calculate and report Case Study 11 on page 40). SmartCarbon™. their carbon footprints. 6.1.2 Support UK Property Carbon Abatement top suppliers (by spend) to Plans. reduce and/or offset some of their carbon emissions. Receipts for Offsets purchased. 6.1.3 Roll out this supply Develop a plan for Initiate 30 September Data upload on chain project across phased roll-out. 2015. SmartCarbon™. our global network. All data reported by September 2020. 6.2 Influence suppliers to 6.2.1 Establish a supplier This will include a requirement 31 December 2014. Updated terms of meet our Sustainability Code of Conduct for our to comply with the Bribery Act. trade documents. Code of Conduct. UK suppliers, including Sustainability criteria. 6.2.2 Establish a supplier 31 September 2015. Updated terms of Code of Conduct for our trade documents. global suppliers, including sustainability criteria. 56 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Objectives Targets Comments Delivery KPIs Theme 7 – Innovation for Sustainability 7.1 Embed innovation for 7.1.1 Continue to work with Progress has been made 31 December 2014. Records of new ideas. Sustainability into our our suppliers and employees (see table on page 12 and core business services. to assess options so as to Case Study 14 on page 43). reduce the impact of motor and property repairs in the claims handling process and to collaborate with our key customers to assess demand for low impact or preventative insurance products. 7.1.2 Engage with our Progress has been made 31 December 2014. Records of customers to better (see page 37). communications. understand how we can transfer our technical knowledge to reduce the environmental and social impact of claims and repair handling business. 7.1.3 Continue to invest in Progress has been made 30 September 2015. New technological innovative ‘Future-Ready’ (see page 43). solutions available. technological solutions such as the development of our Insurer suite of software products. Theme 8 – Governance and Business Integrity 8.1 Achieving best practice 8.1.1 Maintain listing on Annually. Record submission and in sustainable governance. FTSE4Good Index. results of reports. 8.1.2 Maintain commitment Annually. Record submission and to the United Nations results of reports. Global Compact. 8.1.3 Consider Progress has been made 31 March 2015. Registration. registration with other with ClimateWise. sustainability initiatives. 8.1.4 Report to CDP Annually. Record submission and (formerly the Carbon results of reports. Disclosure Project) with annual improvement to score. The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 57 Glossary of terms and acronyms BMS Building Management System Ceres Ceres is a non-profit organisation advocating for sustainability leadership. They mobilise Carbon Innovation Group’s Carbon Abatement Plan a powerful network of investors, companies Abatement is our method of listing the actions that we and public interest groups to accelerate and Plan currently, or plan to, carry out in order to expand the adoption of sustainable business reduce our carbon emissions. Examples practices and solutions to build a healthy of which include installing more efficient global economy. boilers to save gas or fitting motion sensors in common areas to ensure lights are only CEO Chief Executive Officer. turned on when required. ClimateWise A collaborative insurance initiative through Carbon Assessing an organisation’s carbon impacts. which members aim to work together footprinting to respond to the myriad of risks and opportunities linked to climate change. Carbon Purchasing credits to fund environmental/ offsetting social projects. This compensates for carbon CO2e Carbon dioxide equivalent. A way of emissions that the organisation cannot avoid. measuring Greenhouse Gas Emissions. Carbon In the Case Study 3 on page 24 the capture, EIRIS (Ethical Investment Research and Information sequestration sequestration and long-term storage of Service (UK)). A leading global provider of carbon associated with reforestation with research into corporate environmental, long-lived native trees (>100 years) which social and governance performance for sequesters carbon over a longer period and responsible investors. ultimately allows for a more graduated release, minimising impact during the expected EMAS Eco-Management and Audit Scheme, is a carbon crisis of the 21st century. voluntary initiative designed to improve companies’ environmental performance. CDP (Formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). An independent not-for-profit organisation EMS Environmental Management System. and global disclosure system for organisations ESG Environmental, social and corporate to report and improve environmental governance. performance. FTE Full Time Equivalent employee. CDSB (Climate Disclosure Standards Board). A non-profit organisation working to provide FTSE4Good A series of ethical investment stock material information for investors and financial Index market indices. markets through the integration of climate change related information into mainstream FY (Financial Year). In the case of this report financial reporting. 1 October 2013 – 30 September 2014. CDSB Created in line with the objectives of financial Greenhouse A gas that contributes to the Greenhouse Framework reporting and rules on non-financial reporting, Gas (‘GHG’) effect by absorbing infrared radiation. Carbon the climate change reporting framework dioxide and chlorofluorocarbons are examples seeks to filter out what is required to of Greenhouse Gases. understand how climate change affects a company’s financial performance. GHG Greenhouse Gas (‘GHG‘) Protocol, developed Protocol by World Resources Institute (‘WRI’) and World Business Council on Sustainable Development (‘WBCSD’), sets the global standard for how to measure, manage, and report Greenhouse Gas Emissions. GDP Gross Domestic Product 58 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 HSE Health, Safety and Environment. SMS Subsidence Management Services, a Division of UK Property. (As featured on page 38). ICROA International Carbon Reduction and Offset Alliance: is a non-profit professional UNEP United Nations Environment Programme industry body hosting a membership of Finance Finance Initiative is a global partnership businesses that deliver carbon reduction and Initiative between UNEP and the financial sector. offset services. Over 200 institutions, including banks, insurers and fund managers, work with IEMA The Institute of Environmental Management UNEP to understand the impacts of & Assessment (IEMA) IEMA’s role is to support environmental and social considerations individuals and organisations to set, recognise on financial performance. and achieve global sustainability standards and practice. UNGC United Nations Global Compact. IiP Investors in People. WRI World Resources Institute (WRI) is a global research organisation that turns big ideas ILO The International Labour Organization is a into action at the nexus of environment, United Nations agency dealing with labour economic opportunity and human well-being. issues, particularly international labour standards and decent work for all. WSP Consultancy providing integrated solutions across many disciplines including energy IPCC Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change management. is a scientific intergovernmental body under the auspices of the United Nations. KPIs Key Performance Indicators. LAS A claims management and loss adjuster company acquired by Innovation Group in 2013. Materiality The quality of being relevant or significant. Sustainability issues are reviewed to assess their relevance and significance to stakeholders. NGO A non-governmental organization is neither a part of a government nor a conventional for-profit business. OHSAS 18001 The Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series. OHSAS 18001 is an internationally applied British Standard for occupational health and safety management systems. SHE Safety, Health and Environment. SMS Sustainability Management System. (As featured on page 17). The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 59 60 The Innovation Group plc Sustainability Report 2014 Printed by Park Communications on FSC® certified paper. Park is an EMAS certified company, and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001. 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled. This document is printed on Cocoon Offset 100% Recycled; totally chlorine free (TCF) paper containing 100% recycled fibre approved by the FSC®. The Innovation Group plc 1300 Parkway Solent Business Park Whiteley Hampshire England PO15 7AE T +44 (0)1489 898300 F +44 (0)1489 579181 E info@uk.innovation-group.com
