Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 01 Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 Corporate Philosophy “Contributing to and striving to be respected by the citizens of the world” Editorial Policy This publication is intended to convey to stakeholders the Citizen Group’s basic approach to corporate social responsibility (CSR), as well as its CSRrelated activities during fiscal 2014, the year ended March 31, 2015. The Citizen Group understands CSR to mean conducting business in accordance with its corporate philosophy of “Contributing to and striving to be respected by the citizens of the world.” In fiscal 2014, the second year of the “Citizen Global Plan 2018” medium-term management plan, we clarified the Citizen Group value creation framework anew. In this document, we will introduce our CSR activities focused on reinforcing the foundations for achieving our growth strategies. We hope to help our readers understand the invisible values that the Citizen Group has cultivated since the time of its establishment. Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 02 Contents 01 Corporate Philosophy / Editorial Policy 03 Corporate Profile 04 State of Progress on the Medium-Term Management Plan Cover image: The Cal. 0910 movement used in “The CITIZEN Automatic” 05 Message from the Management 07 Brand Strategy in the Watches and Clocks Business 09 Citizen Group Value Creation The Citizen Group Value-Creation Process (as a true manufacture d’horlogerie) 01 Research & Development, Design 02 Manufacture 03 Sales and Follow-up Services 17 CSR at the Citizen Group 19 Report on Activities Aligned with ISO 26000 Citizen Holdings CSR Site Consumer Issues The site provides the same content as this publication as well as other comprehensive CSR information. http://www.citizen.co.jp/global/social/index.html 20 Fair Business Practices 21 Environment Date of Publication June 2015 (Previous report: June 2014/Next report: June 23 Labor Practices 2016) 24 Human Rights Guidelines Referenced Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 (GRI) Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 25 Community Participation and Development (Ministry of the Environment, Japan) Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 (Ministry of the Environment, Japan) 27 Organizational Governance Disclaimer This publication includes future projections based on the Corporate Governance information available when the report was written. The actual results of activities documented may differ from such future projections. Risk Management Organizations Covered in the Report Compliance Economic and social data: 28 domestic and 74 overseas companies (total 102) Environmental data: 32 domestic and 31 Data (Environment / Employees) 16 overseas companies (total 48) Period Covered by the Report 32 Third-Party Comments / Fiscal 2014 (April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015) Response to Third-Party Comments Some data from fiscal 2015 is also included. 03 Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 Corporate Profile With the corporate philosophy of “Contributing to and striving to be respected by the citizens of the world,” the Citizen Group has been launching diverse businesses around the globe making use of the expertise in downsizing, precision, and power efficiency technologies built up in our watch division. Corporate Data (Year ended March 31, 2015) Name Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. Net Sales (Year ended March 31) Establishment May 28, 1930 (Billion yen) Location of Head Office 6-1-12 Tanashi-cho, Nishitokyo, 400 328.4 Tokyo 188-8511, Japan 284.9 279.7 309.9 272.0 300 Representative Toshio Tokura, President and CEO Capitalization ¥32,649 million* 200 Employees 19,173 (consolidated)* 100 Net Sales ¥328.4 billion (consolidated) 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (FY) Listing Tokyo Stock Exchange, 1st Section *(As of March 31, 2015) Net Sales by Business Category Net Sales by Region Number of Employees by Region ¥328.4 billion ¥ 328.4 billion 19,173 Watches and Clocks 52.5% Japan 32.8% Japan 5,850 30.5% Machine Tools 15.7% Asia 31.1% Overseas 13,323 69.5% Devices and Components 20.6% Americas 21.1% Electronic Products 7.5% Europe 14.0% Other Products 3.7% Others 1.0% Principal Products Watches and Clocks “The fusion of technology and beauty.” We create new value by blending the latest technology with delicate beauty. Machine Tools Devices and Components We develop machine tools for smallWith miniaturization and precision diameter precision parts machining production technologies developed for the automotive, medical, and IT through watch manufacturing, we industries, and medium-diameter and provide a variety of electronic composhort part machining for the oil and air hydraulics nents that are used in products that support society. and construction equipment industries. Electronic Products Other Products We create new comfort and This division provides convenience all over, in business and independent systems for daily life, from health management to recreational equipment, wedding information equipment. rings and other jewelry, and iceskating and other leisure services. Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 04 State of Progress on the Medium-Term Management Plan The Citizen Group is currently pursuing a medium-term management plan called the “Citizen Global Plan 2018.” Fiscal 2015, which corresponds to the third year of this plan, is our final year for building the strong foundations to pursue growth strategies. During the year, we will address remaining issues and push resolutely forward with structural and corporate cultural reforms with a view to our next stage of growth. Aiming to Be a Truly Global Company A Corporate Group Marked by Speed and Dynamism Medium-Term Management Policy 1. We will focus on business domains where we can leverage the strengths cultivated in the watch and clock business, aiming to become a business conglomerate that is a globally competitive category leader. 2. Positioning China and other emerging economies in Asia as a strategic marketplace, we will simultaneously pursue sales expansion and enhanced efficiency as we work to accelerate profit growth. Tasks to Address CSR Initiatives for Realizing Specific Strategies 1. Clarify the business portfolio 1. Develop and manufacture eco-friendly products 2. Strengthen production capabilities 2. Cultivate human resources 3. Enhance human resources and improve productivity 3. Embrace diversity 4. Market Strategically to meet demand in the Asian market 4. Build even stronger relationships with local communities Overview of Stages in the Medium-Term Management Plan STEP Implementing Thorough Structural Reforms and STEP Enhance Business Performance STEP Achieve Goals 1 Improvements to Build the Foundations for Growth 2 through Aggressive Investment 3 Operating income target for fiscal 2015 ¥ 30.0 billion Become a Operating income in ROA of Operating income truly global fiscal 2014 company ¥27.8 billion 5.0% target for fiscal 2018 to survive against international Operating income in fiscal 2013 ¥ 40.0 billion competition ¥23.7 billion ROA of Operating income in fiscal 2012 6.0% ¥11.5 billion 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 In fiscal 2014, we continued with efforts begun in the precedIn the watches and clocks business, which is central to the ing fiscal year to “implement thorough structural reforms and Group’s growth, we adopted a new slogan to express the improvements to build the foundations for growth.” We conCitizen brand: “Better starts now.” Based on this brand statecentrated on the most important task of promoting efficiency ment, all employees in the watches and clocks business will in productivity and the development of human resources. work in tandem to promote our brand strategies. We introduced a new educational system focused on stratFiscal 2015 is a bridging year, as we transition to the growth ified training and undertook human resource development strategies to be introduced in upcoming years. This year is efforts, such as conducting career training for women and important, since it is a time for completing strong foundations diversity training that targeted management-level employees. for growth. All Citizen Group employees will work together unceasingly toward our goal of being a truly global company. 05 Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 Message from the Management “Citizen” is both our company name and the origin of our corporate philosophy. We also intend to continue operating as a company 100 years into the future. Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 06 Realizing Our Future Resolving Societal Issues Growth Strategies through Our Business Looking at the overall Group, I believe our activities for the We have developed a host of socially and eco-friendly prodtwo years in the first half of the medium-term management ucts, from 1976, when we introduced the world’s first analog plan—organizational restructuring and human resource optisolar-powered watch, up to the present. We believe offering mization, plant restructuring, and business portfolio products that help resolve the societal issues we all face revision—have been carried out largely according to plan. should be a matter of course for a company. Citizen believes However, one aspect of our restructuring of overseas producthat ultimately, companies play an extremely important role tion bases—the liquidation of Citizen Precision Guangzhou in society, and that companies need to rethink their raison Ltd., our production base in China—involved confusion in d’être along the lines of creating shared value (CSV*) with the early stages that led to inaccurate media reports. We apolsociety. Such initiatives take time, but we are convinced that ogize sincerely for any concern this situation may have caused our current efforts toward CSV are a natural part of the disour stakeholders. We are reinforcing our corporate govercussion that should take place at the marketing and nance structure to prevent this sort of situation from development stages. recurring. Although conditions in China are changing, we * CSV: Initiatives for creating new value that is shared by companies still see major possibilities in that market, so production bases and society there are a key component of our infrastructure. Personnel costs are rising sharply, which is an issue, but through manufacturing innovation and by introducing other measures, our Continuing Our Operations marketing and production activities will continue to position 100 Years into the Future China as an important region. Given the dramatic pace of change, looking 100 years into the In fiscal 2015, we will allocate the profits generated future is a difficult prospect. Companies need to adapt and through manufacturing innovation toward technology develprogress in keeping with the times. We recognize the need to opment and capital investment. Through the additional constantly reinvent ourselves and marshal our strengths to fit growth that results, we aim to realize the objectives of the needs of each era. We are convinced that this capability “Citizen Global Plan 2018.” will lead to sustainable growth. Maintaining a connection with society underpins and is essential to growth. At the same time, it goes without saying Cultivating Human Resources that employees are the core element supporting a company. from a Long-Term Perspective Taking care of employees leads to the ability to deliver highvalue-added products and services to customers. We believe To become a truly global company, we need to foster ties with that this truism must never be forgotten, as it forms the base people in local communities. Doing so requires us to underfor all business activity. stand local cultures and customs. This understanding, plus In keeping with our corporate creed, we aim to contribute language skills, should smooth communications. to and be respected by citizens of the world. But in addition to skills, I believe that our appeal as individuals is important. We have really only just begun our efforts to empower June 2015 women. Recognizing that a change of awareness is needed to make further progress in this area, in fiscal 2014 we introduced career training for women and diversity training for department managers. I believe that utilizing diverse human resources and providing opportunities for them to make full use of their skills will lead to innovation and value creation. Toshio Tokura President and CEO Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. 07 Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 Brand Strategy in the Watches and Clocks Business To achieve its goal of being “a global company that can survive amid international competition,” Citizen needs to strengthen its footings as a global brand. In 2014, we formulated a new brand statement—“Better starts now”—to convey the sense of ongoing progress that we have upheld during the 96 years since our establishment. This statement expresses our conviction that the time to begin making the world a better place is now. Taking this creed to heart, we intend to keep developing our brand of “timepieces that build a path to the future.” BETTER ST Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 08 ARTS NOW Sending Signals to the World MILAN DESIGN WEEK 2014 Citizen participated in the Milano Design Award Competition, an international festival of design held from April 8 to 13, 2014. At the competition, we won prizes in two categories: “Best Entertaining” and “Best Sound.” The theme of the installation Citizen revealed at the venue was “LIGHT is TIME.” This installation created a magical space by employing around 80,000 main plates, which are the foundations supporting all other components of a watch. Installation employing some DGT architect Tsuyoshi Tane, based in Paris, and the Citizen design team worked on 80,000 main plates this installation. Representing the elements of light and time, the installation followed Mr. Tane’s concept that “Light is time. Without light, the concept of time never would have arisen.” Directing light onto the plates that are proprietary to Citizen as a company that handles all process, from manufacturing to sales in-house, produced a fantastical space filled with dynamically shifting light and sound. The display of everything from Citizen’s original pocket watches to the latest watches utilizing satellite signals, including the sophisticated components used to make them, captured the attention of exhibition-goers and sent them home with a novel impression of Citizen. Trophies received at the Milano Design Award competition 2014 09 Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 Citizen Group Value Creation This section provides an overview of Citizen’s value creation activities in the watches and clocks business. Citizen recognizes human resources and technologies as its two most important drivers of growth. In pursuing our business model, we aim to augment the brand strength of our products and services and maximize the value we provide to customers, society, and employees. Human resources achieving The Citizen Group’s Value-Creation Process increases in brand value Inventors of the Future “Invent through creativity.” Imagine new methods, and have the courage to invent. Research and Design Development Diligent Artisans “Create with passion.” Work with diligent passion, continuing to craft with great skill Creating new value Designing timepieces down to the smallest details. requires marketing skills requires extreme precision, and the ability to develop as impressions are different new technologies. This at the μm level. The Citizen People Who Strive for understanding is at the origin of manufacturing brand personifies the imagination of our designers. Ongoing Improvement at Citizen. “Improve through aspiration.” Believe that all successes and failures P.12 contain the seeds of opportunity for P.11 improvement, and maintain forwardlooking initiative. VALUE Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 10 Augmenting Brand Strength Sales and Customers Production Follow-up By augmenting brand value, Services we provide value to customers. Society Success as a company that As our direct point of contact handles all processes from By enhancing brand value, with customers, the sales manufacturing to sales inwe deliver value to society. floor must convey our house builds on the accubrand appeal. We aim to mulated persistent efforts provide high-value-added that go into making each services that stimulate our Employees component. The result is customers. By boosting brand value, the Citizen Group’s inimiwe offer value to our employees. table strength. P.13–14 P.15–16 CREATION 11 Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 The Citizen Group Value-Creation Process (as a true manufacture d’horlogerie) Citizen the Manufacturer: Consistently 01 Handling All Processes from Planning to Development and Production “Manufacturer” is an aspirational word that describes consistent internal production. In this sense, Citizen is a true “manufacturer” of watches. One example of this concept is the “Eco-Drive SATELLITE WAVE F100,” which we launched in 2014. Here we introduce the process. As a company that handles all processes from manufacturing to sales in-house, we pursue possibilities at the forefront of customers’ needs and seek to turn this potential into reality. Research & Development The Role of R&D at the Origin of Value Creation The Ultimate in Speed, the “F100” Since the time of its establishment, the history of Citizen has The “Eco-Drive SATELLITE WAVE” set a new standard for been one of consistently creating new technologies to match watches controlled by satellite waves. Whereas such watches the changing needs of the times throughout the world, previously received time signals every few seconds, the progressing from mechanical watches to quartz watches, “F100” achieves the world’s fastest speed* in this category, and then on to solar-powered and radio-controlled watches. checking signals as frequently as every three seconds. Citizen Watch introduced the world’s first analog solarThe developers of this watch’s movement dedicated four powered watch in 1976. In 1993, we launched the first global years to the task, and the resulting product is testimony to the radio-controlled watch capable of multistation reception. Our value of a ceaselessly inquisitive mind. ongoing development of leading-edge technologies led in 2011 The people in charge of development held in their mind to the world’s first solar-powered watches controlled by satellite the desire to “turn a strong sense of the future into physical waves, with the launch of the “Eco-Drive SATELLITE WAVE.” form.” They continue their development efforts in a bid to In 2007, we launched a full-fledged effort to develop the create additional new value. concept of using time information from artificial satellites. * For analog solar-powered satellite-wave-controlled watches. According to a This effort led to the realization of the solar-powered “Ecostudy by Citizen as of June 2014. Drive” using our proprietary technology. The Citizen Group’s R&D department led the charge in this innovation. Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 12 Eco-Drive SATELLITE WAVE F100 Design Design That Communicates the Citizen Brand With the “F100,” we wanted to make satellite-wave-controlled watches a part of daily life. To achieve this aim, we conceptualized a design suited to everyday use that expressed a sense of speed befitting a satellite-wave-controlled watch. Because the “F100” was designed to interact quickly with satellites, its design is inspired by artificial satellites. Appearing simple at first glance, the “F100” design concept encapsulates a sense of the world. When using the watch, the wearer becomes aware of the various attractions it offers from a design perspective. This watch conveys the spirit behind Citizen’s design and embodies the ideals of its designers. Machining Technology Highlights the Design We utilized a number of machining technologies to realize the design concept. The edges of the watch’s titanium case catch the light as it moves, creating a sense of flowing light. Citizen’s worldclass titanium machining technology made this processing possible. 13 Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 The Citizen Group Value-Creation Process (as a true manufacture d’horlogerie) Production Technologies Bringing Ideas 02 to Reality with Painstaking Dedication to Detail in All Parts and Processes Watches comprise numerous components. Citizen makes each of these parts itself and insists on perfection down to the tiniest detail. The ability to develop and produce the equipment used to make these components is one of our corporate values, as it allows for high-quality watch production. We believe that the deep roots of Citizen as a manufacturer is one reason for being the company of choice among its customers. Manufacture The Ultimate in Mold Production Producing Components with Main plates are the bases that are essential to watch assembly; Machines Made In-House watches are completed by mounting a host of products onto Watches contain a host of gear wheels and components. these plates. Creating the molds used to make these essential The gear wheels that transmit motion to the hands require main plates requires precision. For example, molds that have metal processing ranging from pressing, machining, gear been produced through mechanical processing cannot be milling, heat treatment, surface processing, and assembly. used as is. Rather, deft technicians adjust these molds down The Citizen Watch Group achieves the high-quality levels to the µm level, shaving away slivers of the molds with fingerrequired with precision machining technology employing tip precision. automatic lathes. No effort is spared, even on parts that will never be seen The Company’s lathe technology dates back to 1937, when unless a watch is disassembled. The expertise of artisans who an employee in charge of making the parts required for watch have been making molds for watch base plates for 40 years production established a machine tool department. In 1961, is at the origin of these processes and constitutes one of we began producing machines for sale to outside customers. Citizen’s strengths. Our machine tools are used to make parts for automobiles, medical equipment, communications equipment, and other industrial products. Citizen Machinery Co., Ltd. has become known as a world leader today. Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 14 World-Leading Production Capabilities The “Meister” Charged with Finishing Numerous watches are developed each year, and production Assembling a high-end watch is an extremely precise process lines must be tailored to each watch variety. requiring consummate skill. For this reason, highly skilled Once a schematic plan for a new watch is complete, we and experienced engineers who we call “meister” take charge design a production line based on the plan. Equipment to of the last process in watch production: final product assemsupply the necessary materials and thus reduce labor requirebly. These professionals handle the most delicate assembly ments is also an important consideration. Automated process of attaching the hands. This is finely tuned work, as assembly is not possible unless each of the small, complextiny watch hands can bend with the slightest pressure. shaped parts is delivered to the next process in the proper Concentrating intently on the deft movements of their fingerorientation. In addition to assembly, supplying products in tips, meisters perform their task with skill, while keeping in parallel is difficult yet important. Citizen has developed promind the customers who will ultimately wear their products. prietary technologies for the component supply equipment This combination of automated assembly and skilled used in this process. manual operations lies behind Citizen’s ability to create highThese technologies are at the heart of our production performance, highly sophisticated, highly functional watches. capabilities for supplying parts to the world. 15 Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 The Citizen Group Value-Creation Process (as a true manufacture d’horlogerie) Closeness with the Customer: 03 The Trust Test of Value for Our Brand Strategy The salespeople on the sales floor, our point of direct contact with customers, are Citizen brand ambassadors. In keeping with Citizen Watch’s brand statement, that “Better starts now,” we consistently communicate our design concept to sales locations around the world, ensuring that employees have a shared awareness of the Citizen brand. We also consider listening to customer feedback after the sale to be part of the Citizen brand. Sales and Follow-up Services Opening Our First U.S. Flagship Store in New York’s Times Square In November 2014, Citizen Watch opened its first U.S. Consistent with the global brand strategy we have purflagship store, located in New York’s Times Square. sued since 2008, we now have nearly 100 flagship stores in Times Square attracts tens of millions of people each year operation throughout the world. These flagship stores play an from all corners of the world. Launching a store in this locaimportant role as points for disseminating vital information tion is therefore significant in terms of communicating the about the Citizen brand’s worldview. By communicating Citizen brand to numerous customers. The store is also a directly with customers, whether online, in stores, or through source of brand pride in the eyes of our employees. other means, we aim to convey Citizen’s sense of presence. The store conveys a sense of Japanese style through its construction materials and interior, and staff conversant in eight languages are on hand to welcome customers. Using tablet computers for interactive communication, we display our products and demonstrate Citizen’s overall brand appeal. These approaches expose more customers than ever to the excellence of Citizen’s products. Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 16 Each Employee a Brand-Bearer Role of the Service Center The salespeople who interact with customers play a key role COA’s after-sales service center fields more than 1,500 inquiin Citizen’s branding. By offering the high-quality service ries each day. The center has created a robust internal control to which Citizen aspires, they develop a sense of closeness system with close ties to related divisions so it can provide with customers as they introduce products’ functions and swift customer feedback and respond to needs for repairs. provide information about post-sales maintenance. Through We believe that this structure for providing customerthis process, we aim to stimulate customers at the sales stage. satisfying service is unequalled among our competitors. Citizen Watch Company of America, Inc. (COA), fosters this We consider providing a high level of service that encourages level of service quality by conducting twice-annual training repeat customers one of our most important missions. for its salespeople. Smaller meetings in each department In addition to strong expertise, the employees who work in and region are also held to provide more detailed, in-depth this center must be keenly in tune with customers’ inclinaexplanations about branding, new products, and sales tions and possess a global perspective, as they embody methods. We provide this information in digital campaign Citizen’s global brand. books that salespeople can browse using specialized tablet computers. 17 Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 CSR at the Citizen Group Supporting the United Nations Global Compact By realizing its corporate philosophy, the Citizen Group strives The 10 Principles of the U.N. Global Compact toward the sustainable development of society and Group growth, while aiming to be a company that is loved, respected, Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally and truly needed by society. In 2005, we joined the U.N. Human proclaimed human rights; and Rights Global Compact,* and we develop our business in accordance Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit with the precepts of the Global in human rights abuses. Compact and through CSR activiPrinciple 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition ties based on the Citizen Group of the right to collective bargaining; Code of Conduct. We consider Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Labour conducting our management in compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and keeping with stakeholder requests Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect and expectations essential to maxiof employment and occupation. mizing the value we provide to Principle 7: Businesses should support a society, and we are reinforcing precautionary approach to environmental challenges; stakeholder communications Environment Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater accordingly. environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against Anticorruption in all its forms, including Corruption extortion and bribery. CSR Promotion * U.N. Global Compact: By demonstrating responsible and creative leadership, The Citizen Holdings CSR Committee, with the president companies and other organizations behave as good members of society and participate voluntarily in an international framework to realize sustainable of Citizen Holdings providing ultimate oversight, sets policies growth. Joining the compact indicates a company’s dedication to initiatives and drafts and proposes measures for the Citizen Group. to achieve the 10 principles, based on a commitment by top management. Additionally, the committee partners with the auditing departments of Group companies to improve their CSR and risk management programs. Together, they perform audits and evaluations on program effectiveness and efficiency, focusing on governance. The committee also conducts seminars for management and Group-wide CSR training among other programs for raising awareness of these issues. Schematic Diagram of Our CSR and Risk Management System Policy planning, deliberation, Implementation and making CSR and Risk Internal Audit Department Management CSR Committee Coordination Committee Promotion Office Internal Audit Department, J-SOX Internal Control System CSR Department Coordination Committee Environmental Management Committee Citizen Group President of Citizen Citizen Holdings CSR Promotion Committee on Appropriate Holdings / Head of CSR Committee Each Subsidiary Subcontracting CSR for the Group Committee (operating subsidiaries) Information Security Committee Security Trade Control Committee Corporate Corporate Ethics Hotline Ethics Hotline Trade Secret Management Committee Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 18 Citizen Group Code of Conduct CITIZEN GROUP CODE OF CONDUCT 1 Provide our customers with products and services that demonstrate our concern for safety, quality, and the environment. 2 Engage in fair, transparent and open competition in business transactions, and maintain healthy relationships with our suppliers and government regulatory authorities. 3 Work to communicate with the general public, taking the initiative in making corporate information openly available, while at the same time practicing responsible data management. 4 Recognize that environmental issues are a common concern of mankind and a crucial issue for management in terms of the survival and activities of the company, and engage these issues in a voluntary, proactive manner. 5 Value symbiosis with local communities, and strive to contribute to society as a good corporate citizen. 6 Ensure a safe and pleasant working environment and encourage the development of our employees’ abilities and energies while respecting their characters, individuality, and diversity. 7 Respond to anti-social behavior by individuals and organizations in a decisive manner. 8 Value and respect the different cultures and customs of all countries and regions, and contribute to the development of local communities. 9 The top management of the Citizen group recognize that implementing this Code of Conduct is their personal responsibility, and that they must take the lead not only in enforcing it within the company, but in conveying it to our business partners and suppliers. In addition, they must always be conversant with opinion within the company and outside it, develop an effective internal system for compliance with the Code of Conduct, and work to ensure a thorough adherence to corporate ethics. Taking the Citizen Group Code of Conduct Overseas To maintain a firm international CSR perspective and ensure consistency throughout the Group in Japan and overseas, in March 2015 we translated the Citizen Group Code of Conduct into four languages—English, Chinese, Thai, and Vietnamese—and distributed it to Citizen Group companies. CSV Seminars In response to employee feedback in the 8th CSR Awareness Survey, Citizen Holdings conducted a CSV Seminar for 173 members of six key companies. Attendees learned from outside instructors using case studies about good relations among the economy, society, and the natural environment, thereby clarifying their understanding of CSV. Working in groups, employees discussed the possibilities for each of their businesses. The seminar provided an opportunity for incorporating the perspective of resolving societal issues into business. Participants’ comments included, “I got a sense of new possibilities for business creation,” and “I would like to see this training rolled out to other departments, too.” To communicate the variety of CSR initiatives Citizen is undertaking as a global company in an easy-to-understand manner, this report follows the core themes of ISO 26000,* the international standard for organizational social responsibility, explaining initiatives in light of these themes. P19 — * ISO 26000: An international guideline on social responsibility targeting a variety of organizations and issued by the International Organization for Standardization 19 Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 Report on Activities Aligned with ISO 26000 Consumer Issues The Citizen Group provides products aimed at resolving issues that customers face and making their lives more enjoyable. The products the Citizen Group manufactures take safety, quality, and the environment into consideration. In addition, rather than considering our responsibilities to be complete once products are sold, we offer thorough product support and follow-up services in an effort to develop long-term customer relationships. Testament to Our Customer Relations in the Watches and Clocks Business: 1,000 Customers Each Year Say “Thank You!” An important element of realizing our corporate philosophy is building long-term relationships with our Numerous letters from customers customers. To this end, we strive to respond swiftly to customers’ inquiries and requests, and we work continuously to improve the general quality of our responses, including timeliness. Our Customer Watch Consultation Department fields consultations about product functions and quality prior to purchase. After purchase, the department answers questions about functions and operating methods and responds to other requests. The appreciation our employees receive from customers when they address a source of dissatisfaction or resolve a problem is a strong motivator. In fiscal 2014, the 14th year since the launch of the Customer Watch Consultation Department, we received Citizen Watch’s Customer Watch Consultation Department more than 1,000 letters from customers who gave us full marks for satisfaction with our e-mail responses. We plan to continue conducting regular training for the technical understanding and expertise they need to increase operators who field inquiries at this department to impart the customer satisfaction further. Machine Tools Business: Providing Total Support for Customer Factory Operation Citizen Machinery, which manufactures and sells machine ways to boost productivity. We also offer e-learning to assist tools, applies the expertise and knowledge it has accumulated in with personnel training. We customize our service to address equipment maintenance and machining technology to help cuseach customer’s needs, and we believe we offer one of the tomers utilize their factories more productively. The company world’s most innovative production solutions. Since we also supports personnel training efforts by providing a solutions launched the service in December 2013, 15% of our custombusiness that concentrates on creating high added value. ers in Japan have joined. Our “alkapplysolution” service employs information and Going forward, we aim to strengthen ongoing partnercommunication technology (ICT) to give support to customships with our customers and contribute to the world of ers in remote locations in restoring operations and advice on manufacturing. Main functions of the alkapplysolution service in supporting operations at customers’ factories Employee training Program creation Production Production Voluntary Remote maintedirections management maintenance nance support alkartschool / alkartpro2cloud / alkartoperation / alkartproduction alkartlive alkartsite alkartsite alkartshop alkartjoin Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 20 Fair Business Practices To promote sustainable business activities, the Citizen Group engages in fair, transparent, and open competition in business transactions, and it maintains healthy relationships with suppliers and government regulatory authorities. Our intellectual property activities respect the intellectual property rights of third parties, and we protect our own intellectual property, which is essential for creating customer value. We also promote an intellectual property strategy to protect the Citizen Brand and gain competitive advantage. Intellectual Property Strategy for Boosting Competitiveness As a company conducting business globally, protecting the intellectual property it has generated is of vital importance to Citizen. We take firm measures to counter the production and sale of counterfeit products by third parties. We are Protecting Citizen’s competitive reinforcing our relationships with government agencies in advantage various countries in an effort to stamp out counterfeit products. At the same time, we work assiduously to keep from breaching the intellectual property rights of others. Our efforts include research into patent rights at the product development stage, as we wish to avoid any risk of actions that could damage our company name. Our intellectual property activities have an aggressive Creating customer value aspect, in that through these activities, we seek to create barriers to entry for others and acquire intellectual property rights to protect Citizen’s competitive advantage. Increasing opportunities to strengthen the Citizen business in advance of competitors are connected with our business growth strateConducting surveys at the start of product planning gies. In this sense, intellectual property activities are Sharing information from the development to inextricably linked with our business. Particularly at the commercialization stages initial stages of product planning and development, our intellectual property team liaises with related departStrengthening relations between the intellectual property, ments to objectively verify the advantages of our planning, and development departments own plans against competitors’ products so we can clearly pursue our strengths. In short, the Citizen Group’s intellectual property strategy is a concrete measure for enhancing corporate value. Planning Intellectual Property Development Department Department Department Business Connections with Welfare Centers for People with Disabilities For more than 40 years, Citizen Watch has outsourced such tasks as packaging and counting watch components and parts for after-sales services to Murayamaen, a social welfare corporation. The organization has proven to be a highly reliable outsourcing partner, producing few defects and achieving zero-complaint status in 2010. In February 2013, we received a “Cooperating Company Award” and a certificate of appreciation from the Japan National Council of Social Welfare. We plan to continue undertaking socially responsible activities such as these in our supply chain. Counting under way at Murayamaen, a social welfare corporation 21 Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 Report on Activities Aligned with ISO 26000 Environment We recognize that environmental issues are a common concern for humankind and of topmost importance to companies. The Citizen Group strives to reduce environmental impact through its products and services. Extending beyond the production stage, these efforts include proactive measures to lower the environmental impact of our products during use by customers. Aiming to Strengthen Environmental Management Our environmental initiatives are based on the Citizen Group certification for the Citizen Group by reinforcing governance Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2018, which aims to and putting in place the framework for conducting environenhance environmental management from a global perspecmental activities in a more effective manner. Fiscal 2015 is an tive. We have formulated our Eco-Action 100 plan and are important interim point in this plan, when we will assess our pursuing activities toward medium-term targets. In fiscal efforts during the first half of the plan since fiscal 2013, and 2014, we completed our transition to consolidated ISO 14001 strategize the plan’s global rollout from fiscal 2016. Citizen Group 2015 2018 Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2018 Strengthen Group Environmental Management Strengthen Global Environmental Management Promoting Environmental We have transitioned to consolidated Group certification under ISO 14001, which functions as a single Management system for the entire Group, and will promote more efficient and effective environmental activities. At our production bases, we are working to reduce the use of substances targeted by the PRTR Law. Reducing Chemical Risks We have also introduced the management standards recommended by JAMP* on the chemical content of products as part of our response to global laws and regulations. Creating Eco-Products and We promote environmental communications with the marketplace to ensure that customers can Enhancing Product Brand Value be confident in selecting our eco-friendly products that make use of energy-saving technologies. Promoting Eco-Communications These efforts also lead to the creation of new brand value. We strive to determine appropriately the amount of greenhouse gases emitted over the entire product Reducing Greenhouse Gases lifecycle and work to reduce these greenhouse gases. We are taking consolidated Group certification for ISO 14001 as an opportunity to re-verify waste Reducing Waste management for the Group as a whole in the aim of curtailing this waste. In addition to environmental contribution activities at each of our offices that are solidly rooted in their Expanding Environmental and Social communities, we are undertaking initiatives to determine the impact of our operations on biodiversity Contribution Activities and conducting preservation activities. * JAMP, the Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium, is a supra-industry organization that aims to transmit chemical information. Numeric Medium-Term Environmental Targets and Recent Successes Greenhouse Gases Recycling Rate Water Resource Input PRTR-Designated Chemical Substances (kt) (%) (km3) (t) 140 Medium-term targets 2,000 Medium-term targets 160 Medium100% Compared 1,800 Compared 140 term 120 100 with 2005 1,600 with 2005 targets –8% 120 113t 100 –25% Medium1,400 –30% 80 –10% term 1,200 100 88t 80 targets 60 1,000 80 60 800 60 40 40 600 40 400 20 20 200 20 0 0 0 0 2005 2013 2014 2015 2018 2005 2013 2014 2015 2018 2005 2013 2014 2015 2018 2012 2013 2014 2015 2018 Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 22 Successes in Specific Initiatives Expanding Environmental and Promoting Environmental Management Reducing Greenhouse Gases Social Contribution Activities Consolidated Group certification On-site investigations of Conducting environmental “Chiiki Gurumi” Environmental ISO screening waste-processing organizations e-learning Society for the Iida region of Nagano Prefecture Receiving the “Kitaguni Energy Conservation and New Energy Grand Prize” In November 2014, Citizen Yubari received the Kitaguni Energy Conservation and New Energy Grand Prize, sponsored by the Hokkaido Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry. This prize was received for a highly energy-efficient ambient air cooling and displacement ventilation system the company introduced with cooperation from Hokkaido University. The system efficiently discharges waste heat and pollutants from factory equipment, creating a pleasant working environment, reducing the power needed to convey air, utilizing waste heat, and taking advantage of cool outside air. Compared with a previous factory, the new factory making use of this system has reduced annual energy use for air-conditioning by approximately 64%. Ambient air cooling and displacement ventilation system Citizen Watch Receives Gold Eco Mark Award Citizen Watch received a gold at the “Eco Mark Award 2014,” organized by the Japan Environment Association. This award recognizes Citizen’s contribution to the improvement of consumer awareness about the environment through its Eco-Drive watches. The goals of the award are to help consumers make eco-conscious choices of products and recognize companies and other organizations that contribute to a sustainable society by making their products more eco friendly. In 1996, Citizen received Eco Mark product certification as the first company in the watch industry to produce watches featuring “Eco-Drive.” This light-powered technology harnesses light from any natural or artificial source and converts it into energy for watches. Since then, Citizen has continued to lead the watch industry toward eco-consciousness through various efforts, such as making 99% of watches sold in Japan under the Citizen brand eco friendly. These efforts include improving the performance of the eco friendly Eco-Drive technology and fusing technology and beautiful design. The result is an attractive product lineup that allows consumers to choose a watch that matches their personal preferences and that they can use for a long period. Citizen has also contributed to the exposure of Eco Mark in various consumer-facing materials, including its product catalog, website, and in-store tools. This exposure has improved name recognition of Citizen’s Eco-Drive technology and increased consumer consciousness about eco-friendly products. 23 Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 Report on Activities Aligned with ISO 26000 Labor Practices The Citizen Group endeavors to provide true value to stakeholders by ensuring a safe and pleasant working environment, encouraging the development of its employees’ abilities and energies, and invigorating each of its workers. The Group conducts a variety of educational and training programs to augment skills and foster an environment where employees can further their personal growth. Training Manufacturing Engineers Pursuing its goal of “Building the World’s Foremost Watch Factory,” Citizen Watch Manufacturing has established a watch school to enhance manufacturing skills and develop its human resources. At this school, veteran employees instruct younger employees, who hone their skills and technical expertise as they work toward national certifications under a system operated by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, as well as the company’s own certification system. The Citizen Watch Group takes part in the National Skills Competition, which seeks to develop and pass along skills and manufacturing expertise. Held annually to uphold Japan’s traditional prowess in manufacturing, skilled workers aged 23 or younger from around the country take part in this compeHuman resource development at the watch school tition. The fiscal 2014 event included six competitors from Citizen Watch Manufacturing in the watch repair category and two in mechatronics. In the former category, employees earned gold, silver, bronze, and “Fighting Spirit” awards. The competition helps to motivate employees and reinforces the process of working dedicatedly toward goals, an important characteristic for a manufacturing professional. Through efforts including the watch school and the National Skills Competition, we aim to continue passing on technology and other skills to young engineers and enhancing their knowledge. Winning a gold prize in the watch repair category at the National Skills Competition Emergency First Aid Course (China) Guangzhou Most Crown Electronics Limited conducted an emergency first aid course in November 2014. Held for 122 employees over a two-day period, the course aimed to foster a better understanding of emergency care and involved practice in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and the use of automated external defibrillators (AEDs). Few factories in China conduct emergency first aid courses, which limits the number of people who are trained to act in medical crises. The Citizen Group began offering safety and health education at its factories in China in 2012 in an effort to raise health and safety levels at its overseas plants. We plan to continue these activities, as we believe we are contributing to local communities by cultivating an understanding of emergency first aid. Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 24 Human Rights Recognizing itself as a member of international society, the Citizen Group values and respects the different cultures and customs of other countries and seeks to eliminate discrimination in all forms. Meanwhile, we accept and respect employees’ characters, individuality, and diversity in our efforts to achieve further increases in corporate value. Conducting Career Training for Women Fully utilizing women’s skills is essential to sustainable business activities. In recognition of this, we endeavor to provide an environment where women can continue working as they experience such life events as marriage, childbirth, and raising children. In February 2015, Citizen Holdings held career training for women. This training session focused on women’s unique ideas, perspectives, and skills; targeted ways to leverage these characteristics to reinforce corporate competitiveness; and set specific targets and action plans for future activities. As a Group, we will continue enhancing such initiatives as we work toward true diversity and strive to further enhance Career training for female employees corporate value. Holding Diversity Training for Department Managers Citizen Holdings conducts diversity training for department managers. Intended to deepen management awareness for responding to and succeeding in an era of increasing diversity and complexity, the course covered the basics of diversity and provided practical advice on managing for greater diversity in the workplace. Diversity training for department managers Personnel Information for Fiscal 2014 Target period: April 1, 2014, to March 31, 2015 (employees with disabilities: as of June 2014) Scope of data: 13 principal Group companies in Japan Percentage of female managers 3.27% Percentage of employees with disabilities 2.03% People taking childcare leave Men 0 Women 51 Total 51 25 Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 Report on Activities Aligned with ISO 26000 Community Participation and Development Based on its corporate philosophy of “contributing to and striving to be respected by the citizens of the world,” the Citizen Group values symbiosis with local communities and strives to contribute to society as a good corporate citizen. The Group endeavors to address societal issues through its business activities and, by fulfilling its responsibility as a member of the international community and achieving corporate growth, aims to help create a sustainable society. Supporting Girls in Developing Countries In 2013, Citizen Watch began participating in the “Because I am a Girl” campaign, conducted by Plan International, an NGO that offers support to girls and women in developing countries. The company encourages campaign activities by donating a portion of the proceeds from its “Citizen xC” watch sales. On the International Day of the Girl Child on October 11, 2014, Citizen Watch launched a special campaign-model watch, the “Citizen xC for Because I am a Girl.” Donations received in 2014 went toward a project to educate girls in Pakistan and a project to prevent child brides in Mali. The first project focused on improving the educational environment at an Islamic girls’ school in Pakistan by upgradFemale students learning in their new classroom ing water supplies and sanitary facilities. Enrollment at the school has risen to 1,300, from 1,000 initially. Citizen Watch plans to continue promoting the campaign’s growth through its product planning, advertising, and sales. Islamic girls’ school where donations funded upgrades Plan Japan, a Public Interest Incorporated Foundation http://www.plan-japan.org/ Holding a Private Film Screening The CSR Department of Citizen Holdings communicates to employees the significance of the Company’s support for girls in developing countries through “Citizen xC” watches. In addition, in August 2014 the department held an in-house private screening of Girl Rising—I Decide My Future, a film aimed at cultivating awareness about resolving social issues for girls and women. This film highlights some of the problems faced by many girls around the world, such as child marriage, destitution, and barriers to education for women, as well as portrays the potential girls Citizen Group employees participate in “Raise Your Hand”* have. The screening helped employees understand human rights * People participate in this action campaign by raising issues related to girls and women and elicited such comments as their hands in an effort to put pressure on global society “I was proud that we support the ‘Because I am a Girl’ campaign.” to prioritize education and the empowerment of girls around the world. Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 26 The 25th “Citizen of the Year” Awards “Citizen of the Year” is an annual award program that recognizes citizens who have inspired local residents and made significant contributions to the development, happiness, and all-around enhancement of their local communities. The 25th award ceremony took place in January 2015. The program was established in 1990 to mark Citizen’s 60th anniversary, tying in with the spirit of the Company’s name. The awards are meant to recognize contributions that are in line with Citizen’s corporate philosophy. To date, awards have been presented to 76 individuals or groups for a wide range of activities, including social contribution, international contribution, self-actualization, human rescue, and environmental protection. By highlighting citizens who inspire their communities, we aim to encourage similar efforts. 25th “Citizen of the Year” Award Recipients Hitomi Sakai Providing Homes to Support the Lives of People Who Need Society’s Help For the past 19 years, with a particular focus on people with mental disabilities, Ms. Sakai has worked with those who need society’s support, including people with physical disabilities, ex-convicts, homeless people, victims of domestic violence, and seniors with no place to go. Through ties with medical personnel, welfare workers, attorneys, realtors, and government officials, she has helped these people to find housing, become autonomous, and foster peace of mind in communities. To date, she has helped some 450 people in these ways. Kinichi Honma Applying Ample Experience and Expertise toward Saving the Lives of Sea Bathers for 40 Years Every year, more than 100,000 people go to bathe in the coastal waters of Senami Onsen, in the city of Murakami, Niigata Prefecture. And despite his age of 87 years, Mr. Honma is present each year to protect the bathers’ lives. He has ample experience at the task, having saved approximately 50 people over the years. Mr. Honma is also enthusiastic about teaching others and has so far trained more than 120 lifeguards. Ryotaro Harada Helping Former Sufferers of Hansen’s Disease Improve Their Lives and Overcome Discrimination and Prejudice For the past 10 years, Mr. Harada has led a work camp to help people in China who, as former sufferers of Hansen’s disease, live in quarantined villages in dismal circumstances, often in old homes with undependable electricity, gas, and water and without toilets. Volunteer students are dispatched to the work camp to interact with the residents, taking part in such tasks as building roads and waterways, installing toilets, and repairing homes. Ryoji Takayama Former Member of Japan’s Self Defense Forces Helps Clear Away Land Mines and Unexploded Ordnance, as Well as Build Infrastructure and Conduct Training With the participation of local residents, Mr. Takayama promotes a project that helps to clear away land mines in the Cambodian village of Tasaen, which was ravaged by civil war, contributing to the community’s safety and reconstruction. Among other rebuilding efforts, he also works with local citizens to build wells and roads, nurture local industry, erect schools and other infrastructure, and conduct education and training. 27 Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 Report on Activities Aligned with ISO 26000 Organizational Governance The Citizen Group strives to create effective internal systems, with responsibility resting with top management of each of its Group companies, and ensure thorough corporate ethics. In fulfilling our corporate social responsibility, we endeavor to build and implement systems that provide value to stakeholders, reinforcing our governance to ensure accountability, transparency, and fairness. Corporate Governance The Citizen Group aims to contribute to society and improve ensuring management transparency and effectively supervisbusiness value through sustained corporate activities that are ing management from various different angles. in harmony with the local community and the global environWe have also established a Nomination Committee and a ment, under the corporate philosophy of “contributing to and Remuneration Committee—consisting of outside directors striving to be respected by the citizens of the world.” It is with and the president—as advisory boards. this goal permanently in mind that we strive to enhance corporate governance, in recognition of the importance of Citizen Holdings Corporate Governance Structure Shareholders’ Meeting Appointments and dismissals Appointments and Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Appointments and dismissals dismissals Proposals and Advice and recommendations recommendations Board of Auditors Board of Directors Independent Accounting Auditor Audits Accounting Appointments, audits dismissals and supervision Reports President & CEO Group Management Committee Internal Audit Department Internal audits Direction and supervision Subsidiaries Internal Control System we fulfill our corporate responsibility by sustaining appropriHaving in place a complete internal control system is one of ate operational processes in our principal business. the leading management priorities for the Citizen Group. In Specifically, the following basic policies for our internal conaddition to ensuring the reliability of our financial reporting, trol system have been resolved by the Board of Directors. Basic Policies 1 Systems to ensure that the execution of operations by directors and employees conforms to the law and our Articles of Incorporation 2 Systems related to the storage and management of information concerning the execution of operations by directors 3 Regulations and other systems related to the risk of loss 4 Systems to ensure the efficient execution of operations by directors 5 Systems to ensure the appropriateness of operations by the Citizen Group 6 Items related to employees assisting auditors in their duties 7 Systems related to reporting to auditors 8 Systems to ensure the effectiveness of audits by other auditors Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 28 Message from an Outside Director Existing at the Nexus of Society and the Company Kenji Ito Outside Director [Profile] Mr. Ito joined TOTO Kiki Ltd. (currently TOTO LTD.) in 1974. In 2000, he was appointed as a corporate officer of the company, later serving as an executive officer and director, and then senior executive officer and director. In 2011, he became executive vice president and director and stepped down in 2013. Currently, he serves as an advisor to the Company. Impressions of Citizen CSR Activities That Connect with Society I have been employed as an outside director of Citizen since The “R” of CSR stands for “responsibility,” which seems to me 2013. One of the things that has impressed me most about too one-sided. I think it would be better to interpret that Citizen is its wealth of assets. I refer not only to financial letter as standing for “relationship.” Companies exist on the assets; the Company also has as an abundance of historical strength of their connectedness with society, and in that sense assets, meaning accumulated technologies and expertise, as CSR refers to the existence of a company itself—an activity well as superior human resources. I recognize making effecthat is essential to management. tive use of these assets to achieve abundance from a long-term My role as an outside director is to stand back from the perspective as a task for Citizen going forward. nexus between society and the Company. To make certain the Company is not headed in the wrong direction, I see my responsibility as being to offer a variety of information from The Company Name as the Key to Becoming a outside the Company and create opportunities to know and learn. By providing all types of outside information, such as Truly Global Company case studies and a sense of the market, without differentiating Society determines a company’s ongoing existence. For that between “right” and “wrong” information, I consider my role reason, rather than managing themselves to achieve excessive as helping to create balance within the Company and encourprofits, companies need to strike a balance among all stakeage consideration for its connection with society. holders, including customers, employees, business partners, and members of the local community. I believe CSR activities and corporate governance are essential to achieving this balance. As its name suggests, throughout its long history Citizen has made it a practice to grow as a company by providing value to society. As society determines a company’s ongoing existence, “contributing to and striving to be respected by the citizens of the world” is both an ongoing corporate responsibility for Citizen and the essence of the Citizen brand. The ability of Group management to ensure that each of the Company’s tens of thousands of employees have the same regard for the “Citizen” name is the key to becoming a truly global company. 29 Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 Report on Activities Aligned with ISO 26000 Risk Management The Citizen Group encounters a variety of risks in the course of its business activities, and it conducts activities designed to appropriately identify and manage these risks. Stance on Risk Management The objectives of risk management activities are, in addition Regulations. The Citizen Holdings CSR Committee deliberto compliance, practicing corporate ethics and undertaking ates this information, which is shared with each company initiatives to prevent corporate misdeeds. Through activities through the Group CSR Promotion Committee. This commitof this nature, we aim to fulfill our social responsibilities and tee also makes proposals to the Group Management achieve ongoing increases in corporate value. Committee, as needed. Citizen Holdings gathers risk information from each of its companies in accordance with the Basic Risk Management Fiscal 2014 Initiatives In fiscal 2014, we confirmed the status of our risk management system throughout the Group. Through surveys, we identified and evaluated the risks for individual companies, formulated and introduced countermeasures, and conducted monitoring activities. Thanks to these efforts, we worked to determine whether our current activities were having the expected results. Having undergone this exercise, going forward we will work to improve the structures we build and operate, as we create a framework for stable and sustainable business operations. Business Continuity Plan (BCP*) Overseas Subsidiary Management Manual In addition to the conventional focus on countermeasures in In an effort to standardize management operations at its overthe event of a large-scale disaster, such as ensuring the safety seas subsidiaries, the Citizen Watch Group has created a of employees, protecting factories, and restoring the affected manual for local managers. The manual is intended to region, the Citizen Watch Group has formulated a BCP that strengthen governance at manufacturing locations and create concentrates on either continuing to provide products and and reinforce risk management systems. services or recovering quickly if disaster strikes. By issuing this manual, the Group has redefined the In April 2015, Citizen Holdings, Citizen Watch, and roles and responsibilities of headquarters and subsidiaries Citizen Watch Manufacturing conducted an emergency in relation to managing local subsidiaries’ operations to proresponse drill with a focus on confirming informationmote more standardized and sophisticated management of gathering and reporting procedures, which are an important these companies. part of our BCP. * BCP: Business Continuity Plan Three-company joint drill Handbook for managers of production bases Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 30 Compliance The Citizen Group undertakes compliance measures based on the Citizen Group Code of Conduct as a priority issue within its CSR activities. We aim to act in accordance with ethical and moral principles as the foundation of legal compliance. Internal Reporting System We have set up a Corporate Ethics Hotline in accordance with Internal Reporting System Usage Frequency the Internal Reporting System Rules, both for prevention or early detection of legal violations or misconduct stemming Fiscal year Times from dishonest actions and for improvement in the levels of self-regulation. Our Internal Reporting System Rules state that 2012 24 the reporting party’s privacy must be respected. They also state 2013 17 that the subject of the report must be given the opportunity to refute claims made against them and that the reporting party 2014 28 must not be subjected to unfair treatment. Since 2008, we have had an external reporting hotline in place to allow employees to file reports anonymously. This example is just one of the ways in which we have created and operated an environment that encourages employees to report misconduct. CSR Awareness Surveys To determine the state of CSR and corporate ethics, each year Would you use the Corporate Ethics Hotline the Citizen Group conducts CSR awareness surveys of the Q (CSR Hotline) if you detected a legal violation executives and employees of its 39 Group companies, includthat was difficult to discuss with your superior? ing temporary employees. Responses reveal that although awareness of the Corporate Ethics Hotline is gradually Fiscal 36% 19% 45% 2012 increasing, the number of people indicating they are not sure they would use the hotline has not changed. Responses to the Fiscal 36% 20% 44% current survey, which was undertaken for the eighth time, 2013 were as follows. Fiscal 34% 20% 46% · Increasing level of trust in the hotline 2014 · Additional harassment education 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 · CSV*-related requests (See page 18 for details.) Yes No Don’t know * CSV: “Creating shared value.” Initiatives for creating new value shared by the 7,132 / 8,472 people (response rate of 84.2%) Company and society. Training for Corporate Ethics Hotline Respondents Citizen Watch Manufacturing brought in outside instructors to provide training for hotline respondents. We plan to continue with efforts to raise awareness of the hotline and increase its trustworthiness. Initiatives to Prevent Harassment The Citizen Group works to prevent harassment in the workplace. In one such effort, Citizen Systems held a workplace harassment seminar taught by outside instructors that was attended by executives, upper-level managers, and all general employees. Going forward, we will continue disseminating information to cultivate an accurate understanding of and awareness for preventing harassment. 31 Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 Data Environment Fiscal 2014 Results on the Citizen Group Medium-Term Group-wide CO2 Emissions Environmental Plan 2018 (Excerpt) (t-CO2) 150,000 Evaluations : Achieved : Partly achieved ✕: Not achieved 124,344 Target Results for FY2014 Evaluations 100,000 95,728 93,377 93,112 90,636 89,118 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Consolidate Group • O  btain consolidated Group •A  cquired consolidated ISO 14001 environmental environmental certification environmental certification (Japan) 50,000 management •S trengthen Group environmental • Increased precision of overseas system management system environmental data •S  tudy how to build brand value 0 • Received gold Eco Mark Award 2000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Promote environmental management Provide ecowith an “eco-angle” friendly products •E xpanded operation of system •P  ractice green procurement Electricity Gas Heavy oil Others and services for managing the chemical content and expand range of of products eco-friendly products •Conducted SDS activities and Respond to •R  espond to global environmenrevised items contained in products Group-wide Waste Production* environmental laws tal laws and regulations, includat overseas production bases (t)(%) and regulations ing chemical regulations 99 96 99 99 99 • Introduced waste recycling 10,000 100 governance 8,000 7,840 7,372 7,258 7,442 80 •C  ontrol greenhouse gas •R epresented CO2 emissions 6,976 6,677 Help create emissions and help prevent graphically 6,000 60 low-carbon society global warming • Represented waste volumes 55 and recycling•R  educe waste and promote graphically 4,000 40 oriented society recycling • Represented chemical substance 2,000 20 •R  educe chemical risks transaction volume graphically Protect nature and •C  onducted regional nature 0 0 •C  onduct nature protection and 2000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 conduct commuprotection and environmental regional environmental initiatives nity activities initiatives Recycled Land-filled Incinerated Recycling rate * Waste production = industrial waste + general waste + Business Activities and Environmental Impact valuable resources Japan Overseas Total energy input (GJ) 2,263,327 1,762,571 Citizen Group Transaction Volume of Water resource input (km3) 1,512 1,031 Chemical Substances Covered by PRTR Law* INPUT Repeated use of water within the organization (km3) 70 53 (t) Chemical substance input (tons) 142 2,542 300 281 Containers and packaging used (tons) 574 1,243 240 CO2 emissions (tons-CO2) 89,118 75,517 180 NOx emissions (tons) 4 2 138 138 129 142 SOx emissions (tons) 1 2 120 Water drainage (km3) 1,176 1,250 60 OUTPUT BOD emissions (tons) 42 63 0 COD emissions (tons) 11 169 2001 2011 2012 2013 2014 Waste generated (tons) 7,442 10,272 * Chemical substances covered by PRTR Law Waste land-filled (tons) 24 2,984 2001: 354 substances; 2010: 462 substances Input and output data does not include environmental impact at the distribution/sales, usage, or procurement stages. Period: April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015 Scope: 32 domestic companies, 16 overseas companies Employees Recent Graduates Hired Use of Nursing Care Leave Scheme FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Male 83 73 38 Male 0 0 1 Female 32 18 12 Female 1 2 1 Total 115 91 50 Total 1 2 2 Employees Hired Mid-Career Implementation of Specific Health Checkups and FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Specific Counseling Guidance (at 40 worksites) Male 33 61 32 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Female 16 25 4 Specified medical examination 79.3% 80.1% 81.9% Total 49 86 36 rate (employee & family) Metabolic syndrome rate 12.1% 11.9% 12.1% Average Age Average Years of Service Pre-metabolic syndrome rate 11.5% 12.5% 12.4% Specific counseling guidance rate 36.0% 26.8% 30.0% FY2014 FY2014 Male 42.1 years Male 17.8 years Female 40.0 years Female 16.6 years Occurrence of Accidents Total 41.7 years Total 17.6 years FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Fatal accidents 0 0 0 Accidents resulting in employee 9 9 7 absence Scope: Fiscal 2012: 18 principal Group companies in Japan Fiscal 2013: 14 principal Group companies in Japan Fiscal 2014: 13 principal Group companies in Japan Citizen Group CSR Report 2015 32 Third-Party Comments As its company name suggests, the Citizen Group follows a corporate philosophy of “contributing to and striving to be respected by the citizens of the world.” The “Citizen of the Year” award program is entering its 25th year as an ongoing initiative, the Company is offering branded products targeting women, and Citizen is linking its marketing activities with Hidemi Tomita efforts by an international NGO to support girls and women General Manager, in developing countries. I believe these distinctive undertakBusiness Development Department ings reflect the spirit of the Citizen philosophy. Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited Also, the more than 1,000 thank-you letters received from customers in conjunction with the initiatives of the Customer Watch Consultation Department suggest to me that the Company is successful in taking citizens’ perspectives seriously. This report follows the seven core themes of ISO 26000, Value creation and creating shared value (CSV) are but considering the risks mentioned above, in addition to central themes raised in this report. Creating corporate value revising existing activities I believe it would be helpful to through a business model hinging on brand strength has a analyze activities on the basis of more all-encompassing certain appeal. On the other hand, the fundamental signifiguides to social responsibility, such as ISO 26000 and the cance of CSV lies in applying business processes in United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human approaching social problems that have not been resolved. Rights, making a close examination of the Citizen Group’s Business links with welfare centers for people with disabilities activities a priority issue. I believe Citizen then needs to may be one example of these activities, but their significance proactively reflect these results in its management strategy is not altogether clear to me. Going forward, I would like to and business continuity plan (BCP) from such socioeconomic see the Company create shared value by adopting a more angles as climate change and human rights risk. “Citizen-like” approach to addressing social problems from a I strongly applaud Citizen for its efforts as a global comcitizen’s perspective. pany to enhance its disclosure. The introduction of a Japanese One point I found noteworthy in this report was the stewardship code is leading to significantly higher interest in frank reference in the management message to the backlash environmental, social, and governance (ESG) investing in surrounding the closure of a production base in China. Japan, as well as with overseas investors. By responding This candor is in keeping with Citizen’s goal of becoming a actively to CDP Worldwide, the Global Reporting Initiative truly global company. In the future, I believe the Company (GRI), and other international disclosure initiatives, Citizen will face a growing number of opportunities to consider the will be making steady strides toward becoming a company social and environmental impact of its business decisions. that stakeholders hope to continue operating 100 years into Separately, the results of the employee awareness survey the future. concerning the corporate ethics hotline leave me a little concerned whether employees accurately understand the role the hotline plays. Given the diverse risks Citizen faces as a global company, from a risk-response perspective this result is not necessarily reassuring. Response to Third-Party Comments Thank you for your thoughtful comments. As Citizen aims to become a truly global company, we deeply appreciate your many suggestions. Companies are called upon to help resolve social issues and contribute to society through their businesses to achieve growth over the medium-to-long term, and we recognize we have many topics to address in the areas of ESG responsiveness and enhanced disclosure. Junichi Suzuki Based on our corporate philosophy of “contributing to and striving to be respected by General Manager, the citizens of the world,” we will redouble our efforts to become a corporate group that is CSR Department trusted by our stakeholders. Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Department at Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. 6-1-12 Tanashi-cho, Nishitokyo, Tokyo 188-8511, Japan Tel :+81-42-468-4776 Fax :+81-42-466-1280 Website: http://www.citizen.co.jp/global/ Published: June 2015 is a registered trademark of Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd.
