UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Statement from the Chairman We have built our first Company Project in 1988, highlighting People and Communication. Our Company Project has grown over the years and in 2011 we have built our 2015 project, which outlines our vision and our commitments to the employees of the Company, but as well our social commitment, which means protection of the planet as stakeholders satisfaction. This project is prepared with the involvement of all Gruau group employees. In this context, we have implemented many actions of progress, considering the dimension of our Company, which participate in Global Compact Principles. Some are small, others more structural. We have chosen to present four actions we are especially proud of. We confirm the support to the UN Global Compact. Patrick GRUAU Gruau Group Chairman COP Global Compact eng – 2014 AP – january 2014 HUMAN RIGHTS In a European context, we apply the rules and remain vigilant on all aspects of human rights. Our purchasing policy leads us to work as much as possible with local suppliers, French or from the near area. Practices of our suppliers are subject to the same regulatory requirements. LABOUR Practical action N°1 This improvement action is to ensure the best working conditions for employees. • Implement a prevention plan of risks at work, including improvements of the ergonomic of workstation •Eradication of root causes of accidents at work by the problem solving method '8 D ', and making' safety walk '(daily Safety and Environment walk). Nota 1 : 8D is a problem solving method, often used to solve product non conformities. We have adapted it to fit the needs of analysis and eradication of the causes of safety incidents and accidents. Nota 2 : ‘Safety walk’ is a daily walk, defined, done in the beginning of the shift, in order to secure the work area, on safety issues as well as environmental issues.  Measured Results : Year 2014 2015 Closed action plan 50% >75% (exp) COP Global Compact eng – 2014 AP – january 2014 Practical action N°2 This improvement action consists in implementing an action plan in order to facilitate access for young people to work, and in integrating them in the professional world.  As such, Gruau welcomes school students, up to 34 trainees in 2014  We encourage holiday jobs during summer holidays, i.e. about 10 jobs in 2014.  We also take part to the special week “School/enterprises”, in order to present the different jobs to the students; this year, we had a partnership with Réaumur school.  We will be participating to the Career Forum in Laval, and  Opening our doors to school visits, to present our jobs to students. In 2014, it means a visit every two months, for schools and other audience.  Gruau has also a partnership with vocational schools, whose trainings are related to bodybuilding:  Partnership with secondary school Réaumur : visit to our plant, trainee, our employees teach some courses (ex: project management)  Partnership with ESTACA engineering school : trainees welcomed, Ph.D. started this year,  We also took part in a special event in Laval, to promote industrials jobs for women.  Résults : Year 2013 2014 Welcoming young >50 50 people Partnership for 2 3 trainings COP Global Compact eng – 2014 AP – january 2014 ENVIRONMENT Practical action N°3 This improvement action is to promote a respectful environment organization.  Compliance of the plant Gruau Laval with the ISO 14001 standards as part of its Sustainable Development Gruau Group process named BlueGreen. To this end, we conducted a pre-assessment and environmental analysis, we defined environmental policy, involving all employees, and we implemented the associated action plans. This action has been first validated with the ISO 14001 certification in 2010.  In 2011, we confirmed the results obtained in 2010 and initiated the certification process in a second plant (GIFA in Saint Laurent). This enables us, furthermore, to implement the exchange of good environmental practices within our subsidiaries. We have created a special Bluegreen place in our website www.gruau.com.  A third plant (Petit Picot) is also going to be certified.  We created a booklet entitled Bluegreen in order to educate all our employees on our sustainable action.  We present our approach to all our visitors (customers, all our public)  2013 : our third plant is certified ISO 14001  Implementation of synergistic inter-plant meeting to further develop and improve our management of waste.  In 2014 we take part in a voluntary process „Ecoprodduire53‟ to validate and improve the eco-design process of our products.  Résults : Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 A second plant ISO 14001 ISO 14001 -Ecoprodduire 53, to is engaged into Certification of a Certification of a third validate and improve our this process second plant (Gifa) plant (Petit-Picot) eco-design process Creation of a Actions special place on -Creation and Implementation of -improve awareness of our Bluegreen edition of a synergistic inter-plant our customers to ecoaction in our booklet meeting design through products website. list COP Global Compact eng – 2014 AP – january 2014 Practical action N°4 This improvement action aims to deploy electric LCV • We designed a 100% electric vehicle as a car maker, and commercialized one hundred electric vans that have been delivered to urban centers. • In 2014, the group brings experience and expertise on the development of a LCV range Electron, to ensure deployment of urban transport at 0g CO2 / km by 2015.  Results : Year 2014 Actions Develop the range on new models ANTI CORRUPTION In French and European context, we apply the rules. We remain vigilant on the subject of corruption and, for example in 2012, we worked on it to be aware of all kinds of corruption. We apply guidelines on the supply chain and favor local suppliers. COP Global Compact eng – 2014 AP – january 2014
