SASOL ONLINE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 Our governance framework for sustainable development SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 1 Our governance framework for sustainable development Sasol has been driving sustainable development as a group-wide objective since 2000, systematically embedding sustainability principles throughout our activities. Our governance framework provides the policies, structures, targets and reporting systems necessary to address the material risks and opportunities that sustainable development presents. Sasol Limited Board (the “Board”) The following Board Committees assist the Board in discharging its responsibility of overseeing sustainable development: The Risk and SHE Committee has been delegated oversight of Sasol’s risk management activities and safety, health and environmental (SHE) matters. The Committee also reviews the disclosure of sustainable matters in the annual reports and advises the Audit Committee to enable the latter to oversee our integrated reporting process and to provide assurance to the Board that the disclosure is reliable and does not conflict with the financial information. The Nomination, Governance, Social and Ethics Committee performs the functions of both a Nomination and Governance Committee, and a Social and Ethics Committee as required by the South African Companies Act, 71 of 2008. In performing the role of a Social and Ethics Committee, the Committee relies on the work and reports of employees, advisors and other Committees of the Board with responsibility for any function falling within the role of the Committee. The Audit Committee oversees integrated reporting and is an integral part of the risk management process. In this regard the Committee considers and reviews the findings and recommendations of the Risk and SHE Committee in so far as they are relevant to the functions of the Audit Committee. Leadership structures The President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is accountable to the Board for the successful implementation of the Group strategy and overall management of Sasol. Included in his mandate specifically is the responsibility for SHE matters in accordance with the Sasol SHE policy. He is the Chairman of the Group Executive Committee (GEC), which comprises the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and other Executive Vice Presidents (EVPs) who support the CEO in fulfilling this responsibility. The Executive Vice President: Strategy and Sustainability is responsible for advancing the group-wide sustainability agenda through the sub-committee, Sustainability and Stakeholder Relations Committee and the Sasol Global Foundation, as well as the Enterprise and Supplier Development teams. The following Group Executive sub-committees support the GEC with oversight on sustainable development matters: The Sustainability and Stakeholder Relations Committee, chaired by the EVP: Strategy and Sustainability, provides strategic direction on group-wide sustainability issues and stakeholder relations to ensure a balanced and integrated economic, social and environmental performance. The Combined Assurance and Disclosure Committee, chaired by the EVP: Advisory and Assurance and Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that disclosures comply with listings requirements, and provides independent oversight, assurance and alignment on group-wide activities to ensure appropriate governance and compliance in support of Sasol’s strategic direction. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 2 Various Project Mandating Committees, each chaired by a GEC member, addresses key issues relating to capital projects, climate change, air quality, waste and land risk management. Functional structures Various Group functions co-ordinate our approach to sustainable development: Risk and SHE: direction and governance for risk management and SHE excellence The Risk and SHE function comprises experts from the corporate centre and also from our various operating entities. It is mandated to develop, implement and monitor the enterprise risk and SHE management processes across the Group, ensuring and assuring adherence to Group risk and SHE requirements. Each operating entity tracks its SHE performance and reports monthly and quarterly to its respective operations’ committees on major SHE risks and liabilities, progress against Group targets, and any major incidents and occurrences of noncompliance. The Risk and SHE function reports on consolidated group-wide SHE performance, compliance and risk management to the relevant governance structures. A significant development in 2015 was the roll-out and embedding of the One Sasol SHE Excellence approach across the organisation. This management framework supports our goal of achieving zero harm and sustainable development through a risk-based, standardised and systematic approach. During the year, SHE practitioners were trained and our operations’ leaders socialised on the One Sasol SHE Excellence approach to ensure common understanding and focus on key undesirable SHE events and mitigation measures. The One Sasol SHE Excellence approach has had a notable, positive impact on management’s approach to managing safety, occupational health and environmental performance. Human Resources (HR): developing and empowering diverse, values-driven, high-performing people The Group HR function is responsible for developing and monitoring Sasol’s HR strategy and its supporting policies and standards. It has three key objectives: • ensuring the right talent is in the right place at the right time; • delivering Sasol’s employee value proposition to enable employee engagement and a values-driven, highperformance culture; and • providing the technology platform and capability to drive effective and integrated HR service delivery. The Group HR function encompasses talent management, learning, rewards, employee relations, diversity and transformation and related HR activities. HR teams in each operating unit implement the HR business plan and policies. The Sasol Global Foundation (SGF): ensuring an integrated approach to social investment The Sasol Global Foundation is responsible for directing, enabling and governing a fully integrated approach to corporate social investment (CSI) throughout the Group. The Sasol Global Foundation’s Board of Governors is convened by the most senior leadership of Sasol, including the President and CEO. The Board of Governors determines the SGF’s investment approach, oversees governance, allocates resources, and decides on the CSI focus areas. Enterprise and Supplier Development (ESD): promoting small business development A dedicated Enterprise and Supplier Development (ESD) team supports existing and potential suppliers, helping to diversify Sasol’s supply chain and achieve our social transformation goals in South Africa. A review of our ESD activities is provided in the “Delivering Social Value“ section, which deals with the ESD activities. Stakeholder Relations: building, nurturing and protecting our reputation The Stakeholder Relations team manages various regulatory and stakeholder affairs. A review of our stakeholders and their key interests is provided in our Annual Integrated Report. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 3 Identifying our material sustainability focus areas Each year we follow a structured process to identify our most material sustainability issues. In identifying these issues, we consider: • the outcomes of our internal risk assessment process; and • the priority interests of our key stakeholders. In 2015, our material sustainability issues were clustered into four sustainability focus areas: OUR MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS Promoting the Responding to safety, health Investing Delivering environmental and wellbeing of in our people social value challenges Promoting Developing and Driving Promoting social employee and empowering highsustainable air and economic service provider performing people quality and waste development safety management Enhancing Creating value solutions Focusing on workforce through social occupational diversity Responding to investment health and climate change Adhering to ethical employee and energy standards and wellbeing security challenge anti-corruption Ensuring Promoting water laws responsible stewardship Respecting human product rights stewardship SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 4 Our material sustainability focus areas Identified through a structured process Our approach We regularly review our material issues in the context of the rapidly changing business and societal context, the We aim to provide a balanced, accurate and accessible repositioned Sasol Group, as well as stakeholder feedback assessment of our strategy, performance and prospects in and emerging trends. We seek to collaborate to address relation to those financial, economic, social, environmental challenges within our industry. We also seek to ensure that and governance issues and risks that have a material impact our reporting continues to reflect our response to the critical on the long-term success of the business and that are issues raised by our stakeholders. important to key stakeholders. Our key stakeholders are those who are impacted by our Each year, Sasol follows a structured process to identify, business and who play a role in our ability to deliver on our understand and prioritise our most material sustainability strategic objectives over the short, medium or long term. issues. In determining these issues, we consider the We identify their sustainability interests through regular following: engagements. The priority issues for the Group are managed ▪ issues that are critical in relation to achieving our through a clear stakeholder engagement approach with set strategic objectives and the sustainability of our operating model and integrated value chain; healthy and effective external stakeholder relationships with a particular focus on government and community relations in ▪ matters covered in reports submitted to the Board of the key operating regions of South Africa, Mozambique and Directors for discussion or approval; the United States. Informed by this analysis, we identified ▪ the outcomes of our internal risk assessment process; and opportunities to leverage our relationships through a more integrated approach to stakeholder engagement. ▪ the priority interests of our key stakeholders. The Group Executive Committee (GEC) and the Risk and SHE Committee review the outcomes of this process, with integrated oversight provided by the Sustainability and Stakeholder Relations Committee. Categorisation of our focus areas We have identified our most material sustainability issues, aligned with our top risks and the views and interests of our stakeholders. These issues have been categorised into four material focus areas, shown in the diagram below. OUR MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS AREAS Promoting the Responding to safety, health Investing Delivering environmental and wellbeing of in our people social value challenges ▪ Promoting ▪ Developing and ▪ Driving ▪ Promoting social employee and empowering highsustainable air and economic service provider performing people quality and waste development safety management ▪ Enhancing ▪ Creating value solutions ▪ Focusing on workforce through social occupational diversity ▪ Responding to investment health and climate change ▪ Adhering to ethical employee and energy standards and wellbeing security challenge anti-corruption ▪ Ensuring ▪ Promoting water laws responsible stewardship ▪ Respecting human product rights stewardship Material sustainability Managing key risk mitigation objectives ▪ Promoting employee and service provider safety Promoting the safety, health ▪ Enhancing process safety management and wellbeing of our people ▪ F ocusing on occupational health and employee wellbeing and ensuring responsible ▪ Aligning our product stewardship approach with international product stewardship commitments ▪ Integrating climate change mitigation in our product chain ▪ Developing diverse, high-performing employees Investing in our people ▪ Promoting diversity and inclusion ▪ Embedding environmental responsibility into our activities Responding to environmental ▪ Engaging with the South African government on air quality legislation challenges ▪ Responding to the climate change challenge ▪ Promoting water stewardship ▪ Creating value through social investment ▪ Promoting broad-based black economic empowerment ▪ Being responsive to social issues in our neighbouring communities ▪ Ensuring ethical behaviour, fair competition and anti-corruption Delivering social value ▪ Respecting human rights ▪ Stimulating economic growth through enterprise and supplier development ▪ Supporting economic transformation through preferential procurement SASOL ONLINE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 Performance against focus areas SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 1 Performance against focus areas The following table outlines our material sustainability focus areas and summarises our progress in addressing them. Our 2015 performance Our current and future commitments ▪▪ Significant improvements in occupational ▪▪ Consistently achieve an RCR lower than 0,30 safety, achieving all our safety performance at least by 2020. Continue to strive for no targets with the exception of zero fatalities. fatalities. ▪▪ The Group recordable case rate (RCR) ▪▪ Consistently have less than 24 significant FERs by excluding illnesses improved to 0,32; 2020 with a severity rate of less than 10. Promoting the safety, health and RCR including illnesses improved to 0,40. ▪▪ Report separate incident rates for safety and Tragically we experienced a fatality of a occupational-related irreversible illnesses from service provider in a work-related incident. financial year 2016. ▪▪ Experienced 20 significant transport-related ▪▪ Introduce a new product transport indicator of incidents globally. Our transport incident performance for product transported by road, rate improved by 10% to our best ever and develop key performance indicators (KPIs) wellbeing of our people performance of 0,062. for rail and marine transport from financial year ▪▪ 27 significant fires, explosions and releases 2016. (FERs), while the severity rate remained at 11,3. ▪▪ Continue to embed leading industry practices in ▪▪ 31 recordable cases of noise-induced support of our commitment to strive towards hearing loss and 32 recordable cases of the elimination of noise-induced hearing loss, pneumoconiosis. silicosis, pneumoconiosis and turberculosis. ▪▪ Responsible Care® Practice-in-Place for ▪▪ Continue to implement a risk-based, scientific product stewardship increased to 87%. and lifecycle-oriented approach to managing ▪▪ Four significant product stewardship the risks of our products and improving their incidents occurred during the year. performance throughout their life cycle. ▪▪ We have restructured the organisation and ▪▪ Continue to build a values-driven, highaligned employee placements with our new performance culture across all our operations, operating model, as part of our Business with a particular focus on embedding the new Performance Enhancement Programme operating model. implemented since 2012. ▪▪ Advance performance management and The Business Performance Enhancement accountability through enabling remuneration Investing in our people ▪▪ Programme impacted our employee turnover policies. rate, which increased to 14% from 6,1% in 2014. ▪▪ Maintain our strong focus on optimising talent ▪▪ Zero person days lost to strike action. sourcing and recruitment. ▪▪ Invested R692 million in employee training, ▪▪ Drive our targets for achieving diversity and 2 872 employees received leadership training inclusion at every management level in the and allocated 78 new bursaries. organisation. ▪▪ 296 employees in Sasol’s maintenance ▪▪ Continue our focus on up-skilling and artisan learner pools, and 233 in external empowering local talent in all regions in which technical skills partnerships. we operate. ▪▪ Further progress achieved in implementing our 2017 South Africa Employment Equity Plan and our Women Empowerment Strategy. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 2 Performance against focus areas Our 2015 performance Our current and future commitments ▪▪ Decreased year-on-year emissions of nitrous ▪▪ Work actively with the South African oxides (to 157 kilotons), sulphur oxides (208 government and other stakeholders to achieve kilotons), volatile organic compounds (46,5 a sustainable long-term atmospheric emissions kilotons) and particulates (11,7 kilotons). compliance dispensation aligned with the ▪▪ Decreased total greenhouse gas (GHG) ambient air quality improvement objectives of emissions by 2% to 69,7 million tons the South African Air Quality Act. Responding to environmental challenges CO2 equivalents; GHG emission intensity ▪▪ Reduce the Group’s GHG emissions intensity increased to 3,35 (CO2 equivalent/ton to 2,47 (CO2 equivalent/ton product) in all our product) mainly due to the sale of the operations by 2020. solvents Germany facility and exclusion of ▪▪ Achieve at least an 80% reduction in emissions the ORYX GTL data. of defined volatile organic compounds (VOCs) ▪▪ Improved the utility energy intensity index off the 2009 baseline, by the end of June 2020. for our South African operations by a ▪▪ Improve the utility energy efficiency of our cumulative 10% off a 2000 baseline to 0,898. South African operations by 15% by 2015 off a When adjusted to account for growth in self2000 baseline, measured as energy used per generating capacity and structural changes, unit of production. our cumulative improvement exceeds 15%. ▪▪ Engage with home and host country ▪▪ Decreased our total water consumption to governments to find practical solutions to 135,5 million m3. mitigate climate change risks, in balance with ▪▪ Achieved a 16,2% year-on-year reduction the economic development priorities. in hazardous waste, and 14,3% reduction in ▪▪ Pursue new municipal water conservation non-hazardous waste generated. partnerships. ▪▪ Continue to support South African government initiatives to develop a policy framework for environmental offsets. ▪▪ The financial value distributed directly by ▪▪ Achieve level 4 enterprise status in terms of the Sasol amounted to R136,5 billion 2007 Codes of Good Practice in South Africa. ▪▪ Paid R10,1 billion in government tax globally. ▪▪ Demonstrate industry leadership in the ▪▪ Provided 30 919 direct employment provision of enterprise and economic Delivering social value opportunities, paying R24,4 billion in wages development solutions relevant to the and benefits. socio-economic drivers of home and host ▪▪ Invested R1,2 billion in socio-economic governments. development and external skills development ▪▪ Continue engagements with stakeholders initiatives. within our home and host communities to ▪▪ Obtained a level 4 broad-based black economic collaborate in developing suitable programmes empowerment (BBBEE) contributor status. to address their needs, and establish a ▪▪ Completed our 10-year collaboration with 11 monitoring and evaluation framework and South African universities, investing indicators to assess the impact of our social R250 million over this period. investment initiatives. ▪▪ Revised our new Code of Ethics and Human ▪▪ Drive the roll-out of our Global Sasol Employee Rights policy. Volunteerism Programme Sasol for Good. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 3 SASOL ONLINE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 Promoting the safety, health and wellbeing of our people SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 1 Promoting the safety, health and wellbeing of our people Safety is a top priority at Sasol: we strive for zero harm. Our approach centres on understanding our risk landscape and managing our activities in a way that eliminates incidents, minimises risk and promotes excellence in the performance of our operations. Promoting employee and service provider safety Our management approach to safety Our safety approach is built on a strong foundation of leadership and competency, and is strengthened by clear policies and procedures relating to safety risk management, leading practice performance standards, incident investigation and behavioural science. At an organisational level, we drive our safety initiatives through the One Sasol SHE Excellence approach, a management framework that supports our goal of achieving zero harm and sustainability through a risk-based, standardised and systematic approach. The Group Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) executive team and senior management across the operations provide visible commitment and lead this effort. In 2015, we worked to deepen our understanding of the risk landscape across Sasol, with a particular focus on serious injury and fatality prevention. We reviewed and analysed our risk profile, identified the priority issues to focus on, and ensured a clear link to our control measures. We further entrenched our safety improvement plan framework and our behavioural-based safety process. The benefits of our strong risk-based approach are reflected in improvements in key safety performance indicators across the Group. Safety improvement activities in 2015 We made significant progress in addressing a range of safety-related initiatives. Risk analysis: We revised the risk landscape across the Group to focus on the key undesirable events (KUEs) related to safety, product stewardship, health and environmental issues. We improved our understanding of the KUEs that may result in safety incidents and used the Bow-Tie risk assessment methodology to identify the required controls to prevent these incidents or mitigate their impact. This approach informs the implementation of control and risk management activities at each operation. These include managers conducting “walkabouts” to inspect the controls and engage employees on identified issues. We are embedding this risk-based agenda across the Group with clear governance structures and safety learning discussions. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 2 Process Safety: Process safety is our foremost SHE risk in terms of safety, environmental impact and business interruption. We continued to interact on process safety issues with various global networks, including the European Process Safety Centre, the global Institution of Chemical Engineers (IChemE), and the chemical sector’s Responsible Care® initiative. We continued to implement a process safety management system in our businesses to prevent incidents of fires, explosions and releases (FERs). Our process safety improvements promote direct environmental improvements and enhanced operational efficiencies. Our progress in addressing priority process safety areas include the following: • we developed a process safety operations roadmap and training programme to improve our understanding of process safety risks in the operating environment and reduce operational errors that could cause incidents of FERs; • we refined our process safety leading metrics and introduced a standardised set of four leading indicators for process safety that are tracked and reported globally. These indicators, derived from the American Petroleum Institute recommended best practice, focus on compliance in three key areas process safety information, process safety risk studies and process safety critical equipment; • we maintained an extensive training programme for process safety specialists and operations personnel appointed in terms of the new operating model; • we improved our reporting, investigating and sharing of lessons learned from our process safety incident investigations; and • we updated the operational process safety information (PSI) required for effective operations and process safety management and continued with our focus on ensuring that all process safety critical equipment is correctly identified and compliant with our test and maintenance programmes. Incident investigations process: We improved the quality of our incident investigations to better understand the underlying risk management and other practices that failed to prevent incidents. We incorporated all SHE incidents into a common investigation process and procedure, emphasised examining the conceivable severity of incidents as opposed to registering only actual losses, evaluated proposed corrective actions, and reinforced the sharing of lessons learned from investigations across the Group. We are now better at identifying underlying organisational issues as well as behavioural factors (such as employee stress and fatigue, levels of training and competency, and personal matters). Service provider safety management: We adopted a global standardised approach to safety management practices for our service providers which includes an online service provider registration and risk ranking process as well as regional SHE specifications for service providers, and centrally managed performance and non-conformance management. This approach has improved efficiencies significantly. Behavioural based safety (BBS): We have a cross-functional team to focus on the behavioural and psychological components that may have a direct impact on employees’ motivation and willingness to work safely. Activities include climate diagnostics in some of our operating entities that enable the identification of critical improvement areas and developing appropriate climate improvement action plans. We are piloting a behavioural based safety process in Mining, in partnership with a leading Australian safety consultancy. This process is strengthening a learning culture by ensuring the correct identification and classification of human failures during incident investigation. Shaping a new SHE culture: An external research panel demonstrated that the underlying causes of serious injuries and fatalities often are different from those related to less severe recordable injuries. The study suggests 17 21% of all injuries have high-consequence potential. In response, we improved our understanding of the high-consequence potential incidents that occur at the bottom of the injury pyramid, and implemented measures to prevent these incidents. We adopted a new classification system to identify high-consequence potential incidents, and generate an actual and potential incident severity rate calculation that will be used as a leading indicator. This will be used to develop a potential risk matrix and formalised incident investigation process for incidents with high potential severity. Construction regulations: In South Africa, we have focused on developing adaptation and response plans to recently revised construction regulations. The regulations are beneficial in improving safety management on SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 3 construction sites but present a potentially significant administrative burden. We have engaged with senior representatives from the Department of Labour to agree on a compliance roadmap for Sasol and our service providers. Our safety performance in 2015 The Group’s occupational safety performance improved significantly in 2015, as assessed by certain key indicators. This visible improvement was sustained during a significant period of flux associated with changes implemented through the Business Performance Enhancement Programme. In 2015, we achieved all our safety performance targets except that of zero fatalities. Tragically, one service provider died in a work-related incident. Our thoughts are with the family of Litsietsi David Toli who was fatally injured during the installation of a support for a shaft at a mine in the Secunda area. Although 2015 was our best performance in terms of fatality prevention, any fatality remains unacceptable. Our performance this year on our key safety indicators at a Group level is summarised below. Additional data on our safety performance over the past five years is presented in our more detailed performance data table. Recordable case rate (RCR):1 We achieved our RCR (including illnesses) target of 0,40. Our RCR (excluding illnesses) of 0,32 was better than both the target of 0,34 and the previous year’s actual of 0,36, representing an improved 11%. The 2015 RCR (excluding illnesses) included 351 recordable cases comprising: one fatality; About Sasol Introduction 113 lost workday cases; 174 medical treatment cases. The 2015 RCR (including illnesses) included a further 63 own reported illnesses with an additional seven service provider illnesses also recorded. Our 2020 target is to consistently achieve an RCR lower than 0,30 with no fatalities. To clearly distinguish between occupational injuries and illnesses, from financial year 2016 onwards we will report separate incident rates for safety – in the form of an injury RCR – and occupational-related irreversible illnesses – in the form of an occupational disease incident case rate (ODIR). Recordable case rate (RCR) Case Rate (RCR) Recordable Strategic performance (Rate) providers were not included all service providers were included FY * The recordable case rate (RCR) is a standard international measure for reporting workrelated injuries Recordable and illnesses injury severity and other safety index: incidents resulting The 12-month moving RCR injury. Thein in average is the our incident severity index improved to 4,9 Governance and remuneration number of fatalities, lost workday cases, restricted work injuries, medical treatment cases at year end, from 6,1 at the beginning of the year. This is largely due to fewer fatal injuries in 2015. Process safety: 27 significant process safety incidents occurred during the year as opposed to 30 in 2014, consisting of two fires and 25 releases. Our target is to consistently have less than 24 significant FERs by 2020 with a severity rate of less than 10. At year end, our FER severity rate index was 11,3 (2014: 11,3). 1 Sasol energy The recordable efficiency case rate accord (RCR) is a standard measurement international measure for reporting work-related injuries, illnesses and other safety incidents resulting in injury. The RCR is the number of fatalities, lost workday cases, restricted work injuries, medical treatment cases for every 200 000 employee hours worked. (Energy Intensity Index) SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 4 h *Recordable case rate (RCR) Number of significant and major FERs ting ety 70 nd 60 Number of significant FERs ble 50 case 40 Significant FERs 30 Target FY 20 ng y. 10 ical 0 10 11 12 13 14 15 Transport incidents: 20 significant transport-related incidents occurred across the Group (2014: 29). Our transport incidents rate (measured as the number of significant incidents per 100 kilotons of product transported) improved by 10,2% to 0,062 against a target of 0,082, and was our lowest recorded rate to date. Product transportation incident rate (incidents per 100 kt product transported) Number of incidents Incidents Target rate Rate Actual rate 08 10 11 12 13 14 15 FY 09 Focusing on occupational health and employee wellbeing Effectively managing health risks in the workplace forms an important part of our commitment to zero harm. Promoting a healthy workforce through an integrated health and wellness approach contributes not only to employee health but also to the safety performance of our employees and service providers, and enhances productivity and efficiency. Our approach to occupational health Our occupational health programme seeks to prevent and mitigate all occupational health risks, and applies to all permanent employees and the employees of service providers. The programme comprises a set of group standards, procedures, scorecards and targets. We analyse, monitor and manage exposure, provide preventive measures for a range of occupational health risks, and administer a health risk ranking metric as part of our integrated risk management framework. We implement a hierarchy of controls for exposures ranging from elimination (via engineering design and other such measures) to provision of appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) to all potentially exposed workers. We maintain a strong focus on effective employee communication on risk and prevention. We also provide a rehabilitation and return-to-work programme. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 5 The main occupational health risks across the Group relate to noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) and lung disease (mainly coal-worker pneumoconiosis), primarily at our mining operations, where we place a particular emphasis on noise suppression and hearing conservation and dust suppression initiatives. We have appointed an audiologist to complement the team working on noise exposure. In Mining, measures taken to reduce noise emission and employee exposure include installing silenced jet fans to replace older, more noisy equipment. All hearing deviations are investigated and remedial action taken. Dust suppression initiatives (including new technologies) applied over many years at Mining, have enabled the operations to significantly reduce direct exposure levels. These levels are below the maximum threshold of dust as provided for by the applicable laws. The absolute outcome, however, will only become apparent after several years because of the long lag period in the development of occupational lung disease. Through the Chamber of Mines, we continue to comment on recent relevant changes to legislation addressing occupational health issues. These include the Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act, the Mine Health and Safety Act and the Occupational Diseases in Mines & Works Act. We have also contributed to the new set of sector-wide mining health and safety milestones, developed through the tripartite Mine Health and Safety Council. These include commitments to eliminate silicosis, pneumoconiosis and noise-induced hearing loss, reduce the tuberculosis (TB) incidence rate on mines to at or below the national TB incident rate by December 2024, and meet clear targets on implementation of the approved culture transformation framework. Driving high performance through our wellness strategy Our Group wellness programme seeks to provide a working environment in which employees can operate in a healthy, energised manner that contributes to their personal development and to the company’s success. Our wellness strategy aims to enhance individual productivity by proactively reducing health risks, providing access to health care, and educating, informing and empowering employees to take responsibility for their own wellbeing. We focus on reducing lifestyle diseases (such as hypertension, diabetes and cholesterol levels), managing the risks of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, and effectively managing mental health conditions. The data from Sasol’s screening programme for lifestyle illnesses and HIV/Aids shows a high prevalence of abnormal body mass index (BMI). During the year 17 894 employees and contractors were screened for hypertension, 17 748 for cholesterol, 17 887 for diabetes and 7 739 for HIV. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 6 Our employee assistance programme focuses on the psychosocial health of our employees and their dependants. We also provide a range of wellness-related awareness and capacity-building interventions to employees, line managers and human resource practitioners. As part of the significant organisational changes associated with our Business Performance Enhancement Programme, we provided support to more than 5 800 employees on issues relating to: resilience training, re-entering the job market, retirement planning, financial planning, emotional impact management and general wellness. Our financial wellbeing intervention aims to educate employees on making informed decisions regarding personal finances and provision for retirement, thereby reducing garnishee orders. We presented 38 courses to 1 850 employees during the year. Managing HIV/Aids in the workplace Our HIV/Aids response programme focuses on preventing new infections through awareness, education and access to testing, counselling and treatment. We also provide support services to HIV-positive employees and their families through a comprehensive disease management programme. Our HIV/Aids policy was recently reviewed to ensure that it aligns with best practice, determined by Business Unity South Africa (BUSA), in line with International Labour Organization (ILO) guidelines. We partner with a leading HIV/Aids disease management provider, Aid for AIDS (AfA), in implementing our HIV/ Aids strategy. AfA’s services include a comprehensive electronic treatment history for all patients. All employee files are continuously updated. AfA conducts an annual performance review that provides updated statistics on HIV/Aids management and highlights emerging HIV-related trends and challenges. Performance points identified during the review period: • an estimated 10% of Sasol’s South African employees are HIV-positive; this is lower than the estimated prevalence of about 17% for working age adults in South Africa as a whole; • HIV screening, counselling and testing was taken up by a total of 7 739 employees and contractors; • we ran 24 awareness sessions on HIV/Aids; • 89% of individuals on antiretroviral therapy (ART) have viral load results in the past 12 months. Of these, 84% are suppressed; • 90,7% of Sasolmed AfA-registered beneficiaries are eligible for ongoing ART. 85% are on first line ART, with no change compared to the previous year. Of the total patients on ART, 6% have been on treatment for 10 years or more, and 20% for twelve months or less; and • Sasolmed principal members registered on the HIV disease-management programme increased from 6,5% in February 2014 to 7,2% in February 2015. The increase in 2015 in the number of people on ART is attributed to the changes in our HIV/Aids programmes, improved health campaigns and strong leadership support and participation in these campaigns, particularly at Mining. Mining has implemented management systems for improving operational aspects with an impact on employee health and safety and ongoing employee health surveillance is undertaken in accordance with the requirements of the Mining Charter. Ensuring responsible product stewardship Managing the safety, health and environment (SHE) risks associated with our products, and enhancing their SHE performance and sustainability throughout their lifecycle, forms a key part of our commitment to achieving zero harm. Our management approach on product stewardship In committing to responsible product stewardship, our approach aligns with the guidelines and standards established by the international chemical industry. These include, in particular, the recently revised Responsible Care® Global Charter and the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) Global Product Strategy (GPS), two initiatives launched by ICCA during February 2006. Sasol formally recommitted to the revised Global Charter in May 2015, in support of our contribution to the Strategic Approach to International Chemicals SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 7 Management (SAICM). This is a policy framework that commits us to the 2020 goal of chemicals usage that minimises significant adverse impacts on health and the environment. We implement a risk-based, scientific and lifecycle-oriented approach to managing our products focused on promoting safe chemicals management practices. This we do in partnerships with our suppliers, customers and other stakeholders, such as transport service providers, in the product value chain. In line with the One Sasol SHE Excellence approach, by applying the Bow-Tie risk assessment methodology, we identified the critical controls associated with key product stewardship events. We focus on addressing three identified key undesirable events: • Non-compliance with international chemical control legislation: We are reviewing our understanding of the reorganised global Sasol product inventory for raw materials, intermediates and final products. We have identified our industrial chemical waste streams, as legally required, and captured these in Sasol’s system for chemicals management (CIMS). Managing legal compliance is aligned with the Group approach; • Product transportation incidents: In 2015, we implemented the Sasol Product transportation safety strategy for road travel through several mechanisms, in particular tools developed to assist Sasol businesses. Product transport safety specialists dedicated to the implementation of controls have significantly contributed to Sasol’s improved product transport safety performance; and • Irresponsible or illegal disposal or use of Sasol product packaging material: Risk scenarios include inadvertently using products for inappropriate applications, deliberate misuse of product and mixing incompatible products. This is perceived to be a lower risk for Sasol. We take precautionary measures based on the type of packaging, the destination and the anticipated use of the product as indicated in customer contracts. To align our approach towards product stewardship across the Group, we developed a single global definition for product stewardship and standardised product stewardship processes that can be applied across different regions and functions. We aim to have a single product stewardship approach globally, to be executed across the product value chain for all products. Sasol’s new operating model has resulted in the consolidation of several product groups under a small number of operating hubs. It has also enabled the development and sharing of standardised processes for managing product information and has further improved the quality of information provided to our customers. By combining resources and systems, we have established a critical mass of expertise to support our product lines. This ensures safer handling and transport of products, facilitates regulatory compliance and contributes to increased customer satisfaction. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 8 There is a growing demand from some of our customers, particularly in Europe, for carbon footprint and lifecycle inventory (LCI) data on some of our products. We have assessed the gate-to-gate carbon footprint of some of our primary products. In addition, we have recently initiated a broader project to generate LCI data for products from our organics and wax portfolio. This LCI data enables our customers to conduct lifecycle assessments through their own respective supply chains. We are planning to systematically broaden our database by generating additional LCI data within the next 18 months. Addressing emerging product stewardship challenges We are implementing response measures for the following emerging product stewardship challenges: • Product sustainability: Integrating sustainability considerations in the design, production and use of Sasol products potentially influencing their marketability. To maintain the competitiveness of our products, we will seek to integrate product issues within our Group sustainability framework; • Value chain outreach for growth in Africa: We are planning product sales growth in Africa, where the capacity and knowledge on safe chemicals management tends to be more limited than in developed economy markets. To address this challenge we are developing an outreach programme to promote safe chemicals management; • Compliance with the requirements of the Globally Harmonised System (GHS): Implementation of the United Nations (UN) Globally Harmonised System (GHS) on the classification and labelling of chemicals in different countries is currently not sufficiently harmonised. This poses difficulties in ensuring compliance with differing regulations. We have established a technical working group under the group product stewardship committee to develop an approach for ensuring compliance with all countries’ GHS regulations. A GHS compliance project plan has been developed for the South African business. In all other regions compliance is already maintained; and • Product stewardship data and systems integrity: Any uncontrolled changes to product data, or to the systems used for developing safety data sheets, poses a risk to the integrity of product data and product hazard communication documentation. To address this challenge we are developing and implementing governance processes and systems aimed at managing product stewardship data and documentation. Contributing to global product stewardship initiatives We continue to play a leadership role in contributing to enhancing the safe use of chemicals worldwide, primarily through our involvement in the ICCA Policy and Health Leadership Group. Sasol has been nominated to participate in this leadership group as a voice for the chemical sector within an economy in transition. Sasol also represents the ICCA at the SAICM Africa regional meeting. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 9 SASOL ONLINE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 Investing in our people SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 1 Investing in our people Our human resources (HR) strategy seeks to enable effective delivery of Sasol’s strategy. We strive to provide a work environment that attracts, develops and retains the best talent, promotes a values-driven, high-performance culture, encourages diversity and transformation, and fosters sound employee relations. In 2015 we focused our efforts on driving the following five priorities: • embedding Sasol’s new operating model; • strengthening capability through talent acquisition and succession planning; • driving business performance through delivery of competency-based learning; • developing leadership capability to drive high performance, accountability and accelerate diversity; and • enabling sustainable operations performance through stable employee and community relations. Restructuring to enhance business performance As part of our Business Performance Enhancement Programme implemented since 2012, we have restructured the organisation and aligned employee placements with our updated operating model. Through this process we have refined our corporate strategy, streamlined our management structures and adapted our systems and processes. In 2015, we signed off on approximately 2 500 employment separations, either through voluntary retrenchments or early retirements. We also implemented a group-wide vacancy freeze and a hiring moratorium, which are delivering benefits to our cost optimisation endeavours. The Business Performance Enhancement Programme consequently impacted on our employee turnover rate, which increased to 14% from 6,1% in 2014. At financial year-end, Sasol had 30 919 employees, comprising 25 619 permanent and 1 300 non-permanent employees in our South African companies, and 4,000 permanent and non-permanent employees in our international companies. Embedding our values-driven, high performance culture To further instil our values-driven, high-performance culture and support the implementation of our new operating model, we are embedding three critical behaviours: • work to a common game plan • take a One Sasol, one bottom line approach; and • embrace empowered accountability. We have adapted our performance management systems to ensure that the critical behaviours become embedded in our culture, together with agreed accountabilities and our shared values. Recognising and rewarding high performance In an increasingly competitive market for limited skills, it is critical that we provide appropriate remuneration to attract, retain and motivate the right calibre of employee. In 2014, we substantially overhauled our performance management and remuneration framework, which rewards our people on the basis of their performance, giving equal emphasis to delivery and behaviour. We determine our annual budget increases, which influence individual increases, on the basis of market movements, inflation indicators and company performance. We also provide for the nature of an employee’s role, market benchmarks and individual performance. From October 2015, a salary freeze for top management roles will be instituted as part of our Response Plan. Our structured performance management and appraisal process is geared to support a values-driven, highperformance culture. Every business unit’s incentive contract provides as a minimum for safety performance, financial results and employment equity in our South African operations. We also have performance indicators SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 2 related to environmental and social factors. The Remuneration Committee reviews and approves the design principles and Group targets for all incentive schemes annually. Nurturing talent for the future To secure a pipeline of future talent, we continue to invest significantly in skills development in our primary countries of operation. Initiatives range from basic literacy skills and science and maths education at school level, to skills development initiatives for artisans, engineers, scientists, Chartered Accountants and other critical skills. We run some of the largest bursary, learnership, graduate development and internship schemes in Southern Africa, demonstrating our commitment to nurturing Africa’s bright future by investing in the next generation of high performers. In 2015, we invested R521,25 million in bursaries and learnerships, with the focus primarily on developing talent in science, technology and engineering disciplines. At present, we have 440 undergraduate and postgraduate bursars. Graduates from this scheme are placed on a structured professional development programme for a period of up to three years. In 2015, bursaries were allocated to 78 individuals, of whom 75% are black*. We ensure an approximately even gender ratio. Sasol Learnerships are learning programmes that involve on-the-job learning supported by structured or institutional learning. In the last year, we sponsored a total of 1 800 learnerships at our South African operations and 94% of these learnerships were awarded to youth. In 2015, we invested R91,01 million on the development programme for graduate professionals. We forge partnerships to build a broader pool of skills in the areas in which we operate. In South Africa, we have strategic partnerships with Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) Colleges, with the support of the Chemical Industries Education & Training Authority (CHIETA) to ensure nationally recognised qualifications for our artisan learnership programmes. In Mozambique, together with our partners, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and Companhia Moçambique de Hidrocarbonetos (CMH), we established a three-year learnership programme at the Central Processing Facility (CPF) in Temane, Inhambane province. Graduates from the programme are placed at the CPF. We also partner with the Ministry of Mineral Resources and the Eduardo Mondlane University to develop tertiary-level technical skills. In North America, the Louisiana Economic Development (LED) department is a key stakeholder supporting the talent and learning requirements of our operations. As a member of the Petro-Skills Alliance, Sasol is able to leverage diverse talent and learning solutions from this key industry partner to help it deliver consistent, high quality, learning and development training and programmes to build competent petroleum professionals. * Black employees refer to African, Coloured and Indian people, for the purposes of South African employment equity considerations. Learning programme Total Investment (Rm) Graduate Development Programme (GDP), Learnerships and other trainees: candidate engineers, 460,49 scientist, artisans and technicians Chartered Accountants (CA) trainee programme 8,02 Bursaries 52,74 General study aid 14,67 Leadership training 15,90 All other training 139,95 TOTAL 691,77 SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 3 Developing diverse high-performing employees Our internal development and training programmes continue to raise basic competency levels, develop technical skills and enhance leadership effectiveness. We continue to invest significantly in: • full-time and part-time sponsored study programmes; • functional/technical learning and development programmes; • safety and compliance learning and development programmes; • leadership development programmes; and • career and succession development programmes. During the year, 27 422 employees participated in our internal programmes. This comprised 1 800 learnerships (1 400 black learners; 430 women), 260 graduates and 290 in-service trainees. A total of R509,91 million was invested in developing skills among our black employees, of which R157,26 million was specifically spent on black women. A focus is to identify and develop high-potential talent, in turn promoting diversity and transformation across the Group. The Sasol LEAP (learning, experiencing, accelerating, potential) programme, launched in 2013, is a twoto five-year career development programme that gives high-potential individuals exposure to different roles across our business and geographies, supported by formal learning and mentorship. It is an holistic accelerated skills development approach, introduced to provide business-focused and timely delivery of future talent particularly at strategic leadership level. Nine high-potential employees were selected onto the inaugural programme, with 66% being black. Through our leadership programmes, we seek to build business acumen, enhance the ability to nurture and develop employee talent, leverage diversity for high performance, and deepen participants’ appreciation of the global context. Delivering our employee value proposition In return for the skills, capabilities and experience our employees bring to our business, we aim to offer a unique employee value proposition and a great place to work. We have invested in a range of initiatives to ensure that Sasol remains a dynamic, technology-driven company that attracts talented, values-driven, high-performing people. Sasol was ranked as one of the most desirable employers by students and professional job seekers in South Africa and was awarded the Industry Best Award within the Energy sector, by Universum, at its Most Attractive Employer Awards for 2015. Sasol was also recognised at the PWC Gender Mainstreaming Awards as a finalist for its progress to date in implementing our Women Empowerment Strategy, in the following four categories: empowerment initiatives; women in the workplace; gender and disability; and gender and poverty alleviation. These accolades pay tribute to the fact that we are creating a caring, inspiring and engaging working environment, which promotes diversity and equal opportunities for all employees. Maintaining positive employee relations Sasol promotes an employee relations culture that encourages employees to engage and voice their opinions. We maintain fair, open and constructive relationships with all employees within the legal frameworks of the countries in which we operate. We regularly review and update our employee relations policies in line with business and legislative requirements. Formal contracts are in place with all employees according to local legal requirements and the core conventions of the International Labour Organization. We recognise the right of employees to collective bargaining and freedom of association. We maintain constructive relationships with all representative unions and works councils that enjoy consultative or negotiating powers on issues of mutual interest. More than 60% of our employees in South Africa are members of trade unions. Trade union representatives are present in our formal joint management worker Health and Safety Committees. They also serve on the board of our medical scheme and on the boards of our retirement funds. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 4 Enhancing workforce diversity Leveraging diversity and inclusion for high performance Embracing a culture of inclusion is critical to enable and motivate our diverse workforce to deliver successful business outcomes. We are committed to driving employment equity and localisation goals and enhancing diversity across the Group. In our organisation, diversity signifies all aspects of peoples’ differences including race, religion, gender, disability, culture, sexual orientation, nationality, thinking and skills. Our Diversity 10-Point Plan provides a set of qualitative measures designed to enable the achievement of our diversity objectives, including the recruitment, development and retention of candidates from under-represented groups, as well as measures to enhance gender equity. In promoting a values-driven, high-performance culture, we recognise that diverse teams perform better than homogenous teams. Empowering women Our Women Empowerment Strategy and Sasol Women’s Network, launched in 2012, facilitated increasing representation and inclusion of women at all levels and core operations of the organisation. In 2015, we piloted a “women in operations framework” – a targeted sourcing and development approach geared to accelerating the representation of women in our core operations. Accommodating people with disabilities The Group’s recruitment process specifically addresses people with disabilities, both in terms of providing employment opportunities and appropriate facilities. Our Diversity 10-Point Plan provides defined goals to be achieved by 2017 to increase the representation of people with disabilities and to reasonably accommodate them in our businesses across geographies. We successfully implemented the contact centre learnership for people with disabilities within our Energy business. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 5 Our 2015 employee diversity performance Our progress in meeting our employment equity plan for the period 2012 to date is summarised in the table below: Workforce diversity profile1 for our South African operations (as at 30 June 2015) 3 Male Female Foreign Nationals Total employees in category A C I W A C I W Male Female 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Top management 16,2% 8,2% 2,7% 2,4% 5,4% 4,7% 59,5% 69,4% 5,4% 4,7% 2,7% 1,2% 2,7% 1,2% 2,7% 4,7% 2,7% 3,5% 0,0% 0,0% 100% 100% Senior management 10,6% 11,5% 2,1% 2,2% 10,1% 10,2% 56,8% 57,8% 3,1% 3,7% 1,1% 0,0% 3,3% 2,5% 11,0% 9,3% 1,6% 2,5% 0,3% 0,3% 100% 100% Middle 20,0% 18,3% 2,2% 2,2% 6,8% 7,9% 36,1% 41,7% 9,5% 7,0% 1,5% 1,4% 5,2% 4,5% 16,8% 14,8% 1,5% 1,9% 0,4% 0,3% 100% 100% management Junior management 38,0% 36,7% 2,1% 2,2% 2,6% 2,6% 32,6% 33,6% 9,6% 9,3% 1,3% 1,4% 1,4% 1,6% 11,6% 11,7% 0,6% 0,7% 0,2% 0,2% 100% 100% Semi-skilled 72,4% 69,6% 1,0% 0,8% 0,6% 0,6% 8,5% 8,5% 12,0% 12,0% 0,4% 0,6% 0,2% 0,4% 1,9% 4,6% 2,9% 2,8% 0,1% 0,1% 100% 100% Defined decision 63,6% 65,9% 0,8% 1,0% 0,3% 0,2% 10,2% 10,2% 21,5% 18,9% 0,4% 0,4% 0,0% 0,1% 1,5% 1,7% 1,7% 1,6% 0,0% 0,0% 100% 100% Total permanent 47,4% 46,5% 1,7% 1,6% 2,8% 2,8% 24,5% 25,1% 10,6% 10,2% 1,0% 1,1% 1,6% 1,6% 8,5% 9,1% 1,7% 1,8% 0,2% 0,2% 100% 100% employees2 Non-permanent 70,9% 52,9% 0,6% 4,1% 0,0% 2,4% 8,8% 7,3% 17,7% 27,6% 0,3% 0,8% 0,0% 0,0% 1,0% 4,9% 0,7% 0,0% 0,0% 0,0% 100% 100% Total including non-permanent 47,7% 46,5% 1,7% 1,7% 2,7% 2,8% 24,3% 25,0% 10,7% 10,3% 1,0% 1,0% 1,6% 1,6% 8,4% 9,1% 1,7% 1,8% 0,2% 0,2% 100% 100% employees A – African, C – Coloured, I – Indian, W – White. 1 Workforce Diversity profile as per the South African Department of Labour Guidelines. 2 Non-permanent employees employed for more than three months are counted as permanent employees. 3 Foreign nationals are employees employed in South Africa that are not South African citizens. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 6 SASOL ONLINE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 Responding to environmental challenges SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 1 Responding to environmental challenges Compliance with environmental norms and standards is integral to how we manage the environmental and social impacts of our operations. In practice, this means we always consider and prioritise ways to limit the impacts of our activities, while striving to ensure our presence realises positive benefits for all our stakeholders, in particular, the communities in which we operate. Our ability to further mitigate our environmental impacts and respond to significant changes in environmental policy and legislation represents one of our most material risks. This is particularly the case in South Africa, where the policy and regulatory framework relating to air quality, climate change, water, waste and contaminated land management is rapidly evolving. We support developments aimed at improving the environmental performance of all our operations. We remain committed to complying with all regulations and actively participate in the processes to develop new regulations that are under consideration. Our approach to managing environmental impacts All our operations, new projects and joint ventures under our operational control are governed by the One Sasol SHE Excellence approach, a management framework that supports our goal of achieving zero harm and sustainability through a risk-based, standardised and systematic approach. The principal governance bodies that set company policy, targets and direction on environmental issues are the Sasol Risk and SHE Committee of the Board, and the Sustainability and Stakeholder Relations Committee, a mandated sub-committee of the Group Executive Committee (GEC). These are assisted at an operational level by the recently established Group Environment Committee, which meets quarterly. Its purpose is to provide thought leadership over Group environmental matters, addressing material environmental issues and top environmental risks. There has been ongoing focus on consolidating and aligning the company’s numerous environmental permits, licences, safety data sheets (SDS) and related documentation with our new legal structure that came into effect at the beginning of the 2015 financial year. The impact of this change has been felt most by our South African operations, and national government and regulators have been particularly helpful in assisting with an efficient and timely transition process. Significant investments in environmental improvement projects Sasol’s total accrued environmental obligation at 30 June 2015 amounted to R11,02 billion. Based on an assessment of significant capital expenditure on environmental projects over the past 10 years, we have spent approximately R20 billion, averaging almost R2 billion annually. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 2 DrIving sustainable air quality and waste management Working towards meeting air quality legislation requirements During 2004, the South African National Environmental Management: Air Quality Act was promulgated, introducing a fundamentally new approach to air quality management. Supporting standards were thereafter promulgated including national ambient air quality standards and minimum emissions standards (MES) that make provision for strict industrial point source emission requirements. In terms of the MES, Sasol’s existing South African operations had to meet the standards set for existing plants effective April 2015, and further have to meet more stringent standards set for newly commissioned plants by April 2020. While the majority of our processes will be able to comply with the future MES, some of these standards and associated compliance timeframes present significant compliance challenges, particularly in terms of the technical implications for some of our existing operations. To ensure compliance and to effectively manage compliance risks in the short and long term, Sasol applied to the National Air Quality Officer for the postponement of compliance timeframes for some of the Minimum Emission Standards (MES), which were granted in February 2015. These decisions, while aligned with our requests, impose stretched targets in support of improved ambient air quality. Subsequently, the decisions have been incorporated into our atmospheric emissions licences under which we now operate. Our focus is on implementing the air quality improvement roadmaps that support our postponement applications. These include both the continued capital expenditures at our operations and the development and GHG Emissions implementation of air quality offset plans. 77 GHG Emission (Co2 equivalent) million tons 76 While having been granted extended timeframes within which to comply with some of the 2015 standards, 75 postponements may not adequately address our longer-term compliance challenges, particularly where feasible 74 solutions are not presently available to achieve compliance with the new plant standards by April 2020. We 73 remain 72 committed to advancing ambient air quality management in a sustainable manner and will continue to engage 71 with the regulators and our stakeholders to find solutions to address our remaining challenges. 70 Tracking 69 our performance on atmospheric emissions 68 Since 67 our first environmental report published in 1996, we have been publicly disclosing our performance data on our 66 Group atmospheric emissions on an annual basis. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Striving to reduce emissions of key atmospheric pollutants Atmospheric Emissions Nitrogen oxide (NOx) Sulphur oxide (SOx) Particulates 450 400 350 Kilotons 300 250 200 150 100 50 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 In 2015, we recorded an overall decrease in the total emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur oxides (SOx), and particulates compared Nonwith emission Hazardous Waste levels in 2014. Total NOx emissions decreased to 156,9 kilotons (kt) from 158,6 kt during 2014 Non-Hazardous Waste and total SOx emissions amounted to 208,0 kt, down from 223,0 kt in 2014. Total Production (External Sales) Total particulate (fly ash) emissions were 11,7 kt, as compared to 19,3 kt in 2014. The decrease in emissions is 30 000 500 aste (Kilotons) 450 25 000 400 SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 3 350 on (Kt) 20 000 300 largely due to the exclusion of ORYX GTL data (which is now separately reported in the ORYX GTL Sustainable Development Report) and the sale of our solvents assets in Germany. Five-year trends indicate that our NOx emissions have remained relatively stable. Although SOx emissions increased slightly over the past two years, they remain lower than the levels measured four to five years ago. On track for significant reductions in volatile organic compounds (VOC) emissions We have set ourselves an ambitious target of achieving an 80% reduction of six defined volatile organic compounds (VOCs) – benzene, toluene, xylene, ethyl benzene, 1,3-butadiene and acetaldehyde – on our 2009 baseline, by the end of June 2020. This implies a reduction in total annual emissions to 9,4 kilotons (kt) as compared with 2015’s GHGemissions Emissions of 46,5 kt. A VOC roadmap aimed at achieving the desired emissions reduction has77 been developed. At our Secunda complex, we have invested significantly over the past seven years to GHG Emission (Co2 equivalent) million tons 76 reduce 75 VOC emissions. We expect to see a significant VOC emissions reduction following completion of the replacement 74 of tar tanks and separators and the VOC abatement project. A coal tar filtration project is also being 73 implemented and together these three projects total an approved cost of R7,5 billion. 72 71 Managing 70 waste responsibly 69 Our68 approach to waste management is informed by the general principles of the waste management hierarchy wherein67 the prevention and minimisation of waste are the preferred options followed. 66 ! #$%& ! ##%& Recently ! #'%& 2010we! #(%& have2011been ! #&%&focusing 2012 2013 exploring ! #)%& on 2014 opportunities 2015 to compost some of our industrial waste sludges. '$#$ 3'&3)&* 333333 333333 Since '$## 3')3''* 2012, '$#' 3333333333333333333 we have 3')3($' 3333333333333333 3 '$#( '(3@+@ carried 3 '$#& ''3$)$ 3333333333333333 out test 3 3333333333333333 #+3()) '$#) work on the composting of bio-sludge andGHGvarious other hydrocarbon Emissions sludges333333333 3(+'3+)#3+$@ 333333 from the 3 &'*3$'#3$(( Secunda &')3')@3)'( 333333 3 Synfuels 333333 &#(3*(D3@$' 3 process. Following the successful 77 completion of the trial phase in August GHG Emission (Co2 equivalent) million tons 3333333333333333333 3 3)$3D)( 3333333333333333 )$3(&$ Atmospheric 3333333333333333 &*3')+ 3 Emissions 3 3333333333333333 &(3&+@ 3333 3#)#3(+# 3333 2014, 3#)'3)'@ we #(*3$(( 3 33333333333333333are undertaking 3 33333333333333 #&D3$$# Nitrogen oxide (NOx) 3 an Environmental 33333333333333 #&+3))' 3 33333333333333 #()3&)* Sulphur oxide (SOx) Impact Particulates Assessment 76 to confirm whether, at larger scale, the 3D)3D#@ 3333333333333333 3333333333333333333 D(3$)& 3 D'3'D) 3333333333333333 3 3333333333333333 @+3DD' 3 composting 333333333333333333333 3#3(#* 333333333333333333 450 solution continues to deliver 3)D# 333333333333333333333 3&*' 3#3$(' 333333333333333333333 sound environmental 75 74 management solutions for various sludge 'J** 3 33333333333 3 33333333333 'JD) 33333333333333333333333 3'J*( 33333333333333333333 3(J$* 33333333333333333333 3(J'* 33333333333333333333 3(J@$ 3 333333333333 #@& streams. 3 400 333333333333 #)) In addition 3333333333333333333333333 3 #)) 333333333333333333333to the environmental 3#)+ 333333333333333333333 3#)* 333333333333333333333 3#)D benefit of this composting 73 project, one of the key drivers of this 333333333333 3 '&$ 3 33333333333333 project 3 350 333333333333 '$* ## 3333333333333333 is 3 3333333333333333333333333 '$' the job creation 3'#) 333333333333333333333 333333333333333333333 3D 33333333333333333333333 3+ 33333333333333333333333333333 3#* 33333333333333333333333 potential 3''( of 3'$* a 333333333333333333333 3#' 3#+ 33333333333333333333333 full-scale operation.72 The holistic merits of the solution will be confirmed Kilotons &)& 333333333333 3 in 3 the 333333333333 &$+ 300 3333333333333333333333333 250 next 3 financial '@& 3'&' year, 333333333333333333333 to 3#*+inform 333333333333333333333 the way forward. 333333333333333333333 3#@' 71 3 @+ 33333333333333 33333333333333 3 3 *& 3333333333333333333333333 ##D 333333333333333333333 3($( 333333333333333333333 3(*' 333333333333333333333 3('$ 70 3D&3+*# 333333 333333 3D)3(#D 200 3333333333333333333 3 3D)3D#@ 3333333333333333 D(3$)& 3333333333333333 D'3'D) 3 3333333333333333 @+3DD' 3 69 We150have made progress in preparing to meet the new waste 68 classification and assessment for disposal requirements 100 that are applicable from August 2016 onwards. 67 A SAP waste information system that simplifies 50 waste data collection and reporting for our chemical operations 66 has progressed 2010 2011 from 2012 development 2013 2014 to 2015 implementation. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 r Use Atmospheric Emissions Engaging with the regulatory authorities on waste legislation Non Hazardous Waste Total Production (External Sales) Nitrogen oxide (NOx) Sulphur oxide (SOx) Particulates Non-Hazardous Waste Total Production (External Sales) Under 30 000 the leadership of the Department of Environmental 500 Affairs (DEA), we have had productive engagements 400 155 000 450 through the industry Waste Forum established between business and the DEA to highlight any identified Non Hazardous Waste (Kilotons) 150 000 450 350 25 000 400 challenges relating to the implementation of the Act and its associated regulations and standards. Water Use 1000m3 Kilotons 145 000 300 350 Prodcution (Kt) 20 000 250 300 140 000 200 In response to135the 15 000 National Waste Information Regulations, 250 000 200 150 we have registered applicable activities and sites and commenced 10 000 quarterly 130 000 reporting into the South African 150 Waste Information System. We also complied with 100 our5 000 obligations to notify the DEA in terms of Part 8100 50 of the National 50 Environmental Management: Waste Act. 125 000 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Hazardous Waste Non Hazardous Waste Hazardous Waste Total Production (External Sales) Non-Hazardous Waste Total Production (External Sales) 30 000 450 30 000 500 Non Hazardous Waste (Kilotons) 400 450 Hazardous Waste (Kilotons) 25 000 25 000 400 350 350 Prodcution (Kt) Prodcution (Kt) 20 000 300 20 000 300 250 15 000 15 000 250 200 200 10 000 150 10 000 150 100 100 5 000 5 000 50 50 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 GHG Intensity Hazardous Waste 4,00 SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 4 Hazardous Waste Total Production (External Sales) 3,50 In 2015, our operations generated 320 kt of hazardous waste compared to 382 kt in 2014, a 16,2% reduction. The quantity of non-hazardous waste generated decreased 14,3% to 162 kt, from 189 kt in 2014. Total recycled waste decreased to 76 kt from 89 kt in 2014. These reductions are mainly attributed to concerted efforts to reduce waste at source. Environmental offsets During March 2015, the South African Department of Environmental Affairs (DEA) issued a draft discussion document on environmental offsets. The aim was to stimulate discussion on the concepts and principles of offsets, and to assess their possible contribution to enhancing sustainable development as part of a national policy framework. The discussion document defines an environmental offset as an intervention specifically implemented to counterbalance an adverse environmental impact of an activity at one location by delivering a net environmental benefit at another. It considers five types of environmental offsets, categorised according to the adverse environmental impact they are seeking to counterbalance, namely: biodiversity, wetlands, water resources, carbon and air quality. Sasol welcomes the DEA’s initiatives toward advancing a policy framework for environmental offsets as a formally recognised mechanism for sustainable development, under an aligned overarching regulatory umbrella. While we note that some stakeholders see offsets as providing a “licence to pollute”, we do not share this view. We believe that if properly designed and implemented, offsets can be a complementary environmental management tool for achieving desired environmental outcomes in a potentially more cost-effective manner, and with potentially greater socio-economic benefits, than using conventional regulatory mechanisms alone. We believe there are sustainable opportunities for using offsets as part of a mix of measures for carbon mitigation, water stewardship, and as a means for improving ambient air quality in the vicinity of our operations. Sasol’s view is anchored on a firm belief in the mitigation hierarchy approach. Our aim is to use offsets to support the mitigation hierarchy in those instances where onsite improvements become increasingly difficult to achieve and where offsite improvements could potentially be more meaningful in improving environmental outcomes. We are neither advocating a view that offsets are the sole solution to our environmental challenges, nor even the sole solution to non-industrial emission sources. We believe that there is a place for environmental offsets as a recognised compliance mechanism within the formal mix of regulatory measures available. We have thus been exploring specific opportunities for offsets as part of our compliance activities relating to water stewardship and air quality management. Regarding air quality, specific provision has been made for offsets in some of our amended Atmospheric Emission Licences (AEL) as conditions of postponements granted from compliance timeframes for certain of the minimum emission standards (MES). Draft offset implementation plans were submitted in June 2015 to the National Air Quality Officer (NAQO) and the licensing authority as required, and will be followed by an appropriate public participation process. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 5 Investing with Eskom in atmospheric studies facility at the University of Pretoria Sasol and Eskom, the South African public electricity utility, are large users of coal for energy generation in Southern Africa. As large coal users we are confronted with increasing and complex challenges, including an evolving and uncertain regulatory landscape, ageing assets, stretched resources and a shortage of skills to develop solutions. To address these challenges, during 2005 we initiated the Sasol-Eskom research collaboration with universities to promote data, information sharing and to develop scarce skills in scientific studies. Research study focus areas include ash and brine, impacts of atmospheric emissions on ecosystems, monitoring and reporting on mercury, ambient air quality, and wet and dry deposition rates of sulphur and nitrogen compounds. Sasol and Eskom have also collaborated with selected universities in South Africa on environmental research studies. Most recently, the partners invested in establishing a Laboratory of Atmospheric Studies at the University of Pretoria. Launched in February 2015, the research lab will be a national centre of excellence, providing infrastructure and world-class education for developing skilled atmospheric scientists. Responding to climate change and energy security challenge The anticipated policy and physical implications of climate change present a significant potential risk to our business. Identifying an appropriate response that balances the need for economic development, job creation, energy security and greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions, is one of the most important challenges we currently face. As a carbon-intensive company we recognise that we have a particular responsibility and opportunity to contribute to finding solutions to this challenge. Our approach to managing the risk of climate change We have had a comprehensive climate change programme in place since 2008. During 2014, we revised our GHG mitigation approach which now rests on four main pillars: • improving the carbon and energy efficiency of our processes; • increasing the use of natural gas (instead of coal) for energy generation; • researching the potential for offsetting GHG emissions in Southern Africa, including potential renewable energy projects; and • monitoring and influencing the development of carbon capture and storage (CCS) as a long-term solution. Our President and Chief Executive Officer and the Group Executive Committee (GEC) are ultimately accountable for implementing our climate change plan. A dedicated project team, steered by a GEC member, is responsible for executing this. The committee ensures our response to climate change is integrated with our strategic agenda, and co-ordinates our engagement with government and other stakeholders. Sasol has been reporting GHG emissions voluntarily since 1996. Since 2002, we have been reporting in accordance with the GHG reporting protocol of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute. We have voluntarily participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) since its launch in South Africa during 2007, and have made our annual responses publicly available. During 2013, in preparation for engagements with the Department of Environmental Affairs (DEA), we undertook a rigorous review of our GHG data. Informed by the findings of this review, we improved our methodologies for calculating GHG emissions and included smaller sources of emissions that were previously omitted and in 2015 we added in flaring emissions. We have also developed a measurement, reporting and verification (MRV) standard for the Group, aligned to international best practice, which is now fully utilised by our various operations. Climate change issues have also informed our dual-regional approach, in which we have prioritised gas-based growth in Southern Africa and North America. We believe that gas has a key role to play in assisting South Africa and other countries to transition to a lower-carbon economy. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 6 ! #$%& ! ##%& ! #'%& ! #(%& ! #&%& ! #)%& '$#$ '$## '$#' '$#( '$#& '$#) 333333 3'&3)&* 333333 3')3''* 3333333333333333333 3 3')3($' 3333333333333333 '(3@+@ ''3$)$ 3333333333333333 3 3 3333333333333333 #+3()) GHG Emissions 3(+'3+)#3+$@ 333333 333333333 &'*3$'#3$(( 3 &')3')@3)'( 333333 3 333333 &#(3*(D3@$' 3 77 GHG Emission (Co2 equivalent) million tons 3)$3D)( 3333333333333333 3333333333333333333 )$3(&$ 3 &*3')+ 3333333333333333 3 3333333333333333 &(3&+@ 3 3#)#3(+# 3333 3333 3#)'3)'@ 33333333333333333 3 #(*3$(( 33333333333333 3 #&D3$$# #&+3))' 33333333333333 3 3 33333333333333 #()3&)* 76 3D)3D#@ 3333333333333333 3333333333333333333 D(3$)& 3 D'3'D) 3333333333333333 3 3333333333333333 @+3DD' 3 75 333333333333333333333 3#3(#* 333333333333333333 3#3$(' 333333333333333333333 3)D# 333333333333333333333 3&*' 33333333333 'J** 3 3 33333333333 'JD) 3'J*( 33333333333333333333 33333333333333333333333 3(J$* 33333333333333333333 3(J@$ 3(J'* 33333333333333333333 74 3 333333333333 #@& '&$ 3 333333333333 3 333333333333 #)) Participating in climate change policy processes 3 '$* 333333333333 3 3333333333333333333333333 #)) 3 3333333333333333333333333 '$' 3#)* 333333333333333333333 333333333333333333333 333333333333333333333 3#)+ 333333333333333333333 3''( 3'#) 333333333333333333333 3#)D 3'$* 333333333333333333333 73 72 3 33333333333333 ## 3333333333333333 3D 33333333333333333333333 3+ 33333333333333333333333333333 3#* 33333333333333333333333 3#+ 33333333333333333333333 3#' 333333333333 &)& 3 3 333333333333 &$+ '@& 3333333333333333333333333 3 333333333333333333333 3'&' 333333333333333333333 3#@' 3#*+ 333333333333333333333 71 33333333333333 3 In South Africa, where most of our GHG emissions occur, we 3 @+ 33333333333333 ##D *& 3333333333333333333333333 3 333333333333333333333 3($( 333333333333333333333 70 continue to participate actively in government 3(*' 333333333333333333333 3('$ 333333 policy activities relating to climate change mitigation. Sasol 3D)3(#D 3333333333333333333 3D&3+*# 333333 3 3D)3D#@ 3333333333333333 D(3$)& 69 recognises the need for a policy that reduces the 3333333333333333 D'3'D) 3 3333333333333333 @+3DD' 3 carbon intensity of our economy, and that takes into account68 the socio-economic impact of such policies. 67 66 Currently, there are two key climate change policy approaches being 2010 rolled2011 out in South Africa: 2012 2013 2014 by the one 2015 National Treasury in the form of a carbon tax, and the second by the DEA in the form of carbon budgets. We er Use have concerns with key aspects of the design of these climate change policies, including Atmospheric Emissionsin particular the need for aSales) Total Production (External carbon tax given the fact that South Africa is below the national benchmark Nitrogen oxide (NOx) trajectory set by the Sulphur oxide (SOx) South Particulates African government. 155 000 This is largely due to the current slower 450 economic growth; electricity issue and industrial sector initiatives towards greater energy efficiency; the lack 400 of meaningful alignment of the carbon tax with the 150 000 proposed carbon budget; and the nature of South Africa’s 350 commitment in support of the next United Nations Water Use 1000m3 Kilotons 145 000 300 Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Conference 250 of Parties (COP) in Paris, 2015. We have engaged actively throughout 140 000 the year with government and regulators 200 to express these concerns, both individually as Sasol, as well as through representative bodies such as Business 135 000 150 Unity South Africa (BUSA). 100 130 000 50 We believe that125a000cautious and aligned approach should be -adopted in developing climate change policy that 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 balances national priorities of reducing unemployment and achieving economic growth with international commitments negotiated through the UNFCCC process towards a lower carbon, more climate-resilient economy. We remain committed to supporting the South African government in its efforts to develop Non Hazardous Waste and implement policies that address the country’s environmental and developmental challenges. Non-Hazardous Waste Total Production (External Sales) 30 000 500 Non Hazardous Waste (Kilotons) Tracking our performance against our mitigation 25 000 targets 450 400 350 Prodcution (Kt) 20 000 300 Our greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions reduction targets 15 000 250 200 10 000 150 During 2005, we committed to a global GHG intensity target5 000 which was updated in 2009. Sasol voluntarily100 committed to reducing the GHG emissions intensity of all our existing operations by 15% by 2020, from a 50 2005 baseline. Last year we undertook a review of our GHG intensity 2010 targets. 2011 This 2012 was2013 in response 2014 to2015recent government policy developments, as well as the changes in our emissions baseline following the sale of Arya Sasol Polymer Company and Sasol Solvents’ Germany operations. Following the review Hazardous Waste it was determined that long-term company-wide targets are no longer appropriate for measuring Hazardous Waste our Total progress in respect Production (External Sales) of GHG mitigation. 30 000 450 400 Hazardous Waste (Kilotons) 25 000 350 We are continuing with an internal process to finalise the development of separate GHG mitigation targets300 Prodcution (Kt) 20 000 for our South African and international operations. Having15separate 000 targets for our global operations will 250 assist in isolating our energy-intensive operations from our lower-carbon operations, and will allow for a more 200 10 000 150 meaningful assessment of our progress in meeting external policy requirements. Pending the introduction100of 5 000 the new mitigation targets we will continue to report progress against the GHG intensity measure. 50 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 GHG Emissions GHG Intensity 77 4,00 GHG Emission (Co2 equivalent) million tons 76 3,50 75 74 3,00 73 2,50 GHG Intensity 72 2,00 71 70 1,50 69 1,00 68 0,50 67 66 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Atmospheric Emissions Nitrogen oxide (NOx) Sulphur oxide (SOx) Particulates 450 SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 7 400 350 Our total GHG emissions globally (measured in CO2 equivalent) reduced from 72,3 million tons (Mt) restated for 2014 to 69,7 Mt in 2015. This figure includes direct emissions associated with our processes and our own tanker fleets (Scope 1 emissions), as well as the indirect emissions associated with our electricity imports (Scope 2). Our GHG emissions intensity (tons CO2 per ton production) increased to 3,35 from 3,28 (restated)in 2015. This increase is largely due to the sale of the Sasol Solvents Germany facility and exclusion of ORYX GTL data, both of which negatively impacted our total production levels. As of 2015, all joint venture (JV) data where Sasol does not have operational control has been excluded. Our GHG emissions baseline has also been restated due to the inclusion of an additional source of GHG emissions from flaring. The inclusion of additional sources of GHG emissions since 2013 forms part of the Group’s drive for continuous improvement in our inventory. Investing in energy efficiency Sasol has had a long-standing commitment to promoting energy efficiency, as a cost saving lever, part of our GHG mitigation measures, and in response to energy security challenges in South Africa. We are one of the founding signatories to the Energy Efficiency Accord, a voluntary commitment between various leading South African companies and the South African Department of Energy (DoE). Aligned with this Accord, we have had an energy efficiency target in place since 2005, to improve the utility energy efficiency of our South African operations by 15% by 2015 off a 2000 baseline. The target is measured as energy intensity – energy used per unit of production for our South African operations – indexed to the 2000 baseline as a reference. In 2015, the utility energy intensity index for our South African operations improved further to a cumulative 10,2% reduction in energy intensity. When this is adjusted to account for growth in electrical self-generation capacity, it equates to a 16,6% improvement in efficiency off the 2000 baseline. These improvements enabled our overall energy cost increases in South Africa to be curbed well below the energy cost inflation rate. We anticipate that mandatory energy efficiency reporting in South Africa will commence in 2016, with energy intensity being used as the indicator of energy efficiency. In addition, we expect that government will introduce new industry targets as part of the new National Energy Efficiency Strategy for 2030. With this in mind, we are currently developing a new target for 2030 that is aligned with governmental objectives. In driving energy efficiency improvements across the Group, we have continued our focus on raising awareness, improving practices to maximise operational energy efficiency and enhancing plant stability. The successful commissioning of Phase 1 of our Fischer Tropsch (FT) Wax Expansion Project has resulted in important efficiency improvements as a result of new technologies. Further efficiencies were also achieved through projects that utilise available waste heat to generate steam. After exceptional results under the voluntary Energy Efficiency Accord, when looking to the future, we will start seeing diminishing returns from improved operational practices and philosophies; however, capital project opportunities still exist. Our mining operations continuously mine further away from our processing plants and, as a result, energy efficiency will be under pressure. Our near-term focus will be on sustaining the current levels of efficiencies. Managing the risks associated with adaptation Adaptation issues (being key to sustainability) will be included under Sasol’s sustainability focus. In the short term, weather readiness (Sasol’s preparedness to deal with current severe weather conditions in such a manner that it minimises the impact on people and plant) is seen as a suitable proxy for addressing adaptation issues – currently for Sasol adaptation is more focused on resilience and vulnerability of the infrastructure to weather related impacts. Priority areas for attention remain: • ensuring new plant designs consistently adopt standards which take into account current and future climate requirements; • monitoring and tracking weather-related events; and • a yearly review of the approach. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 8 Promoting water stewardship Water is a critical feedstock for our primary processes, primarily for steam generation, process cooling and the production of hydrogen. Water is also a significant consideration across much of our value chain, which extends into urban settlements, agriculture and mining. As many of our larger facilities, suppliers and surrounding communities are located in water-stressed areas, we have a heightened responsibility for ensuring good water stewardship. Our approach to water stewardship We have adopted an holistic approach to water stewardship. In addition to implementing water efficiency and pollution prevention initiatives within our own operations, we have been exploring and implementing partnership opportunities in some of our critical water catchment areas. Management of on-site water-related issues is co-ordinated across the Group by the various Board and Executive-level structures described in our governance framework for sustainable development. The Group Environmental Committee is responsible for exercising governance and thought leadership on Group water matters. The committee provides assurance to the Group Executive Committee (GEC) that our water stewardship risks and commitments are being addressed. During 2011 we introduced voluntary water-use efficiency targets for our two most water-intensive business units. Sasol Synfuels (now Secunda Synfuels Operations) committed to a 5% improvement in water-use efficiency by 2015 on a 2010/11 baseline, while Infrachem (now Sasolburg Operations) committed to a 15% improvement in water-use efficiency. Our performance against these targets has been mixed; with Secunda Synfuels Operations achieving a 5,3% improvement and Sasolburg Operations achieving a 4% improvement. Informed by a global benchmark study, we reviewed these targets and developed regional entity-specific water targets for Secunda Synfuels Operations, Sasolburg Operations and our mining operations. Our new water targets are as follows: • Sasolburg Operations – maintain the 2015 baseline of 9,6 tons of water use per ton of saleable production; • Secunda Synfuels Operations – achieve a 2,5% improvement in water intensity against actual consumption in 2014 of 11,58 tons of water use per ton of saleable production; and • Mining – restrict the increase in potable water use to a maximum of 10%. These targets are applicable for a five-year period up to 2020. Our water stewardship performance We use the UN Global Compact CEO Water Mandate – a public/private initiative launched during July 2007 – as the framework for assessing and reporting on our water performance. Our President and CEO has reaffirmed Sasol’s endorsement of the CEO Water Mandate. Minimising impacts in our direct operations Our largest operations in South Africa are dependent on the Integrated Vaal River System (IVRS) which continues to experience water demand that exceeds the system’s sustainable supply capability. While no compulsory water-use efficiency targets have yet been set for industrial water users in South Africa, we anticipate that such targets will be imposed in the future by the Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS). Our total water use during 2015 was 135,5 million m3, which is lower than our water consumption of 149,5 million m3 in 2014. The total quantity of water recycled in 2015 was 196,7 million m3, as compared to 186,8 million m3 during 2014. The main reasons for the reduction in volumes are the sale of Sasol Solvents Germany as well as the non-reporting of our ORYX GTL facility in Qatar. The ORYX GTL facility, where Sasol is a joint venture (JV) partner, now reports separately in its own Sustainable Development Report. During 2015, Secunda Synfuels Operations undertook an audit that identified an additional three streams which met Sasol’s definition of recycled water. These additional streams have since been reported and as such resulted in an increase in recycled water for the 2015 reporting year. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 9 Promoting responsible watershed management We have concluded that we can make a more significant contribution to catchment security by working beyond the factory fence-line with other water users in the Integrated Vaal River System (IVRS) in South Africa by identifying cost-effective, high-impact opportunities for improved water usage in the catchment area. Key challenges impacting on water security in the IVRS include: the growing demand for water from the urban and agriculture sector; significant leakages from ageing municipal infrastructure; the increased need for surface water to dilute acid mine drainage entering the Vaal River System; delays in the implementation of Phase 2 of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project and the potential impacts of climate change on local water security. Given these various challenges, we developed a water security risk indicator to provide an early indication of the water security risks facing our South African operations, and enable us to take appropriate controls to minimise production losses. The indicator tracks issues relating to rainfall patterns and the integrity of water supply infrastructure in the IVRS. In response to the challenges of water losses from municipal water supply systems, Sasol continues to explore water conservation partnership opportunities with municipalities in the Vaal River catchment (notably Emfuleni, Govan Mbeki and Metsimaholo local municipalities and others), with the aim of reducing municipal water losses. Following the successful completion of the project to reduce water losses at Emfuleni municipality, Sasol has entered into a new memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the German Agency for International Cooperation (GiZ) in terms of which we are exploring further opportunities to collaborate on water conservation partnerships. Pursuing collective action Given the scale of water-related challenges, we recognise the need to work collaboratively with a range of partners. In addition to our existing and proposed partnerships with municipalities, we have continued to contribute to the activities of the South Africa Strategic Water Partners Network. As a member of the network, we have contributed to initiatives relating to water offsetting, skills development and capacity building. Contributing to public policy As part of our commitment to informing the development of effective public policy, we continue to engage actively in various government-led policy initiatives. In 2015, our engagements with the South African DWS included discussions to address challenges with some of our water use licence applications, and to provide feedback regarding the proposed Vaal River Catchment Management Agency as well as the proposed Water Management Classes for the Vaal River. We also made important progress in exploring the practical implications of water offsetting from a conceptual, policy and regulatory perspective. To examine the potential for using water offsets as part of a mix of policy measures, we have initiated and funded an investigation into the development of a South African national water-offsetting model, with the aim of incorporating the concept into the water law review process. This was undertaken in collaboration with DWS and presented to the parliamentary portfolio committee on water. More recently we have developed a case study that applies the water-offsetting concept to the preliminary results obtained from our water conservation partnership with Emfuleni municipality. We will be using the lessons learnt from this case study to further inform the development of government policy on offsetting. Transparency Since 1996 we have been reporting annually on water-related issues. In 2015, Sasol again participated in the CDP’s Water Disclosure Project. These activities of mapping water risks, responding to the identified risks, and formally disclosing and reporting on these responses, remain the backbone of our water stewardship response. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 10 SASOL ONLINE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 Delivering social value SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 1 Delivering social value Contributing to social and economic development in the regions where we have operations is essential to securing and maintaining our licence to operate. In addition to the value we create through our core business activities, we undertake targeted community and enterprise development initiatives to bring further socio-economic benefits to neighbouring communities and local economies. Creating social value through our business activities As a large corporation, we serve a higher purpose than just running our business profitably. At Sasol, we seek to play a constructive role as a employer of choice and, more broadly, as an active corporate citizen. We believe business, as a collective, has a critical role to play in meeting the challenges of a changing world – mitigating environmental risks, preserving natural resources and enhancing opportunities for economic development. We deliver value in the countries where we have a presence by: • providing employment opportunities, skills development and training interventions to our employees and the broader community; • investing in infrastructure and other social services in our host communities; • paying taxes and royalties to governments, which contribute to addressing social needs; and • purchasing goods and services from local businesses, which supports their ability to create employment and remain economically active. During the reporting period, the financial value distributed directly by Sasol amounted to R136,5 billion. This included: • R24,4 billion to our employees in wages and benefits; • R10,1 billion in direct taxes to government; • R49,5 billion in direct and indirect taxes; • R14,2 billion to our providers of equity capital; • R3,3 billion to our providers of loan capital; and • R35 billion re-invested in the Group to sustain value for stakeholders. In addition, R751,9 million was invested in socio-economic development initiatives in our communities (excluding internal skills development). SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 2 Promoting broad-based black economic empowerment in South Africa As at 30 June 2015, Sasol achieved level 4 broad-based black economic empowerment (BBBEE) contributor status based on our performance of the following pillars: • Equity ownership: Through the Ixia Coal transaction and the participation of Sasol Mining employees in the Sasol Inzalo share transaction, combined BBBEE ownership in Sasol Mining is over 40%. This exceeds the Mining Charter target of 26% by 2014. In support of the Liquid Fuels Charter, BBBEE group Tshwarisano LFB Investment (Pty) Ltd owns 25% of our liquid fuels production, distribution and marketing operations, housed in Sasol Oil (Pty) Ltd. The Sasol Inzalo Foundation was established in September 2008 and at the time was part of South Africa’s single biggest BBBEE equity transaction. This transaction transferred 10% of Sasol shares into the hands of South Africans from designated groups; • Employment equity: We have made important progress during 2015 in meeting our employment equity plan for the period 2012 to 2017; • Preferential procurement: Preferential procurement, based on the 2007 BBBEE Codes amounted to R36,9 billion, representing 88% of our total measured procurement spend of R41,9 billion. We have significantly improved our procurement from black-owned and black women-owned enterprises from R5,8 billion to R6,7 billion; • Enterprise development: Supporting independent small and medium enterprises and bolstering our supply chain through our dedicated Enterprise and Supplier Development activities; • Skills development: We invested R509,9 million in skills development for black employees which includes R157,26 million for black women employees; and • Socio-economic development: We invested R751,9 million in socio-economic development initiatives in South Africa which includes the R31,6 million invested in financing small and medium businesses, as well as R71,6 million invested through the Sasol Inzalo Foundation in education. Promoting social and economic development Stimulating economic growth through small business development A growing and active small, medium and micro-enterprises (SMMEs) sector is vital for broadening economic participation and delivering on socio-economic development priorities. Supporting the development of SMMEs contributes to economic growth and helps us diversify our supply chain and meet our social transformation goals in South Africa. To drive these objectives, we have dedicated Enterprise and Supplier Development (ESD) activities. Through our ESD activities, we have refocused our investment to support existing and potential suppliers. The ESD teams, located at our operating hubs in Secunda and Sasolburg, South Africa, have engaged more than 150 enterprises to understand the extent and nature of support required. Dedicated in-house enterprise development specialists assisted with profiling the enterprises and identifying core support interventions required to assist them in meeting development needs. Recognising that access to infrastructure and facilities is a key growth enabler for SMMEs, we are developing a 172-hectare eco-industrial park in Sasolburg, where we are selling serviced stands at competitive rates to businesses for general and industrial business activities. The park will also provide on-site business development and technical support services for qualifying SMMEs in the Vaal Triangle. Approximately 62% of the park is complete and has 151 serviced stands of which 40% are operational, have been purchased and/ or are pending registration. The park has attracted enterprises from numerous industry sectors including manufacturing, maintenance, service industries and warehousing-related activities and is expected to positively influence the employment rate in and around Sasolburg. Partnering with relevant stakeholders is a key contributor to our success in supporting SMMEs. In 2015 we completed the construction and equipping of the R50 million, Sasol Business Incubator at the eco-industrial park in Sasolburg, in partnership with the Department of Trade and Industry (dti). This facility forms part of the dti’s campaign to roll-out 200 business incubators nationwide. The development includes a 2 000 m2 building SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 3 that will provide office-based incubation services. A further 2 000 m2 comprising four production buildings will cater for the incubation of start-up enterprises and small-scale manufacturing enterprises. Four of the five buildings were constructed using alternative building technologies acquired from SMMEs supported by Sasol. The Sasol Siyakha Enterprise and Supplier Development Fund provided our SMME suppliers with loan funding at competitive rates to bolster their operational capacity and capability. In 2015 we provided loan funding to the value of R31,6 million to enterprises in facilities management, mining operations, mechanical maintenance, fabrication and wax cosmetic businesses. The loans were used for the purchase of assets and working capital to improve productivity, as well as to extend their customer portfolio. The provision of these loans also enabled job creation opportunities for skilled and unskilled labour. During 2015 we maintained our partnership with Primestars – who develop programmes for high school learners from disadvantaged communities and use their network of cinemas as “Educational Theatres of Learning”. The “Step Up to Start Up 2, 2015” project aims to develop and produce an educational film that will encourage entrepreneurial drive in the mindset of the South African youth. We are a proud sponsor of the 2015 project with a specific focus on encouraging innovation and small scale manufacturing initiatives aligned with the objectives of the Sasol Business Incubator. While the focus of our SMME development activities is primarily in the communities in which we operate, the positive impacts of our enterprise and supplier development programmes contribute more broadly to economic development and transformation. Supporting economic transformation through preferential procurement Preferential procurement provides another valuable opportunity for driving social and economic transformation. Our longstanding support for preferential procurement focuses specifically on promoting local spend around our major operating hubs in South Africa, as well as targeting largely black-owned enterprises as part of our commitment to BBBEE. As a signatory to the dti’s Local Procurement Accord, we have implemented various measures aimed at promoting an increase in local and regional based external spend. During 2015 the combined preferential procurement spend in the Sasolburg and Secunda regions increased to R6,3 billion (2014: R5,6 billion). While local procurement spending has increased in both areas, the number of service providers entering our facilities has declined significantly, mainly as a result of reduced capital project activity. This trend is expected to continue into the foreseeable future. Given this challenge, we have been implementing various initiatives to fast-track the engagement of additional local and regional suppliers. We have held supplier days at Sasolburg and Secunda and identified over 60 high potential new suppliers in various procurement categories. We have also engaged with inactive local suppliers and are working closely with them to improve their service offering. Our ESD teams continue to provide new and existing suppliers with targeted interventions aimed at enhancing their business viability. In addition to driving regional BBBEE through our own procurement spend, we have revised our standard terms and conditions in agreements with contractors to actively drive local preferential procurement in any sub-contracting that our suppliers might undertake. We are also currently reviewing our standard request for quotation or proposal documentation for suppliers, to ask them to include plans on the use of local labour. Creating value through social investment Our social investment intiatives seek to promote people-centred, needs-driven sustainable development of the communities in which we operate. We aim to create sustained social impact through activities focused on legacy creation and to integrate the concept of “giving” into the Sasol culture. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 4 We define corporate social responsibility (CSR) as the co-creation of shared and sustainable value in communities within which we operate. Our CSR approach aims to: • improve quality of life in communities where we operate; • support Sasol’s strategic business agenda; • foster a spirit of co-operation and partnership with communities and stakeholders; and • enable employee involvement. Our commitment to delivering social value extends beyond our operations’ boundries to neighbouring communities where we participate in development programmes, promote employee volunteerism, support local charities and procure goods and services locally as much as possible. We work to develop and promote people-centred, long-term sustainable initiatives through CSR programmes based on input from extensive engagement with our communities and employees. Partnerships with government at all levels, civil society structures, educational institutions and nongovernmental organisations (NGOs) have assisted us in making a difference to the lives of the communities around our operations. To this end, we conduct various projects and programmes by following a structured process: • engage with stakeholders within our host communities to better understand the issues and problems that need to be addressed; • determine the best possible approach, as well as review global best practices which address the identified issues; and • work with our partners to develop and execute the most effective, impactful and sustainable programmes to address the issues and challenges. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 5 Our integrated approach to corporate social responsibility The Sasol Global Foundation (SGF) was set up in 2013 to establish an appropriate structure to enable and govern a fully integrated approach to corporate social investment throughout the Group. Our global social responsibility strategy prioritises programmes and projects in the following focus areas: • Education and skills development: Developing skills and providing resources for schools, with a focus on science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) subjects, providing undergraduate bursaries, supporting university collaborations including postgraduate studies, investing in youth development with a focus on entrepreneurial and vocational skills development, as well as developing technical skills and capacity. • Environment: Protecting the environment, through initiatives including sustainable water use and loss prevention, energy access and security, creating value from waste, air quality improvements and biodiversity. • Community development: Investing in the communities in which we operate through local development programmes and enterprise development. • Employee volunteerism Sasol for Good: Leveraging the considerable and diverse abilities and expertise of Sasol employees by enabling them to volunteer their time and resources in their communities. The SGF’s Board of Governors comprises Sasol’s senior leadership including the President and CEO. It determines the investment strategy, oversees governance, allocates resources, and decides on the focus areas for CSR for the Group globally. The Board of Governors meet three times a year and report to Sasol’s President and CEO. The SGF management team is responsible for establishing governance procedures, policies and systems, managing the investment portfolio, as well as monitoring and measuring all programmes. In June 2015 we introduced a standardised monthly reporting dashboard, across diverse performance indicators to monitor progress. During 2015, the Sasol Global Foundation focused on the following areas of activity: • embedding the governance structure and its operating model across the Group including re-orienting the focus towards agreed investment areas; • overseeing development of local development plans and global budgets; • aligning Sasol’s social responsibility delivery vehicles and key stakeholders with the Sasol Employee Volunteering Programme Sasol for Good, which was approved and officially launched at the beginning of financial year 2016; and • ensuring that worldwide the social responsibility delivery vehicles are fully integrated and leverage the core competencies of our business. Introducing the Sasol Employee Volunteerism Programme Sasol for Good In continuing the drive to be an engaged and responsible corporate citizen, we are proud of our global Sasol Employee Volunteerism Programme, Sasol for Good. The programme leverages the considerable and diverse abilities and expertise of Sasol employees to empower communities and co-create sustainable livelihoods. Sasol for Good enables our people to volunteer their time and resources in their respective communities. It was developed in line with international best practice and approved by the Sasol Global Foundation’s Board of Governors in February 2015. Sasol for Good takes into account the varying and region-specific needs of our communities with a specific focus on education and skills development, protecting the environment and improving the quality of life of our communities through community development initiatives. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 6 Facilitating opportunities for Sasol staff to participate in social investment projects will: • enable change in communities through long-term partnerships and engagement; • enable our employees to make a contribution as Sasol ambassadors; • build a culture of caring in communities; and • comply with all relevant legal and policy requirements for volunteering in host countries. Our social responsibility performance in 2015 During 2015, the Group invested R751,9 million in corporate social responsibility programmes globally, with 88% spent in host communities in South Africa. Our total CSR spend for the year included: • R441,7 million in education, which includes the Sasol Inzalo Foundation spend of R71,6 million; • R45,1 million on environmental projects; • R232,2 million on community development, which includes the R191,5 million Sasol Ikusasa investment in the Metsimaholo and Govan Mbeki municipalities in Sasolburg and Secunda; • R31,6 million on financing small and medium enterprises; and • R1,3 million on employee volunteerism. To ensure that we continue our progress we have outlined the following objectives for new financial year: • continue engagements with our stakeholders within our host communities to understand the issues and jointly develop suitable programmes to address these; • further simplify the Sasol Global Foundation’s governance structure and operating model to improve delivery of our CSR programmes; • establish a monitoring and evaluation framework for our programmes; • develop key indicators to measure, where possible, the impact of our CSR programmes; and • implement the Sasol Employee Volunteerism Programme Sasol for Good. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 7 Corporate Social Investment in South Africa Developing science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) skills. Sasol invested over R400 million during 2015 on education and skills development, with a focus on developing skills and providing resources for schools in STEM subjects. It is in Sasol’s interest to have the right talent attracted to our sector and to our business. For us to maintain our technological lead, we need skilled employees, equipped in science, technology, engineering and mathematics. This is also important for South Africa. Improved performance in these subjects will help to alleviate the country’s skills deficit and facilitate economic growth. 2015 marked the 10th year of Sasol’s partnership programme with South African universities. The programme was designed to build competencies and improve research and teaching facilities in science and engineering disciplines. Over the 10-year period, a total of R250 million was spent with 11 universities, benefiting more than 140 academics. Since the Sasol Inzalo Foundation’s first programmes started running in 2010, it has established a network of five technical high schools of excellence, developed workbooks and teacher guides for STEM subjects reaching over three million children, delivered three mobile science and mathematics laboratories to schools and supported a significant number of graduates in attaining undergraduate and postgraduate degrees, including PhDs in the STEM disciplines. Supporting community development Being a responsible organisation is paramount for Sasol. As an anchor industrial tenant in both Secunda and Sasolburg we have a vested interest in ensuring the wellbeing of the towns and its residents, including neighbouring communities. Through our Sasol Ikusasa initiative, we demonstrated our commitment to local government, our employees and the communities surrounding our operations. Once completed, Sasol will have invested R800 million in the Govan Mbeki and Metsimaholo municipalities into much needed improvements in these sectors. Sasol carefully selected specific interventions to be in line with the economic development plans of the Govan Mbeki and Metsimaholo municipalities and to better align to the South African government’s National Development Plan. The Sasol Ikusasa initiative also seeks to create environment where talented people can thrive, strengthen internal and external partnerships and build capacity in our host municipalities.During 2015, we invested R109,6 million in Secunda and R81,9 million in Sasolburg. Sasol Ikusasa community development projects recently implemented include: Sasolburg • providing artisan training for community members; • renovating the Zamdela community health centre; • working with the Metsimaholo municipality’s to manage the Sasolburg municipal landfill site; • enabling two local sport clubs to host national sport events; and • developing community parks and school outdoor gymnasiums. Secunda • Project 2019 which enrolls well-performing grade 8 mathematics, science and English learners for intensive and continuous academic support; • eMbalenhle business hive for small entrepreneurs; • Electrical Engineering and Fitting and Turning Skills Development programme for Youth in partnership with Gert Sibande College; SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 8 • the Orphan and Vulnerable Children programme which accommodates 65 children for after school tutoring in mathematics, science and English; and • eMbalenhle reticulation project and Project Phakamisa which aims to build capacity on financial infrastructure planning development. Sasol is also proud to be associated with the Nelson Mandela’s Children’s Hospital and committed R20 million toward this initiative. The hospital will be a dedicated paediatric referral facility serving all children of Southern Africa. The hospital is planned to open in December 2016. We have refocused and heightened our attention in addressing environmental issues in collaboration with our communities. Some achievements included: • donated Linear Low Density Polyethylene to one of our Base Chemical’s customers, JoJo Tanks, who manufactured six 5 000 liter water tanks. These were installed at Kaponelang Primary School, Sasolburg and are used to store treated water to be used in multiple applications; • co-sponsored the Plastics SA educational and training booklet. The publication is an information guide on plastic which is distributed to government waste management departments, waste collectors, environmental organisations, educators and learners, the general public and training departments; and • water waste management and investment in water infrastructure in Sasolburg and Secunda . SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 9 Corporate social investment in the United States Our social investments in the United States are informed by feedback we receive through extensive engagement with our neighbours and employees. Over the past few years we have maintained a regular “high touch” approach to engaging and working with our neighbouring communities. This includes regular face-to-face meetings with community members, to acknowledge their concerns and needs and discuss solutions. We continue to receive positive feedback from community partners and neighbours for the innovative and collaborative way we engage and work with them. The following initiatives targeting specific community interests and aspirations have been successfully implemented: • a voluntary Property Purchase Programme; • facilitated a workforce development pipeline; and • financing for construction craft training. Sasol’s growth plans in Southwest Louisiana resulted in the expansion of our existing facility toward neighbouring communities to the west and northwest. In consultation with residents in those areas, we developed and launched Sasol’s Voluntary Property Purchase Programme during 2013. The scheme has been very well received. More than 80% of property owners eligible for the programme registered to participate. Sasol has made more than 700 offers on parcels, with a great number already accepted and closed. We funded the Southwest Louisiana Workforce Resource Guide – a step-by-step guide to help individuals in choosing a career, acquiring training, certifications, basic life skills, and applying effectively for a job. The initiative targets the estimated 20% of the Southwest Louisiana unemployed and under-educated population. Sasol also partnered to establish a pilot scholarship fund that provides financial support for participating individuals. We have invested more than US$340 000 in the pilot programme. In excess of 100 applications were received and following a multi-stakeholder adjudication process 50 scholarships were awarded 29 recipients are from Westlake/Mossville area in Southwest Louisiana. The Southwest Louisiana Construction Users Council (SLCUC) is a forum through which contractors, engineering firms and local owners or users of construction and maintenance services address local contract labour needs. In preparing for the high growth expected in the area, Sasol contributed US$635 000 towards the advance funding needed by the SLCUC to provide pre-training for the local construction workforce. Corporate social investment in Mozambique During the reporting period we spent R27 million on corporate social responsibility projects in Mozambique. Our focus was on improving the quality of basic education, as well as facilitating access to water and healthcare. Education and Skills Development Developing local capabilities through education, training and skills development is pivotal in ensuring that Mozambique’s hydrocarbon resources benefit all its citizens. Together with our partners in the Central Processing Facility (CPF) in Temane, we achieved the following: • since 2004 we have been involved in upgrading the infrastructure of Mangungumete Primary School situated close to the CPF. The school currently accommodates 1 020 learners from the surrounding areas. In 2014, we embarked on a project to construct and equip additional four classrooms which will accommodate 500 extra pupils. These were handed over to the school in April this year; • we signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Pedagogical University (UP) to endorse a teachers’ training programme aimed at improving the competence of teachers who are involved in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) subjects. This initiative is the first of its kind in Mozambique. The teachers’ training programme is aimed at improving quality of education for STEM-related SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 10 subjects for students from grade 8 to 12, ensuring readiness for university and guiding students towards oiland gas-related careers. To date, 34 teachers have been trained in teaching techniques that will benefit learners; • with a view to improving conditions for students and teachers, aligned with Government of Mozambique’s (GoM) drive to provide school desks, Sasol handed over 600 school desks to schools in the Inhassoro, Moabite, Govern and Vilanculo districts. The initiative is being run over a period of three years and intendeds to benefit around 8 000 students. The first series of desks were handed over to Temane Primary School at an event attended by the Mozambican Minister of Education and Human Development; • our structured three-year artisan learning programme aimed at fast-tracking the development of soughtafter artisans in fields covering electrical training, instrumentation, mechanical and fitting production, has yielded positive outcomes. The first learners completed their training in 2014 and began working at the Central Processing Facility (CPF) in 2015; • we partnered with the National Institute for Employment and Vocational Training (INEFP) to establish a vocational training centre in Inhassoro to support training and development of Mozambicans in technical skills. Over the next five years, over 460 Mozambicans will benefit from the Inhassoro Training Centre. The first intake in 2015 comprised 17 learners, including six female candidates; • we have been collaborating with the University of Eduardo Mondlane (UEM) to promote skills in the petroleum industry since 2014. This progressed during the year and the downstream Masters curriculum for petroleum and gas studies, designed by UEM with Sasol’s support, is expected to be launched in February 2016; • in 2013, in partnership with the Ministry of Mineral Resources (now the Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy), we initiated a bursary programme in terms of which 30 bursaries are awarded annually to qualifying students for university courses relating to the oil and gas industry. Now in its third year, the programme has 67 students studying in Malaysia, Mozambique and South Africa. The first students are expected to graduate in 2016; • at Ressano Garcia Secondary School, we rehabilitated two classrooms, converting one into a fully equipped physics, biology and chemistry laboratory and the other into a computer room with 25 computers; and • on-the-job training of local contractors provides practical experience and enhances the employability of local nationals. At the beginning of 2016, we will begin a series of supplier development interventions targeted at locally owned small, medium and micro enterprises (SMMEs) which will comprise one-to-many sessions, as well as coaching and mentoring. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 11 Improving access to water and enabling access to healthcare Access to clean potable water helps to mitigate the risk of water-borne disease, improves sanitation and alleviates the burden of having to carry water by hand – a task which often falls to women and young girls who sacrifice their time and their education to collect water. In Inhamabane province, we sank two new boreholes to assist the Temane and Benzane Health Centres. In partnership with the Mozambican Ministry of Health, we built and equipped the Temane and Benzane Health Centres located in Inhassoro and Mabote districts respectively, and provided two houses at each centre for medical personnel. Construction began in April 2014. In addition, to accommodate the increasing number of patients visiting the Mangungumete Clinic close to the CPF, we built and equipped a doctor’s house at the clinic to ensure the availability of a permanent doctor. Shortly after year end, the Benzane Health Centre was handed over to the GoM and community. The Temane and Pambara Health Centres will be handed over in November and December 2016 respectively. The three health centres will meet the needs of approximately 90 000 people. Supporting local suppliers In support of encouraging local suppliers within our supply chain, we have initiated a supplier development programme to enable small businesses to access opportunities within our procurement process and to broaden the scope of our supply base in Mozambique. The programme has identified SMMEs in Inhassoro and Vilanculo districts and in Gaza province. The aim of the programme is to educate SMMEs on how to do business better with Sasol in order to: • improve SMMEs’ understanding of Sasol’s standards and contracting requirements, thereby enabling them to respond to tender processes more competitively; and • proactively address SMMEs issues of concern, thereby improving existing relationships. Corporate social investment in Eurasia Qatar investing in our community with a focus on people with disabilities and the environment Our social investments in Qatar focus on the four pillars of Qatar’s National Vision 2030 and include investments in the human, social, economic and environmental sectors. We support various initiatives relating to education, health and safety, arts and culture, skills development and environmental protection. Sasol’s signature corporate social responsibility initiatives are the Definitely Able initiative and the award winning Qatar e-Nature smart phone application. Our Definitely Able initiative, now in its fourth year, aims to highlight the positive contributions of people living with disabilities and create opportunities for them. The initiative partners with local stakeholders to raise awareness and promote social acceptance and inclusion of people with disabilities. As part of the Definitely Able initiative, Sasol and the British Council, in partnership with Qatar Museums under the patronage of Her Excellency Sheikha Al-Mayassa Bint Hamad Al-Thani, Chairperson of Qatar Museums and sister of the Emir, organised and hosted a two-day Definitely Able Conference and the Ilham (Inspiration) Art Exhibition which ran for ten days at the Museum of Islamic Art. The art exhibition showcased the talents of local and international disabled artists. Both events provided a platform for the voices of the Qatar disabled community and an opportunity for policy makers and stakeholders from Qatar and around the world to share and learn from each other’s experiences. Last year, Sasol partnered with Qatar Philharmonic Orchestra and hosted the British Paraorchestra in Doha. The British Paraorchestra is the world’s first professional ensemble for disabled musicians and is pioneering a SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 12 global movement to showcase extraordinary talent. The week-long recital programme featured performances including a major concert with the Qatar Philharmonic Orchestra at the Katara Opera House. The Qatar e-Nature smart phone application project, in partnership with the Friends of the Environment Centre, promotes awareness of the rich diversity of Qatar’s natural environment including flora, birds, insects, mammals, reptiles and marine life. The application is available in both English and Arabic. The marine life edition will be launched during the new financial year. With the support of the Ministry of Education (Supreme Education Council), to increase the environmental awareness among students, Sasol conducts the Qatar e-Nature schools contest on yearly basis. This year the contest held over three months, reached all 380 schools in Qatar and engaged with 250 000 students. The contest concluded with an awards ceremony where 22 winners were announced. In the related photographic competition over 3 000 entries were received. During 2015 Sasol’s Qatar social investment initiatives received the following awards: • “Best Mobile Government Service Award” for the Qatar e-Nature smart phone application from His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al-Maktoum, United Arab Emirates’ Vice President, Prime Minister and Ruler of Dubai; • CSR Leadership award for Sasol Qatar from Professor Sheikha Al Misnad, President of Qatar University; • “Best Smart Mobile Application Award” for the Qatar e-Nature application from His Excellency Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah Al Mubarak Al Sabah, Kuwaiti Minister of State for Cabinet Affairs and Chairman of the Central Agency for Information Technology; and • Environmental Contribution Award for the Qatar e-Nature smart phone application from the Qatari Minister of Environment, His Excellency Ahmad Bin Amer Al-Humaidi. Investing in education and skills development in Uzbekistan Our social investments in Uzbekistan focused on education and economic development. Our key initiatives during the review period include: • Sasol scholarship programme in partnership with Westminster International University in Tashkent where 19 deserving students received scholarships; • United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) partnership – UNDP and Sasol have partnered since 2013 to promote socially inclusive business models that address development challenges and offer the prospect of sustainable growth and employment for low-income and vulnerable people in rural regions of Uzbekistan; and • small-scale institutional partnership building initiatives, designed to respond to specific needs at the grass-roots level in local communities, focusing on pre-school and school education, and rehabilitation of disabled children. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 13 Stimulating interest in science and technology in Germany Sasol’s chemicals processing facility in BrunsbÜttel support various local school initiatives to create interest in science and technology. We partner with other chemical businesses in the region to facilitate enriching, entertaining and interesting chemistry lessons and projects at secondary schools. We also arrange an experimental laboratory where students can carry out chemical experiments under professional supervision. All our facilities in Germany participate in Germany’s national day of action which promotes the youth to follow careers in science and technology as well as supportive skilled trades. Promoting ethical behavior through Sasol Code of Ethics In 2015, we approved a significantly revised Code of Ethics, which governs our approach to ensuring sound ethical behaviour across the Group. The principles, standards and commitments in the code apply globally, uniformly and without exception to all Sasol businesses, employees, directors, contractors and business relationships. The code addresses issues relating to corruption, bribery, conflicts of interest, human rights. It describes the four fundamental Sasol ethical standards – responsibility, honesty, fairness and respect – that should inform the decisions of all employees in their day-to-day business activities. Each year, senior and middle management, as well as employees identified as being in “high risk” positions, are required to formally certify that they know and understand the Code of Ethics and its associated guidelines. We provide regular training to Ethics Officers in all aspects of ethics management. Promoting disclosure through our EthicsLine Employees and other stakeholders can report any breach of the Code of Ethics via our independently managed, anonymous reporting facility, EthicsLine, or directly to the Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer. All calls are attended to and credible allegations investigated. A formal process is in place to track, report and close out calls. The Group ethics system, a custom-designed technology platform, provides strictly controlled access to ethics investigations. The system also enables the Group Ethics Office to identify trends relating to EthicsLine activity and investigations. Direct disclosures received by the office of the President and CEO or any other executive are also channelled through the system. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 14 The EthicsLine investigation process requires that different people formulate allegations, investigate allegations and conclude on the adequacy of investigations and ultimately on the adequacy of corrective actions taken. vIn 2015, 476 calls were made to the EthicsLine, many of which had multiple allegations. A total of 676 allegations were formulated for investigation. Of these allegations, 28% related to dishonesty, 28% to irresponsibility, 24% to unfairness and the remainder to disrespect. The number of calls represents an 18% decrease from the 583 calls received during 2014. A total of 143 allegations investigated during the year were found to be substantiated or partially substantiated. Actions taken in respect of substantiated allegations include dismissals, final written and verbal warnings, suspensions without pay, coaching and improvements in internal controls. The Group Ethics Office provides assurance that appropriate corrective actions are taken on ethical transgressions. Relevant cases and trends are reported to the appropriate committees within the business or function on a quarterly basis. Trends are reported to the Nomination, Governance, Social and Ethics Committee. In addition, potentially high risk and sensitive matters which relate to or could have an impact on financial management and/or the financial reporting systems are reported to the Audit Committee. Respecting human rights As an international integrated energy and chemicals company, we recognise that we may operate in regions where human rights could be at risk, whether directly in our own operations, or indirectly through our value chain and associated relationships. This risk exposure highlights the importance of performing due diligence to ensure that we respect human rights throughout our operations and in our relationships with stakeholders. Our approach to human rights Our policy on respecting human rights forms part of the recently revised Code of Ethics. Human rights considerations are also integrated into our recently revised supplier Code of Conduct. The policy was informed by a comprehensive independent study that reviewed our existing approach and risk exposure to human rights abuse. While certain gaps were identified, none suggested that any of our activities directly demonstrated a lack of respect for human rights. Although there were no indications of any direct complicity in human rights abuses, it remains a potential risk area due to the extent of Sasol’s value chain. The policy defines our commitment to respecting human rights as set out in the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the International Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We will strive to identify, assess and manage human rights impacts and risks throughout our activities. We aim to make a positive and constructive contribution to the reduction and elimination of human rights abuses within our sphere of influence, and expect our suppliers, partners and customers to uphold the same standards. Country risk assessments are performed before entering any given country. These assessments include screening for potential human rights non-compliance or violations. We evaluate all our investment decisions against the Sasol Code of Ethics and, as a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, we endeavour to ensure compliance with domestic and international human rights regulations and principles. No reports of Sasol being complicit in any human rights violations have been recorded to date. Promoting supplier accountability Sasol has an extensive supply chain, with more than 7 000 suppliers globally providing a diverse range of goods and services. These include suppliers of feedstock, utilities, logistics, industrial facilities and an array of associated professional and support functions. Ensuring responsible management of these suppliers is critical to maintaining our production integrity and ensuring alignment with our principles and practices relating to sustainable development. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 15 Promoting sustainable supply chain management At the heart of our supply chain management practices is the drive to ensure the secure supply of goods, services and products to our operating units and customers. A common thread in our supply chain practices is the concept of “sustainable supply” – an approach that encourages good governance practices and the effective management of economic, environmental and social impacts during the lifecycle of the provision of goods, services and products. This enables us to manage our supply chain risks, achieve cost efficiencies, enhance our service offering and build a culture of responsibility. In 2015 we placed a strong emphasis on realising our sustainable supply chain value proposition, by beginning to embed pragmatic, progressive changes across various processes in our supply chain. Based on our understanding of the complexity and uncertainties that could negatively impact our goal of sustainable supply, we have identified four key focus areas to be addressed: economic impact, environment and safety, social impact and ethics. We manage our supply risks in accordance with the Group Enterprise Risk Management methodology. Through our structured, risk-based approach, we have identified the following four main risk areas, and have designed and are implementing Group controls to mitigate the risks within each of these areas: • a significant safety or environmental incident that could disrupt supply or result in harm; • a significant infrastructure or supplier capability constraint that could disrupt supply; • non-compliance to laws, regulations or standards leading to reputational damage, fines, criminal proceedings or loss of income; and • a significant supply chain business enablement failure that could disrupt supply to our operating facilities or our customers. During 2015 a new Sasol Supplier Code of Ethics, which governs the conduct of Sasol and all of our subsidiaries, sub-contractors, consultants, distributors and suppliers, was approved. The code outlines our commitments to human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption practices and describes our expectations regarding suppliers’ performance on these issues. Verification of compliance with the code will be subject to audits by Sasol or a designated third party. We will engage with suppliers who deviate from or do not support our Supplier Code of Ethics and issues will be addressed. Our aim is to achieve a commitment to acceptable levels of ethical behaviour. In 2015 we conducted approximately 400 supplier audits based on the standard Sasol supplier requirements. In future we will include the verification of compliance to the new Supplier Code of Ethics in the audits. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 16 SASOL ONLINE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 Independent Assurance Report to the directors of Sasol Limited SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 1 Independent Assurance Report to the directors of Sasol Limited We have been engaged by the directors of Sasol Limited (the “Company”) to perform an independent limited assurance engagement in respect of Selected Sustainability Information reported in the Company’s online Sustainable Development Information for the year ending 30 June 2015 (the “Report”). This report is produced in accordance with the terms of our contract with the Company dated 20 July 2015. Independence and expertise We have complied with the International Federation of Accountants’ (IFAC) Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, which includes comprehensive independence and other requirements founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, and professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. Our engagement was conducted by a multi-disciplinary team of health, safety, environmental and assurance specialists with extensive experience in sustainability reporting. Scope and subject matter The following Selected Sustainability Information in the Report was selected for an expression of limited assurance: • Total energy use (thousand GJ) • Total Scope 1 – Direct GHG emissions (Kilotons) • Total Scope 2 – Electricity indirect GHG emissions (Kilotons) • Total Scope 3 – Other indirect GHG emissions (Kilotons) • Total greenhouse gases (GHG) (Kilotons) • Total greenhouse gases (Kilotons carbon equivalent) • GHG intensity (rate) • Total direct methane (CH4) (Tons) • Total direct nitrous oxide (N2O) (Tons) • Total production (external sales) (Kilotons) • Total material use (Kilotons) We have not carried out any work on data reported for prior reporting periods, nor have we performed work in respect of future projections and targets. We have not conducted any work outside of the agreed scope and therefore restrict our conclusion to the Selected Sustainability Information. Respective responsibilities of the directors and PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc. The directors are responsible for selection, preparation and presentation of the Selected Sustainability Information in accordance with the criteria set out in the Company’s Group Procedure for sustainable development reporting definitions set out on the corporate website, referred to as the “Reporting Criteria”. The directors are also responsible for designing, implementing and maintaining of internal controls as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the Selected Sustainability Information that are free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. Our responsibility is to form an independent conclusion, based on our limited assurance procedures, on whether anything has come to our attention to indicate that Selected Sustainability Information has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. This report, including the conclusion, has been prepared solely for the directors of the Company as a body, to assist the directors in reporting on the Company’s sustainable development performance and activities. We permit the disclosure of this Report within the Report for the year ended 30 June 2015, to enable the directors to demonstrate they have discharged their governance responsibilities by commissioning an independent assurance report in connection with the Report. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the directors as a body and the Company for our work or this Report save where terms are expressly agreed and with our prior consent in writing. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 2 Assurance work performed We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000: Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000), and, in respect of greenhouse gas emissions, International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410: Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements (ISAE 3410), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. These standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance on the Selected Sustainability Information as per the terms of our engagement. Our work included examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the Selected Sustainability Information. It also included an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Selected Sustainability Information. We planned and performed our work so as to obtain all the information and explanations that we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence on which to base our conclusion in respect of the Selected Sustainability Information. Our limited assurance procedures primarily comprised: • reviewing the processes that Sasol Limited have in place for determining the Selected Sustainability Information included in the Report; • obtaining an understanding of the systems used to generate, aggregate and report the Selected Sustainability Information; • conducting interviews with management at head office and selected operations; • evaluating the data generation and reporting processes against the Reporting Criteria; • performing key controls testing and testing of accuracy of data report on a sample basis at head office and five selected operations for the Selected Sustainability Information; and • reviewing the consistency between the Selected Sustainability Information and related disclosures in the Report. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement under ISAE 3000. Consequently, the nature, timing and extent of procedures for gathering sufficient appropriate evidence are deliberately limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore less assurance is obtained with a limited assurance engagement than for a reasonable assurance engagement. The procedures selected depend on our judgement, including the assessment of the risk of material misstatement of the Selected Sustainability Information, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments; we consider internal control relevant to the Company’s preparation of the Selected Sustainability Information in order to design procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. Inherent limitations Non-financial performance information is subject to more inherent limitations than financial information, given the characteristics of the subject matter and the methods used for determining, calculating, sampling and estimating such information. The absence of a significant body of established practice on which to draw allows for the selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques which can result in materially different measurements and can impact comparability. Qualitative interpretations of relevance, materiality and the accuracy of data are subject to individual assumptions and judgements. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. Furthermore, the nature and methods used to determine such information, as well as the measurement criteria and the precision thereof, may change over time. It is important to read the Report in the context of the Company’s Group Procedure for sustainable development reporting definitions set out on the corporate website. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 3 In particular, where the information relies on carbon emissions conversion factors derived by independent third parties, or internal laboratory results, our assurance work has not included examination of the derivation of those factors and other third party or laboratory information. Conclusion Based on the results of our limited assurance procedures nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Selected Sustainability Information for the year ended 30 June 2015, has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. Other matters The maintenance and integrity of the Sasol corporate website is the responsibility of the Sasol directors. Our procedures did not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly we accept no responsibility for any changes to either the information in the Report or our Independent Assurance Report that may have occurred since the initial date of presentation on the Sasol website. PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc. Registered Auditor Director: Jayne Mammatt Johannesburg 27 October 2015 SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 4 SASOL ONLINE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 Performance data SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 1 Performance data Performance Data Human Capital – our people 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Employee numbers1 30 919 33 049 34 629 34 916 33 708 33 054 Employee turnover 3 494 # 1 826 1 807 1 136 1 738 1 374 Total number of person hours worked (million) 178,35 213,97 229,19 222,91 202,3 193,4 Safety Recordable case rate2 (including illnesses) 0,40 0,42 0,37 0,41 0,42 0,51 Recordable case rate (excluding illnesses) 0,32 0,36 0,33* 0,37* 0,37 0,45 Employee and service provider fatalities 1 5 5 4 15 9 Employee and service provider fatal injury frequency rate 0,001 0,004 0,005 0,003 0,015 0,009 Fires, explosions and releases3 27 30 43 42 51 63 Transport incidents4 20 29 29 36 47 37 Total number of first aid cases 582 641 926 961 NR NR Occupational illness5 Hearing loss 31 23 15 23 32 27 Lung illnesses 32 42 28 29 26 25 Asbestosis 0 0 1 1 1 4 Tuberculosis6 0 0 0 0 0 7 Mesothelioma 0 0 0 0 0 1 Pneumoconiosis 14 21 21 20 23 9 Other lung illness 18 21 6 8 3 3 Other 0 2 1 1 0 3 Skills development Investment in employee learning (R million) 692 901 898 819 673 421 Investment in learning as a % of payroll7 4,8% 6,2% 6,4% 6,7% 6,5% 4,3% Investment in black employees (R million)8 509,91 653,1 625 537 432 261 Development interventions 154 793 230 523 230 871 137 703 126 847 64 019 Investment in bursary scheme (R million) 40,3 47 54,7 38,2 38,5 51 Undergraduate and postgraduate bursars 440 577 719 585 654 769 Employees currently on Chartered Accountant training programme 13 16 19 20 22 26 Learner artisans that Sasol trained for petroleum industry as part of oil, 0 0 0 947 947 417 gas and electrical manufacturing project since 2007 Additional positions created in global venture support programme 0 106 700 700 700 700 Investment in South African universities (R million) 15,7 15 25 25 25 25 Technical personnel in global venture support programme 0 103 327 466 484 700 Number of employees receiving leadership training 2 872 9 191 5 732 5 281 4 077 9 253 NR: Not reported. NR: Not reported. * Restated * Restated ## This This number approximately2500 includesapproximately number includes 2 500seperations seperations. 1 Employees are persons working for Sasol on a full-time or part-time basis, who are paid individually via the Sasol payroll system, including service providers working under Sasol’s supervision (i.e. persons from 1labour brokersare Employees fixed-term or persons working providers). servicefor Sasol These numbers on a full-time include or part-time somewho basis, non-permanent employees. are paid individually These via the have Sasol payroll includedincluding for the purpose been system, serviceof safety reporting working requirements. providers Only those employees under Sasol’s supervision based (i.e. persons from labour atbrokers JVs and orpaid by Sasol, service fixed-term are included in thisThese number. providers). The totals numbers are thus include somelower than those reported non-permanent employees.on in the section These have been on employee included for the purpose in demographics, ofwhich safetyreference employeesfor Only those employees made only to permanent reportingisrequirements. based at JVs and paid by previous years. Sasol, are included in this number. The totals are thus lower than those reported on in the section on employee demographics, in which reference is made only to permanent employees for previous years. 2 The recordable case rate (RCR) is a standard international measure for reporting work-related injuries and illnesses and other safety incidents resulting in injury. The RCR is the number of fatalities, lost 2workdays, restricted casework The recordable ratecases, medical (RCR) is treatments a standard beyondmeasure international cases first-aid for and accepted reporting illnesses work-related for every injuries and200 illnesses and otherhours 000 employee worked. safety From incidents 2006 onwards, resulting TheRCR in injury.our RCRincludes both employees is the number service andlost of fatalities, workdays, restricted providers, work cases,andmedical recordable injuries,beyond treatments as wellfirst-aid cases andillnesses as occupational accepted for employees. illnesses With200 the 000 for every implementation employee hoursof the new operating worked. From 2006 model, a discrepancy onwards, bothrelated in the RCR our RCR includes exposure employees hours for and service 2013 2012 toand providers, was recordable injuries, as well reported. The RCR has been restated for 2012 and 2013. as occupational illnesses for employees. With the implementation of the new operating model, a discrepancy in the RCR related exposure hours for 2012 to 2013 was reported. The RCR has been restated for 2012 and 2013. 3 A fire, explosion or release (FER) incident is registered as “significant” when it meets any of the following criteria: (i) it involves a fatality or lost workday case; (ii) it results in damage of more than US$25 000; or 3(iii) it causes A fire, a release explosion in excess or release of the (FER) relevant incident thresholdas is registered quantity for that “significant” chemical when as defined it meets by the any of the Centre criteria: following for Chemical and Process (i) it involves Safetyor(CCPS). a fatality lost workday case; (ii) it results in damage of more than US$25 000; or (iii) it causes a release in excess of the relevant threshold quantity for that chemical as defined by the Centre for Chemical and Process Safety (CCPS). 4 Transportation incidents are the significant incidents which occur during the road, land and marine transportation of our product. 4 Transportation incidents are the significant incidents which occur during the road, land and marine transportation of our product. 5 Illnesses are recorded as work-related as a precautionary measure. The various evaluation authorities may subsequently classify them as not work related, in which instance they are removed from the records. An Additional 7 Service Provider Illn 5 Illnesses are recorded as work-related as a precautionary measure. The various evaluation authorities may subsequently classify them as not work related, in which instance they are removed from the records. An Additional 6 Tuberculosis (TB) is by and large not work-related. For mineworkers it is reportable to the authorities as a “medical monitoring illness”. HIV/Aids increases the risk of contracting TB and the majority of TB patients are HIV positive. Service Provider Illnesses have been recorded. 67 Tuberculosis Investment in employee learning excludes the compulsory 1% skills levy. (TB) is by and large not work-related. For mineworkers it is reportable to the authorities as a “medical monitoring illness”. HIV/Aids increases the risk of contracting TB and the majority of TB patients are HIV positive. 78 Investment Black employees refers to African, Coloured and Indian people – for the purposes of South African employment equity considerations. in employee learning excludes the compulsory 1% skills levy. 89 Black Restated to reflect the adoption of the consolidation suite of accounting standards. employees refers to African, Coloured and Indian people – for the purposes of South African employment equity considerations. 9 Restated to reflect the adoption of the consolidation suite of accounting standards. SASOL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION 2015 2 Natural Capital – The environment Level of 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Assurance Production performance 20 855 22 050 23 696 25 302 25 228 24 548 Limited Total production (kilotons) Greenhouse gases (GHG)1 (kilotons) Direct methane (CH4) 117 120 118 114 114 114 Limited Nitrous Oxide (N2O) 0,767 0,888 0,611 0,813 0,542 0,955 Limited Direct carbon dioxide (CO2) Scope 1 58 786 60 530 60 942 59 126 57 203 56 505 Limited Indirect carbon dioxide (CO2) Scope 2 8 065 8 727 9 012 9 777 9 013 10 086 Limited Indirect carbon dioxide (CO2) Scope 3 0,75 0,76 412 719 540 384 Limited Total greenhouse gas (CO2 equivalent) 69 772 72 275 73 053 72 278 69 322 69 671 Limited GHG intensity (CO2 equivalent/ton product) 3,35 3,28 2,98 2,83 2,75 2,88 Limited Atmospheric emissions (kilotons)2 Nitrogen oxides (N0x) 157 159 158 155 155 164 Sulphur oxides (SOx) 208 223 215 202 208 240 VOC indicator of performance 46,5 47,6 47,5 47,2 46,5 47,7 Particulates (fly ash) 11,7 19,3 17,5 – – – Waste (kilotons)3 Hazardous waste 320 382 303 116 84 69 Non-hazardous waste 162 189 262 264 409 454 Total waste 482 571 1 032 1 318 1 701 2 140 Recycled waste 76 89 546 937 1 208 1 617 Energy use (thousand gigajoules)4 Electricity (purchased) 28 747 31 337 31 423 34 441 33 834 37 162 Feedstock to electricity (self-generated) 30 350 48 490 38 691 30 944 29 864 25 405 Feedstock to steam 280 383 276 703 281 309 276 426 266 185 278 247 Mobile fuel use 609 671 859 736 683 718 Stationary fuel use 35 4 NR NR NR NR Fuel gas 61 786 57 230 68 828 69 017 63 596 54 972 Other energy use 11 928 10 821 6 691 7 739 16 137 9 785 Total energy use 413 838 425 257 427 801 419 294 410 299 406 289 Limited Material use (kilotons)5 Coal (dry ash-free basis) 17 674 17 556 17 896 17 040 17 019 17 315 Crude oil processed 4 457 4 133 3 392 5 492 4 890 4 331 Nitrogen from air 718 1 356 3 527 409 334 683 Oxygen from air 12 711 14 907 15 017 14 064 13 983 14 737 Gas 2 800 3 949 3 616 4 031 NR NR Other (e.g. chemicals, feedstock) 5 136 6 357 6 892 7 673 6 778 22 062 Total material use 43 496 48 259 50 340 50 751 44 890 61 019 Limited Water (thousand cubic meters) Total water use 135 458 149 552 147 001 148 372 152 526 151 391 Liquid effluent 28 573 35 833 33 307 34 122 36 770 64 808 Water recycled 196 682 186 751 145 466 142 754 128 719 139 308 Land and biodiversity (hectares)6 Surface area affected by operations7 6 629 5 245 4 518 2 671 3 679 3 779 Area dedicated to conservation 5 333 5 335 2 324 3 046 3 456 3 869 Land use and mining (hectares) Surface mining area 1 284 1 284 1 284 1 284 1 284 1 284 Underground mining area 45 796 44 897 43 421 46 004 44 856 43 941 Total area disturbed8 47 080 46 181 47 786 50 373 46 140 45 225 Total area rehabilitated 326 1 987 129 542 1 689 1 689 Legal compliance9 Fines, penalties and settlements (number) 0 0 7 3 9 46 Fines, penalties and settlements (US$m) 0 0 0,04 0,06 4,00 2,00 * GHG data restated for the years 2013 and 2014. NR: Not reported Notes 1 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions have been calculated and reported in accordance with the GHG Protocol (www.ghgprotocol.org) and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 2006 Guidelines. In our GHG measurements, we have included 100% of the emissions for the following joint ventures (JVs): Natref in South Africa, Sasol Petroleum International Mozambique and Sasol-Huntsman in Germany. Data for those JVs where we do not have a significant influence or operational control is not included. An external assurance provider has once again independently verified our direct and indirect emissions levels Quantitative data on the GHG emissions at each of Sasol’s regional reporting hubs is provided in our Annual Integrated Report. 2 Atmospheric emissions: The increase in fly ash emissions is due to improved monitoring and measurement accuracy. Historical assumptions in calculations have been removed resulting in more representative measurements. 3 Waste: the definitions of “waste” vary widely around the world. For reporting purposes, we use the applicable definitions of regulatory authorities. In situations with insufficient guidance from legislation, the definitions of hazardous waste are reported if it is (i) removed from the premises for disposal and/or treatment, or (ii) disposed of onsite (e.g. by landfill). These figures exclude coarse ash from gasification and fly ash from boilers. Non-hazardous waste is waste which requires disposal on a general waste landfill site. Recycled waste is materials left over from manufacturing or consumption, which may be reused or recycled. Hazardous and non-hazardous waste figures have SASOL included recycled waste figures since 2013. The data reported in this report has been corrected historically using the revised calculation. The reporting waste generatedDEVELOPMENT SUSTAINABLE on total INFORMATION by Sasol operations has 2015the 3 been revised to exclude reuse of legacy coal ash which explains the significant decrease in total waste recycled from 546 kt in 2013 to 89 kt in 2014. 4 Energy use: alll energy use data are calcuated at the standard measurement unit in gigajoules (GJ) to ensure standard calculation across the Group. Feedstock to steam 280 383 276 703 281 309 276 426 266 185 278 247 Mobile fuel use 609 671 859 736 683 718 Stationary fuel use 35 4 NR NR NR NR Fuel gas 61 786 57 230 68 828 69 017 63 596 54 972 Other energy use 11 928 10 821 6 691 7 739 16 137 9 785 Total energy use 413 838 425 257 427 801 419 294 410 299 406 289 Limited Material use (kilotons)5 Coal (dry ash-free basis) 17 674 17 556 17 896 17 040 17 019 17 315 Crude oil processed 4 457 4 133 3 392 5 492 4 890 4 331 Nitrogen from air 718 1 356 3 527 409 334 683 Oxygen from air 12 711 14 907 15 017 14 064 13 983 14 737 Gas 2 800 3 949 3 616 4 031 NR NR Other (e.g. chemicals, feedstock) 5 136 6 357 6 892 7 673 6 778 22 062 Total material use 43 496 48 259 50 340 50 751 44 890 61 019 Limited Water (thousand cubic meters) Natural Capital – The environment continued Total water use 135 458 149 552 147 001 148 372 152 526 151 391 Liquid effluent 28 573 35 833 33 307 34 122 36 770 64 808 Level of Water recycled 2015 196 682 2014 186 751 1452013466 2012 142 754 2011 128 719 2010 139 308 Assurance Land and biodiversity Production performance (hectares)6 20 855 22 050 23 696 25 302 25 228 24 548 Limited Total production Surface area affected by operations7 (kilotons) 6 629 5 245 4 518 2 671 3 679 3 779 Area dedicated to conservation 5 333 5 335 2 324 3 046 3 456 3 869 Greenhouse gases (GHG)1 (kilotons) Land use and mining (hectares) Direct methane (CH4) 117 120 118 114 114 114 Limited Surface mining area 1 284 1 284 1 284 1 284 1 284 1 284 Nitrous Oxide (N2O) 0,767 0,888 0,611 0,813 0,542 0,955 Limited Underground mining area 45 796 44 897 43 421 46 004 44 856 43 941 Direct carbon dioxide (CO2) Scope 1 58 786 60 530 60 942 59 126 57 203 56 505 Limited Total area disturbed 8 47 080 46 181 47 786 50 373 46 140 45 225 Indirect carbon dioxide (CO2) Scope 2 8 065 8 727 9 012 9 777 9 013 10 086 Limited Total area rehabilitated 326 1 987 129 542 1 689 1 689 Indirect carbon dioxide (CO2) Scope 3 0,75 0,76 412 719 540 384 Limited 9 Legal Total compliance greenhouse gas (CO2 equivalent) 69 772 72 275 73 053 72 278 69 322 69 671 Limited Fines, penalties and settlements (number) 0 0 7 3 9 46 Limited GHG intensity (CO2 equivalent/ton product) 3,35 3,28 2,98 2,83 2,75 2,88 Fines, penalties and settlements (US$m) 0 0 0,04 0,06 4,00 2,00 Atmospheric emissions (kilotons)2 *Nitrogen oxidesfor(N0 GHG data restated thex)years 2013 and 2014. 157 159 158 155 155 164 Sulphur NR: oxides Not reported (SOx) 208 223 215 202 208 240 GHGindicator VOC *Notes data restated of for performance the years 2013 and 2014. 46,5 47,6 47,5 47,2 46,5 47,7 NR: Not reported 1Particulates Greenhouse gas (fly ash) (GHG) emissions have been calculated and reported in accordance with the GHG Protocol (www.ghgprotocol.org) 11,7 19,3and the Intergovernmental 17,5 – Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)– 2006 Guidelines.–In our GHG 1measurements, Greenhouse we have gas (GHG) included 100% of the emissions for the following joint ventures (JVs): Natref in South Africa, Sasol Petroleum International Mozambique and Sasol-Huntsman in Germany. Data for those JVs where we do not emissions havecontrol been calculated and reported in accordance assurance with thehasGHG Protocol (www.ghgprotocol.org) verified ourand the indirect emissions Panel Intergovernmental levels on Climate Change data on(IPCC) 2006 Guidelines. In our of GHG 3 Waste have (kilotons) a significant influence or operational is not included. An external provider once again independently direct and Quantitative the GHG emissions at each measurements, Sasol’s we have regional reporting included hubs 100%inofour is provided emissions theAnnual for theReport. following joint ventures (JVs): Natref in South Africa, Sasol Petroleum International Mozambique and Sasol-Huntsman in Germany. Data for those JVs where we Integrated Hazardous do not have waste a significant influence or operational control is not included. An external assurance provider 320 has once again 382 independently verified 303direct and indirect our 116emissions levels 84 Quantitative data 69the GHG emissions on 2 Atmospheric emissions: The increase in fly ash emissions is due to improved monitoring and measurement accuracy. Historical assumptions in calculations have been removed resulting in more representative measurements. Non-hazardous waste reporting hubs is provided in our Annual Integrated Report. at each of Sasol’s regional 162 189 262 264 409 454 3 Waste: the definitions of “waste” vary widely around the world. For reporting purposes, we use the applicable definitions of regulatory authorities. In situations with insufficient guidance from legislation, the definitions of 2hazardous Total waste Atmosphericwasteemissions: are reported it is (i) removed Theifincrease in fly ashfrom emissions is due for the premises disposal and/or to improved treatment, monitoring or (ii) disposed and measurement 482 of onsiteHistorical accuracy. 571 (e.g. by landfill). These figures assumptions 032exclude coarse in1calculations 318 1ash have been from 1 701 gasification removed resulting in fly and more from2boilers. 140 Non-hazardous ashrepresentative measurements. waste is waste which requires disposal on a general waste landfill site. Recycled waste is materials left over from manufacturing or consumption, which may be reused or recycled. Hazardous and non-hazardous waste figures have Recycled 3included thewaste Waste:recycled waste figures definitions since vary of “waste” The data 2013.widely reported around in this For the world. report has been reporting corrected purposes, we historically using the use the applicable 76definitions 89 The reporting revised calculation. of regulatory 546 on authorities. total 937 waste generated In situations with insufficient 1 208 from by Sasol operations guidance has been 1 617 revised legislation, to exclude the the of definitions reuse coal ash of legacywaste hazardous arewhich reported (i) significant if it isthe explains removed decrease from in total waste the premises from 546 recycledand/or for disposal kt in 2013 treatment, orto (ii)89 kt in 2014. disposed of onsite (e.g. by landfill). These figures exclude coarse ash from gasification and fly ash from boilers. 4 Energy use (thousand gigajoules) 4 Non-hazardous waste use Energy use: alll energy is waste which data are requires calcuated atdisposal the standard general wasteunit on a measurement landfill site. Recycled in gigajoules waste (GJ) to ensure is materials left over from standard calculation the Group. or consumption, which may be reused or recycled. Hazardous and manufacturing across Electricity non-hazardous (purchased) waste figures have included recycled waste figures since 2013. The data reported in this28 747has been corrected report 31 337 historically31using 423the revised 34 441 The reporting calculation. 33 834on total waste 162 37 generated by Sasol 5 Material use: all material data are calculated at the standard measurement unit of kilotons (Kt) to enable calcuation of input material across the Group. operations has been revised to exclude the reuse of legacy coal ash which explains the significant decrease in total waste recycled from 546 kt in 2013 to 89 kt in 2014. 6Feedstock Managing land to electricity (self-generated) use and biodiversity: we do not have operations in areas that have been declared biodiversity 30 350 hotspots (areas 490 as being38 48identified 691 or endangered critical 30 944 29 864 we do have25 eco-regions). However, 405 in areas of interests 4potential Energy sensitivity, particularly asare partcalcuated of some of the upstream at our exploration andunit extraction (GJ) In activities. accordance with our environmental Feedstock alll steam use: to energy use data standard measurement in gigajoules to280 ensure 383 standard 276 703acrossmanagement calculation the 281 309 practices,276 Group. the protection of biodiversity issues is addressed formally in new projects through environmental impact assessments (EIAs) and in existing projects through environmental management plans and/or programmes (EMPs). We are also working to assess the biodiversity of the habitats in land 426 266 185 278 247 5currently Material use:use allleased material data are throughout calculated at the standard measurement unit of kilotons (Kt) to enable calcuation of input material Mobile owned, fuel or managed the group. 609 671 across the859 Group. 736 683 718 67 Managing The areas land affected by andoperations thewe total not haveof dofootprint all our business equate that to 126been to 136 hectarebiodiversity of which thehotspots Stationary fuel useuse biodiversity: operations in areas have declared 35biggest is(areas associated 4 with our identified Mining as being NR division. critical or endangered NR NReco-regions). However, we do haveNR interests in areas of 8 potential Total areasensitivity, disturbed: particularly a subsidenceasrisk partofof some of undermined previously our upstream exploration areas has beenand extraction identified activities. at Sasol Mining; Inweaccordance our environmental withengaging have started with affected landownerspractices, management the protection of biodiversity issues is addressed formally on this issue. Fuel gas 61 786 57 230 68 828 in new projects through environmental impact assessments (EIAs) and in existing projects through environmental management plans and/or programmes (EMPs). We are also working to assess the biodiversity of the 69 017 63 596 54 972 habitats 9Other in landuse energy Legal compliance: currently the figure owned, includes leased finesorandmanaged penaltiesthroughout the group. for non-compliance with all applicable international, 11 928regional, national10and 691 821local laws and6regulations 7 739 associated 16 137 with safety, health and environmental 9 785 issues. Payments 7include fines due to non-compliance with laws, regulations and permits, compensation payments and regular proactive payments made as a result of non-compliance with regulations where there is a potential for any enforcement Limited Total action. energy The areas The paymentsusedo affected operations by not the total include levies, footprint or costs of all our for lawyers andbusiness productequate to 126 liabilities. For to 136information hectare of more 413on838 which the biggest competition 425 matters, 257 is associated with427 please refer to 801 Mining ourthe Annual Financial 294 419Statements. division. 410 299 406 289 8 Total area disturbed: a subsidence risk of previously undermined areas has been identified at Sasol Mining; we have started engaging with affected landowners on this issue. Material use (kilotons)5 9CoalLegal(dry ash-free compliance: thebasis) figure includes significant fines and penalties for non-compliance with all applicable 17 674 17 556 national and international, regional, 17 040 associated 896laws and regulations 17 local 17with 019safety, health17and 315environmental issues. Payments include fines due to non-compliance with laws, regulations and permits, compensation payments and regular proactive payments made as a result of non-compliance with regulations where there is a Crude oil processed 4 457 4 133 3 392 5 492 4 890 4 331 potential for any enforcement action. The payments do not include levies, or costs for lawyers and product liabilities. For more information on competition matters, please refer to the Annual Financial Statements. Nitrogen from air 718 1 356 3 527 409 334 683 Oxygen from air 12 711 14 907 15 017 14 064 13 983 14 737 Gas 2 800 3 949 3 616 4 031 NR NR Other (e.g. chemicals, feedstock) 5 136 6 357 6 892 7 673 6 778 22 062 Total material use 43 496 48 259 50 340 50 751 44 890 61 019 Limited Water (thousand cubic meters) Total water use 135 458 149 552 147 001 148 372 152 526 151 391 Liquid effluent 28 573 35 833 33 307 34 122 36 770 64 808 Water recycled 196 682 186 751 145 466 142 754 128 719 139 308 Land and biodiversity (hectares)6 Surface area affected by operations7 6 629 5 245 4 518 2 671 3 679 3 779 Area dedicated to conservation 5 333 5 335 2 324 3 046 3 456 3 869 Land use and mining (hectares) Surface mining area 1 284 1 284 1 284 1 284 1 284 1 284 Underground mining area 45 796 44 897 43 421 46 004 44 856 43 941 Total area disturbed8 47 080 46 181 47 786 50 373 46 140 45 225 Total area rehabilitated 326 1 987 129 542 1 689 1 689 Legal compliance9 Fines, penalties and settlements (number) 0 0 7 3 9 46 Fines, penalties and settlements (US$m) 0 0 0,04 0,06 4,00 2,00 * GHG data restated for the years 2013 and 2014. NR: Not reported Notes 1 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions have been calculated and reported in accordance with the GHG Protocol (www.ghgprotocol.org) and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 2006 Guidelines. In our GHG measurements, we have included 100% of the emissions for the following joint ventures (JVs): Natref in South Africa, Sasol Petroleum International Mozambique and Sasol-Huntsman in Germany. Data for those JVs where we do not have a significant influence or operational control is not included. An external assurance provider has once again independently verified our direct and indirect emissions levels Quantitative data on the GHG emissions at each of Sasol’s regional reporting hubs is provided in our Annual Integrated Report. 2 Atmospheric emissions: The increase in fly ash emissions is due to improved monitoring and measurement accuracy. Historical assumptions in calculations have been removed resulting in more representative measurements. 3 Waste: the definitions of “waste” vary widely around the world. For reporting purposes, we use the applicable definitions of regulatory authorities. In situations with insufficient guidance from legislation, the definitions of hazardous waste are reported if it is (i) removed from the premises for disposal and/or treatment, or (ii) disposed of onsite (e.g. by landfill). These figures exclude coarse ash from gasification and fly ash from boilers. Non-hazardous waste is waste which requires disposal on a general waste landfill site. Recycled waste is materials left over from manufacturing or consumption, which may be reused or recycled. Hazardous and non-hazardous waste figures have included recycled waste figures since 2013. The data reported in this report has been corrected historically using the revised calculation. The reporting SASOL SUSTAINABLE on total waste generated DEVELOPMENT by Sasol operations has INFORMATION 2015the 4 been revised to exclude reuse of legacy coal ash which explains the significant decrease in total waste recycled from 546 kt in 2013 to 89 kt in 2014. 4 Energy use: alll energy use data are calcuated at the standard measurement unit in gigajoules (GJ) to ensure standard calculation across the Group.
