Communication on Progress Year: 2014 STATEMENT Michinoku Trading is a socially-conscientious business venture in the Health and Wellness industry. The company utilizes a global network to provide unique and high quality products that reflect our motto true health comes from a healthy soul . We have intentionally pursued particular products and a business model that would promote environmental sustainability, support local economies in developing countries and promote the health of our individual consumers. It is in this line of our mission that Michinoku Trading is an active participant in the United Nations Global Compact. Additionally, we seek to make every effort to ensure that production and distribution of our products will also foster emotional and psychological health in local and global economies by rejecting all forms of corruption, forced labor, child labor, human rights abuses, discrimination and environmental degradation. We have outlined here our commitments and our plans for healthy growth and development. Date: May 21, 2015 Contact: Tadahisa Kumagai Position: President, MORINGA LIFE (D.B.A. Michinoku Trading) Email: kumagai@moringalife.jp Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Global Compact Principle Plans for the upcoming Year 1: Businesses should support and respect the Michinoku Trading in its corporate policy protection of internationally proclaimed human upholds the internationally recognized UN rights; Declaration of Human Rights as a baseline for its business practices. The company motto recognizes the importance of health in every form for each individual. As such, we would only seek to provide the same respect as our employees and consumers to those with whom we interact through business and philanthropy. We also state, unequivocally, our intention to uphold this statement in our website as well as select promotional materials. In the future, we may plan to provide or fund education about human rights through our website. 2: and make sure that they are not complicit in Michinoku Trading is committed to working human rights abuses. directly with local Moringa farmers through NGOs rather than working with brokers with whom the main objective is to increase profits. By doing so, we receive Moringa from a reliable organization that is also simultaneously working for the good of the community. Michinoku Trading has created and implemented the Moringa Project to create sustainable communities in Africa, South America, and Southern Asia where Moringa is grown. We work with a number of NGOs across those nations to help the local communities to be selfsufficient and self-functioning with cultivation of their given resources. Michinoku Trading has been partnering with the Shape Lives Foundation in Ghana, a non-profit organization that is working to develop a vibrant, local economy in the Santrofiki community. The organization provides jobs and opportunities for participants to take part in small businesses and address local issues with malnutrition and general health. The Shape Lives Foundation sends reports, including video reports and testimonies from Ghana to testify to the positive impact that the Moringa Project brings to the local economy. Michinoku Trading was the sole buyer of Moringa from the Shape Lives Foundation in year 2010 and thus provided jobs and income to those from a community numbering about 8,000. The role that women are able to play in the production of Moringa is especially notable in that they are given the autonomy to organize as a group and determine flexible work schedules. 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Michinoku Trading will be responsible in association and the effective recognition of the allowing our partners and consumers to be right to collective bargaining; educated about their rights and responsibilities through giving informed choice. We have developed a social venture designed to contribute to the long-term development of a local community by providing funds and means to establish practices that would allow the local farmers to work even beyond Michinoku Trading. We have advised and funded programs for the Shape Lives Foundation in Ghana in order that they have the means to produce products that would meet international trading criteria. 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Michinoku Trading seeks out organizations that compulsory labour; are interested in providing jobs to in need communities with a commitment to stand against all forms of compulsory or forced labor. We refuse to engage in the business of all forms of forced or compulsory labor and will not knowingly enter into partnerships with organizations or individuals who do so. We will also seek to find alternative solutions to forced labor through creating a vibrant local economy and active participation in charity work, which we believe would lead to the end of a need for any person to work in unsafe, illegal situations. 5: the effective abolition of child labour; Michinoku Trading refuses to engage in the business of child labor and will not knowingly enter into partnerships with organizations or individuals who use illegally child labor. We will also seek to find alternative solutions to child labor through creating a vibrant local economy and active participation in charity work, which we believe would lead to the end of a need for children to work in unsafe, illegal situations. 6: and the elimination of discrimination in Michinoku Trading strives to be an equal respect of employment and occupation. opportunity employers and will seek to make partnerships with like-minded organizations. Our hiring practices follow the standard U.S. guidelines that prohibit discrimination in all forms in the workplace. 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Michinoku Trading aims to decrease its carbon approach to environmental challenges; footprint by funding and supporting the growth of the Moringa plant, which is known to be particularly effective at consuming CO2 gases and producing oxygen.. . 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Michinoku Trading is confident that our environmental responsibility; products will appeal to those who will be concerned with concern for the earth as well as the self as we keep advocatig Moringa contribution to the earth. As such, we seek to create a network of conscious consumers and provide them and the rest of the public with information about the different ways with which we as individuals might reduce our carbon footprint or decrease our waste. We are also exploring ways to reduce packaging while maintaining a high level of sanitation. 9: and encourage the development and Michinoku Trading is extremely committed to diffusion of environmentally friendly developing environmentally friendly technologies. technologies utilizing the Moringa plant. As Michinoku Traiding expands and is able to do more research on this remarkable plant and we hope to contribute to the development of technologies that will fully utilize the Moringa plant. In addition to the plant's ability to absorb CO2, there has also been preliminary evidence pointing to the possibility of using Moringa seeds to purify water. Moringa has been shown to grow in climates in which the growth of other types of vegetation has been extremely difficult (such as Sub-Saharan Africa) and may prove to be particularly effective in producing an industry that would, as a business practice, proactively fight climate change and address the scarcity of clean water supplies. 10: Businesses should work against all forms of Michinoku Trading will refuse to work in corruption, including extortion and bribery. circumstances that compromise our ability to make decisions that might go against our company's intent to spread goodwill, growth and development in all areas. This includes situations that might call for bribery or extortion and other such corrupt practices. We will refuse to go into contract with organizations that might be known to do so, utilizing monitoring agencies and the like to guide our decisions.
