Sustainability Report 2014 AAA 1 SR14_R7.indd 1 6/17/15 8:28 PM SR14_R7.indd 2 6/17/15 8:28 PM His Highness His Highness Sheikh Hamad Bin Sheikh Tamim Bin Khalifa Al-Thani Hamad Al-Thani The Father Emir The Emir of State of Qatar SR14_R7.indd 3 6/17/15 8:28 PM SR14_R7.indd 4 6/17/15 8:28 PM Sustainability Report 2014 Contents About this report 02 CEO statement 04 Our board of directors 06 Our approach to sustainability 07 Our business transparency and integrity 10 Our sustainability performance 17 Contributing to our nation’s report economic growth 19 hout the e se ic o ns throug c e : Follow th performa n Workforce development and bout our to read a social responsibility 29 unity glo bal comm Focus on product quality 45 ibution to Our contr Our environment liability 53 ts for 201 4 Ou r highligh Acronyms 63 s Our quote GRI 64 now Good to k rward Looking fo AAA 1 SR14_R7.indd 1 6/17/15 8:28 PM ABOUT THIS REPORT Transition to GRI-G4 This is our fourth annual sustainability report that sheds light on how we work to preserve our environment, contribute to our economy and community welfare and create a secure working environment for our employees. The theme of the report “Working together” is to convey our employee-focused approach and our priority toward welfare of the community. Qatar Fertiliser Company (QAFCO) is proud to present its first sustainability report prepared in accordance with the updated Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI)-G4 reporting guidelines, achieving the “Core” level. Figure 1. QAFCO Sustainability Journey 2013 2014 Third Fourth Sustainability Sustainability Report Report as as per GRI 4.0 per GRI 3.1 2011 (externally Second assured) 2010 2012 Sustainability First Third Report as per Sustainability Sustainability 2014 GRI 3.1 Report as per Report as GRI per GRI 3.1 (externally 2013 assured) 2010 2011 Figure 2. QAFCO Objectives 2012 arency an transp d in ess teg Aligned with the objectives of the Qatar sin rit National Vision (QNV) 2030, our report Bu y comprises five sections given below: Workforce development • Business transparency and integrity Contributing to and social • Contributing to our nation’s our nation’s responsibility economic growth economic atio ns Huma nd integrity rel nr ss Busine transpa es growth lic cy a nce • Workforce development and na inistration ecurity H Adm P s S te social responsibility ea rce Pu b lth n ou r PRODUCTION ring • Focus on product quality and re Ma rement e ee in cu pa nc • Environmental liability ties Eng in SE Q ro Fa Since it implementation in 2010, the ci l Focus on s li ga Le y Finance Qatar Energy and Industry Sustainability product an Sector (QEISS) Programme has proven to quality be a watershed program to support the Environmental sustainability agenda among the industrial liability sector. Our report is also our commitment a nd to our continued participation in the QEISS Programme and, as such, will emphasize Bus ine rity on this year’s focus, i.e., workforce and sst eg social responsibility. r int G4-3, G4-29, G4-30, G4-32 2 About this report SR14_R7.indd 2 6/17/15 8:28 PM Sustainability Report 2014 Reporting period and boundaries The reporting period is the calendar year 2014 (January 2014–December 2014). The report covers our fertilizermanufacturing units in Mesaieed and our head office and other facilities in Qatar. It, however, does not cover our subsidiary units including, Gulf Formaldehyde Company and Qatar Melamine Company. Data collection The data collection is supported by our members representing different departments. While the environmental performance data are gathered from internal reporting procedures and the Environmental Management System (EMS), social performance data are from corporate reports and data on Good to know customer relations, product quality, safety, health and human resources, This report has been made possible with captured by our Enterprise Resource the support of QAFCO’s Sustainability Planning (ERP) system. The relevant Report team lead by Dr. Hamed Ahmed economic data are retrieved from our Al Marwani Chief Administration Officer, audited annual financial reports for the QAFCO and Mr. Ibrahim A Al Jaidah reporting year. Public Relations Manager, QAFCO. Other members of the team include Human Resources: Sustainability assurance Mr. Mohamed Al-Raheemi Given our transition to GRI-G4 Mr. Hussain A Gafoor guidelines, we have not opted for thirdMr. Sai Kumar party assurance this year. However, our Treasury: Mr. Mohamed Fakhri report has been thoroughly reviewed Safety: Mr. Ahmed El Bestawy by our Sustainability Reporting Committee for its accuracy and Environment: Mrs. Aisha Rafique completeness as per the relevant GRI Projects: Mr. Tejonadh Gajula disclosures and indicators. We aim to receive external assurance on our Production Support: Mr. Harshal Tirpude subsequent sustainability reports. Contracting & Procurement: Mr. Anand Dumont and Mr. Suresh Menon We welcome your Legal: Mr. Mustafa Eltahir feedback Product Handling & Logistics: Mr. Naguib Gesudaraz We would like to know your thoughts Training & Development: on our sustainability report and how we Mr. Orestes Briones can improve further. Please share your Public Relations: feedback with Dr. Hamed Ahmed Mr. El Fatih Mustafa and Mr. Arun Kumar Al-Marwani at sustainability@ qafco.com.qa G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-31, G4-32, G4-33 About this report 3 SR14_R7.indd 3 6/17/15 8:29 PM CEO STATEMENT Linking with QNV 2030 I am delighted to connect with you to mark the release of our 4th annual Sustainability Report 2014. As I am writing to you, QAFCO has achieved its production targets for the year, producing 5.5 million tons of Urea and 3.6 million tons of Ammonia, generating a revenue of about QAR274 million. Beyond doubt, the fertilizer industry is playing a major role in overcoming the ever-alarming food security challenge due to growing population and urbanization by maintaining land fertility. Currently, 70%–80% of the world’s food is produced using fertilizers, and being a responsible fertilizer manufacturer for more than four decades, QAFCO is aspiring to have a leadership role in producing high-quality fertilizer, in a sustainable manner. QAFCO is committed to adhere with the grand objectives of QNV 2030 and has accordingly, aligned its internal vision and strategy. 2014 has been a milestone year for us as we have taken several serious steps toward this alignment. We are in the process of institutionalizing organizational re-structuring to improve upon the operational efficiency. Through this plan, the employees are encouraged to take up bigger responsibilities, by eliminating several middle-management positions, through dedicated development training programs. It is important to mention that this is being done with zero retrenchment on personnel. Our proposed Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) system will support us in the evaluation and management of our risks in a structured and efficient manner across the functions. 4 CEO statement SR14_R7.indd 4 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 QAFCO is committed to adhere with the grand objectives of QNV 2030 and has accordingly, aligned its internal vision and strategy. 2014 has been a milestone year for us as we have taken several serious steps towards this alignment.” We are indebted to our workforce for reaching us where our waste management and working towards “Zero we are today and we reciprocate in the same manner, Liquid Discharges” plan. By 2018, we expect to recycle ensuring safe working environment and supporting 90% of the wastewater for irrigation or other purposes high quality of life. This year, we conducted health and and avoid any discharges to the sea. safety audits for the first time and implemented nearly 90% of the audit safety recommendations. We had Sustainability has become integral to our business the honor of being bestowed with the IFA Green Leaf strategy and we are happy to witness substantial Award for our health, safety and environmental systems improvement in our sustainability performance indicators and performance. In 2013, all necessary preparations as highlighted in our report. However, we believe that were put in place to achieve the “Chartered Institute our journey has just begun as there is a lot more to of Procurement & Supply (CIPS)” certification which accomplish. I am confident that QAFCO through its happens to be a Global benchmark reference that employees and stakeholders will continue to contribute certifies the Contracting & Procurement functions are towards a sustainable nation and the world. aligned to the industry practices. The Certification was achieved in the 1st quarter of this year. I thank you all for your continued trust in us and invite you to provide your valuable feedback on our We recognize that product and technology innovation sustainability efforts and the report 2014. is vital for us to achieve optimum production and stay ahead of our competitors. This year we have initiated the process for achieving the ISO 50001 certification, among the very few companies in the region, for efficiently managing our energy resources. Our new initiative to produce value-added urea products based Khalifa A. Al Sowaidi on research will be done using our already purchased QAFCO Vice-Chairman and CEO pilot granulator to produce balanced fertilization that would increase the yield and reduce the environmental impacts. We have made significant efforts to improve G4-1, G4-2 CEO statement 5 SR14_R7.indd 5 6/17/15 8:29 PM BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEES Abdulaziz bin Ahmed Al-Malki Nasser J. Al-Kuwari Chairman Director Appointed as director on 20 May 2007 and Appointed on 6 June 2010 as chairman on 6 March 2011 Khalifa A. Al-Sowaidi Meshaal M. Al-Mahmoud Vice-Chairman and Director Chief Executive Officer Appointed on 12 March 2008 Appointed as director on 27 December 1997 and as vice chairman on 6 March 2011 Hamad R. Al-Nuaimi Saeed M. Al-Kuwari Director Director Appointed on 6 March 2011 Appointed on 6 March 2011 Jorgen Ole Haslestad Jan Duerloo Director Director Appointed on 1 May 2009 Appointed on 15 January 2013 Mr. AbdulAziz A Babiker Company Secretary Committee Duties and Responsibilities Internal audit Oversees areas such as the company’s financial statements, compliance with legal and committee regulatory requirements, internal control framework and the management of internal and external auditor’s activities. Project steering Oversees expansion projects, i.e., Urea 1 Revamp, Melamine committee Project and QAFCO 5 and 6 projects. General tender committee, Limited tender Oversees the tendering and contract award process for all committee, purchase orders and contracts. Small tender committee Project approval Oversees the approval of internal projects for capacity enhancement, safety, environment, committee minor plant modifications etc. Safety and Established under the chairmanship of the CEO to discuss, promote and consider policy matters environment in occupational health and safety and environmental issues of significant importance to the committee company. G4-34, G4-38, G4-DMA Compliance 6 Our board of directors SR14_R7.indd 6 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY QAFCO is among the first movers in integrating Our stakeholder engagement sustainability into our business landscape. We are committed to ethical conduct of business through its process alignment with the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) that are pivotal to our In 2014, during GRI G4 Certified Training we further operations and strategies including areas of human identified and defined our key stakeholders: QP, rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. These Muntajat, shareholders/investors, local community, principles are also in line with expectations from our employees, suppliers and contractors, media, sector business partners and suppliers. peers and government/regulators. These stakeholders have the biggest influence and interest/involvement in We believe sustainability is a way of doing business, and QAFCO. Engaging with stakeholders forms a vital part of not a silo approach. our day-to-day activities and reporting procedures. We engage with our stakeholders in different ways at To demonstrate our commitment and approach to different levels (project, management and corporate). sustainability, we have been publishing a sustainability Depending on the type of clients, culture and business report every year in compliance with the GRI guidelines. we align our engagement. This initiative is also linked to QNV 2030 and National Development Strategy (NDS) 2011–16. The inputs from our department heads are crucial to us in capturing stakeholder feedback and defining the scope of this report, boundaries, and contents. In the coming years we plan to establish a formal structured process to engage with the key stakeholders to capture and document their expectations and concerns and consider them while identifying the material issues and developing our sustainability agenda. The same will be also reflected in the report. Other decisions, such as the level of detail required to be useful to stakeholders, or expectations of different stakeholders about what is required to achieve clarity, will be also adopted and documented within next reporting periods. The following table describes key interests/concerns and engagement channels we undertook with stakeholder groups across the financial year. Sustainability report shows the stakeholders as well as others, how QAFCO conducts its business and, therefore, provides others a clear picture about who we are, what we are doing and the way we do that” Mr. AbdulAziz A Babiker Legal Manager G4-15, G4-18, G4-25, G4-26, G4-DMA Investment Our approach to sustainability 7 SR14_R7.indd 7 6/17/15 8:29 PM Main Stakeholders interest/concerns Engagement channels/Interactions stakeholders · Economic contribution (revenues, production) · Climate change and energy (energy, greenhouse gas (GHG), flaring/venting, natural gas used) · Q AFCO and QP’s long-term agreement (QP · Environment (water, SOx, NOx, spills, waste) supplying NG feedstock since 18 June 1994) · Health and safety (injuries, illness, incidents, Loss of · Performance information requests Qatar Containment, heat stress) · SDIR Programme (Annual SDIR template; Petroleum · Workforce (female employment, employee annual sustainability report; 5-year plan for (QP) satisfaction, training and development, sustainability, forums/workshops, awards) Qatarization) · Society (community investment, human rights) · Product quality and responsibility · Audit reports · Product information/labeling · Customer feedback · Quality and cost of services · Material safety data sheets (MSDS) · Customer satisfaction · Compliance with safety and quality Muntajat · Response to complaints requirements · Safety information · Efficient production · Regular board meetings · Maximization of shareholder value · Annual general meetings · Transparency, compliance with good ethical · Annual financial statements principles · Annual sustainability report Shareholders · Good corporate governance · Investor communication materials and investors · Good risk management · Investor website · Dividends and return on investment (ROI) · Code of ethics · Invoices · C lear and transparent procurement criteria (price, · Evaluation process health and safety, environment, human rights, etc.) · MSDS Suppliers and · Long-term partnerships · Suppliers meeting and events contractors · Stability of operations and reliability · Participation in conferences and events · Products safety and quality information · Press releases · Comprehensive and up-to-date information · Meetings and interviews with CEO Analysts and · Good availability and accessibility · Information events media · Public communications · A  ccommodation, transport allowances, · Qatarization and local hiring compensation · Employee benefits · Mesaieed School · Labor practices grievance mechanisms · Management systems, website, memos, emails · Decent labor practices (equal opportunities, career · Whistle-blowing policy Employees mobility and training and development) · Training and development program · Response to issues, future plans, current positioning · Employee Performance Appraisal System and available prospects (EPAS) · QAFCO day · A  lignment with QNV 2030 and Qatar NDS · Economic growth (2011‑16) · Social well-being · Press notes Government · Natural resources conservation · Audit reports and · Lobbying issues · Participation in conferences/forums/ regulatory · Compliance to laws and regulations roundtables/meetings authorities · Qatarization · Al-Besheriya Island conservation · WEBS portal · Fair trade and competition practices · Benchmarking studies · Long-term partnerships · Conferences/forums/ industry meetings · Best available technologies · Associations: International Plant Nutrition Sector · Reporting standards Institute (IPNI); UNGC; Responsible Care peers · Product responsibility (RC); IFA Product Stewardship; AFA; Gulf · Innovation Petrochemical and Chemical Association (GPCA) · Sponsorships (exhibitions, conferences, etc.) · Impact of products and operations on the · Donations community · Community investment (Sahara project, sea Local community engagement Local water heat exchanger project, fish hatchery · Education community project) · Resource conservation · Environmental awareness at QAFCO school G4-2, G4-18, G4-24, G4-26, G4-27 8 Our approach to sustainability SR14_R7.indd 8 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 Prioritizing our sustainability impacts: materiality assessment To prioritize the most material aspects from this gross list, we created a matrix where we plotted in the X-axis those economic, environmental and social aspects that have significant impact or pose risks in the short or long terms to our business. Along the Y-axis, we added sustainability aspects that influence on stakeholder assessment and decisions. To assess external materiality, we relied on the input provided by employees attending the training who engaged external stakeholders throughout the financial year and therefore better understand their interests, topics and indicators. All the relevant issues to internal (X) and external (Y) stakeholders were listed out and then prioritized based on their mutual significance to identify the most material GRI Training for QAFCO Employees ones that are represented in the top-right quadrant of the materiality matrix. In 2014, two GRI-G4-certified training sessions were conducted for a total of 24 employees who represented To validate the matrix, we benchmarked our results various departments at QAFCO. The training not only against main topics and future challenges for the sector helped us to enhance our data collection and reporting reported by peers and competitors. We also share the process but also facilitated internal stakeholder final matrix with our management representatives who engagement and communication among employees ensured that relevant laws, regulations, agreements with responsible for data collection and development of the strategic significance and corporate values, policies contents of the sustainability report. and goals are taken into account. Their comments were gathered systematically and incorporated in the During the certified training, we mapped our key materiality matrix published in this report. external stakeholders and identified a gross list of sustainability aspects through an analysis of GRI-G4 In our 2014 report, we have made an effort to present aspect list. The gross list was checked against GRI’s our approach and performance on the material issues. sustainability context and stakeholder inclusiveness tests. Figure 3. QAFCO materiality matrix • Supplier environ • Feedstock (material) ment • Product & Services • Customer satisfaction assessment • Non-discrimination • Local communities • Human rights ons, • Indirect economic impacts • Water, Energy, Emissi LEVEL OF STAKEHOLDER CONCERNS AND INTERESTS investments • Biodiversity Effl uen ts & Wa ste • Human rights • Supplier Human rights • Ethics & Integrity, grievance mechan Assessment Governance & ism • Environmental grievance Transparency, Anti mechanisms Corruption • Training & Education • Procurement practices • OHSE • Diversity & Equal • Qatarization e ces Opportunities • Economic performanc • Security practi • Labor Management relations • Equal remuneration • Innovation R & D • Customer Feedback LEVEL OF RISK AND IMPACTS AT QAFCO G4-2, G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-22, G4-23 Our approach to sustainability 9 SR14_R7.indd 9 6/17/15 8:29 PM OUR BUSINESS TRANSPARENCY AND INTEGRITY Our driving forces QAFCO is a joint venture fertilizer company initiated in 1969 by the Government of Qatar and multiple foreign shareholders. QAFCO was formed as a way of utilizing the country’s vast natural gas reserves and supporting the nation’s broader aim of diversifying the economy, by adding value through the petrochemical sector. We are currently the world’s largest single-site producer of ammonia and urea, catering to about 15% of the global demand for urea. Industries Qatar (IQ) owns 75% of the company, and Yara Netherland owns the remaining share. QAFCO is headquartered at Mesaieed, Qatar. Our vision Figure 4. Our corporate objectives Our vision is to become the largest quality producer of urea and ammonia. As envisaged in our vision, “Quality” is in helm of Supply Improve product our business. To make our vision a reality, our quality and Highest possible QAFCO with production at quality Urea strategy is to maintain a dynamic presence enhance time comparatively formaldehyde delivery low cost and sell the in the realm of fertilizer industry, to explore surplus new opportunities, to expand world-wide presence and to continue providing our customers with high-quality reliable products. Contribute Operate the to the plants with development maximum of the national online factor economy Our mission Meet Design and We shall operate the plants efficiently, Ensure operate the shareholders and customers’ safely, and in an environmentally responsible capability for plants in a safe, expectations responsiveness secure and with regard to manner to produce and supply ammonia, to the market’s environmentally quality and timely needs responsible urea, urea formaldehyde and melamine manner dispatch of our products. at the quality required by our customers, and to carry out investments to maximize shareholders’ returns. • T o implement and continually improve our integrated Our commitments management systems • To lead our company in ethical ways • T o steward our products and services through each life cycle stage • To increase the competency of personnel and use of • T o communicate our policies to all stakeholders and adequate technology engage with our employees on matters related to our • To prevent pollution and control operational and systems performance measures security risks, as well as monitor and record the • T o comply with all relevant Qatari legislations, environmental impacts of our operations regulations and global standards G4-5, G4-6, G4-7, G4-56 10 Our business transparency and integrity SR14_R7.indd 10 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 Building workplace integrity A resilient system of corporate governance and our ethical values Good to know define our relationships with our shareholders, management, employees and other stakeholders. We have constantly taken efforts to scale up our corporate governance practices to comply with the Program Leadership Corporate Governance Structure as laid down by the Qatar Financial Development for QAFCO Markets Authority (QFMA). Management Maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance has In 2014, the management appointed always been on the agenda for sustainable business of our Board of 9 managers and 2 chief officers to Directors. To this effect, the management at QAFCO strives to make further develop and improve their sure that economic, environmental and social issues our stakeholders general management, decisionraise, from governmental bodies to individuals such as employees, are making and leadership capabilities. integrated in our corporate governance structure. This helps us identify IESE Business School in Barcelona scope for improvement, as a company committed to sustainable Spain, hosted this program to our practices for development. executives. Program Leadership Development to managers and Advance Management Program for Figure 5. Corporate Governance structure chief officers. 1 manager and 1 chief officer completed their program SHAREHOLDERS in 2014. The programs comprise 4 modules with 5 -day extensive Annual General Meeting Articles of Association sessions and interaction on each This document is the module. Main focus areas of the constitution of QAFCO. It course are leadership development, QAFCO holds its Annual General defines the responsibilities update knowledge, action-oriented, Meeting every February. The Annual of the directors, the kind of General Meeting ranks at the top of the business to be undertaken, sustainable executive performance corporate governance structure. and the means by which the and high-level networking. shareholders exert control over the board of Director. This initiative will continue until 2016. Nomination Shareholding Structure The shareholders appoint their representative in the Board in QAFCO’s shares are divided accordance with the Articles of between IQ and Yara. Association. BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board Rules of Procedure Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists of at least three board QAFCO’s Board has adopted its rules members who supervise of procedure to define its duties, corporate accounts, QAFCO’s tasks, relationship with the CEO, financial reporting and subcommittees, nondisclosure, annual internal audit, financial risk plan and insider trading regulations. management and the work of the external auditor. Members serve for three years. MANAGEMENT Management and executives Our CEO appoints management to assist in his stewardship duties delegated by the board and in day-to-day management, including the organization and operation of the company. The CEO determines the instructions for management. These instructions and authorizations issued to each member of management reflect a joint obligation for these members to safeguard the overall interests of QAFCO and to protect our financial position. G4-34, G4-40, G4-56, G4-DMA Economic performance, G4-DMA Compliance Our business transparency and integrity 11 SR14_R7.indd 11 6/17/15 8:29 PM Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) As part of the governance structure, key responsibilities of the Executive management include: Our risk management governance structure takes on priority to identify and rectify the issues related to business risks, so as to provide • T o review the strategies, policies, maximum security for our shareholders’ investments and the assets of frameworks, and procedures the company. in place to govern the risk identification, risk assessment, In 2014, QAFCO has decided to adopt an ERM framework program in and risk management order to evaluate, prioritize and manage its risks in a more structured, processes at QAFCO efficient and effective manner. • T o review the organization’s The ERM framework Figure 6. Risk Governance Structure overall risk tolerance and will assist QAFCO strategy relating to key risks, in managing including strategic, operational, the uncertainty compliance and financial associated with Executive Risk risks, as well as the guidelines, the execution of its Committee (ERC) policies and processes for business objectives monitoring and mitigating such and balance risks the risk–reward equation. • T o monitor current and Internal General Project emerging risks and approve risk The risk governance Audit Committee Approval Committee treatment actions for specific (GPAC) structure ensures items of risk and identifying ERM that executives at function areas for system improvements all levels play an Intermediate and monitoring Safety and Project active role in the Environment Committee Approval risk management Committee (IPAC) • T o review the organization’s process. In addition, capability to identify and the structure outlines manage new risks, taking into the specific roles account of the current and Risk and responsibilities Committee prospective macroeconomic of those involved and business environment in risk-taking and • T o promote a risk aware risk-monitoring culture and risk management activities. QAFCO’s competence across QAFCO internal stakeholders are critical to Risk • T o ensure that there is a system/ champions the process of process of risk assessment across implementing an the organization in an on-going ERM program. basis. Good to know Addressing risks beyond our fence quantitative risk assessment at Mesaieed Industrial City Situated immediately outside the industrial area in In 2014, Industrial Cities Directorate performed a the Mesaied Industrial City (MIC) concession area combined QRA study to obtain the updated overall is the Town of Mesaieed, also referred to as our risk profile of the MIC operational area and to identify community area, providing residence and facilities for risk improvement opportunities to ensure effective those employed within MIC along with a dedicated risk management of the industrial city . As part of this area containing light-to-medium industries and study, QAFCO’s existing QRA model was reviewed contract labor camps which house a workforce of and updated in 2014. approximately 25,000, with capacity up to 40,000. G4-2, G4-14, G4-34, G4-45, G4-46, G4-47, G4-DMA Anti-corruption, G4-SO3, G4SO4, G4-DMA Anti-competitive behavior 12 Our business transparency and integrity SR14_R7.indd 12 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 In addition, we encourage our staff and stakeholders to disclose available information Our code of conduct on issues of fraud, corruption and misconduct, Our code of conduct sets forth the expectations while assuring them of our complete support and we have from our employees and contractors on protection. We have established a whistle-blowing their ethical conduct and compliance as a means and complaints handling system for posting such of mitigating unethical practices and maintaining the reputation of the company. Our code has been issues anonymously. Allegations will be analyzed translated into Arabic and English languages and as the Internal Audit Manager deems fit, in distributed within the company to reach almost every collaboration with the Audit Committee and the employee and contractor. Chief Executive Officer. Our Audit Committee oversees the status of compliance All QAFCO employees receive an acknowledgment not only with Qatari laws and regulations but also with QAFCO’s code of conduct. On an annual basis, receipt if they make a disclosure, followed by the internal audit department provides the audit an official correspondence to a preliminary committee with a report of any violations occurred and investigation of the matter The type of disclosures organizational measures implemented to avoid similar that our employees and stakeholders need to make violations in the future. include the following: The principles embodied in our code are designed to be consistent with Qatari laws and regulations. We conform • Unlawful acts requiring the violation of to the norms laid down by the Qatar Labor Law that a law, gross waste of company resources, prohibits employment of juveniles. mismanagement, abuse of authorities and specific health or safety issues related to our QAFCO’s contract terms and conditions, which are operations embedded with the principles of Qatar Labour Law, ensures that contractors comply to the law at all times • Fraud, which basically means any act, during a contract life cycle besides complying to including misrepresentation that knowingly health, safety, environment and security requirements misleads, or attempts to mislead a party to of QAFCO by providing adequate personal protective equipment to their employees, imparting necessary obtain financial or other benefits or to avoid an trainings required by specific services or industry obligation practices and also paying timely wages to their employees and providing accommodations / camp • Any activity that deliberately attempts to facilities with appropriate amenities and standards undermine the organization’s operations and set out in the contract terms. In addition, QAFCO, for aims certain contracts, set out the minimum basic salary that a contractor would be required to pay to its • Corruption, which means any attempt to employee, which ultimately results in better productivity offer, give, receive or solicit, directly or indirectly by appropriately compensated resources hired through anything of value with the intent of influencing contracts besides development of a sustainable work the actions of another party force for future. G4-2, G4-14, G4-49, G4-56, G4-58, G4-DMA Environmental grievance mechanisms, G4-DMA Investment, G4-DMA Non-discrimination, G4-DMA Child labor,G4-DMA Force or compulsory work, G4-DMA Anti-corruption, G4-SO3, G4SO4, G4-DMA Anti-competitive behavior, G4-DMA Compliance Our business transparency and integrity 13 SR14_R7.indd 13 6/17/15 8:29 PM Our new organization Figure 7a. Organization Structure structure QAFCO over the years has expanded significantly in terms of geographical size, increased number of assets / asset value, operations (production capacities), product diversity, profitability, manpower, etc. This has driven the need to diagnose the current structures and come up with a re-structure that supports the business and the operations. In 2014, our organization was restructured to enable us to maintain our strategic direction and increase the efficiency of our processes, work flow and communication at all levels of the organization. We have taken into consideration our stated objectives while restructuring the organization. Good to know Following the revised organization structure/restructuring, QAFCO Sustainability QAFCO has worked on the review, revise where necessary, re-evaluated all the jobs and accordingly Reporting Committee adjusted the job grades and job families. We have a Sustainability Reporting Committee in place to support our governance framework. Our Sustainability Figure 7b. Board of Directors Reporting Committee, which was established in 2013, is responsible for overseeing the Chairman data collection and reporting processes. The committee consists of 15 people from various departments such as ViceHuman Resource, Operations, Chairman & Chief Training and Development, Executive Ofﬁcer Treasury, Legal, Public Relations, Environment, Safety, Laboratory, Product handling and mlogistics, Projects, and Contracting and Director Director Director Director Director Director Procurement. The committee meets twice a year to discuss issues and concerns pertaining to sustainability. The committee ensures that the right material QAFCO QAFCO issues are included in the report Project Steering Committees Audit and also confirms that the data Committee (Compositioin (3 Non-Executive are presented as required. as deﬁned by BOD) Directors) Following are key responsibilities of the committee members: Chief · C ollating relevant data Executive for sustainability reporting Ofﬁcer purposes and reviewing (CEO) contents Internal Audit · D rafting a sustainability Manager reporting roadmap and facilitating its implementation · Identifying key functional SEQ Legal Manager Manager sustainability improvement areas that need to be implemented · Raising sustainability awareness within QAFCO Chief Chief Chief Chief Financial AdminisTechnical Operating Ofﬁcer tration Ofﬁcer Ofﬁcer Ofﬁcer (CFO) (CAO) (CTO) (COO) G4-13, G4-34, G4-38, G4-DMA Employment 14 Our business transparency and integrity SR14_R7.indd 14 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 Our Rewards and Recognitions Bearing proof of our commitment to grow sustainably and ensure quality of products and operations, several international bodies and institutions have awarded certifications for our compliance with International Environmental, health and safety standards. Management system / First Current Current Facility Certifications certification date validity date certification body QAFCO 1-6, GFC ISO 9001:2008 – Quality 29 May 1996 16 Nov 2017 ABS Quality Evaluations and QMC Management System ISO 14001:2004 QAFCO 1-6, GFC – Environmental 30 December 1997 16 Nov 2017 ABS Quality Evaluations and QMC Management System OHSAS 18001:2007 – QAFCO 1-6, GFC Occupational Health & 15 December 1999 16 Nov 2017 ABS Quality Evaluations and QMC Safety Management System RC 14001:2008 Responsible QAFCO 1-6 19 April 2011 16 Nov 2017 ABS Quality Evaluations Care IFA Protect & Sustain Product Stewardship Det Norske Veritas (DNV), QAFCO 1-6 12 May 2011 18 June 2017 Programme – (Excellence Belgium Level) ISO /IEC 17025:2005 – Deutsche Requirements for the Akkreditierungsstelle QAFCO Laboratory 11 March 2011 10 March 2016 Competence of Testing and GmbH German Calibration Laboratories Accreditation Body QAFCO Canteen, Hazard Analysis & Critical Velosi Quality Management Al Banush Club & Al 5 May 2009 7 July 2015 Control Point (HACCP) International Ltd Maha Club QAFCO Storage & Level 1 Gold System status Australian Government 13 November 2014 6 May 2020 Handling for bulk in-ship fertilizer Department of Agriculture Chartered Institute of Procurement & Supply – Standard Certification for First Certification: QAFCO 1-6 CIPS Policies & Procedures of 7 January 2014 Contracting & Procurement functions Continual improvement of the quality management systems leads to sustainability” Mr. Saleh Al-Taweel Head of Quality Our business transparency and integrity 15 SR14_R7.indd 15 6/17/15 8:29 PM Building strategic memberships Strengthening strategic coalition is a priority during the current global context. The strategic coalition and cooperation will enable business to gain and will enable us to grow and expand more quickly, strongly and efficiently in all fronts of the industry. Substantive funding Holding a position on Participation in projects Membership as beyond routine the governance body or committees strategic membership dues Gulf Petrochemicals Research Sahara Forest Project International Plant & Chemicals collaboration with Nutrition Institute Association Belgian University In 2011, we entered (IPNI) (GPCA) of Liege into cooperation with Yara International We joined as a full The GPCA Fertiliser In 2014, QAFCO ASA and the Sahara member of the IPNI Committee comprises signed an agreement Forest Project to build at the IPNI board members from with the Belgian a project pilot facility, meeting held in leading regional University of Liege as an enabler to 2012 in Boston, companies. The to explore the use solve food security Massachusetts. members are senior of urea to improve issues in lands hit by managers/decision nutrient capacities desertification, but The IPNI institute’s makers with many of cassava root. The as well as a tool to work focuses on years of experience research team will eradicate poverty nutrient stewardship in the industry. Our assess the impact through job creation research and Chief Executive of microorganisms on the large scale in education, world Officer Mr. Khalifa Alto enrich protein the future. food security, Sowaidi is Chairman content in Cassava, environmental of the GPCA's Fertiliser which contributes to The agreement was concerns, and Committee . the diets of millions signed in 2012 with related issues. in Africans in subH.E. Prime Minister Saharan countries. of Norway and H.E. Prime Minister of Qatar presiding over the signing. Memberships and associations in the QAFCO sponsors International economic aspect Texas A & M Qatar Fertilizer Industry Conference 2014 Association Memberships and associations in the (IFA) environmental aspect Qatar hosted the QAFCO Texas A &M QAFCO is a Memberships and associations in the at Qatar Conference member of IFA. IFA community aspect 2014 at the is managed by its university’s premises board of directors, in the Education City comprised of senior campus. The 2014 representatives of conference was the companies from sixth edition held different regions of under the sponsorship the world. of QAFCO. G4-16 16 Our business transparency and integrity SR14_R7.indd 16 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE arency an transp d in ss teg ine us rit B y Workforce development Contributing to and social our nation’s responsibility economic atio ns Huma and integrity rel nr ss Busine transpar es growth lic a nce inistration n s rce Adm te P y cuou c Pu ro b en rement Security H PRODUCTION g Ma r in e ea r e i n e lth pa n Eng Q s SE cy tie in Fa ci l Focus on s li ga Finance Le product an quality Environmental liability a Bus nd ines rity s eg tr int Our sustainability performance 17 SR14_R7.indd 17 6/17/15 8:29 PM 18 AAA SR14_R7.indd 18 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 CONTRIBUTING TO OUR NATION’S ECONOMIC GROWTH Contributing to Society and Organizational growth by adapting sustainable innovative technical solutions to optimize use of national resources.” Mr. Humoud Al-Mannai Chief Technical Officer Key highlights Achieved profit of about of more than QAR 2 billion as total liabilities fell by around 10% Total financial assets worth more than QAR 20,000 million for the second consecutive year Ammonia and urea production capacity increase by 67% and 87% respectively between 2011-15 Exported 97% of prilled urea and 96% of granular urea produced Through diligent leadership QAFCO continues to excel. Maximising operational efficiency allied with the Exported 15% total ammonia produced of the recognition and development of our most valuable asset, our employees, the company strives towards its aspirations 580 million of sustainability and corporate responsibility planning for the future generations.” Spent QAR on locally sourced goods and services Mr. Cees Van Amelsfoort Chief Financial Officer AAA 19 SR14_R7.indd 19 6/17/15 8:29 PM Good to know How we create value We produced 1.1 million metric tonnes of Urea Prilled and 4,3 million In 2014, Qatar’s exports on metric tonnes of Urea Granular in petrochemical products jumped 2014 by 11.4% to 38.78 billion QAR (USD With a capacity of 60,000 metric 10.7 billion), QAFCO being a major tonnes per year, the plant supplies contributor. With the commission of our 5% of global melamine demand. new plants, QAFCO 5 and 6, QAFCO’s It is the second biggest melamine ammonia and urea production capacity facility in the world and the biggest will increase by 67% and 87% respectively in the Middle East. between 2011 and 2015, raising QAFCO’s share of total Middle Eastern urea exports from 23% to 36%. As a result of these capacity expansions, QAFCO has become the largest urea exporter in the GCC region and a key player in the global fertilizer market with about 27% of global urea export volumes being supplied from GCC countries, including more than 14% contribution from QAFCO. Our business strategy has helped us respond to the changing market requirements and demand and supply dynamics in the industry. Complying to the market demands, we have maximized production of granular urea to meet the specific demand of our customers based on different territories (such as Australia, US, India) with strict regulatory regimes. In 2014, we made a Net Profit of more than QAR 2 billion a sizeable contribution to the bottom line of its parent company Industries Qatar (IQ), despite higher operating costs for fertiliser production because of increases in natural gas rates under a supply agreement with Qatar Petroleum. Although urea prices were lower in 2014, ammonia prices increased. Therefore we were more flexible in terms of selling more ammonia and we diminished production at one of the urea plants. Our financial position remains strong as we enter 2015. Our total liabilities have fallen by about QAR 500 million while our assets still remain above QAR 20,000 million. G4-8, G4-9, G4-DMA Economic performance, G4-EC1, G4-EC8 20 Contributing to our nation’s economic growth SR14_R7.indd 20 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 Figure 8a. Ammonia Produced in 2014 QAFCO exported South Africa 61 15% (Total Ammonia production Jordan23 544,000 metric tonnes) Japan23 ‘000 metric tonnes of the total ammonia produced in 2014 South Asia 23 India 390 China23 Figure 8b. Ammonia Production 2001-2015 67% Increase ‘000 metric tonnes Figure 8c. Urea Production 2001-2015 87% Increase ‘000 metric tonnes G4-8, G4-9 Contributing to our nation’s economic growth 21 SR14_R7.indd 21 6/17/15 8:29 PM UNRIVALLED SCALE Figure 9a. Exports by Shipping in 2014 USA 1,301 Kt Granular / 123 Kt Prilled Exports Canada 33 Kt Granular Brazil 916 Kt Granular / India 71 Kt Prilled Exports 27 Kt Granular United Kingdom Japan 80 Kt Granular 12 Kt Granular / 2 Kt Prilled Exports Europe South Korea 42 Kt Granular 80 Kt Granular / 4 Kt Prilled Exports Sudan Thailand 81 Kt Granular / 27 Kt Prilled Exports 421 Kt Granular / 16 Kt Prilled Exports Bangladesh Phillipines 130 Kt Granular / 66 Kt Prilled Exports 65 Kt Granular / 163 Kt Prilled Export South Africa Australia 209 Kt Granular / 101 Kt Prilled Exports 721 Kt Granular / 11 Kt Prilled Exports G4-8, G4-9 22 Contributing to our nation’s economic growth SR14_R7.indd 22 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 QAFCO exports over total production 97% Prilled Urea 96% Granular Urea Total Shipment in 2014 around 5,075 kt With prices for urea (our main product) stabilizing in 2014 after experiencing a dip in 2013, we are now braced to experience a rise in demand and sales of both of our products. At the same time, we plan to develop production capacities in more fertilizer products and diversify our product base. In 2010, we established the Qatar Melamine Company (QMC) to produce melamine which is a very important milestone in our efforts to achieve product diversification. For the journey forward, we believe that there is going to be more demand for environment friendly forms of our fertilisers especially from the US and Australia. With the exports set to rise, we are looking to improve our economic impact on the nation through improved business performance in the coming years. Product, process and technology innovation will drive the industry in the next few years and we want to play a leadership role to make use of the opportunities that successful innovation would bring. We want our operations to benefit the society through the conduct of our business and the products we develop. Figure 9b. We aspire to play an active role in Exports by Trucks in 2014 delivering improved products that would help farmers in the countries we export Carpet / to increase productivity and ensure Destination Prill (Bagged) Granular domestic food security. Abu dhabi 2.5 0.17 We provide a lot of opportunities for the Qatari society through employment Iraq 1.03 0 we create. With a strong workforce of 1,650, we ensure that our employees are Jordan 6.25 0 benefited economically and socially. We maintain a large network of customers, KSA 0 0.15 with utmost care being taken to ensure that they are satisfied with the quality of UAE 1 1.2 QAFCO’s products. The relationship that we have forged with our customers and Local sale employees has enabled to bring in more 4.263 0 (Qatar) business and create value both for us Total 15.04 1.52 and Qatar. G4-8, G4-9, G4-DMA Economic performance, G4-EC8 Contributing to our nation’s economic growth 23 SR14_R7.indd 23 6/17/15 8:29 PM Our contribution to global community: food security As estimated by United Nations world population expected to grow to some 8.5 billion people by 2030 and food production will need to increase by more than 50%. With the decrease in agricultural land due to economic upturn, there is strong demand to maintain and enhance fertility of available land where the fertilizer sector will play a major role. Fertilizer production in the GCC region is growing twice as fast as the global industry average. According to GPCA estimates, the GCC fertilizer industry accounted for approximately oneFigure 10. Global population growth (United Nations) quarter of global urea trade and for 12% of the global ammonia trade volume in 2013. GCC’s fertilizer capacity is expected to increase from 42.7 million tonnes in 2013 to more than 66 million tonnes by 2018. With this capacity growth over the years, the GCC industry demonstrates its potential to be a major global player to address food security challenges by providing access to and making efficient use of inputs and resources. With the increase in ammonia and urea North America Latin America production capacity, we will significantly Caribbean & Central America Western Europe Middle East Africa contribute to alleviate food security Asia Eastern Europe challenge in the coming years. Central Europe G4-EC8 24 Contributing to our nation’s economic growth SR14_R7.indd 24 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 Prioritizing our investments Both product quality and operation continuity are important to us, and we continue to raise the bar by In the last year, we invested in several projects and investing and developing new projects. In 2014, we initiatives towards a sustainable growth including: spent more than QAR22 million toward improving product quality and QAR12 million to guarantee • Ensure operational continuity operation continuity. • Improve the environment In addition, since 2006 we have invested more than • Cost and capacity enhancement projects QAR196 million in environmental projects including • Product quality system installation (i.e. groundwater monitoring, water tank and supply system), research (i.e., impact of sodium • General projects including administration and bisulphite) and replacements (i.e. Halon and Freon facilities improvement coolers replacements). • Health and safety projects Figure 12. Project investments in 2014 We are also committed to bringing about social transformation of the Qatari Society through spending Figure 11. Environmental projects spend 2006-2014 (in million QAR) a portion of our economic surplus to promote social welfare. In 2014, we spent more than QAR 19 million combined for both internal and external social welfare  nvironmental E activities. Systems Installation related expenditure Research, assessment and monitoring expenditure Replacement and other expenditure We strive to embed sustainability in our projects by effectively Some key Examples of significant projects since 2006 translating management strategies that address social issues and • ZLD feasibility study (QAR 0.5 million) maintain a healthy balance with our ecosystem.” • Environmental risk assessment for DeNOx Infrastructure (QAR 160,000) • Neutralization pit viability study (QAR 9 million) Mr. Ali Abdi Jama Projects Manager • Replacement of Freon coolers (QAR 3 million) • Halon replacement phase (QAR 2 million) G4-EC1, G4-EC7, G4-EN31 Contributing to our nation’s economic growth 25 SR14_R7.indd 25 6/17/15 8:29 PM Supporting local companies Figure 13. Goods and Services Spend (%) Our value chain relies on a wide range of national and international suppliers and contractors. We are committed to support local companies by giving preference to local products and services, wherever possible and applicable. To support this commitment, we try to maximize publishing open tenders in the local newspapers of Qatar in addition to having a “local content” clause in the general conditions that we use for semi-major service/construction contracts. There has been a continuous rise in the proportion of goods and services sourced locally in 2014. We spent approximately QAR 580 million on locally sourced goods and services. Nearly 95% of our service contract spends are incurred Figure 14. Service Contracts (%) from the engagement of local contractors. Due to the unavailability of certain Inventories material Process chemicals which drive approximately 5% of the total spend and 12% of spend on Goods and supplies, we face significant challenges in enhancing the extent of our local spend. However, more than 55% of our spent on chemicals in 2014 was local. We are confident that our commitment to promote local economy and support to the local firms providing us with materials and services will enable the local firms to increase the range/capacity of the goods and/or services they offer Our annual expenditure for the supply of goods and and thus help us to depend on them to fulfill a higher services stood at about QAR 798 million in 2014. We have proportion of our demand in the coming years. spent nearly three-fourth of this expenditure locally. Figure 15. Goods and Supplies (%) Figure 16. Goods and supplies non-chemical products (%) Figure 17. Chemical Supplies (%) G4-12, G4-EC8, G4-DMA Procurement practices, G4-EC9, G4-DMA Supplier Environmental Assessment, G4-DMA Supplier assessment for labor practices 26 Contributing to our nation’s economic growth SR14_R7.indd 26 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 Looking forward We believe that more than four decades as the leading manufacturer of fertilizers in Qatar, has positioned us favorably to deliver economic benefits to our economy and bring about economic transformation in Qatar. We will continue providing sustained value for our shareholders through our business operations and monitoring both the positive and indirect economic impacts on the community and the economy as a whole. We also plan to launch niche production of environmentally friendly fertilisers to meet rising demand in international markets. G4-2 Contributing to our nation’s economic growth 27 SR14_R7.indd 27 6/17/15 8:29 PM SR14_R7.indd 28 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT AND SOCIAL Qatarization is an integral part of our policies and strategic planning at QAFCO. RESPONSIBILITY We have laid the foundations to effectively and sustainably implement Qatarization at QAFCO.” Dr. Hamed A Al Marwani Chief Administration Officer Key highlights Reduced employee turnover by about 55% 2 36 Qatari headcount representing 14.5% of approved establishment 51  onducted three health and safety audits for C new the first time and implemented nearly joined to total workforce of 90% of the audit safety recommendations 1,651 Defensive Driving Awareness Program educated comprising 36 nationalities 206 employees Spent approx. QAR 19 million on community and workforce welfare activities QAFCO Flower and Vegetable Show – a record turnout of 14,500 visitors SR14_R7.indd 29 6/17/15 8:29 PM Our diversified workforce In 2014, our workforce, to whom we are indebted for our success, despite the recruitment challenges. success, has grown to reach a strong 1,651 including 59 nationals under academic and development programs. Diversity is central to QAFCO values as, in 2014, our workforce was drawn from 36 different nationalities. Attracting the right talent and Qatarization is a Our diverse workforce combines workers from different demanding task at QAFCO due to insufficient availability backgrounds and experiences that together breed a of nationals, and hence, resulting in dependence on more creative, innovative, and productive workforce. expatriates. The technical nature of our work and our location With a view to tackling these challenges, we undertake suggest a low rate of female employment at our a systematic workforce plan that allows us to identify the offices and work place (approximately 2%). Qatari need for and availability of human resources to meet women workers are increasingly becoming part of our our business objectives while guaranteeing employee workforce. welfare. The larger workforce reflects our workforce plan Figure 18. Diversified Workforce The future of QAFCO lies in the hands of the present. We have to take all the necessary measures to make sure that we utilize our resources effectively and efficiently in order to be sustainable for several generations to lead QAFCO ahead.” Mr. Hassan Al-Mohammadi Human Resources Manager 2014 2013 Employee category Male Female Male Female Senior management 5 5 Middle management 66 1 56 1 Lower management 457 8 447 9 Non-management/ELS 1,037 18 1,008 14 Trainees 55 4 58 3 Total 1,620 31 1,574 27 G4-9, G4-10, G4-EC5, G4-EC6, G4-DMA Employment, G4-LA12 30 Workforce development and social responsibility SR14_R7.indd 30 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 Attracting and retaining Figure 19. Employee turnover analysis Other our employees Arab nationals We recognize that attracting right talent is increasingly challenging as the economy diversifies. In 2014, one of our objectives was to source 100 potential candidates as per the recruitment plan to successfully manage and operate QAFCO plants. This year we added 92 new employees into our workforce. We integrate our new staff into the organization and set them up, to be in tune with QAFCO´s culture. Upon arrival, the new staff is provided with induction programs by the Recruitment Team and Training & Development for smooth integration into the organization. The new Figure 20. Exit Interview of resigned employees staff is also briefed on QAFCO ethical values and expected behaviors considering the diverse and ethical background of the workforce. We aim at fostering an inclusive workplace to avoid high turnover rates and related costs at the expense of our profits. Our HR Total Rewards Strategy and Compensation Philosophy, in step with our mission and vision statements, allows us to attract competent and quality staff and prevent turnover and loss of key manpower by providing positive work environment and competitive pay package. We annually conduct an “Employee Satisfaction” online survey to understand the satisfaction level of our workforce and provide management with the Figure 21. Reasons for Leaving knowledge to build positive employee relations and a positive work environment. Our survey focuses on various aspects including promptness in issuing company certificates, efficiency of leave request, process of education assistance and on-call duty response in case of emergency. Any eventual area of concern is reported to the top management and an action plan is developed accordingly. In 2014, the majority of our employees who participated in the survey posted an overall rating of “Excellent” (51%) and “Good” (37%). The satisfaction level of our workforce is reflected in lower turnover which have reduced from 91 employees in 2013 to 41 employees in 2014, a reduction of 55% from the previous year. To understand why people leave and in order to reduce turnover rates, we conduct exit interviews and further analyse results to understand trends and take appropriate actions. cash bonuses based on company and individual Our HR Total Rewards Strategy and Compensation performance, including bonuses and retirement Philosophy of pay for performance also rewards high programs. performing employees in a manner commensurate their contribution to organizational and overall company Apart from the regular wages we provide company success. It is designed to be competitive and to ensure accommodation, travel assistance for family, interest that key talent, who drive future growth, remains with us. free loans, educational assistance to employees Our compensation approach is to target base pay and children, insurance coverage, among others. All QAFCO benefits at the industry norm, while providing variable employees on indefinite and definite contracts of G4-EC1, G4-EC3, G4-EC5, G4-DMA Employment, G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-DMA Diversity and equal opportunity, G4-LA12, G4-DMA Equal remuneration Workforce development and social responsibility 31 SR14_R7.indd 31 6/17/15 8:29 PM employment are also entitled to an appropriate ”End Good to know of Service Benefit (ESB)” payments, based on their latest drawn salary. The benefits we offer to our employees exceed the As part of our HR Total Rewards Strategy minimum wages stipulated by the Government. and Compensation Philosophy, we Appropriate compensations are also provided for continuously look into the market trends employees who are required to work in excess of normal and see the possibility to bridge the gaps working hours. In 2014, we spent more than QAR 41 by conducting benchmarking studies million to compensate employees working extra hours. with the aim to maintain internal equity and remain competitive and at par with competitors both within Qatar and the Gulf region. In 2014, we carried out a benchmarking exercise using HAY Group to compare QAFCO against reliable external market data on basic salaries and other direct or indirect pay elements. Based on the scores received, we reevaluated and adjusted some job grades and related salaries as per market trends. Qatarization Qatarization refers to our strategy of developing a competent Qatari workforce through education and training. We are committed to pursue the eventual achievement of the Energy & Industry Sector’s Qatarization target of 50% (or greater) of quality, competent Qataris holding permanent positions on employment contract. Our Strategic Qatarization Plan enables us to support the educational sector through partnerships and Figure 22. Strategic Qatarization Plan sponsorships, proactively encouraging recruitment of Qatari nationals and supporting training and development of nationals. Year-to-year percentage comparisons of Qatari numbers are influenced by the respective annual approved service establishments. In 2014, we recorded a decline in both ”Qatari on Employment Contract” and ”Qatari Headcount” in comparison with previously reported baselines. This is because a readjustment made in 2014 for the unaccounted movement of employees from QAFCO’s Marketing Department to Muntajat in 2013. Also, with an increase in manpower, mainly expats, due to major expansions, and recent resignations by Qatari employees, there is an overall decrease in Qatari nationals percentage. 1 Qataris under Academic and Development programs (trainees, developees and staff on academic study both here in Qatar and overseas) 2 Qataris holding a permanent position including Qataris under Academic and Development programs G4-EC1, G4-EC3, G4-EC5, G4-EC6, G4-LA2, G4-DMA Training and education, G4-DMA Equal remuneration 32 Workforce development and social responsibility SR14_R7.indd 32 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 Qatari recruitment Figure 23. Qataris under Training & Development Programme in 2014 The imbalance between the supply and demand for Qatari talent to meet the company’s unique organizational needs in the science and engineering fields, and the attrition of experienced practitioners are main challenges to recruitment. Recruiting qualified and experienced Qatari in the open market remains a limited option. However, at the end of 2014, our Qatari headcount was 236 representing 14.5% of approved establishment and we foresee a steady growth in our Qatari headcount from 15% (start of 2015) to 21% at the end of 2019. At the beginning of each year, we recruit young Out of 59 Qataris under T&D in 2014, nationals on training agreements to train and develop them for future employment at QAFCO. Our belief in investing in the youth of Qatar to create a responsible 8 Qataris were recruited within the same year and qualified workforce is reflected in our sponsorship of 31 students during 2014. We diligently monitor progress in development programs and provide continued personal support to our trainees / students, whether at their workplaces or institutes of further education. In addition, we offer summer training to secondary school students or undergraduates selected in conjunction with the Ministry of Education and Labour Department for a period not exceeding three months. The purpose of such trainings is to provide the students with knowledge of the industry and to widen their own academic horizons. Summer Internship Training 2014 We continued creating promotional opportunities for vertical progression for Qatari employees through organizational restructuring. This is supported by continuing professional development to ensure that the Qataris placed in such key lead positions are competent and confident to perform their duties to the highest possible standards. In 2014, 11 Qataris pursued post-Qualification practical training programs toward final development to take up an established position at QAFCO. Apart from supporting continued professional development through On-job Development – Programs and Short Courses, we sponsored 43 Qataris Closing remark meeting with Head of Training & in vocational education and training programs or Development Section among QAFCO Employee undergraduate programs. Children Summer Training in QAFCO Networking with the Education sector • H osting College Advisory Committee (Focus Group) activities on study program syllabi and new program offerings As part of QAFCO’s Corporate Social Responsibility and Networking Strategy, we forge relationships with • U tilizing university laboratories for some of QAFCO’s universities, schools and other education sectors through testing requirements on a commercial basis involvement and collaboration through: • H osting summer training and running an internship program for Qatari students • M  aintaining continued sponsorship of a chair at • Organizing career fairs and sponsorship days the local university in the field of Energy Systems and collaboration to host a conference promoting • Hosting and facilitating student’s plan design projects cutting-edge chemistry research • Facilitating plant and school visits G4-EC5, G4-EC6, G4-DMA Training and education, G4-LA10 Workforce development and social responsibility 33 SR14_R7.indd 33 6/17/15 8:29 PM Empowering our people Figure 24. Courses per skills and knowledge in 2014 We believe that proper training and development of our employees is a fundamental function of our overall business objectives. QAFCO training and development policies are developed with an objective of enhancing the necessary competencies to maintain our operations profitably, economically, safely and environmentally-friendly. Our Training and Development Section plays a pivotal role in developing our workforce by designing appropriate educational programs, on job development programs and smooth career paths for them. A total of 203 training courses were conducted in 2014. This included local, overseas and in-house training courses conducted by a dedicated team of trainers in QAFCO and external industry experts and specialists. Employees were also sent overseas on long-term and short-term courses or assignments to gain international experience and get to know another culture first-hand. On -job development programs are tailored for individual Our training programs witnessed great interest from employees to meet their specific job requirements. participants during the course of the year. On average, Employees are given opportunities to attend seminars, each employee attended 16 hours of training in 2014 with courses or postings which would be identified for them by the a healthy attendance for each program. Of the total department. training man-days (5,073) delivered to the employees, about 26% and 74% have been attended or provided to Qatari • M anagement courses: courses related to management nationals and expatriates employees respectively. skills, leadership, supervisory, planning and organizing, and personal development • Communication courses: English language courses attended by Qataris; English language further development programs • SEQ courses: safety, environment and quality-related courses • Maintenance courses: courses that are related to maintenance and technology programs • Operation courses: production-related courses At the Training & Development Section, • General courses: related courses on finance, human we believe that sustainability reporting resources, ERP and computer courses, administration etc. provides an opportunity for improvement, Figure 25. Training Courses in 2014 leading to further employees engagement and empowering employees to make a sustainable positive change in the company.” Mr. Ismail Al-Mulla Head of Training & Development Good to know Smoke Diving and Ammonia Safety Training in Norway A total of 126 employees, mostly from Operations and Technical Division, (operators and technicians) were sent to NORWARD Training Figure 26. Percentage of Training Man-days in 2014 center in Norway; they passed and certified to became QAFCO’s Ammonia Mitigating Personnel. 26% 74% G4-DMA Training and education, G4-LA9, G4-LA10 34 Workforce development and social responsibility SR14_R7.indd 34 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 Providing a safe and healthy point of focus for us has been to minimize our reliance on contractual employees. work environment In 2014, there was one lost time injury in our operations, including a contractor employee, that led to five lost The fertilizer industry is historically associated with days. health and safety risks for workers. At QAFCO, we are committed to provide a safe workplace to our people through risk-based safety and health programs across In 2014, our work-related injuries fell to 26 from 43 in the business. In case of any unfortunate incident leading the previous year. Unfortunately, we had one incident to an injury, we provide assistance while returning to leading to two fatalities in 2014. While the loop work through proactive injury management program. was under the nitrogen pressure as part of purging activity, the diaphragm gasket weld had sheared off completely. This resulted in the diaphragm gasket flying We have set a target to achieve zero lost time accident off at high velocity and directly hitting the people and zero first aid accident for QAFCO staff as well as in front. The incident was investigated in detail and contractors on-site. We have worked hard over the years remedial measures have been undertaken with a view to ensure that we bring down the number of worksite to avoiding further casualties. injuries for both our contractors and employees. Another Safety performance 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 indicator Work hours (employees) 2,918,944 3,199,301 3,474,578 3,411,670 3,567,721 Work hours (contractors) 10,226,104 6,084,670 5,326,995 4,664,334 4,598,986 Employee fatalities 0 0 0 0 1 Contractor fatalities 0 0 0 0 1 Employee lost time injuries 0 2 0 1 0 Contractor lost time injuries 0 1 1 1 1 Total recordable injuries 12 9 7 7 9 (employees) Total recordable injuries 28 18 30 36 17 (contractors) We have an ongoing action plan for continuous Good to know improvement that enables us to analyze each incident and learn lessons so as to prevent their re-occurrence. Improvements in our safety performance are also the result of the dedication of our employees and the Benchmarking with Yara companies We compare our safety performance globally success of our Safety Information System (SIS). This system against fertilizer companies, participating in comprises an incident investigation and prevention benchmarking analysis undertaken by the Yara program, including emergency preparedness plans, International. Below figure shows our performance training, safety procedures, protective equipment, in 2014. In addition, of the 26 companies in hazard inspection and communication, and incentive the Yara, QAFCO was ranked among the best performers on both Medical Treatment Case schemes. (MTC), Restricted Work Case (RWC) and Lost Time Injury (LTI). Our QAFCO Safety (including health and security) & Environment Committee (QASEC), under the Chairmanship of the CEO, meets regularly to review and discuss incident statistics and activities and projects related to health, safety, security and environment and their impact. Each year, the CEO selects two employees to be part of the committee and represent the overall concerns and interest of the workforce. In addition, we have formed internal safety committees to address the health and safety issues, with representation across the management and employee levels. In 2014, we investigated all the 62 incidents that were reported. Based on the investigation, 142 actions have been recommended, out of which 115 (more than 80%) have been already implemented. G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety, G4-LA5, G4-LA6, G4-DMA Training and education Workforce development and social responsibility 35 SR14_R7.indd 35 6/17/15 8:29 PM Safety performance indicators 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Safety incident investigation initiated 69 46 62 82 62 Safety incident investigation completed 69 46 62 82 62 Safety incident investigation actions recommended 138 114 134 167 142 Safety incident investigation actions implemented 138 114 128 159 115 Incident investigation pending cumulative from 0 0 0 0 0 previous years Safety incident investigation actions pending 0 0 6 14 41 cumulative from previous years We recognize the importance of having the safety Safety measures across our plants audited by a third party. performance 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 There are routine inspections from external health indicator and safety inspectors to ensure our health and safety Audits planned procedures are up to the highest industrial standards. 1 2 2 2 3 during the year In a phased manner, we have increased the number of Audits completed 1 2 2 2 3 inspections conducted during the year. We successfully during the year completed three inspections in 2014 and have implemented 34 of the 35 audit actions recommended Audit actions 42 55 35 48 35 recommended by the auditor. The remaining one audit action recommended is being observed by our internal audit Audit actions team and is expected to be completed in early 2015. 42 55 35 48 34 completed Induction safety training prior to start of job is mandatory for all QAFCO and contractor employees. In 2014, during shutdown of QAFCO 4 and QAFCO 2 plants, the major challenge was to educate large number of contractor workforces who carried out some critical activities in the plants. Our Safety section arranged safety trainings for the contractors on a daily basis comprising control measures to deal with hazards associated with shutdown activities. In addition, essential QAFCO and contractor employees were trained on Work Permit procedure and authorized as responsible executors. G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety, G4-DMA Training and education 36 Workforce development and social responsibility SR14_R7.indd 36 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 Safety awareness and training sessions were conducted for all contractors working for major shutdown at QAFCO 5. Contractor safety officers were selected and were Good to know imparted special safety briefing highlighting their roles and responsibilities to be aligned with QAFCO’s safety QAFCO 5 – first ever shutdown in procedures and instructions. 2014 In 2014, we introduced many new training modules, It was the first ever major shutdown at QAFCO such as: 5 after commissioning and 2,500 contractor workforce was deployed to perform various • Risk Analysis Training maintenance activities. Two double extra turn style gates were installed with the • F ire & Evacuation Training to AlBanoush Club/Al QAFCO Registration card facilities in order to Maha Club employees avoid traffic congestion and a long queue • H  ome & Fire Safety Family Members of QAFCO of contractors at the security gate. We also employees made MIC Gate 3 more operable and made a single row entry at QAFCO 5 for vehicles to • Permit Authorization Training to issuers ensure safe traffic movement. Special speed • Rescue Training limit controls with RADAR were also installed. In addition, an extra evacuation gate was • J oint Auxiliary Fire & Emergency Response Training installed for easy evacuation of all contractors with neighbouring companies in case of emergency while special assembly points were also established. Qatar is known for having very high road accident rates. On daily basis, we transport large number of employees and contractors and recognize the risks of road accident. In 2014, we increased our efforts to raise awareness on road safety through the ‘Defensive Driving Awareness Program for Management and Employees’. This initiative provided personal education to 206 employees, including management executives, allowing employees to have a better understanding on concepts related to safe driving. Our safety awareness programs spread beyond our premises to reach our immediate community. We utilize various platforms to showcase industry safety information and demonstrate to the visitors the application of safety techniques, daily. In 2014, we initiated ‘House Safety Training’ for QAFCO employee’s families to create awareness on home safety, kitchen safety and use of first-aid fire extinguishers. A total of 32 family members attended the training. G4-DMA Training and education Workforce development and social responsibility 37 SR14_R7.indd 37 6/17/15 8:29 PM We also provide employees with preventive and curative health services, such as medical surveillance, vaccinations, illness and injury treatment, health promotion and first-aid training within the company. Further, we assess all workers for exposure to workplace hazards and monitor general health status. Medical facilities are available within our premises for contractors and employees and a Public Health Centre in Mesaieed area for their families. We have also employed a fully qualified medical officer and staff to provide medical services during normal day working hours at the plant premises. Status of our Health Action Plan in 2014 • U pdated the records covering all employees who have hypertension and diabetes • E stablished a first aid station in QAFCO plants 5 and 6 and completed an advanced first aid training program for contract staff and lifeguards • D elivered wellness campaign and Fitech program as part of World Health Day on 7 April • Identified Production staff in QAFCO plants 5 and 6 who are exposed to noise and update audiograms for all staff identified with noise induced hearing loss Figure 27. Our Health Calendar for the year 2014 24th March 5th January World Tuberculosis Day “Healthy Back” Awareness “Tuberculosis” Awareness 31st May 7th April 4th February World World Health Day World Cancer Day No Tobacco Day “Healthy Lifestyle” “Cancer” “No Smoking” Campaign Awareness Awareness 28th July World Hepatitis Day “Hepatitis” Awareness 17th October 27th September “Seasonal Flu “Food Safety” World Heart Day NIL Prevention and Awareness “Heart Day” Vaccination” Awareness Campaign 14th November 1st December World World AIDS Diabetes Day Day “Diabetes” “AIDS” Awareness Awareness G4-DMA Local communities 38 Workforce development and social responsibility SR14_R7.indd 38 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 Workforce and Community engagement QAFCO, being the market leader in fertilizer production In 2014, our Finance Division conducted “Team Building” in Qatar, recognizes the central role it has to play in sessions based on the central theme “Together Everyone making the work place better and strengthening the Achieves.” The Informatin Technology staff and the local community. As part of our social responsibility, we Office Administration Sections gathered at AlBanush devote special attention to workforce and community Club for a friendly competition in bowling and table engagement through various activities that range from tennis. There was also a Desert Safari trip and some funsports to cultural events. In 2014, we spent more than filled team activities such as the highest tower, musical QAR 19 million on community and workforce welfare chair, and tug-of-war. activities. We organized another team-building activity with our IT Every year, QAFCO´s Safety, Environment and staff. This served as a farewell event for the team before Quality (SEQ) department organizes several activities, they shifted to the Administration Division effective 2014. competitions and field trips to enhance environmental awareness and knowledge among various segments A “Town Hall Session” was held in 2014 by the Accounts, of the community, especially children. Our Public and Contracting and Procurement sections. Here, Relations Department also plays a significant role by each participant was encouraged to express their organizing social events in terms of getting staff and observations, ideas and concerns on key issues. At the their families together and integrates them into QAFCO’s end of the session, vital issues were promptly addressed environment. by the chairman and key staff. Figure 28. QAFCO Investment on our external community ROTA Gala Dinner QAFCO Texas A&M Conference Doha Qatar Qatar National Day QAFCO Chair In Green Chemistry & Green Engineering C  onference and issuing the White Book on Qatar Labor Heat Exch. Pilot UnitQatar University Rights Protection Qatar International College Fair Sponsorship of Qatar CSR Report 2013 5th GPCA Annual Fertilizer Convention GCC Traffic Week Social 14th Qatar Reliability Forum Education QAFCO Flower and Vegetable Show 23% 14% Participation of University Students in 5th GPCA Annual QAFCO-Day Fertilizer Convention Donation To Gaza People Donation of Mock Engine for Education Purposes National Sport Day QAFCO Open Tennis Championship Qatar Masters Golf Tournament QAFCO Annual Ramadan Tournament Sports Hejen (Camels) Racing Tournament QAFCO Annual Cricket Tournament 6th Open Fly-In Day International sports Press Magazine 24th Men’s Handball World Championship QP Chairman’s Cup Football Tournament 63% G4-EC1, G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-DMA Local communities, G4-SO1 Workforce development and social responsibility 39 SR14_R7.indd 39 6/17/15 8:29 PM National Sport Day In 2014, we celebrated National Sport day at QAFCO club, with several team games and other fun activities being arranged. At the end of the event, participants were honored with special gift items and awards. QAFCO sport activities are not strictly confined to the company employees, but extend to organizing matches with sport teams of neighboring companies and with residents of Mesaieed Industrial City, regardless of their professional sectors and affiliations. Apart from the intra-company events, QAFCO open tennis championship is one of the most famous and oldest tournaments in the country. QAFCO has been organizing prestigious sporting tournaments that drew huge interest among amateurs and professionals. Young athletes, spectators and interested fans eagerly await and look for QAFCO tournaments every now and then. QP Environment Fair QAFCO participated in the QP Environment Fair 2014, which was themed on water conservation. Qatar Petroleum Environment fair was organized at the Qatar National Convention Centre (QNCC). The Minister of Energy and Industry, inaugurated the 8th edition of the fair. The fourday event was themed “Use of Water in the Oil and Gas Industry.” It involved 8 QP directorates and departments, as well as 31 companies and organizations that showcased to the community their environmental initiatives. Educational Trip The children of QAFCO Primary School were taken on an educational field trip to Rossa Hassad. They were given a tour of the various greenhouses and the life cycle of flowers was explained to them. Qatar National Day During the Qatar National Day 2014 celebrations, our SEQ department organized a one-day Safety & Environment Workshop for women in QAFCO community, at Al-Banush Club. Two groups of 20 women each attended the ‘Safety at Home’ Workshop delivered by the Safety Section Team, and the Art of Recycling Workshop delivered by the Environment Team. The Art of Recycling Workshop was designed to encourage women to use waste materials, such as boxes, CDs and paper rolls, in creating a decorative art using the decoupage technique. G4-DMA Local communities, G4-SO1 40 Workforce development and social responsibility SR14_R7.indd 40 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 The QAFCO Flower and Vegetable Show The QAFCO Flower and Vegetable Show yet again showcased our cause to the environment and displayed our social responsibility as well. The event is an example of the community and industry cooperating to forward a cause that is important to all of us — the environment we live in. The event encourages strengthening of social bonds between all company employees and their families beyond the formal work atmosphere. In 2014, the show exceeded previous years in terms of the number of participants, attracting over 400 competitors, including amateurs, professionals, hotels and schools, with approximately 4,000 exhibits on display. A record turnout of 14,500 visited the show. QAFCO Awarded Honorary Membership by Rehabilitation International Rehabilitation International is a global network working to empower persons with disabilities and provide sustainable solutions for a more inclusive society. At QAFCO, we believe that persons with disabilities are an indispensable part of the workforce and can equally contribute to the economic development, if they are provided with due opportunities. In 2014, our Chief Executive Officer was awarded the honorary membership of Rehabilitation International, in appreciation of QAFCO’s support programs. In 2012, we had sponsored the 5th Rehabilitation Conference, of the Rehabilitation International-Arab Region. G4-DMA Local communities, G4-SO1 Workforce development and social responsibility 41 SR14_R7.indd 41 6/17/15 8:29 PM QAFCO Sponsors Spectacular Al Khor Fly-In 2014 Sky dive parachuting by members of the Qatar military and a flight demonstration using powered parachutes were among the highlights of the seventh edition of the Al Khor Fly-In. The two-day event also included fun plane rides for visitors and the opportunity to take a closer look at the many light aircraftson display for the occasion. QAFCO sponsors “Kidz Zone” at Commercial Bank Qatar Masters 2014 QAFCO sponsored “Kids Zone” during the four-day day European Tour sanctioned Commercial Bank Qatar Masters 2014. The partnership contract was signed between QAFCO and Commercial Bank following the official pre-event press conference at Doha Golf Club. The event allowed kids of all ages to have fun trying out a number of different sports with mini basketball, mini tennis, mini golf and mini soccer, which were on offer throughout. Families were encouraged to come along and enjoy everything the tournament had to offer, with world-class golf on the Championship Course and a wide range of family activities in the brand new Kids Zone and popular public village. G4-DMA Local communities, G4-SO1 42 Workforce development and social responsibility SR14_R7.indd 42 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 Looking forward Over the last few years, we have taken many steps to provide a safe and healthy work environment and dedicated training to our employees for professional and personal development as well as to improve employee and community welfare. We are keen to continue engaging with our employees to make QAFCO the chosen employer for professionals. We will also be pursuing our ambitious Qatarization targets with more purpose in 2015 and beyond. G4-2 Workforce development and social responsibility 43 SR14_R7.indd 43 6/17/15 8:29 PM 44 AAA SR14_R7.indd 44 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 FOCUS ON A very high Safety Performance is the prerequisite to operate our PRODUCT QUALITY plants, a continuous focus on our Product Quality is the guarantee to do so in the future.” Mr. Thomas Schmitz Chief Operations Officer Key highlights • Product handling system awarded a level –1 gold certificate by Australian Quarantine and Inspection Service (AQIS) • Developed a robust complaint management system and resolved all complaints within 2 weeks • O ur new initiative to produce valueadded urea products based on research will be done using our already purchased Pilot High Speed Drum Granulation (HSDG) unit • Awarded Standard Award level certification by the Chartered Institute of Procurement & Supply (CIPS) • Sustainable Procurement Training to 10 QAFCO employees AAA 45 SR14_R7.indd 45 6/17/15 8:29 PM As envisaged in our vision, “Quality” is the helm of our Good to know business. To make our vision a reality, our strategy is to maintain a dynamic presence in the realm of the fertilizer industry to explore new opportunities, expand worldwide presence and continue to provide our Sustainable Procurement Training customers with high quality reliable products. Our purchasing portfolio includes not only the The fertilizers we produce include fully refrigerated catalysts, chemical and energy required for anhydrous ammonia (fertilizer grade), aqueous manufacturing, but also machinery, parts, ammonia (AQ), prilled urea, granular urea and technical services to maintain and operate our urea formaldehyde (UFC 85). Our marketing partner plant and utility services like staff transportation, firm Muntajat (Qatar Chemical and Petrochemical cleaning , catering, office supplies, etc. required to Marketing and Distribution Co.) purchases, markets, support our office infrastructure and facilities. distributes and sells these products to customers. In 2014, as part of our strive to be ever more Ammonia and urea have been our major fertilizer sustainable, we engaged a consultancy company products for almost five decades. We have earned a to provide us with training and strategic advice reputation as one of the leading producers of these on how sustainability can be embedded into products in the MENA region. However, we understand our procurement processes in a consistent, yet that product diversification is the way forward. adaptable manner, across the business. Augmenting production, product value addition, A total of 10 employees from the Contracting and diversification and focus on research and development Procurement section attended to the training. will be QAFCO’ drivers of growth in the coming years. Urea our global export markets for ammonia on more than 550,000 tonnes in 2015. Urea is the most widely solid fertilizer across the globe. We produce about 5.45 million tonnes of urea every Other products year, and offer two different types of urea for our customers in the region and abroad – granular and Product diversification has access to more markets prilled. More than 94% of the urea we produce is and help us achieve financial sustainability from exported, with the US (28%) and Brazil (22%) being the any demand-related shocks affecting our two main main importers. We are aiming to export more than 5.3 products, urea formaldehyde (UFC 85) and melamine. million tonnes of urea globally in 2015. UFC 85 is an additive added to urea to increase its strength. Melamine is formed through the thermal Ammonia decomposition of urea and is used in synthetic resins. The production process involves natural gas, steam and In 2014, we achieved the established capacity of 58,000 air undergoing a series of reactions in the controlled metric tonnes in UFC 85 production and more than atmosphere of our plants. We produced more than 56,000 metric tonnes of melamine. Our foray into UFC 85 3.6 million tonnes of ammonia in 2014. India and South and melamine production reflects our business strategy Africa (389,731 and 60,898 metric tonnes respectively) of product diversification. are the major importers. We are looking to extend G4-4, G4-8, G4-DMA Supplier Environmental Assessment, G4-DMA Training and education, G4-DMA Supplier assessment for labor practices, G4-DMA Customer Health and Safety 46 Focus on product quality SR14_R7.indd 46 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 Product stewardship To maintain and improve the quality of our products, Good to know we have implemented a stringent quality management program facilitated by real time monitoring and Department of Agriculture Inspection measurement of production processes, from the In 2014, our fertilizers prilled and granular urea incoming raw material to the distribution of final exports to Australia reached a significant 14%. products as well as by a sophisticated laboratory Australia has one of the strictest inspection analysis at various stages of production processes. procedures for imported fertilizer products requiring Our quality management system was certified ISO exporters to maintain high quality standards to 9001 in 1996. We also comply with the internationally minimize the risk of exotic pests and diseases in the accepted health and safety management system country. The Department of Agriculture Inspection Occupational Health & Safety Advisory Services (OHSAS) is the organization responsible for managing 18001 and Responsible Care (RC) 14001 that provide us quarantine controls at Australian borders and with a structured approach to manage environmental, provides import certification to exporters. health and safety risks. Our product handling system was awarded Over the years, our integrated management system a level-1 gold in 2014 that gives the customer has enabled the company to become a corporate the highest level of confidence and assurance leader that takes care of the needs and expectations in the integrity of the consignment in terms of of its customers and other stakeholders — employees quarantine contamination. As part of our continual and suppliers along with the community as well as the improvement and contamination management environment. We have received several certifications strategy we will be putting up Yellow Flags along and accolades, over the years, as a testimony for this. the Jetties and the Handling System during loading Our product quality is widely acclaimed within the to Australia as a reminder and to make people industry and several agencies have set high rating for aware that extra care should be taken to avoid our products. any contamination. Compliance with global standards of product and process handling, and safety and control of our products is our priority. The QAFCO management has a well-defined policy covering the International Fertilizer Association (IFA) SHE principles that guide our company in sustainable development and in taking care of the safety and security of its stakeholders along the supply chain. Last year, we were the proud recipients of the “Product Stewardship Excellence” certification from the Association. Furthermore, in 2014 we achieved a milestone in our journey towards excellence in our contracting and procurement policies was given the Standard level certification awarded by the Chartered Institute of Procurement & Supply (CIPS), which demonstrates an effective governance is in place for supply assurance and compliance. The certification was issued following a five-month comprehensive assessment process that is based around a stringent set of criteria, and after reviews conducted by external assessors. We are on a journey to Procurement lifecycle excellence and everyone here is delighted that QAFCO received the prestigious CIPS certification in terms of global benchmark reference. In 2015, we will continue to identify opportunities to improve our processes so greater transparency, enhanced control and efficiency gains can be generated throughout the Procurement process.” Mr. Majid Al-Malki Supply Chain Manager G4-DMA Customer Health and Safety, G4-DMA Compliance Focus on product quality 47 SR14_R7.indd 47 6/17/15 8:29 PM QHSE throughout our Figure 29. Planning Product Realization product lifecycle Significant quality, health, security, safety and environmental aspects, and risks, related to our operations, activities and products are identified through documented procedures. The Consent to Operate conditions, as specified by the QHSE legal requirements, also help us in identifying these significant aspects and risks. We have adopted a holistic approach in planning our products, being sure to incorporate the QHSE requirements at each step of the product life cycle, from production, storage, marketing and sales to delivery and use of our products. Product realization We have determined QHSE objectives as requirements and other technical services. These contractors were for product realization that are in line with QAFCO assessed for maintaining safety culture at the site, Group’s Integrated Policy , corporate and departmental use of personal protective equipment (PPE). by the objectives and our integrated management system. workers, compliance to HSE requirements in the contract and providing basic facilities to the workers including We have established mechanisms to monitor and verify restrooms, drinking water facilities, training programs, that our products comply with defined QHSE criteria. personal protective equipment, condition of the We also keep records to provide evidence that our contractor’s office and laydown area. The average of realization processes and resulting products meet those the individual scores of the eight contractors exceeded requirements. the satisfactory level (71 over 100). Contractor QHSE assessment During the assessment, i improvement areas were identified (including lack of hygiene awareness, far We ensure that products and services procured meet distances to laydown areas or unbalanced diet) for QAFCO’s QHSE requirements and qualify for the each contractor . In the coming years, we will continue applicable control mechanisms such as inspection and assessing and monitoring initiatives adopted by the testing of incoming goods, and accordingly we select contractors to address these issues. our suppliers and contractors. We have also instituted best performance awards for In 2014, we conducted a contractor competency the contractors performing during planned shutdowns. exercise and evaluated HSE performance of eight of We provide mandatory training to all contractors’ our major contractors who usually provide us manpower employees before any work commences. G4-12, G4-DMA Supplier Environmental Assessment, G4-EN32, G4-EN33, G4-DMA Environmental grievance mechanisms, G4-DMA Supplier assessment for labor practices, G4-LA14, G4-LA15, G4-DMA Human rights grievance mechanisms, G4-DMA Customer Health and Safety 48 Focus on product quality SR14_R7.indd 48 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 Supply chain to customers We have a very large market presence, exporting Good to know products to more than 30 countries. QAFCO products are sold through selected reputable dealers with Within the fertilizer industry, an essential element whom we have maintained a good rapport and of successful production is ensuring our product close interaction. Through a contract agreement, we is stored and packaged at an appropriate stipulate dealers’ responsibility for safety, security and temperature. Given the hygroscopic nature of environmental requirements with respect to distribution urea prills and granules, elevated temperatures and use by farmers. All relevant information about can quickly translate into caking during storage, product use is disseminated to users. packaging and bulk transportation. When our product quality is compromised by caking it Figure 30. Complaint Management System results in breakage and handling difficulties which translate into a lower selling price and dissatisfied customers. Customer engagement We have established a documented process to measure customer satisfaction for continual improvement towards meeting their expectations. In 2014, we commissioned a customer satisfaction survey through Muntajat, our marketing partner, for urea and ammonia to understand customer concerns and perception. For urea, the average satisfaction (out of 5) for product loading facilities, personnel services and documentation fell into the excellent range with 3, 3.3 and 3.7 respectively. Similar for ammonia, the satisfaction levels for product loading facilities, personnel services and documentation were 3.7, 3.5 and 3 respectively. We have an efficient and well-defined Figure 31. Results from customer satisfaction survey mechanism to deal with complaints logged and ensure these complaints are resolved in a timely manner. Complaints received from the customers are registered through a non-conformity system and reported to the management. In 2014, there were five complaints regarding our products, four of which were external. All the complaints were resolved swiftly and closed within two weeks. G4-12, G4-DMA Supplier Environmental Assessment, G4-EN32, G4-EN33, G4-DMA Environmental grievance mechanisms, G4-DMA Supplier assessment for labor practices, G4-LA14, G4-LA15, G4-DMA Customer Health and Safety, G4-DMA Compliance Focus on product quality 49 SR14_R7.indd 49 6/17/15 8:29 PM Product end use We remain concerned about the effects of product use once it is dispatched from our premises, and always seek to promote efficient use adopting life cycle product responsibility. In 2014, QAFCO to produce various value added urea products in Qatar. The pilot High Speed Drum Granulation (HSDG) Unit, with a capacity of 2.4 tonne/day, will allow QAFCO to develop various urea based products by adding sulphur, ammonium sulphate and a diverse range of other micronutrients. These products would have higher crop yields and lower overall impact on the environment. Construction activities in the pilot plant are expected to kick-off by mid-2015 and the plant will start production by end of next year. Our contribution to global community: new product applications As a social initiative, QAFCO has signed an agreement with the Belgian University of Liege to explore the use of urea to improve nutrient capacities of cassava root. The second most important food in Africa and Asia, cassava is mostly grown by the small-holder farmers largely because of its tolerance of drought and poor soil. The research team will assess the impact of microorganisms to enrich protein content in cassava, which contributes to the diets of millions in the sub-Saharan countries. This cooperation could also lead to the development of natural solutions to daily diet, especially for baby food free from the residue of food additives or antibiotics that weaken their resistance to diseases. The research collaboration will also look at the possibility of using urea as an essential component of healthy poultry feed to prevent the use of antibiotics in agriculture and livestock production. The agreement with the university’s department of veterinary science was signed by our CEO in the presence of Belgian Walloon Government President HE Paul Magnette. G4-12, G4-EC8, G4-DMA Customer Health and Safety, G4-DMA Compliance 50 Focus on product quality SR14_R7.indd 50 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 Looking forward In 2015 we are planning to create a Sustainable Procurement Policy and develop an action plan for successful implementation of sustainable procurement. We will continue conducting customer and supplier assessment exercises and surveys to determine and understand the value we create for them. We are committed to ensuring the highest product quality, adhering to internationally recognized quality standards and by dealing with challenges at each stage of the product life cycle. As part of this life cycle approach, we are all set to develop value-added urea products by adding more chemicals and micronutrients to reduce the impact on the environment. G4-2 Focus on product quality 51 SR14_R7.indd 51 6/17/15 8:29 PM 52 AAA SR14_R7.indd 52 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY Each and every person is responsible towards the environment, whether it is a child or an adult. It is our environment that provides us with the resources to develop a nation. And that’s why its important to educate the nation on the importance of protecting our environment. We should strive together to preserve today for our tomorrow.” Mr. Mohd. Y. Al Eshaq SEQ Manager Key highlights 95% Initiated implementation of Energy of waste recycled & reused Management System according to ISO Feasibility study to achieve ZLD 50001:2011 Recycled about 75% of total solid waste and reduction on paint waste through installation of IT 3900TM reclamation unit NOx emissions 23% continued to fall decrease 5-year agreement in Indirect Energy import through with Texas A&M University at Qatar energy efficiency improvement (TAMUQ) for sponsoring the QAFCO Texas A&M AAA 53 SR14_R7.indd 53 6/17/15 8:29 PM Qatar community faces serious environmental through the 3R approach. Since 1997, we have challenges that need to be addressed to achieve water established the Environmental Management System security, reduce carbon emissions, and lower risks in (EMS), ISO 14000-certified, with defined processes and the terrestrial and marine environment. Companies like procedures for identifying, evaluating and reducing ours must commit for making our nation’s future path the environmental impacts and at the same time of development compatible with the protection and increasing the operating efficiency and ensuring conservation of environment. regulation compliance. We strictly comply with the legal guidelines and, in many cases, even go beyond these to We believe environmental consideration is critical to safeguard the interests of the planet and the people. upholding responsible business operations, and have worked hard at monitoring, controlling and reducing Our established environmental policies showcase the wastes while conforming to relevant environmental standards. QAFCO has displayed consistent progress in top management’s commitment towards environmental key environmental performance indicators, including protection. Our Health, Safety and Environment waste water generation, GHG emissions, ozoneCommittee (QASEC) conducts frequent reviews and depleting substances, hazardous and non-hazardous progress meetings to administer that these policies are wastes generation, and natural resource management followed effectively. Partnering for efficient Figure 32. Energy Consumption (000’TJ) energy use Energy, in the form of natural gas and electricity, is our main raw material. Energy efficiency is a strategic management issue for QAFCO, since we are facing serious energy challenges including increasing costs, risks of supply disruptions and Eenrgy in 000’TJ growing environmental impact. We seek to become a sector leader in energy efficiency and strive to manage our resources proficiently as we have undertaken several energy efficiency and conservation measures over the year. In 2014, we initiated the implementation of Energy Management System in accordance with an the ISO 50001:2011. This will enable us to manage our energy sources and create opportunities for energy efficiency and conservation. An energy policy has been developed along with defined objectives and targets. We have already established the energy baseline for our products for the ammonia, urea, melamine Total energy used in 2014 and Utility plants. The Global Ammonia Plants Benchmarking methodology is being followed for (180,152 TJ) analyzing the energy data and benchmarking. has been reduced by 3% Energy performance indicators (EnPIs) are developed for each operating plant/unit. compared to 2013. In addition, an Energy Management System Core Team has been created. An independent and expert training was provided and team members are certified by the International Accredited Body Qatar General Electricity and Water Corporation (KAHRAMAA) (AIAO-BAR/BMQR) to carryout Energy Audits & ISO 50001:2011 Energy Management System internal audits. G4-DMA Energy, G4-EN3, G4-DMA Environmental grievance mechanisms 54 Our environment liability SR14_R7.indd 54 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 Partnering for innovative is essential to the evolution of enhanced energy efficiency and the further development of products technologies and processes. The conference featured an impressive technical program and the sessions showcased opinions The main cooling system for QAFCO plants is provided and research from some of the world’s most respected by heat exchanged seawater. Seawater with a names in nanotechnology and energy. It also provided temperature over 60°C has a tendency to form salts a forum for the exchange of ideas and opportunities for deposits that increase the risk of corrosion . QAFCO and future collaborations. Qatar University (QU) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding to enhance cooperation in areas related Events such as the conference work toward the goals of to energy systems. The agreement includes building and the QNV Vision 2030 and the state’s efforts to become a commissioning a Heat Exchanger Pilot Plant at QU by hub of research and a resource for knowledge globally. QAFCO and appointing a QAFCO Chair in the Energy Systems at the College of Engineering. Our partnership with TAMUQ will help us discover new grounds for conservation and energy efficiency. The pilot plant will be used for studying sea water behavior on heat exchanger applications. Research work by academics will benefit QAFCO for studying sea water related problems of fouling / metallurgy on a pilot scale as well as the university engineering students for understanding industrial applications, and to study and develop solutions for plant-related problems. As part of the QAFCO Chair, an applied research program will be created in the area of Energy Systems. The research program will be integrated with the undergraduate student graduation projects and graduate theses, according to QAFCO needs. The Chair will also serve as a platform for Research & Consulting, including organizing workshops, courses and summer training supervision. We will invest about QAR 900,000 annually to support the Chair position. Furthermore, QAFCO is exploring new grounds to find practical means of energy efficiency. Here, the industry-academia coordination will be of remarkable significance. We have signed an agreement with the Texas A&M University at Qatar (TAMUQ), as QAFCO is sponsoring the QAFCO Texas A&M at Qatar Conference for five years. This provides a unique opportunity for Qatar´s technical and science communities and industries to come together to hear innovative developments from worldrenowned scholars and practitioners. The focus of this year’s conference, nanotechnology and energy, Figure 33. Energy use, Gigajoules (GJ) Direct energy use (Feedstock, heating, boilers, conversion units) Indirect energy use (purchased from Kahramaa) G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-EN3 Our environment liability 55 SR14_R7.indd 55 6/17/15 8:29 PM Water conservation We aim to monitor the water usage and discharge as Good to know part of our operations and take significant actions to reduce our water footprint. The production of ammonia Key highlights on ZLD project and urea require water as a process cooling and steam generation component. • 0 .5 million QARs invested on feasibility study • 150 million QARs to be invested We have significantly reduced our reliance on fresh on engineering, procurement and water purchase by increasing our water generation by construction phases about 6% in 2014. Currently about 94%-95% of our water • Approximately 90% of the process waste requirement is met internally, through recovery, recycling water can be recovered as demineralized & reuse. water or irrigation quality water • Irrigation quality water generated We constantly monitor quality and temperature of to be used for landscaping and the wastewater discharges to the sea. The seawater used development of a green belt in the for cooling is also tested to make sure that it does not QAFCO plant premises breach the agreed levels, as per regulation. Besides • CAPEX can be substantially reduced using treated wastewater to irrigate green zones, we through the production of irrigation water are also increasing our focus on reusing water in core through waste water treatment operations and production processes. In 2014, the Ministry of Environment (MoE) issued a directive to the operators to work towards Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) to Accordingly, we conducted a detailed feasibility the sea. As per the new Consent to Operate Permit from study to evaluate wastewater recovery options. About Ministry of Environment, we are committed to no process 3,100 cubic meter per day of process water quantity wastewater discharge to the sea. is generated within the QAFCO (1-4) plants from approximately 150 identified sources. This includes continuous (76%) and non-continuous (24%) discharge water. Maximizing recovery from process wastewater as good quality, to use within QAFCO for other processes, will minimize our reliance on water supply from other sources. In 2015, we will be proceeding with the engineering, construction and commissioning of the wastewater treatment unit as per the execution plan developed in the study. The project is expected to be commissioned in 2018. Figure 34. Water usage (in million cubic meters) Water purchased Water generated Water discharged (in million cubic meters) Water discharged (other than the sea as treated process waste water) Water recycled or reused (treated sewage water for irrigation/horticulture purpose) G4-EC7, G4-DMA Water, G4-EN8, G4-EN9, G4-EN10, G4-EN22 56 Our environment liability SR14_R7.indd 56 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 Emissions and effluents Our production operations result in the release of air Other Emissions pollutants including nitrogen oxide, sulphur dioxide, carbon dioxide (excess CO2), urea dust and ammonia. We have significantly invested in R&D in developing We have taken various necessary steps to reduce these solutions for replacing ozone depleting substances. For emissions. instance, we have been successful in phasing out Halons from our firefighting systems, replacing it with water mist GHG Emissions and Novec 1230. We have invested a total of QAR5 million to eliminate using freon in two air cooler skids. We are assessing the feasibility of integrating the ammonia plant with urea plant that would help prevent NOx and SOx emissions the release of huge amounts of CO2; however, this depends on the production capacity of urea plants. We have always strictly adhered to local environmental regulations to achieve the challenging nitrogen oxides (NOx) emission limits (125 mg/N m3) Figure 35. GHG Emission (Metric Tonnes) QAFCO is a leader in DeNOx technology that not only helps to meet our NOx reduction challenge in our facilities, but also helps other industries to meet their NOx targets. Over the years we have also been able to offer solutions to other Qatari industries and power stations to control their NOx emissions. Figure 36. NOx and SOx emissions K TONNES 0.016 0.0141 0.012 Good to know 0.08 0.00937 0.00668 In 2014, we took up several initiatives that 0.04 will help us to reduce our NOx emissions 0.00461 0.00281 0.00221 0.00263 0.00229 0.00186 0.00276 over the years. 1. NOx reducing program: • Introduction of De-NOx Technology • Installation of Low-NOx burner on number of boilers 2. Installation of H2S removal plant to remove sulfur from the raw gas, when in turn it will reduce the total quantity of SO2 to the air. 3. Q  AFCO 1 and QAFCO 2 revamp projects to shifting the fertilizer product from prill to granules; hence, it will reduce the quantity of urea dust emission to air. 4. Install CO2 booster pump to send the excess CO2 from QAFCO 1-4 to QAFCO 5-6 area, as well as to QAFAC. G4-DMA Emissions, G4-EN15, G4-EN20 Our environment liability 57 SR14_R7.indd 57 6/17/15 8:29 PM Waste management We have continuously improved our waste Good to know management and treatment mechanisms to avoid the necessity to treat and dispose of the waste materials. Advantages of recycling painting waste: Spent catalysts are the major waste generated, once in • R eduction of the waste generated from five to seven years, categorized as hazardous industrial painting operations. This means less hazardous waste. It is collected under standard precautions and materials to handle, store and dispose. stored in closed containers. The two types of spent iron • Replacement of current highly volatile and toxic oxides catalysts, which are generated in bulk quantities, for human health and environment solvents with are now sent to Qatar Steel for further utilization at their a more environmentally responsible solution with facilities. extremely low volatility and re-use properties. • The solution can be recycled for 20 – 25 times Prior to 2014, the paint waste, again a hazardous waste, and may be with more experience higher rates approximately 8,000 liters per year, generated from the can be achieved. tool cleaning operations after the spray painting — was • Lack of toxic chemical odor creates an disposed of in the scientifically managed landfill site. The improved workplace environment for storage, handling and disposal have become a major technicians. issue since the volume of jobs was going up with new • Less manpower required for cleaning plants and shutdowns, in addition to the disposal cost of operations. QAR 66/liter. In 2014, we installed an IT 3900TM reclamation unit from inland technology (which uses EP–921 Low toxicity & volatility) to recycle the tool cleaner The machine was run on a trial basis and was found to be satisfactory, as the waste generated could be brought down to 2,000 liters per year. Over the last year, the solid waste generated has increased by 20%, from 12,100 tonnes to 14,500 tonnes. However, we have managed to recycle about75% of our total waste generated reflecting our efficiency in absorbing the excess waste generated from the expansion in our operations and production units. G4-DMA Effluents and waste, G4-EN23 58 Our environment liability SR14_R7.indd 58 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 Figure 40. Solid Waste in tonnes Waste volumes and disposal methods 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Note (tonnes) Wastes generally consisted of paints, Incineration n/a n/a n/a 55.7 1.5 and inks, stored for a long period. Used Oil by reclamation inside country. Spent catalyst by metal recovery Recycling 7,488 7,831 9,000 9,075 10,875 abroad. Industrial wastes such as wood, plastic, and paper/ cardboard are reused. There is an increase in Total amount 12,480 12,630 12,000 12,100 14,500 waste generated due managed to Q5&6 commission. Percentage of total 60% 62% 75% 75% 75% waste recycled G4-DMA Effluents and waste, G4-EN23 Our environment liability 59 SR14_R7.indd 59 6/17/15 8:29 PM Conserving our neighborhood Biodiversity is very valuable and needs to be preserved. Good to know Our environmental, health and safety section manages Abiding by MIC’s environmental historic environmental liabilities associated with known or suspected contamination of soil at its operating and regulation legacy sites. Furthermore, QAFCO offers support to MIC has developed a Detailed Master Plan various initiatives aimed at environmental protection (DMP) to guide development in the MIC area outside the Mesaieed Industrial Area (MIC). with zoning for petrochemicals, metallurgical, light and support industries as well as commercial, residential and recreational zoning in the community area. The DMP ensures to secure protection of environment by establishing appropriate standards for the control of air quality, wastewater effluent and hazardous waste storage and disposal for all existing and new industries. QAFCO, as part of MIC, is committed to abide by the MIC DMP. Fish farm and hatchery To support and improve fish diversity and population, QAFCO is planning to establish a fish hatchery in Mesaieed. After completion, the hatchery will have Our contribution to various native species, enhancing the biodiversity of the local marine life. global community Al-Besheriya island monitoring Improved land use In 1999, the Ministry of Environment (MoE) appointed We are taking the initial steps to respond to QAFCO as a custodian of the island. Since then, the changing dynamics of agriculture pattern QAFCO, together with the MoE has been conducting through the promotion of efficient utilization of clean-up operations on the island where families were our fertilizers leading to increased land yield and also invited to participate. The campaign aimed at reduced environmental impact. installing new containers for rubbish disposal, planting 200 mangrove saplings, and renovating all the shelters In 2014, we took an initiative to set up the on the island. High Speed Drum Granulation (HSDG) Unit to produce Urea+Sulfur and Urea+Ammonium Whatever fate is set for Al-Besheriya, at present it is safe Sulfate products. Both products have properties in our hands. We continue with our effort in monitoring that allow them to be stored over long periods the environmental condition on the island by carrying and delivered over long distances. They slowly out a baseline survey, in collaboration with Qatar dissolve when applied in soil while gradually University, of both the marine and terrestrial zones releasing their nutrients, to support plant growth. showing the details of the biodiversity at the island and These new products avoid emissions of Nitrogen its surrounding waters. nutrient to the atmosphere increasing Nitrogen use efficiency, leading to financial gain to the Artificial reef restoration farmers, and avoiding Nitrate discharges to water bodies. Our increased industrial activities close to the Mesaieed shorelines have had a negative impact on the local This agreement comes in line with our strategy marine life. These activities have damaged natural reefs, to diversify from commodity urea and our which provide a rich habitat for fish and other marine ambitious future vision to provide value-added species. To preserve this natural habitat, we have taken produce to our customers. the initiative to deploy artificial reef balls in selected sites close to the Sealine beach in Mesaieed. A significant improvement and recovery of coral reef has been observed in the area so far. G4-EN11, G4-EN12, G4-EN13 60 Our environment liability SR14_R7.indd 60 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 Creating environmental QAFCO participated in waste management events by promoting the “Waste Free Environment Campaign,” awareness in our community conducted across the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) by the Gulf Petrochemicals and Chemicals Association At QAFCO, we promote environmental awareness (GPCA). In 2014, we attended the 2nd GPCA among the community through campaigns, publicity, Sustainability Conference, which had as its central education and action programs, with a view to theme, People, Planet and Profit. harnessing the community’s support for, and contribution to achieving our environmental goals, thereby securing To mark “Arab Environment Day 2014”, our Environment a long-term solution to environmental problems through section organized a school field trip to Al-Dosari Zoo & development of an improved environmental ethic within Game Reserve in Al-Shahaniya on 24 November 2014. A the community. total of 101 students and faculty members from QAFCO primary school visited the zoo and inspected the various embalming sections of the reserve. The trip included a documentary film presenting a brief history of the reserve. QAFCO celebrated Qatar Environment Day with an environmental competition named “Creating Artwork from Waste” with the aim to create environmental Environment awareness and awareness among students. The competition saw the education is an essential key towards participation of various schools and students from sustainable development. QAFCO the schools of Mesaieed and Wakrah took away the believes in environmental responsibility winners’ trophy. and has always championed environmental initiatives, awareness On World Environment Day, a series of competitions drives and workshops that benefit the were organized for approximately 500 school students society at large. We have continuously from Mesaieed and Wakrah, based on the theme “Raise Your Voice, Not the Sea Level.” It included drawing welcomed such initiatives from competition, art displays on the impact of global communities and our neighboring warming, video presentations and live demonstrations industries as well, to support and There were gift vouchers for winners, certificates for encourage them with achieving the winners and all participants, and special prizes for goals of the Qatar National Vision unique exhibits. 2030. Being certified as a Responsible Care organization only strengthens our QAFCO has been organizing environmental campaigns resolve further to be an environmental in schools to advocate good environmental habits conscious organization at all times.” among the young ones. Planting campaigns were organized where children planted their favorite species Mr. Khalifa Al Sowaidi to help them understand the importance of protecting CEO of QAFCO our trees. The children were then entrusted with the responsibility of caring for their plants within their school. G4-DMA Local communities, G4-SO1 Our environment liability 61 SR14_R7.indd 61 6/17/15 8:29 PM Looking forward QAFCO has always pursued a dual approach of being an innovation leader in terms of environmental challenges and minimizing our environmental footprint by the judicious use of resources. On energy management, the team is committed to reaching its energy saving targets. Internal audits are planned for early 2015 with ISO 50001 certification following in 2015-16. On the innovation front, we will continue our efforts towards completion of the “Artificial Reef Restoration” and “Sustainable Fish Farming” projects. We are committed to embrace the Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) objective of the government through recycling our excess water and avoiding wastewater discharge in to the sea. We also understand the need to work in harmony with the local community to initiate more environmental education and awareness campaigns for the Qatari community. G4-2 62 Our environment liability SR14_R7.indd 62 6/17/15 8:29 PM ACRONYMS AQ Aqueous Ammonia MORR Management of Occupational Road Risk Australian Quarantine & Inspection MSDS Material Safety Data Sheets AQIS Service NDS National Development Strategy CAPEX Capital expenditure NOx Nitrogen Oxides CFCs Hydrofluoro Carbons OFMA Qatar Financial Markets Authority Chartered Institute of Procurement and CIPS OH&S Occupational Health & Safety Supply DMP Detailed Master Plan Occupational Health & Safety Advisory OHSAS Services Environmental Management System EMS OPEX Operational Expenditure (EMS) EnPIs Energy performance indicators QAFAC Qatar Fuel Additives Company ERM Enterprise Risk Management QAR Qatari Rial ERP Enterprise resource planning QAFCO Safety and Environment QASEC Committee ESB End of Service Benefit Qatar Energy & Industry Sustainability QEISS GCC Gulf Cooperation Council Sector GHG Greenhouse Gas QMC Qatar Melamine Company Gulf Petrochemicals & Chemicals QNCC Qatar National Cement Company GPCA Association QNV Qatar National Vision GRI Global Reporting Initiative QP Qatar Petroleum HACCP Hazard Analysis & Critical Control Points QRA Quantitative Risk Assessment HFCs Chlorofluoro Carbons QU Qatar University HSDG High Speed Drum Granulation QVC Qatar Vinyl Company HSE Health, Safety and Environment RC Responsible Care HSSE Health, Safety, Security and Environment Royal Society for the prevention of RoSPA Accidents IASB International Accounting Standards SEQ Safety, Environmental and Quality IFA International Fertilizer Industry Association SIS Safety Information Systems International Petroleum Industry IPIECA Environmental Conservation Association TAMUQ Texas A & M University at Qatar IPNI International Plant Nutrition Institute UF Urea Formaldehyde KPIs key performance indicators United Nations Food and Agriculture UNFAO Organization MENA Middle East and North Africa ZLD Zero Liquid Discharge MIC Mesaied Industrial City MoE Ministry of Environment SR14_R7.indd 63 6/17/15 8:29 PM GRI INDEX SUMMARY We have chosen the G4 version of GRI reporting while compiling this report. This report follows the in accordance core option of GRI reporting where we report all the standard disclosures along with at least one among the other material disclosures. Overall, we have achieved above 70% reporting of the total material disclosures for the current year with more than 60% of the additional disclosures reported in the report. Figure 37a. GRI Index Figure 37b. GRI Index In the specific disclosures, we have also mapped our reporting progress on the four subsections for the social category of the GRI table namely Labor Practices, Human Rights, Local Communities and Product Responsibility. For more information please visit http://www.qafco.qa/Satellite/ Qafco/en/sustainability SR14_R7.indd 64 6/17/15 8:29 PM GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX General Standard Disclosures General External Definition Page/Direct Answer Reference Assurance STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS A statement from the most senior decision-maker of G4-1 4,5 No the organization G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 4 to 5,8 to 9,12 to 13,27,43,51,62 No ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization. 2 No G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 46 No G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 10 No Number of countries where the organization G4-6 10 No operates. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 10 No G4-8 Markets served. 20 to 23,46 No G4-9 Scale of the organization. 20 to 23,30 No G4-10 Breakdown of workforce. 30 No % of total employees covered by collective Collective bargaining agreements are not allowed in the State of G4-11 No bargaining agreements. Qatar. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 26,48 to 50 No Report any significant changes during the reporting G4-13 14 No period. G4-14 Addressing precautionary approach or principle. 12 to 13,48 No External charters, principles, or other initiatives G4-15 7 No endorsed. Memberships of associations and advocacy G4-16 16 No organizations. IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES We report on consolidated financial statements including Qatar Fertiliser Company (Q.S.C.C) (QAFCO) and its subsidiaries (Qatar Melamine Group and Gulf Formaldehyde Group). For more information please consult our financial statements year 2014 Entities included in organization’s financial G4-17 (pages 51 and 52 ) in the report: www.qafco.qa/Satellite/Qafco/ No statements. en/Media/Publications/AnnualReports In addition, we internally report to our Management on QAFCO and its subsidiaries stand-alone financial positions through our Annual Management Report. Process for defining the report content and the G4-18 9 No aspect. G4-19 Material aspects identified. 9 No G4-20 Material Aspect Boundary inside the Organization 9 No G4-21 Material Aspect Boundary outside the Organization 9 No Materiality exercise is a continuous process and we have taken Effect of any restatements of information provided in G4-22 inputs and findings from the previous materiality analysis while No previous reports. identifying material issues for the year (page 9) Significant changes from previous reporting period in No significant changes have been made from the previous years in G4-23 No the Scope and Boundaries. determining scope and aspect boundaries (page 9) STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT List of stakeholder groups engaged by the G4-24 8 No organization G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 7 No G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 7 to 8 No G4-27 Response to key topics and concerns raised 8 No REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period 3 No G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2 to 3 No G4-30 Reporting cycle 2 to 3 No G4-31 Contact point for questions 3 No ‘In accordance’ option, the GRI content index and G4-32 2 to 3 No external assurance. Policy and current practice regarding external G4-33 3 No assurance GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure of the organization. 6, 11 to 12, 14 No Composition of the highest governance body and its G4-38 6, 14 No committees. Nomination and selection processes for the highest G4-40 11 No governance body. Highest governance body’s role in identifying and G4-45 12 No managing impacts, risks, and opportunities. Highest governance body’s role in reviewing risk G4-46 12 No management processes Frequency of the highest governance body’s review G4-47 12 No of sustainability impacts, risks, and opportunities. Process for communicating critical concerns to G4-49 13 No highest governance body. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 10 to 11 and 13 No Internal and external mechanisms for reporting G4-58 concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and 13 No matters related to organizational integrity. SR14_R7.indd 65 6/17/15 8:29 PM Specific Standard Disclosures Material aspect DMA and Indicator Definition Page/Direct Answer External Assurance ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 11,20,23 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach More information on Financial Statements: www.qafco.qa/Satellite/ Yes Qafco/en/Media/Publications/AnnualReports 20,25,31 to 32,39 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed More information on Financial Statements: www.qafco.qa/Satellite/ Yes Qafco/en/Media/Publications/AnnualReports 31 to 32 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan G4-EC3 More information on Financial Statements: www.qafco.qa/Satellite/ Yes obligations Qafco/en/Media/Publications/AnnualReports We have received no financial assistance or grant from the G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government No Government in 2014. MARKET PRESENCE G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Not Reported No Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender G4-EC5 compared to local minimum wage at significant 30 to 33 No locations of operation Proportion of senior management hired from the local G4-EC6 30 to 33 No community at significant locations of operation INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Not Reported No Development and impact of infrastructure investments G4-EC7 25,39,55 to 56 No and services supported Significant indirect economic impacts, including the G4-EC8 20,23 to 24, 26, 39, 50, 55 No extent of impacts PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 26 No G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 26 No ENERGY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 54 No G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 54 to 55 No G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization NA No WATER G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 56 No G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 56 No Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of G4-EN9 56 No water Percentage and total volume of water recycled and G4-EN10 56 No reused BIODIVERSITY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Not Reported No Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or G4-EN11 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 60 No biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, G4-EN12 and services on biodiversity in protected areas and 60 No areas of high biodiversity value G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 60 No EMISSIONS G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 57 No G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 57 No G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 57 No EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 58 to 59 No G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 56 No G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 58 to 59 No OVERALL G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Not Reported No Total environmental protection expenditures and G4-EN31 25 No investments by type SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 26,46,48 to 49 No Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-EN32 48 to 49 No environmental criteria Significant actual and potential negative environmental G4-EN33 48 to 49 No impacts in the supply chain and actions taken ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 13, 48 to 49, 54 No No. of grievances about environmental impacts No grievances have been filed in the formal grievance mechanism in G4-EN34 filed, addressed, and resolved through grievance No 2014. mechanisms EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 14, 30 to 31 No Total number and rates of new employee hires and G4-LA1 31 No employee turnover by age group, gender and region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not G4-LA2 31 to 32 No provided to temporary or part-time employees OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Health and Safety Policy covers our management approach to G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach No occupational health and safety. (pages 35 to 36) Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees G4-LA5 35 No that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, G4-LA6 lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work35 No related fatalities, by region and by gender Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases Our Health and Safety policy categorizes employees on the basis of risk G4-LA7 No related to their occupation incidence Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements G4-LA8 This is not applicable as trade unions are prohibited as per Qatari law. No with trade unions TRAINING AND EDUCATION The management has a training strategy to ensure our employees G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach No receive support for career development. (pages 32 to 34, 36 to 37, 46) Average hrs of training/year per employee by gender, G4-LA9 34 No and category G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning 33 to 34 No Percentage of employees receiving regular All of our employees are reviewed on the performance through a G4-LA11 performance and career development reviews, by No robust performance assessment mechanism gender and by employee category 66 AAA SR14_R7.indd 66 6/17/15 8:29 PM Sustainability Report 2014 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 31 No Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to G4-LA12 30 and 31 No gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 26, 46, 48 to 49 No We assess all our prospective and present suppliers through a supplier Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-LA14 assessment mechanism to review their labour practices (pages 48 to No labor practices criteria 49) Significant actual and potential negative impacts for G4-LA15 48 to 49 No labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Not Reported No Number of grievances about labor practices filed, No grievances have been filed in the formal grievance mechanism in G4-LA16 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance No 2014. mechanisms INVESTMENT G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Pages 7, 13 (alignment to UNGC Global compact) No Total number and percentage of significant investment We do not have specific clauses including human rights in all our G4-HR1 agreements and contracts that include human rights contracts. However, we conduct due diligence with regard to human No clauses or that underwent human rights screening rights aspects for all projects undertaken and proposed. NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 13 No Total number of incidents of discrimination and G4-HR3 No incidents reported in 2014. No corrective actions taken CHILD LABOR G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 13 No Operations and suppliers identified as having significant Qatari Labour law which we follow prohibits child labour in any form G4-HR5 risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to No and neither we or our contractors engage child labor. contribute to the effective abolition of child labor FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 13 No Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and None of our operations and suppliers engage in compulsory labor as G4-HR6 No measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of we strictly abide by Qatari labour law which prohibits this form of labor. forced or compulsory labor G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Not Reported No We abide by and obey Qatar Labor Law. We ensure that our Total number and percentage of operations that operations are developed to comply with local laws. All our operations G4-HR9 have been subject to human rights reviews or impact No undergo an environmental impact assessment and we ensure that are assessments aligned with our code of ethics and conduct. SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Not Reported No In 2014 none of our contractors & suppliers was declined as a result Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using of human rights screening. We strictly abide by the Qatar Labour G4-HR10 No human rights criteria law preventing instances of child labour, forced labour, Women Discrimination and anti-human rights behaviour. LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 38 to 42, 61 No Percentage of operations with implemented local G4-SO1 community engagement, impact assessments, and 39 to 42, 61 No development programs ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 12 to 13 No No. and % of operations assessed for risks related to G4-SO3 12 to 13 No corruption and the significant risks identified Communication and training on anti-corruption policies G4-SO4 12 to 13 No and procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No incident of corruption reported in 2014. No ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 12 to 13 No Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive G4-SO7 No legal action initiated in 2014. No behavior & anti-trust COMPLIANCE Our Internal Audit committee is responsible compliance with legal and G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach No regulatory requirements (pages 6, 11 to 13) Monetary value of significant fines and total number of We comply with all the laws and regulations and have not had any G4-SO8 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws No fines or sanctions in 2014. and regulations SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Not Reported No We develop environmental impact assessment (EIA) reports to Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using evaluate the possible impacts that our proposed project have on the G4-SO9 No criteria for impacts on society environment, consisting of the environmental, social and economic aspects. This covers new supplier projects as well. GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Not Reported No No. of grievances about impacts on society filed, No grievance was filed about negative impacts on society through our G4-SO11 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance No activities in formal grievance forums mechanisms CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 46 to 50 No Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health No incidents reported in the year with regard to non compliance of G4-PR2 No and safety impacts of products and services during their regulation regarding customer safety. life cycle, by type of outcomes CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Not Reported No Total number of substantiated complaints regarding We maintain strict confidentiality of customer data. All the customer G4-PR8 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer No information and order made are kept confidential. data COMPLIANCE We have undertaken several initiatives to achieve excellence in product quality. Received Australian Quarantine and Inspection G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach No Service certification for compliance with export product quality standards (pages 47, 49 to 50) Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance No fines incurred in 2014 for non-compliance with provision and use of G4-PR9 with laws and regulations concerning the provision and No products. use of products and services AAA 67 SR14_R7.indd 67 6/17/15 8:29 PM For feedback on the report please contact: Dr. Hamed Ahmed Al-Marwani Main Office Telephone: (+974) 4422 8888 P.O. Box: 50001, Mesaieed, Qatar Facsimile: (+974) 4477 0347 Telephone: (+974) 4422 8888 P.O. Box: 50001, Mesaieed, Qatar Facsimile: (+974) 4477 0347 E-mail: sustainability@qafco.com.qa E-mail: admin@qafco.com.qa www.qafco.com 68 AAA SR14_R7.indd 68 6/17/15 8:29 PM
