A sustainable business on a sustainable planet UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2014 GRI G4 Report lmwindpower.com Content INTRODUCTION & FORMALITIES 3 The long term recipe for a sustainable business 3 About this report 5 Organizational profile 6 Sustainability organization and interfaces 8 Values & Integrity 9 Stakeholder engagement: ‘Together, we capture the wind to power a cleaner world’ 11 Supplier dialogue is key to success 15 Sustainability commitments: Defining material aspects 17 ENVIRONMENT 21 Managing risks and identifying operational efficiencies while reducing impact 22 Material use, Energy, Waste and Water 23 Carbon footprint 28 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY 31 Training and communication 32 Performance and awareness 32 PEOPLE & COMMUNITY 35 Compliance & integrity 37 People development 38 Community outreach 39 TECHNOLOGY & INNOVATION 40 New Technology 42 Improved production environment 43 2014 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE AT A GLANCE 44 GRI G4 content index 46 Appendix 51 This is the second LM Wind Power GRI G4 report submitted as reporting, having an annual reporting cycle following the publiour Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact. The cation of the financial results. This report has been reviewed by most recent report covering 2012-2013 was published July 11, an external sustainability expert previously with the GRI per 2014, a few months delayed compared to the initial intention our request. We will continue to seek external assurance on of publishing with the annual report in March. It is still the report quality and formalities as a means to continuously aim to combine the sustainability reporting with the financial improve. Cover photo: LM 47.6 meter blades producing clean energy in a wind farm in Andhra Pradesh, India (G4-29), (G4-30), (G4-33) The long term ­recipe for a sustainable business LM Wind Power is arguably one of the ‘greenest’ businesses in g­ lobal independent supplier to the wind industry helping our the world. We have manufactured and supplied nearly a quarcustomers and wind energy to become even more compelling. ter of the global wind turbine blade fleet flying worldwide. Every year they help produce green electricity which together In LM Wind Power, along with our customers, we share a fundamitigates over 120 million tons of CO2 in the atmosphere. That’s mental belief that the industry needs to be able to stand on its equivalent to almost twice the national emissions of our home own feet without subsidies and we will continue contributing to country, Denmark, for example. driving down the cost of energy. Wind energy is already the most viable and cost efficient form of renewable electricity For around 95% of our product’s lifespan, it is making a posigeneration, an increasingly important contributor in the tive contribution to reducing carbon emissions from energy diverse energy mix required to power the future. production which are regarded as a major contributor to global climate change. However, for perhaps 5% of our products total Over the years, we have developed a strong voice in the public life span – during sourcing of materials and our manufacturing debate around wind energy, garnering support and setting out processes – we do have a less positive environmental impact the facts. One example is in the US, where the uncertainty which we want to reduce. This report indicates some of the around the Production Tax Credit (PTC) continues to pose a processes in place to achieve those goals. Together with the challenge to the industry. We initiate dialogue with representa­industry we are also pioneering new, viable end of life solutions tives across the energy policy debate and engage anyone who for expired blades. is willing to listen on the importance and benefits of strong support for wind. The same applies in many other areas where we operate, most notably in Canada and India, always in close “The absolute necessity of alignment with industry and local government bodies. Our developing new, sustainable ­efforts are appreciated by our customers, authorities and other industry stakeholders and the message seems all the more approaches to the way the world compelling as the visible effects of climate change increase. generates its growing energy It is clear that LM Wind Power’s biggest contribution to a cleanneeds is greater than ever” er world lies in our product and its reliable service to our customers, increasing Annual Energy Production (AEP) from each Climate change, environmental pollution and resource scarcity, rotor set and reducing the cost. Our blades produce green combined with increased wealth in developing countries and a energy every day, enabling millions of people and businesses rapidly growing global population, are influencing the roles and to be more sustainable and offering part of the solution to decisions of governments and businesses everywhere. Our some of the world’s most pressing challenges. At the same industry is directly affected by these macro trends, which are time, we create long-term, skilled employment, including a ­addressed with varying force depending on the political will and substantial training effort for local unskilled employees, and sense of urgency in the regions in which we operate. Debates on encourage economic growth. However, this activity comes with targets for CO2 emission reductions and renewable energy gena footprint, most notably through the health and safety of our eration as well as various incentive schemes influence our busiglobal workforce and our impact on the environment, due to, ness prospects. Government indecision or failure to stick to for example, our material supply and energy consumption, commitments on CO2 mitigation targets sometimes create volawaste and transportation activity. In addition, labor rights in tile operating conditions for the wind industry. It’s a challenge every market, ­anti-corruption and ethical business conduct are that can make it difficult to reap the benefits of long term planimportant ­areas of focus for us just as they are in other global ning. But we are adapting, and have responded by continuously manufacturing businesses with international suppliers and cusdriving down the cost of wind energy through our industrytomers around the world. leading technology and innovative use of materials and smarter, more flexible and efficient manufacturing methods. Pioneering Since we signed the UN Global Compact in 2010 and began our wind turbine blade technology through clever engineering and collaboration with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), our innovation, a culture of continuous improvement and increased sustain­ability targets have become fully integrated into our flexibility in our business model remain core to our strategy – daily operations. They contribute to our vision and our comshort, medium and long term. Together these three factors mitment increases with each passing year. In the next phase of have ensured the company has survived to be the leading, our journey we will be proposing bolder, more demanding 3 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4-1 ) , ( G 4-1 5 ) t­ argets, as we aim to improve within each of our sustainability Time Accident (LTA) rate to the lowest level ever; we have focus areas – Safety, Environment, Technology and People. Our introduced several new developments that reduce the cost of goal is to raise the bar continuously as the company matures energy while eliminating harmful chemicals or materials in and as further material issues emerge in line with business our manufacturing, and we are reducing waste, improving growth. HSE, and saving cost through the implementation of thousands of good ideas generated every year by our own I am very pleased to say that we already have high standards employees all over the world. and practices in place and that our workforce is continuously expanding their interest and dedication to ensuring sustainWe operate in a highly dynamic business, in which one of the ability thinking is further integrated into the business. challenges is to balance ambitions with a realistic assessment of what can reasonably be achieved. Our approach is Nonetheless we faced some significant challenges in 2014 pragmatic, straightforward and humble. We do not have the ­related to our core material, ramping up in new markets and resources and capacity to initiate huge sustainability proensuring the efficient implementation of new technology. grams that require big short term investments. but we are determined to continue our progress, making LM Wind Power One example occurred due to a fire at a key supplier. We couldn’t the most sustainable business it can be. secure enough fiberglass material, making it very difficult to sustain production levels and meet demand. The solution was We still have work to do to reduce the carbon footprint of our not ideal, from either a financial or a sustainability perspective. operations and to engage more with customers and suppliers We had to air freight material from other suppliers to our locaon mitigating social and environmental impacts, looking at the tions, significantly adding to the cost and carbon footprint of the full life cycle of our product and activities. In the short term, product. This unfortunate situation, as well as a general shortwe will continue to focus hard on the areas in which we have a age of key material for wind industry components, further condirect impact – introducing longer, more efficient blades that firmed that we need to step up on research and development increase Annual Energy Production (AEP) and lower Levelized ­activities to ensure viable alternatives to core material commodCost of Energy (LCoE), energy consumption, waste reduction ities. This needs to happen, not only to secure supply but also to and health and safety within our own operations – while furensure more sustainable material components. Increasingly as ther intensifying the dialogue with our many stakeholders. the global wind turbine blade fleet ages, we are taking disposal There are so many opportunities for the business right now; at the end of the product’s life into consideration. Among other the challenge will be to capture them all. We need to add as things, we are looking at various foam types to replace balsa many GigaWatts (GW) of clean energy provided by LM Wind wood, which grows in very few locations and under specific conPower blades as possible at cost levels closer to, or below ditions and we are gradually replacing the PVC in some of the ­other sources of electricity supply, and in a profitable way. blade components with PET from recycled plastic bottles. For me, that is our long term recipe for a sustainable business. “There are so many opportunities for the business right now; the challenge will be to capture them all” The material shortage affected our Joint Venture operations in Brazil in particular, adding to the difficulties of ensuring the required performance there. The challenging start-up in Brazil has highlighted the importance of a strong focus on people and culture, not least in a new location with little or no experience in blade production. In light of our experiences in Brazil, we have again reviewed our processes for new market entries and targeted efforts have been put in place to strengthen the team and build a strong values-based culture. Reflecting on performance and a look to the future Looking at our sustainability metrics, in particular our health, safety and environmental performance, we are clearly moving Marc de Jong in the right direction. We are reducing our energy consumption Chief Executive Officer despite ramping up production; we have driven down our Lost 4 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4-1 ) About this report This annual Communication on Progress (COP), based on the This report has been approved by LM Wind Power’s Sustain­ GRI G4 Guidelines, covers the calendar year 2014. It provides a ability Board members which comprises a select group of the more in-depth presentation of sustainability performance, company’s senior management: the Vice President (VP) for ­supplementing the non-financial highlights included in the LM Communications & Human Resources; the VP, Operations; VP, Wind Power Annual Report published earlier this year, which is Quality and Health Safety & Environment (HSE); and the Chief available at 2014report.lmwindpower.com. Executive Officer (CEO). We also collaborate with expert external help including the Head of Sustainability at the company’s This is the second LM Wind Power COP applying the G4 frameowners, Doughty Hanson & Co. Managers Ltd. in London. For work. The report for 2012-2013 was published July 11, 2014. As this year’s report we have worked closely with GRI members G4 pioneers, we have had to get to know the framework and past and present and participated in networks and formal decide on the level of detail, balancing the potential to report meetings. We refer to the LM Wind Power Annual Report 2014 in a meaningful way and our practical ability to obtain the for some of the data and information. This was approved by the required data and information. Like every other G4 pioneer Supervisory Board at the time of publication. company, we have embarked on a learning process that we will continue to refine and challenge, participating in the developThe report is prepared in accordance with the guidelines at ment of standards along with peers and other more advanced Core level. The GRI Content Index can be found on page 46. companies. The most notable difference compared to our previous GRI G4 For questions about this report, please contact: report is the omission of data from Svendborg Brakes, which we disposed of late in 2013. Since they contributed to the Lene Mi Ran Kristiansen Mette Pedersen group’s result for most of 2013, they were included in the 2013 Manager Communications Manager, Global HSE COP. Data for Brazil has been included in all categories except lmrc@lmwindpower.com mpe@lmwindpower.com no. of employees due to a low level of validity of data. +45 7984 0236 +45 7984 0552 5 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4-1 3) , ( G 4-22) , ( G 4-28 ) , ( G 4-31 ) , ( G 4-3 2 ) Organization profile Headquarters Kolding, Denmark Factories and service locations Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, India, Poland, Spain, USA Headquarters Kolding, Denmark IN 2014 Factories and service locations 4,505 4, Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, 13 Blade In 2014, LM Wind Power provided the development, manufacfactories turing, transportation and service of wind turbine blades to wind turbine manufacturers worldwide. The company’s head13 Blade factories People India, Poland, Spain, USA worldwide quarters are located in Kolding, Denmark and it has a global business office in Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Its global ­manufacturing footprint includes 13 factories located on four continents, in eight countries, Denmark, Spain, Poland, Canada, USA, India, China and Brazil, in or close to all key markets for wind power to better serve our customers. The service department supports wind farm operators all over the world, among them large utilities and conglomerates. 120 13 Million tons Blade of CO2 mitigated factories 4,505 120GW 70 Million tons People Installed worldwide of CO2 mitigated capacity 70 120 1/4 Million tons Turbines 6 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 of CO have LM in the world mitigated 2 Wind Power blades 70 GW 8,262 1/4 ( G 4-3) , G 4-4Installed Turbines have LMproduced in) ,the Blades ( G 4-5 ) , ( G 46 ) , ( G 4-8 ) , ( G 4-9 ) capacity world Wind Power blades in 2014 8, Organization profile 13 Blade factories 4,505 People worldwide 120 Million tons of CO2 mitigated 70 GW Installed capacity 1/4 Turbines in the world have LM Wind Power blades 8,262 Blades produced in 2014 OWNERSHIP FACTS The principal shareholders of LM Wind Power are the partnerLM Wind Power produced 8,262 blades in 2014, which contri­ ships managed by Doughty Hanson & Co. Managers Ltd, a combutes to a total of more than 175,000 blades since we began pany incorporated in England and Wales and headquartered in blade operations in 1978. This corresponds to approximately 70 London. Doughty Hanson is a leading pan-European private GW of installed wind power capacity which each year effectively ­equity investor, with offices in London, Paris, Stockholm, replaces approximately 120 million tons of CO2. Almost one in F­rankfurt, Milan and Madrid. The firm has made 63 investfour turbines in the world have LM Wind Power blades. ments since 1985 with an aggregate value of more than EUR 27 billion. LM Group Holding A/S (LM Wind Power) is a limited company based in Denmark. The Consolidated Financial Statements for For total revenue and breakdown, please see the latest annual 1 January – 31 ­December 2014 includes the consolidated finanreport available on page 40. cial statements for LM Group Holding A/S and its subsidiaries (the Group). The full Group structure is available on page 65 in the 2014 annual report. 7 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4-7) , ( G 4-17 ) Sustainability organization and interfaces LM Wind Power works in a two-tier management structure. The and challenged the Management Team to fully embrace a first tier is the Supervisory Board, which is the highest gover­sustainability drive. They now report to a Sustainability Board nance body for the whole company. It includes three members consisting of the VP Communications & Human Resources, VP who represent our owners, Doughty Hanson, and two employee Operations, VP Quality & HSE who review, endorse, challenge representatives. The Supervisory Board provides the strategic and drive sustainability activities suggested by the Core team, direction, exercises control over Executive Management, and seeking and ensuring the support of the full Management ensures high level financial viability. The second tier is ExecuTeam, including the CEO. With hands-on knowledge of the busitive Management, also referred to as LM Wind Power’s Manageness and a global network into each function, this team has ment Team. They are responsible for the daily management of been pushing the sustainability agenda, suggesting policies, the business, including execution of decisions made by the initiatives and objectives to drive progress aligned with core ­Supervisory Board. In addition to this two-tier management business strategies and objectives. They also encourage and system, there is an independent Advisory Board in place commanage our sustainability reporting. prising two former Management Team colleagues, which can act as a sounding and review board to both the Management Health and Safety has always been a key priority and has had Team and the Supervisory Board. even further emphasis since 2010. Determined to develop an even stronger safety culture which went beyond simply These bodies are responsible for any decisions with economic, ­improving safety performance measures, we established a environmental or social impacts. However, the practical pursuit dedicated governance structure anchored at the very top with of the company’s sustainability ambitions is rooted in daily a Global Health Safety and Environment (HSE) Council chaired ­operations with highly visible goals and targets. We are now by the CEO. The Global HSE Council sets the strategic direction progressing to formalize this function as we need more dedifor the safety improvements throughout the company and has cated resource to drive continuous progress. formal ties to regional as well as site level safety organizations that work with the operations and drive implementation. These The coalition of the willing site level safety organizations are mandated to review and 2010 was the starting point for the first structured efforts of ­establish local policies and procedures, as well as drive safety tying all relevant activities into a sustainability program or improvement initiatives with local management to raise awarework stream for the company. It started with a group of ness and promote safe behavior. ­passionate employees from a wide range of departments and functions across the business – described as a ‘coalition of the willing’. These people were prepared to stretch beyond their job titles to collaborate in achieving a new, greener, more sustain­able vision. Together, they formed what is now a crossfunctional Core Team of people from Communications and ­Human Resources, Engineering, Operations, Sourcing, and HSE, 8 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4-3 4) Values & Integrity LM Wind Power is a value-driven organization. Our values serve promote a collaborative culture that is characterized by respect as an overall framework that guides the behavior and decisions and customer focus. of everyone in our company. By integrating the corporate values into our daily work, we have a strong common foundation LM Wind Power’s Code of Conduct is our core document, providfor active collaboration required to manage a global business ing the ethical framework for how we interact and do business. which is striving to create cutting edge technology. It addresses the following main items: Business Principles, AntiCorruption and Anti-Bribery, Human Resources and Rights, Our values are the cultural framework under which we do busi­Environmental Principles, and Responsibility of Managers and ness but it is our Code of Conduct that governs how sustain­ Employees. The document, which was formalized for the first ability is ensured in business operations. It offers guidance to time in 2007, is signed off by the CEO and is reviewed and ensure ethical behaviors and integrity at all times, aligned with updated regularly to reflect changes in regulations. In 2012, refinternational conventions and national laws. erence to the UK Anti-Bribery Act was implemented reflecting our British ownership. In 2014, the Code of Conduct underwent We employ a company-wide appraisal system, the Performance a further in-depth review to elaborate on some of the topics and Management Process (PMP), which facilitates a yearly cycle of add a reference to a new SpeakUp system – a whistleblower objective setting, reviews and assessment. The assessment of ­hotline – which enables employees to report compliance conour employees’ performance gives equal weight to their ability cerns anonymously. This will be implemented in a staged proto meet business objectives and how the results were achieved, cess beginning in 2015. All new salaried employees sign the i.e. whether they applied the company’s values. Tying behavior Code of Conduct when they join the company and since 2012, an directly to appraisals and remuneration is a strong driver to e-learning tool has been deployed to ensure the rules are clear. Work as one team At LM Wind Power, we work together towards clear common goals and objectives. We strive for consensus by recognizing the value of others’ opinions and proactively share experiences to drive continuous cross-organizational learning. We cooperate closely and in alignment across geographical, cultural and functional boundaries to make sure we act as one company all around the world. Focus on customer and market We dedicate ourselves to valuable and long-term partnerships with our customers. We proactively develop solutions that meet their expectations. We meet customers with the same friendly, helpful and collaborative behavior anywhere in the world. Our focus is on creating outstanding value by listening and reacting according to our customers’ and market needs. 9 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4-5 6 ) Values & Integrity ­ dditional, high-level, face-to-face training is conducted in A r­ egarding their ethical practices as a requirement for doing certain regions according to need. Updates are typically business with us. We expect them to follow all applicable laws brought to the attention of the newly-formed Integrity Comand regulations, conduct business with integrity, promote fair mittee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and managed employment practices, safe workplaces and protection of the in collaboration between HR, Legal and the Internal Audit environment and avoid conflicts of interest between personal function. and work affairs. LM Wind Power leaders are responsible for fostering a culSustainability is directly linked to profitability; For LM Wind Power ture in which compliance with the Code of Conduct and its a sustainable business is a viable and profitable one. Only when spirit is widely understood. However, the Code of Conduct is the company is profitable can it fulfil its commitment to make a not only communicated internally; it is also a core element long term positive impact on the environment and society. We of our continuous collaborative engagement with suppliers, believe that sustainability performance needs to be adopted and where it sets out clear expectations and requirements driven by the whole organization, in collaboration with the supply chain, customers, governments and local communities. Take ownership We recognize that we all need to take ownership to make our company a success both as individuals and as a team. This means that we demonstrate Trust and respect and recognize personal initiative. We meet our Our most important asset is our people. We believe commitments and do what we say! We do not let that the diversity of our employees and partners functional or role responsibilities prevent us from enriches us and contributes to creating an exciting achieving common goals and we are always preworkplace with room for personal growth and pared to take the necessary decisions. development. Trust and respect are the foundation for this complemented by open and honest dialogue at all levels. We recognize the value of peoples’ differences and enjoy learning from others! Innovate for excellence Our company was founded on a spirit of entrepreneurship and innovation and this has become a part of our identity. This means that we challenge the status quo relentlessly and strive to improve continuously. We think out of the box using our ­collective creativity to pursue quantum changes. Wee foster an environment that encourages innovation and attracts outstanding talent. Our focus on innovation helps us develop and ­produce class-leading, reliable products and services. 10 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4-5 6 ) Stakeholder engagement Together, we capture the wind to power a cleaner world LM Wind Power’s sustainability organization grew from its own ­ irectly with the Core Team and the Sustainability Board with a d employees’ will and interest – not a top-down management focus on long term value creation. ­directive. An energetic core group of engaged and informed employees pushed for awareness and change. The challenge The main criterion for identifying our key stakeholders was associated with this is the constant necessity to secure attentheir significance and contribution to our current and future tion from senior leadership among so many pressing demands business success, and their fundamental impact on our sustainon their time and ensure they assign the required resources ability performance. The stakeholder identification process was and budget. Through this internal lobbying process, we have a thorough and systematic analysis of the stakeholders we gradually cleared the way for implementation of larger pro­ engage with directly and indirectly across the business. The jects which we expect will include a full Life Cycle Assessment, questions we asked ourselves were: Who is directly impacted (LCA) of a wind turbine blade. In general, the company’s by our business? Who is indirectly impacted by our business? leader­ship has been highly supportive, and we have the full Who are we dependent on to do business? Who can we influbacking of the Head of Sustainability at our owners, who acts ence in a positive and meaningful way? as an advisor and driver of sustainability activities, working 11 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4-2 5 ) service locations Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, India, Poland, Spain, USA Suppliers Our suppliers are our business partners and they play a crucial role in our efforts and ability to achieve high quality products 4,505 and safety standards while delivering innovative products. We People engage continuously in cooperation with our suppliers to worldwide ­reduce the use of hazardous chemicals and improve safety, quality and processes. Our ultimate goal is better, cheaper and more sustainable products. Employees Suppliers are not only required to live up to high standards on Our employees are, not surprisingly, a key stakeholder group. quality management and processes, we also expect them to They act as ambassadors and direct implementers of sustain­adhere to ethical, social and environmental standards, as ability initiatives and we engage with them on several levels to defined in our Code of Conduct and Global HSE policy. However, improve their skills and knowledge, raise their awareness we recognize that there could be potential sustainability issues about sustainability strategy and build ownership. The Perforin our supply chain that cannot necessarily be discovered mance Management Process (PMP) is an important backbone through random audits and screenings, so last year we began 70 GW of those efforts and acts as theInstalled formal structure to ensure regto intensify dialogue with our key suppliers to assess their ular engagement and dialogue on career aspirations, develop­maturity level on sustainability and extend an invitation to capacity ment and more. c­ollaborate to achieve shared goals. In 2014, the organization worked with the actions coming out The first round of supplier dialogues focused on the suppliers of the company-wide Employee Engagement Survey conducted of balsa and those representing the majority of our spend. in the autumn of 2013. People development and communicaThey are based in various locations across the US, Turkey, tion, to boost the company’s reputation and thereby employee ­Papua New Guinea and Ecuador and each differs in size and­ pride, were among the topics that were highlighted as potential capability in terms of sustainability. Some of them are large areas for improvement. Several initiatives were launched to companies with dedicated sustainability functions; others are address these, including a leadership and career development smaller companies that drive their activities through a program targeted primarily at the leaders in our manufacturcommitted management. With renewed growth in the whole ing operations, called ‘Grow Plant Leaders’. We will repeat the wind sector, demand for key commodities is increasingly tight des 8,262 Employee Engagement Survey Bladesin the autumn of 2015. produced in 2014 with significant pressure on supplies. Our goal is to maintain our high standards of ethical sourcing and where full compliance with our standards is not yet achieved to apply our influence as a customer and find shared paths forward to Owners improve standards Doughty Hanson was one of the first private equity funds to We have generally increased supplier dialogue and ­appoint a dedicated Head of Sustainability leveraging Environengagements continue through supplier quality training mental, Social and Governance (ESG) principles as a driver of sessions. We conduct an annual Global Supplier Day and have long term value creation and risk management in portfolio increased demand for higher sustainability standards which companies. This commitment has propelled LM Wind Power’s are imposed and monitored through our Supplier Commodity sustainability efforts, ensuring that it remains a strategic group. ­activity with top level engagement. With specialist knowledge on sustainability and a clear view on how there is potential for the company to do more, our owners challenge us to further embed sustainability into our business processes, often pointing to the areas where it makes the biggest difference and supports long term value. We engage with our owners on sustainability several times every month through direct contact between either the Core Team or Sustainability Board members. 12 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4-1 2) , ( G 4-24 ) , ( G 4-2 7 ) 120 Million tons of CO2 mitigated 70 Governments and government bodies Policies and frameworks continue to influence our industry and business and we engage with governments at various levels in the countries in which we operate. At a policy level, we engage closely with industry bodies, but also increasingly, the emphasis has been on speaking in our own voice. This applies, for instance, in the US, where we have actively voiced our views 1/4 Turbines in the world have LM Wind Power blades 8,2 on the Production Tax Credit (PTC), inviting politicians and government officials to visit our facilities and see the value we Customers create first-hand. We believe we need to engage openly and try to influence decision makers to continue to support the Our customer relationships are often long-term partnerships development and expansion of wind power. We engage with and we engage closely to ensure our solutions meet their needs local governments for licenses, regulatory issues and support, and expectations in terms of quality, reliability and cost. always adopting an open and collaborative approach. In many Traditionally, customer requirements related to wider areas, we have developed close ties, which enable us to sustainability concerns have been limited, but in recent years exchange knowledge, for example, on issues like employment, we have seen an increased interest expressed in several ways, work environment, waste management, and health and safety including supplier assessment programs and screening where we strive for mutual learning and achieving improvements. processes when exploring a potential collaboration or extended relationships with the company. We have received surveys from customers inquiring about our sustainability policies and performance several times during Communities the past couple of years. When responding, we have noted that the questions very much reflect the principles and structure of We rely on the communities that host our manufacturing plants the UN Global Compact, which confirms to us that our activities around the world for resources, infrastructure and access to a and approach align well with our customers’ requirements. We capable workforce. We engage openly and collaboratively with do, however, see potential for further engagement to identify those communities to foster mutually beneficial relationships. shared sustainability gains that increase the long term value The employment and training opportunities we bring are creation for both us and them. An example could be to develop always much appreciated. In addition to the employment we a sustainable blade disposal solution, which has already begun provide directly in a strategically important, green business, with industry partners and leading academic organizations in further work is created in construction, engineering and the Danish GenVind project. technical sectors. LM Wind Power’s expanding global manufacturing footprint has a strong track record of attracting further local investment from other companies, institutions and service providers. An active policy on local sourcing helps foster a local supply chain, contributing to local growth and indirect job creation. Economic development is an important benefit but our local teams go further to improve the quality of life of communities in other meaningful ways. Our staff engages in a variety of community outreach projects and programs, including charitable donations, support for education, disaster relief, and collaborations with NGOs to support vulnerable people. LM Wind Power operations in India is an outstanding example with a particularly strong program in place, which reflects how they consider the local community as a major stakeholder to benefit from the company’s success. 13 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4-1 2) , ( G 4-24 ) , ( G 4-2 7 ) Stakeholder engagement matrix Stakeholder Engagement Examples from 2014 Employees/ Employees are encouraged to share January workshop with 14 leaders from the Global Operations organization, talking leaders their thoughts and reflections on the about sustainability. Interviews with regional leaders on the meaning and imporcompany and workplace through daily tance of sustainability were broadcast to all employees through the internal TV contact with their managers. In 2013, channel. the first company-wide Employee Global Sustainability summit in November with representation from key functions, Engagement Survey was conducted. top management, our investor and external guests. Global Sustainability newsletter This will be repeated every second year. translated into six languages, sharing sustainability stories from around the world. Customers We have a shared interest to deliver the Dialogue on lobbying in the US and Canada to secure continued support for wind. most efficient products at the lowest Annual Customer Satisfaction Survey, which was distributed to 137 customer cost with our customers. In addition to representatives and completed by 40.1% of recipients in 2014 (a similar response daily contact, we engage through rate to the 2013 survey, which was 41.1%). response to surveys and documentation for the customers’ supplier assessments, continuous dialogue on lobbying efforts in key markets and the prospects of developing a potential blade disposal solution which is a key challenge for the industry to solve. We also send out an annual Customer Satisfaction Survey to secure wider feedback on the collaboration. Suppliers Our suppliers are key to our success Supplier Quality training with 23 representatives from 11 Chinese suppliers to and we have increased engagement educate them on LM Wind Power’s quality standards and forge stronger ties. with them, to identify and reduce risk, Global Supplier Day in October talking to 40 representatives from the supplier and to build stronger partnerships. base, assessing the potential level of engagement and inviting them to collaborate and share experiences. Continuous dialogue on how to secure higher industry standards from balsa suppliers in a period of significant industry growth. Communities We rely on local communities for Globally: we invited hundreds of employee family members to Family Day events at employees, and provide economic all locations, to learn more about LM Wind Power and wind energy. activity with our operations. We US and Spain: Food drives. actively engage through partnerships India: Medical check-ups, medicine distribution, sponsorship of five children with with NGOs and community groups as special needs, and home safety awareness training for employees’ families. well as with various philanthropic activities. Donation of new classroom and improved infrastructure at a local school. Canada: Open house at our Gaspé plant for Quebec Wind Energy Day June 15. Denmark, US, Poland and The Netherlands: Student visits sponsorships and internships. Governments We actively engage with the local Meetings with Representatives in the US three times in 2014 – AWEA (American and government as key stakeholders of our Wind Energy Association) hosted event in Washington in February, visit by ­government operations worldwide. At a regional Congressman Tim Griffin at our Little Rock plant in July, Little Rock plant visit by the bodies and national level, we interact with energy aid to Senator Boozman in September. decision makers on issues related to Lobbying in Quebec to secure continued support for wind. energy policy. Collaboration with The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) in the US on breakthrough research regarding potential health effects of chemicals in production. Owners We have very dedicated owners who Presenting with Doughty Hanson’s Head of Sustainability at the BVCA (British are active supporters of Private Equity and Venture Capital Association) in October. sustainability as a factor in long term Discussions on gender diversity at all levels, including in the Supervisory value creation. Board in connection with reporting of the annual results and other topics such as how to ensure sustainable material sourcing, for example, of balsa. 14 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4-26 ) Supplier dialogue is key to success Training and dialogue with local suppliers in China “Quality management in the supply chain is a crucial element to be successful in the wind market and one of the ways to achieve that is to forge stronger ties to the suppliers,” said Engineer David Liu, on the background for one of the latest initiatives by LM Wind Power’s Supply Quality Development (SQD) team. In the summer of 2014, they hosted 23 representatives from 11 Chinese suppliers at a two day workshop on LM Wind Power’s requirements to raw ­material. The suppliers got a thorough introduction to the organization, processes and quality standards of LM Wind Power products with the purpose of helping them to deliver consistent high quality. The key words for the workshop were: setting clear ­expectations and strengthening the relationship. As an international company with manufacturing facilities across four continents and eight countries, including The initiative has been very well received and based ­Denmark, Spain, Poland, Canada, USA, India, China and Brazil, on the positive feedback from the suppliers the SQD we have built a global network of suppliers from whom our team quickly started to look at expanding the trainoperations purchase raw materials and core components. We ing to cover suppliers from other regions. The prodo business with more than 200 suppliers, a handful of which gram will also continue to have a focus on China as are regarded as strategic partners, representing the majority all major suppliers of raw materials have a base of our spend. These are big, reputable companies, with wellthere. established brands and certified quality management systems which ensure security of supply and high standards of opera“We have launched several initiatives, systems and tion. The majority of our spend is concentrated on a few supprocesses to improve material quality with our suppliers, all of which have an international presence. pliers during the last couple of years,” said David Liu. “Now we need to ensure successful implemenThe supply chain of the wind industry is complex and needs to tation, and for that we are completely dependent on continuously drive down cost while developing the processes strong commitment from the suppliers. This type of and systems required to make a quality product with maxitraining and dialogue show them we care and that mum reliability. LM Wind Power’s Supplier Management stratthey are part of our success.” egy focuses on selecting the best suppliers based on their performance and capability to deliver world class products in terms of safety, quality, delivery, cost and features. All 15 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4-1 2 ) 200+ p ­ otential suppliers must have a Quality Management system complying with ISO 9001:2008, and we also strongly encourage suppliers to get certified according to ISO 14001:2004 and ISO 18001:2008. suppliers worldwide All new suppliers undergo thorough scrutiny checks via the Supplier Quality Assessment, to ensure that they live up to our product quality, good governance and environmental stan98.5% dards. We screen suppliers on a variety of metrics to find out if they have, for instance, risk assessment, change management, process control, and employee training programs in place. ­Suppliers must score sufficient points to meet the threshold for acceptance, and we develop an action plan for poor performers. of suppliers covered by As of 2014, 98.5% of suppliers were covered by the Supplier Supplier Quality agreement Quality Agreement, which includes requirements to sustain­ ability practices – up from 92% in 2013. 82% Working closely with our suppliers on securing a consistent supply of high quality materials resulted in significant improvements in 2014. The material incompliance rate decreased ­significantly and went from 12,700 Parts per Million (PPM) in 2013 to 2,237 PPM in 2014. reduction in material Compliance is key, but non-compliance rate communication is also vital, and we are committed to increasing the dialogue with our suppliers to further address sustainability together. Since 2013, we have hosted an annual Global Suppliers Day with approximately 40 suppliers represented, and with sustainability explicitly on the agenda. At this event, we shared our ambitions to promote sustainability further in the supply chain and clearly stated our expectations to our suppliers as partners. Fostering a more responsible supply chain is a challenge that we acknowledge requires ongoing efforts, including active communication and collaboration to make sure the initiatives move beyond monitoring and “check the box” assessments. We aim for an engaging and mutually beneficial partnership and have launched various initiatives with the Supplier Quality ­Development team to get closer to our suppliers while building sustainability further into the collaboration. 16 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4E N 32) , ( G 4E N 33) , ( G 4L A 14 ) , ( G 4L A1 5 ) , ( G 4H R 4) , ( G 4H R 5 ) , ( G 4H R 6 ) , ( G 4H R 1 0) , ( G 4-J R 1 1 ) Sustainability commitments: Defining material aspects LM Wind Power is a green company but are we green enough? potential impacts on the bottom line. We worked with a consulThis statement underpins all our sustainability activities and tancy, co-facilitating the process but conducting the stakeholdpriorities. We operate in the renewable energy industry, provider interviews internally. Part of the process was the definition ing a product that contributes widely to long term sustain­ of specific performance indicators based on the GRI G3 Frameability, but at the same time, we are a manufacturing company work. Our current sustainability headlines – Safety, People, that uses material and energy, produces waste, has an impact ­Environment and Technology – are a direct outcome of this on people and influences local infrastructure and communities. mapping exercise. The indicators identified back in 2010 still form the basis for the aspects included in this second G4 When we joined the UN Global Compact in 2010, we went ­report, with some changes implemented in the process of through a thorough process to identify key stakeholders, map ­transitioning to the G4 Framework last year. their interests and expectations, and made an assessment of 17 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4-1 8) 65% Various factors were considered, such as the significance of the impact to the company and its stakeholders; risks to ourselves and our identified stakeholders; our external compliance commitments, both voluntary and with regards to laws and regulations; global sustainability trends and challenges, the potential decrease in LTA rate for achieving operational efficiencies and competitive advantages and our ability to influence the performance in a meaningful since 2011 way. The fundamental requirement is that the sustainability metrics make good business sense and the process of measuring meetings. We believe that the sustainability areas of focus their performance becomes part of a value-creation strategy. we have pursued do represent genuine material matters for the company. It can always be debated that more material Despite clearly recognizing that the ideal way would be a issues should be added but for us, the importance is the structured stakeholder engagement process, we have had to go relevance and effects, rather than the quantity of metrics. through a less formal process when revisiting the material aspects for this 2014 report. Nonetheless, this approach did Our ambition is to refine and focus the reporting much involve input from a wide group of stakeholders which we more, allowing us to present fewer topics but to go into received through the Sustainability Core Team, and which was more detail and integrate sustainability metrics with financonveyed to our colleagues in different departments in various cial metrics to a greater extent where relevant and Health & Safety Material aspects GRI aspects Boundary Stakeholder Towards zero injuries Occupational With the overarching idea that ‘Safety is everyone’s responsibility’, we make Employees Health and Safety sure that all personnel in our plants worldwide are aware of risks and Suppliers motivated to make safety a priority. It is instrumental if we want to get to our target of zero accidents and achieve world class standards. Aiming for improvements on safety also requires reliable and certified suppliers as an assurance of high level quality. We review health and safety implications in the early stages of product development and when introducing new materials or processes in our manufacturing. Building safety Occupational Building a successful safety culture takes commitment at the top with global Employees culture Health and Safety and plant-level managerial oversight. But the most important stakeholders are the employees. With our targeted HSE campaigns and training we make sure that all personnel are made aware of dangers inherent in their jobs, and are equipped with essential protective equipment, skills and competences to perform their work safely. Building safety Customer Health One of our core values is Focus on Customer and Market, applying a mindset Customers culture and Safety that strives towards continuous improvement. Both LM Wind Power and our Employees suppliers develop processes and systems required by our customers to meet Suppliers their demand for high quality and safe products. Thus, we review health and safety implications in the early stages of product development and when introducing new materials or processes in our manufacturing. If the health and safety implications of a certain substance or material are not sufficiently documented, we prefer working with materials that have well-documented and known risks so that we can take precautions. We work with suppliers and research institutions to develop safer and more environmentally friendly chemicals, equipment and tools. 18 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4-19) , ( G 4-20) , ( G 4-21 ) , ( G 4P R 1 ) ­ ossible. The ambition is clearly to go further because we p tant resource and because we believe that safety and well-­ ­recognize that the prioritization and final reporting on material being of employees is a direct contributor to business issues could be validated in even greater detail. We surmise performance and ultimately, profitability. that the process of doing a more thorough validation with our stakeholders is potentially where the real value of the sustainTechnology ability reporting process lies. Through our focus on technology and innovation, we wish to strengthen our competitive positioning and growth opportuniSafety, Environment and People ties, while contributing to the expansion of sustainable and For a company in the renewable energy industry, the environclean energy. Our main sustainability challenge and opportunimental metrics, not surprisingly, represent a major part of the ty lies in promoting the progress and growth of renewable­ list. We are part of the solution to environmental and climate ­energy; this can be accomplished with more effective products, change challenges and so it is of strategic importance to us to processes and services, which are achieved through innovareduce our own impact as well, for example through focusing tions and economies of scale. The future of the industry rests on carbon emissions and water consumption, As a manufacturon our joint ability to remain competitive, to capture the wind ing company with thousands of employees building blades in more effectively and to improve its attractiveness as a mainour plants around the world, health and safety aspects are also stream energy source. The innovative products we launch are a key priority. We need to keep our people safe and efficient all built with this purpose in mind and we continue to innovate and we have focused a lot on this area, improving our perforfor excellence in development and manufacturing. Our mance to the highest industry standards on several aspects. ­engineering function is also key to minimizing the environ­ HSE performance remains at the very heart of our sustainabilimental footprint of our own product, including during developty program, because we regard our people as our most imporment, manufacturing, operation and disposal at end of life. Environment Material aspects GRI aspects Boundary Stakeholder Reduce carbon Energy, water, The company is mapping its carbon footprint in its global manufacturing Employees footprint through emissions, effluents operations from material consumption, energy consumption, and Environment reduction of material and waste. Supplier transportation of people. We are in the process of including waste in the use, energy Environmental metrics in more detail and ultimately moving towards a full Life Cycle consumption and Assessment Assessment (LCA) approach. waste generation Environmental protection is one of the targets of our HSE policy, which requires commitment to and accountability for preventing pollution and promoting sound environmental practices from all employees and suppliers. Various projects, primarily local ones, focus on reducing energy consumption in the plants e.g. by upgrading or replacing ventilation systems and machinery, sourcing electricity from renewable energy where possible and installing energy management systems. We also work internally and with our suppliers on optimizing our material consumption to reduce waste and cost. This includes implementing initiatives to reduce, re-use and replace hazardous materials in our manufacturing. 19 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4-19) , ( G 4-20) , ( G 4-2 1 ) The list of material aspects, their boundaries and significance to stakeholders has not changed since the 2013 report. People Material aspects GRI aspects Boundary Stakeholder Compliance & Investment. NonWe recognize the challenges inherent in managing a diverse and multicultural Employees integrity discrimination. workforce as well as having a global network of suppliers. We need to remain Suppliers Freedom of vigilant for human rights abuses, fair employment and discriminatory Customers association and practices, and corruption and we try to manage these challenges through collective safeguarding compliance with our Code of Conduct. We expect all our bargaining. employees and suppliers to adhere to our Code of Conduct. Child labor. Forced or compulsory The integrity with which we conduct our business is also important to our labor, customers, who not only emphasize quality and safety aspects of the Supplier human products we deliver but also our sustainability and ethical performance. rights assessments. Supplier assessment for labor practices. Anti-corruption Developing Training and Our success comes from the knowledge, competence and integrity of our Employees competences education workforce, so our focus is on improving their skills and developing their careers through targeted training and appraisals. We have built a comprehensive employee development scheme, based on individual assessments for both salaried and hourly paid employees. These include HR programs, talent and career initiatives, appraisals and reward systems as well as various schemes for on the job training in a combination of local and global initiatives. Contribute positively Local Communities As an international company, with plants in remote parts of the world, we Communities to the communities strive to have a lasting positive impacts on the communities in which we Employees in which we operate operate, ranging from job creation and economic development to employee driven charity work. Involving employees in charity initiatives also has a positive effect on our organization and our people’s commitment. The community outreach activities are particularly strong in India, the US and Canada. 2 0 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4-19) , ( G 4-20) , ( G 4-21 ) , ( G 4-23 ) Building a more sustainable environment Content Managing risks and identifying operational efficiencies while reducing impact 22 Material use, Energy, Waste and Water 23 Carbon footprint 28 Managing risks and identifying operational efficiencies while reducing impact LM Wind Power is part of the green energy industry, with more Our efforts are guided by a structured approach anchored in than 175,000 blades produced since the late 1970s. This correour global HSE management system and specific activities to sponds to approximately 70 Gigawatts (GW) of installed wind drive progress at plant level: power capacity, which helps compensate for millions of tons of CO2 every year, contributing ultimately to the global battle • External certifications of HSE management system: against climate change. • All LM Wind Power sites (except for the blade manufacturing facility in Brazil, inaugurated in October 2013) have Wind power is the most viable source of renewable energy, completed certifications according to ISO 14001:2004 and releasing minimal carbon emissions while reducing dependenOHSAS 18001:2008, which means we have achieved a cy on fossil fuels. There are, however, environmental impacts globally certified, integrated HSE management system. ­associated with the manufacturing, testing, transportation and installation of the wind turbines, where processes require • Environmental Sustainability Policy & Management system: resources and energy and produce waste. All stages in the life • Environmental protection is one of the targets of our HSE ­cycle of a blade – from raw materials extraction and processpolicy, which requires commitment to and accountability ing, through blade manufacturing and transporting to product for preventing pollution and promoting sound environdisposal at end of life – leave an imprint on the ecosystem. We mental practices from all employees and contractors. are committed to reducing this impact and we work to do that ­Local managers are held responsible for governing comwhile harvesting operational efficiencies. pliance, ensuring communication and successful implementation of these responsibilities. For this purpose, we identified the following as priorities: • The policy is accompanied by an HSE Management System Manual, which defines management processes for impacts • Assess and reduce Greenhouse Gas (GHG) identification, legal compliance, strategy and goal setting, emissions / Manage carbon footprint training, communication, document control, emergency • Reduce resource consumption and waste: preparedness and response, performance and control • Material & Energy consumption measures. • Water consumption (particularly • Local HSE managers undertake routine HSE inspections to material in India) monitor implementation whereas yearly management • Waste generation and handling review meetings are held to follow up on pertinent • Waste treatment and recycling aspects and take all necessary action to drive continuous improvement. • Risk assessments and control “We map the development • Every time we change material, equipment or processes, the responsible managers and employees perform an HSE and CO2 emissions from our risk ­assessment, taking into consideration potential hazmaterial consumption, energy ards for the people involved in doing the job or for the environment. The job/change cannot start before the risk consumption, transportation assessment has been conducted and clear plans for how and waste to try to reduce our to manage a potential risk have been put in place. This is a core process which is also thoroughly described in the impact.” company’s global Business ­Management System. 22 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 Material Use, Energy, Waste and Water The environmental performance in our operations is tracked worldwide via the SoFi system. This is a dedicated sustainability reporting software in which people from various functions within each plant insert data on a monthly basis. Data comes primarily from HSE and Facility Managers. The data is presented and reviewed along with other core performance indicators at the monthly Business Operations Review chaired by the VP, Operations. The carbon footprint reported in the annual report is a reflection of this data. For now, the company is mapping its carbon footprint from materials and energy use in the operations, which represents the vast majority of our activities, and is in the process of including waste. It is the ambition to map the full life cycle impact of its products and activities in the future. Standards, methodologies and assumptions used The data on environment is reported as a total for the whole group with the blade manufacturing business representing the vast majority of material consumption, energy, water consumption and waste generation. The data has been consolidated using an automatic calculation in the sustainability reporting software SoFi, to which each plant adds its energy data every month. The system automatically converts units, depending on the desired output format. The conversion factors are integrated in the system based on the GHG protocol and is managed completely by the provider of the SoFi system. 23 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4E N 3 ) Energy Total energy consumption decreased by 21% from 2012 to 2014. The decrease from 2012 to 2013 could partly be ascribed to the fact that production levels went down, but the further decrease from 2013 to 2014 is a significant achievement as production went up and a new plant was brought online at the end of 2013. Some plants also had very low activity in 2014, notably Little Rock and Castellon, which contributes to the improving picture for this year. 21% Year Energy consumption in operations (MJ) 2014 595,021,985 2013 635,722,624 decrease in total 2012 752,211,102 energy consumption 2012-2014 Total energy consumption in joules or multiples Energy consumption MJ 800 mio. 700 mio. 600 mio. 500 mio. 2012 2013 2014 24 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4E N 3 ) Total fuel consumption from non-renewable fuel sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. Year LPG Diesel Gasoline Natural gas Heating oil Fuel* 2014 16,297,431 21,527,029 211,932 209,010,996 0 247,047,387 2013 16,058,924 62,542,326 1,621,073 266,568,303 190,204 346,980,830 2012 16,752,666 168,029,520 193,756 218,268,817 367,474 403,612,233 The elimination of heating oil in the reported data is due to the disposal of Svendborg Brakes which was effective in November 2013. Total fuel consumption from renewable fuel sources in 30% of the country’s electricity supply comes from wind. In joules or multiples, including fuel types used. countries such as China, the share of energy coming from We are presently assessing how to secure granular data in this renewables is as yet relatively low. In India, local initiatives category but even without the detailed split, there are clear have ensured that road lighting and water heating for showers geographical trends. In Denmark, for example, a high proporin the facility now come from solar power. tion of the electricity consumed comes from wind power as Total electricity consumption Year Electricity for production (no specific data for heating, cooling or steam) equipment, lights and The increase in electricity consumption corresponds with the ventilation (MJ) ramp up in production and adding a new manufacturing facility 2014 347,974,598 in Suape, Brazil which was not included in the 2013 reporting. 2013 288,631,814 (The plant was inaugurated in October 2013.) 2012 348,598,869 2 5 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4E N 3 ) Blade production, ­material use and waste generation Waste not yet a firmly established imperative for recycling at our Although many of our plants operate with almost zero waste to locations generally and a lack of better alternatives. In other landfill, the total waste to landfill amount increased in 2014. countries, such as Poland and China, waste to landfill is almost This is a direct result of increased activity in our American non-existent due to a high level of recycling and incineration. plants. The lack of local recycling or incineration solutions for Reducing waste remains a crucial activity to lower operational waste disposal means that the US operations represent more cost and improve efficiency while minimizing the company’s than half of our total waste to landfill globally. We are not satis­environmental impact. fied with this situation and are working on finding better solutions with suppliers who might be able to use our waste in Better waste management has a direct impact on the bottom ­other ways, perhaps as input to new products.In general, the line, especially when waste that would otherwise go to landfill waste is always disposed of according to local regulations and is sold off to be used in other products. This is particularly conditions in the countries in which we operate. In some counwidespread in China and India. In Brazil, waste glass is used by tries, like Canada and Denmark, regulations are designed in a local company to produce waste bins and water containers, such a way that waste that would be recycled or incinerated in which are donated to vulnerable local families, schools and other parts of the world has to go to landfill. The majority of communities. our waste to landfill, however, is filed in the US where there is Waste Mio. tons 12 Recycling 10 Incineration Landfill 8 6 4 2 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Year Blades produced Year Raw materials (tons) Year Total waste in Kg 2014 8,262 2014 65,758 2014 21,259,860 2013 7,173 2013 59,097 2013 16,204,841 2012 8,856 2012 93,135 2012 22,214,878 2011 10,333 2011 69,078 2011 23,739,012 2010 10,241 2010 64,374 2010 17,458,369 26 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4E N 23 ) The company’s global waste reduction program focuses on eliminating waste before it’s generated. This global waste reduction program is running in its fifth consecutive year and continued to exceed targets in 2014 with an actual waste saving of EUR 4.3 million compared to the target of EUR 2.7 milHundreds of ideas for lion. The total saving since the program’s inception amounts to reducing waste more than EUR 20 Million, and tons of waste to landfill have been avoided – approximately 3 m ­ illion kg in 2014 alone. “When you buy bananas, all you want The majority of our saving initiatives are generated on the shop is the fruit not the skin, but you have to floor by creative employees dedicated to working smartly and pay for the skin also. It is a waste. And cutting out waste from the manufacturing process. The idea you the customer should not have to generation culture is stronger than ever, and is facilitated by a pay for the waste.” ‘Why Not Circle’ program – a methodology to bring forward ideas from the shop floor in a systematic way. Last year, every ~ Shigeo Shingo, world-renowned Japanese LM Wind Power employee generated 3.6 ideas that were imple­industrial engineer. mented, exceeding the target of 2. Madhu Paranjothi Ramalingam, Senior Engineer and Waste Program Project Leader, uses this quote from Shigeo Shingo to represent the mission behind LM Wind Power’s Material Waste Reduction Project: to constantly strive for more efficient ways to reduce 3.6 waste in our manufacturing processes. Since 2010, the program has aimed to reduce or reuse waste, by implementing “Quick Win” ideas. Though each individual idea may not make a huge savings ideas per impact, together the Quick Wins demonstrate real employee implemented cost savings — several million euros to date. Most of the ideas come from employees on the shop floor who identify potential for working smarter, safer or simply better. Valuing employees and their ideas is key to developing global best practices. In fact, many of the standard LM Wind Power solutions applied today come from the minds of our employees, as the best of their ideas are shared across the plants and functions. “The culture of always thinking about improvements is one of the factors that make us a successful business and a good place to work,” Madhu said. A dust saving idea Maintenance Manager John Zheng and Tool Crib Technician Zhang Jianjun from LM Wind Power’s plant in Jiangyin are very active in developing innovative ideas for the plant. Most recently they introduced a better designed dust shield for the grinder preventing the dust from escaping into the air. The idea has not only improved the work environment, it ensures an average saving of around EUR 4000 every month from the reduced need for cleaning tools and man hours in the grinding process. 2 7 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 Carbon footprint The total carbon footprint has increased in line with the During the past few years, the organization has been working increased activity in the business. However, despite having procontinuously on different levels to reduce the carbon footprint. duced more blades in 2014 compared to 2013, the carbon footSince 2013, a dedicated program focusing on energy efficiency print per kg of blade produced showed a minor decrease. It is and cost reductions has driven improvements across the busiencouraging to see that the intense focus on utilizing materials ness, resulting in savings of EUR 93,000 in 2014 and identified in the optimum way, and the measures installed to further optisavings of more than EUR 700,000 in 2015. The bottom line mize energy consumption and efficiency, start to pay off in our improvements come from negotiations with local energy procarbon footprint performance. viders, awareness campaigns and installing more energy efficient equipment and intelligent energy management in the facilities and offices. The plants have had electricity savings targets of 5% per year and have generally managed to reduce their ­consumption. Carbon footprint per MW blade produced 87,500 87,000 86,500 86,000 85,500 85,000 84,500 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 2013 2012 TOTAL Carbon footptint (Gross emissions) Scope 1 117,016 70,185 274,649 461,850 Direct emissions (activities owned or controlled by the organization that release emissions direct to the atmosphere e.g. emissions from owned or controlled boilers, furnaces, process equipment, vehicles etc.) Scope 2 76,174 65,633 247,141 388,948 Energy indirect (emissions released into atmosphere that are a consequence of our activities but which occur at sources we do not own or control e.g. emissions associated with our consumption of electricity, heat, steam, cooling) Scope 3 61,617 76,992 370,103 508,712 Other indirect (all other activities that release emissions as a consequence of our activities, but not indirect energy sources and which occur at sources beyond our control e.g. business travel, use of sold products or services, waste disposal) 28 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4E N 1 5 ) , ( G 4E N 1 6 ) , ( G 4E N 17 ) The carbon footprint per MW blade produced also shows an In other words, the clean energy produced by LM Wind Power encouraging trend which is indicative for the product innovablades by far supersedes the carbon impact from its operation and continued quest for producing ever more efficient tions. We will continue to push this trend even further, gradualblades and wind turbines. Blade length is constantly expanding, ly taking on a life cycle assessment approach to cover the full driving up the Annual Energy Production (AEP) of each turbine impact of the product. and contributing to making wind power even more compelling. Carbon footprint per MW blade produced 87,500 87,000 86,500 86,000 85,500 85,000 84,500 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 120 million tons of CO2 saved every year 175,000 blades produced since 1978 2 9 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 23% Water consumption (m3) Wind energy is one of the power generation industries that consumes least water because we use very little water in our production facilities. However, we recognize that water is and will be an increasingly scarce resource in certain parts of the reduction in water use world and we all need to take responsibility for preserving it. from 2012-2014 The general trend in LM Wind Power’s water consumption is positive, with a 12% reduction from 2013 to 2014, despite ­having ramped up production and increased our number of local companies, this initiative has resulted in a 5-8% increase employees. Water usage is primarily for sanitary purposes and in the underground water table. cleaning at the sites. Only our India site has a large-scale water recycling system. In some countries, like India, water consumption is a highly ­India accounts for the vast majority of the data under Onsite material aspect due to the severe water scarcity issues in that Water Withdrawal, together with a site in Spain. In 2014, howregion. Our Indian plant established a rainwater harvesting ever, Spain only accounted for 49.9 m3 due to very low activity system in 2010, which collects enough water to cover the in Castellon. Therefore the method for calculation for Water majority of the consumption of the plant. Excess water is disRecycled and Reused is: On-site water withdrawal minus the charged to the ground again. Setting the standard for all other data from Spain divided by the total water withdrawal data. m3 2014 2013 2012 Gound water/municipal water 143,069 173,340 188,721 Water use, on site 41,794 37,450 50,061 TOTAL 184,863 210,790** 238,782 Water recycled and reused in 23 18 18 India – % of water withdrawal ** adjusted from 345,172 in 2013 (reporting error) 3 0 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4E N 8 ) , ( G 4E N 1 0 ) Occupational health & safety Content Commitment at the top 32 Training and communication 33 Performance and awareness 33 3 1 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 Safe people, safe products, safe processes and supply chain group. The Council connects to site level safety organizations management underpin occupational health and safety. Safety that work with the operational aspects and drive implementais at the core of our sustainability efforts and all materials that tion. These safety groups review and establish local policies go into our blades are carefully reviewed for health and safety and procedures and drive safety improvement initiatives with issues on which we strive to continuously improve. local management to raise awareness and promote safe be­havior. We are working on different levels to achieve the necessary changes and we are still strengthening governance on health Establishing robust policies and and safety across the business: processes across the business Our safety efforts are enforced from the top but the HSE sucCertification cess factors depend on company-wide commitment and disciWe control and improve health and safety performance with pline. It starts with the Global HSE Policy, which puts a strong the occupational health and safety management system stanfocus on people’s health and safety requiring active commitdard OHSAS 18001, which was completed for all LM Wind Power ment from all employees and contractors to prevent harm, sites, except Brazil, by the end of 2014. including injury and ill health. With our global HSE Management system, we ensure that we have processes in place to Commitment at the top: identify hazards prior to the commencement of any project, Establishing a Global HSE Council that we comply with applicable health and safety legal requireSince 2010, we have had a global safety organization in place, ments, and that we establish safety goals and strategies on a anchored at the very top with a Global HSE Council, led by the yearly basis to drive continuous improvement. The system CEO, to promote and improve safety performance across the includes control measures, focusing on Personal Protective The strategic goals to improve workplace safety until 2017 1. Injury and Incident Free (IIF) workplace – Total Recordable Injury and Illness Rate (TRIIR) top tier performer 2. Strong risk assessment culture, fully permeated in everything we do, i.e. in all Management Of 3. Change processes and in day-to-day activities on the shop floor 4. Full visibility and clarity on the company’s ­expectations vis-à-vis sustainability – towards employees and towards contractors Full regulatory compliance 5. Strong ownership of HSE matters by Operational Line Management 6. Strong sense of urgency with Senior Management – zero tolerance attitude towards accidents and incidents, critical safety rules and repeat offenders 7. True Learning Organization – robust performance with regards to “closing the loop and not having repeat accidents From the LM Wind Power HSE Management System Manual 3 2 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4P R 1 ) 440 Equipment (PPE), equipment and operational instructions necessary to r­ educe or eliminate risks and emergency plans for employees. The effectiveness of the implementation is measured through ongoing internal audits, and in the event of incidents or issues arising, corrective and preventive actions are supervisors/team leaders went through identified and ­implemented. global safety excellence training in 2014 Our health and safety performance is reviewed annually at management review meetings with local representation to monitor the compliance with standards and certifications (OHSAS around the world and defined improvements to bring all loca18001 & ISO 14001), and reflect the effectiveness of the system. tions up to a global LM Wind Power safety standard based on best industry standards. Some of the initiatives that have made Specific activities tied into our a difference are specific training in Root Cause Analysis (RCA) approach to Lean manufacturing incident investigation, a number of projects targeted at hanThe LM Production System based on LEAN principles helps to dling chemicals and fire safety, and a strong focus on improving provide safety in the workshops, organizing workflows to safety for working in confined spaces. New and more robust ­ensure quality production with the most efficient utilization of processes have been put in place to make sure key HSE aspects people and resources. are being assessed and taken into consideration when developing new products, setting up new factories and when introducOur managers and employees make regular safety assessments ing new materials. in the manufacturing environment, quickly identify safety hazards and check the status of equipment for safety standards Furthermore, we have invested significantly in training courses. during ‘gemba’ walks through the production areas. Good ideas In 2014 alone we conducted global safety excellence courses are systematically shared between our manufacturing facilities for 440 supervisors/team leaders, which featured a full day and each plant has a target for idea generation and implemendiving into Root Cause Analysis methods and ways to have contation. structive dialogues with colleagues on safety. Training and communication We were also one of the first companies in the industry to Safety training and communication for and with the employees introduce a revised global confined space procedure aligned to increase awareness, competence and active participation with recently introduced EU regulations. provide the foundation for successful implementation. A large proportion of our employees – 25-50% at various levels – are Performance and awareness represented in Health & Safety committees, either at plant LM Wind Power has been on an important journey towards ­level or regional level (under the Global HSE Council). excellence within Health & Safety over the past five years, continuously improving performance through increased awareOur cooperation with safety experts Du Pont over the past five ness, more rigid enforcement of rules and procedures and years has helped us identify our risks and build up the foundaintensive training for key personnel, focused on behavior, cultion for implementing a safety culture. Their assessment of our ture and dia­logue. We have built up a strong organization with standards and performance back in 2010 pointed, among other systems and structures in place, and awareness is at a very things, to inconsistent use of protective equipment and lack of high level. The detailed reporting of safety data shows how clarity about safety rules and instructions, or lack of discipline these efforts paid off in terms of significantly improved safety in following them. Du Pont visited our manufacturing locations performance in the manufacturing facilities. Safety dialogues Year Number of employees/ Injury rates end of year (involving lost time) (incl. contractors) per million working hours 2014 4,953 2.0 2013 4,851 2.9 2012 5,122 4.0 2011 5,803 5.7 We do not have this data split by gender. 33 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4L A 5 ) , ( G 4L A 6 ) have become a daily routine and the overall safety drive has quality or chemical exposure. The improvements we have made also contributed to improved manufacturing quality and ultiare reflected in safety metrics, such as the Lost Time Accident mately, customer satisfaction. The next big step will be working (LTA) rate per million work hours, where LM Wind Power is now even more on culture and behavior. performing at the highest industry standards. The LTA rate for 2014 was on target at 2.0, down from 2.7 the year before. The In LM Wind Power factories, we manufacture large structures most frequent type of accidents and health effects relate to in composite materials. There are significant risks to manage trips and falls and ergonomic strains. Efforts will continue to from the necessary movements of objects and people in the minimize work related risks and to eliminate accidents, aiming manufacturing workspace to potential effects caused by air for an ambitious, lower global LTA rate of 1.6 in 2015. Lost Time Accident rate 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 3 4 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 People & ­ ommunity C Content Compliance & integrity 37 People development 38 Community outreach 38 LM Wind Power is a diverse, the Chairman, who is a representative of our owners Doughty Hanson, and three members who are also in the executive global company with 26 management team of LM Wind Power. They are all male. The different nationalities employed company has set a target to have one female member of the Supervisory Board by 2017. The Board did not progress toward this target in 2014 as generally, new members of the Board are The company encourages diversity at all levels and the Code of not considered unless specifically requested by our owners and Conduct clearly states that we hire and treat our employees in that as yet, has not happened. The topic of how to increase the a manner that doesn’t discriminate with regard to gender, race, representation of women on the Board, and in general in the religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, nationality, political company, remains high on the priorities of the VP Global Comopinion, union affiliation, social or ethnic origin. munications & Human Resources and his team and there will be plans with targets established during the coming year. As in many manufacturing and engineering companies, our gender split shows a predominance of male employees at 86% LM Wind Power is committed to offering all employees equal of the total workforce. Looking at salaried employees in isolacareer and employment opportunities. LM Wind Power’s Mantion, the gender split is 25% female and 75% male. It is the aim agement Team (9 people) currently consists of five different of LM Wind Power to improve gender and other forms of diver­nationalities – Dutch, Danish, British, Spanish and American – sity in the business, further building on the existing practices of all are male. promoting talents through individual performance and career reviews as part of the company’s Performance Management The percentage of contractors as opposed to permanent Process. employees remained stable in 2014 around 10.5%. In 2014, the company completed a structured organization and See detailed employment data in Appendix 1. people review of all salaried employees, looking at capabilities and mobility as part of a new Human Resource strategy, ‘Get, Keep, Grow’. We see diversity as key for ensuring a long term, 86% sustainable management solution, and gender is one aspect that we are looking at when developing and building the strongest possible, global team at all levels. At the management level, LM Wind Power set a target to ­further promote gender diversity in its highest governance male employees and body, the Supervisory Board. In 2014, this body consisted of 14% female employees 3 6 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4L A 1 2 ) 4 Employment conditions LM Wind Power acknowledges freedom of association as a fundamental right and employs people worldwide according to local law and collective bargaining agreements where required. The unions are particularly well represented in countries such as Brazil, Spain, Denmark, Canada and India where 25-90% of incidents of discrimination our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreeand harrassment in 2014 ments. This applies primarily to the hourly paid employees. The 0 number of weeks’ notice typically provided to employees in relation to significant operational changes are governed by local regulations in all the areas where we operate. When no local legislation or agreements exist, the general guidance provided in our employee handbook is a minimum of two weeks. LM Wind Power has not identified any violations or risks of vioincidents of reported corruption lations of the right to freedom of association in its operations nor with suppliers in the reporting period. years, gained significant experience with doing business in Compliance & integrity many different parts of the world. China, India and most Our responsibility to respect human rights and observe ethical recently Brazil are some of the countries where we are aware labor practices, act as safe workplaces, promote non-discrimiof the potential increased risk of corruption. nation, and ensure equal opportunities is the cornerstone of our Code of Conduct. Through this we express our support for To the best of our knowledge, we have not had any cases of protecting internationally proclaimed human rights, ensure corruption, although we have experienced situations where it that we do not allow human rights abuses and condemn any was clearly indicated to be helpful to further a process, make a kind of discrimination. deal, or get goods through customs. We have clear internal rules and guidelines, described in the Code of Conduct, and This commitment is reflected in our HR processes for recruitexpect all employees to fully comply, even though this may ment, promotion and remuneration which is based on equal pay sometimes lead to inconvenience, delays or even lost business. for equal work; as well as in our zero-tolerance policy for forced or child labor, for discrimination or any other misconduct, at There was a single issue of fraud in Brazil which was investigatboth LM Wind Power and supplier sites. Almost half of our ed and resolved by our Internal Audit and Risk department, employees are employed in China and India and we have many among others. In connection with the investigation, the topic of young applicants. We have a clear policy that we do not hire Corruption and Bribery was raised with all managers and LM people under the age of 18 and applicants have to show their ID Wind Power do Brasil was selected as pilot entity to roll out a card or birth certificate as part of the recruitment process. LM SpeakUP line – an externally hosted whistleblower mechanism. Wind Power has not identified any instances of child labor in its This went live in 2015. operations nor with suppliers in the reporting period. Since 2012, LM Wind Power has trained all salaried employees Incidents of discrimination in the Code of Conduct, anti-corruption and UK Anti-Bribery Act There were four instances of discrimination and harassment aligned with our commitment to the UN Global Compact princicases reported worldwide in 2014, all initiated by employees. ples. All new salaried employees go through this e-learning One was settled after mutual agreement and three went to program. court where the ruling was in favor of the company. We have clear internal guidance and processes for handling of discrimiIn 2014, a new round of re-certification was initiated for a large nation and harassment claims and always conduct a thorough but limited selection of functions (Finance, Global Operations, investigation, where applicable with involvement from the Quality & HSE, Sales & Marketing and Sourcing) identified to be union representatives to ensure workers’ rights. in higher risk of potentially being faced with corruption and bribery issues. It is expected that all employees will go through Incidents of corruption re certification in 2015. Additional face-to-face high-level trainLM Wind Power operates in many countries where the occuring has already been provided for plant management in China rence of corruption in general is relatively high. We have not by the VP, Global Communications & HR in person. yet systematically assessed all locations for corruption risk but plans are being discussed to improve this. We have, over the 37 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 G 4-1 1 ) , ( G 4L A 4 ) , ( G 4-S O 3) , ( G 4-S O 4 ) , ( G 4-S O 5 ) , ( G 4H R 2) , ( G 4H R 3 ) People development r­ efers to the proportion of learning and development that At the heart of people development is the newly launched comes from formal training and courses. ­Human Resources strategy ‘Get, Keep, Grow’. Our success comes from the creativity, skills and expertise of our people LM Wind Power is a highly dynamic organization and we have a and we continuously invest in developing their competences. culture that values initiative and drive. Our people solve Our culture is one of high performance and the environment ­challenging tasks every day. When they have reached their can be fast paced to keep up with the changes in the market. potential in one area and need new challenges, we do what we Within that context, we work to create a stimulating and can to give them new opportunities, exposing them to new empowering working environment that enables personal initiatasks, colleagues or cultures. Many colleagues have been tive and innovative thinking. ex­patriated for shorter or longer assignments as part of their development. Examples include people who have gone from We nurture a culture in which development is very much India to the US to run a factory, or from the Netherlands to Chiembedded in the day-to-day work and the feedback we give na to head up Finance. and receive. We also provide training, especially to the employees working in our manufacturing facilities who need to follow We see significant value in combining personal development our global processes, detailed work instructions, operate successfully with company objectives. Allowing people to equipment and tools and be vigilant around quality and HSE. expand their perspective and step out of their comfort zone is not only an investment in their personal motivation and job For the salaried employees in staff functions, the framework satisfaction, it keeps our talent in the organization longer, for our development activities is based on the 70-20-10 model. increases understanding across the business and creates better 70 refers to the proportion of development that comes from results. focused efforts to provide opportunities for people to grow through exposure to challenging tasks in the day-to-day job; 20 Development activities are captured in LM Wind Power’s refers to the proportion of development that comes from feed­Performance Management System, which follows a cycle of back and support given to and provided by others; and 10­ ­annual objective setting, performance review and development planning. In 2014, 1269 employees out of 5040 at the time of and economic development following the establishment of a counting were covered by this system, which has been in place plant is highly valued. Community engagement is generally since 2007 and it now represents almost the entire salaried ­local and ad hoc but thriving nonetheless. Some locations, population. We are in the process of implementing perforhowever, such as Dobaspet and Little Rock have dedicated mance reviews for hourly paid employees in many locations as teams to identify, prioritize and manage community activities. well and expect to report on the status in the 2015 report. They do this with a view to corporate values, issues of high ­local profile and, if possible, with a connection to our industry Training or business. The data on training provided to the employees is not available split by gender. Overall, the hours for training differed considThe execution of LM Wind Power’s sustainability approach in erably across job functions and years, reflecting the situation in certain locations, especially in India, is extraordinary. It serves the specific plant and specific focus areas at the time of as an example of a business where the needs of citizens and reporting. Generally, training has high priority for both hourly communities carry weight like the demands of shareholders, paid and salaried employees. In some cases, a fairly high numand where community activities are integrated into running a ber of hours spent on training can also reflect a low activity profitable business through programs that are expanded year level at the plant, as the local management takes the opportuafter year. While providing valuable employment and people nity to upgrade peoples’ skills instead of sending them home. development, plant management continuously prioritize and The detailed overview of training hours provided for each locaplan for advancements on social and environmental issues, tion in 2014 can be found in Appendix 2. The types of training improving the living conditions of local people. LM Wind Powconducted for the hourly paid employees focus specifically on er’s plant is located in Dobaspet, an area primarily characterproduction related aspects such as health and safety, Lean ized by low income employment with the most highly qualified Practices and 5S, Quality Management, Continuous Improveand skilled workers commuting to Bangalore for work. LM Wind ment and operation of equipment in the manufacturing proPower deploys a very active policy of primarily hiring employcesses. ees and contractors from the local area, with free transportation provided to and from work. 90% of the employees come Other types of training include language skills, project managefrom villages within 25km of the plant and more than 900 local ment and leadership training. A detailed list of the training people are employed directly and indirectly, spurring developconducted in the reporting period can be found in Appendix 3. ment in the wider community. As in previous years, efforts in 2014 once again focused very Community outreach much on education and welfare with activities ranging from LM Wind Power’s plants and offices around the world operate food donations, blood drives, sponsorships of under privileged primarily in dedicated industrial areas and under all applicable schools and students, sports activities, medical check-ups and local laws and regulations. None of them are assessed to have safety training for employees’ families. The global level of any significant negative impact on the local communities. ­activity was even higher than in previous years, not least due Waste, emissions and other impacts from the plants’ activities to the strong inspiration from the Indian plant. are managed actively, in accordance with our global HSE Management System and local regulations. And the employment Year Charitable donations Community work (Employee hours provided) 2014 75,812 12,155 2013 63,335 3,127 2012 20,000 N/A 2011 55,234 1,184 2010 62,360 2,472 3 9 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4L A 9) , ( G 4L A 1 1 ) , ( G 4-S O 1 ) , ( G 4-S O 2 ) Caption: LM Wind Power’s VP Global Operations Richard Bevan and India Head of Operations, Niraj Bisaria, inaugurated the new building at the local Dobaspet Government School. Room to learn classroom, the Dobaspet employees have led a variety of initiatives in collaboration with local Over 300 children now have more space to study, government schools — such as improving school thanks to LM Wind Power’s Dobaspet plant in India. infrastructure, donating furniture and books, and even teaching in the schools during their free time. “When we saw this school and understood that they required a good With 90 percent of employees coming from villages classroom for children, we decided to within 25 km of the plant, engaging in community construct a building for the school.” activities allows LM Wind Power India to impact ~ Phani Shankar Krishnamurthy, Senior Maintenance both employees and the general public. Manager in LM Wind Power’s Dobaspet plant. “We have a wide ranging sustainability or Corporate The construction of the new classroom began in Social Responsibility (CSR) program here and August 2014 and one month later, the plant held an education is the prime area where we can contribute inauguration ceremony with students, their families to society, since government alone is not able to do and the surrounding community to celebrate the all that is needed,” Krishnamurthy said. “We believe project’s completion. that developing a good environment for a child will have a large impact on his career and on society.” Giving back to the community is nothing new for our Indian plant which has a strong focus on children and education. In addition to constructing the 40 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 Technology & innovation Content New technology 42 Improved production environment 43 A few examples of our technology developments in 2014 that contribute to the long term sustainability of wind power: • A more sustainable and low cost version of infusion polyester successfully used to produce a blade. • Development of a hybrid carbon technology, which enables longer and lighter blades at a competitive cost compared to full carbon blades. This product will be particularly interesting for offshore application, where blade length and performance can make a big difference to the business case. The rotor is the ‘motor’ of a • Leading edge de-icing technology developed and tested full-scale and in the field. By heating the wind turbine, capturing the wind blade’s leading edge to melt ice, the system for and converting it into rotation de-icing boosts the output from the wind turbines, further increasing the competitiveness which powers the generator of wind power in cold climates. The technology will allow a wind farm to increase its power Our product is the most obvious example of our sustainability generation by 5-7% on average, with an increase proposition, as a core component on the wind turbine that as high as 20% for some specific turbines. extracts the energy from wind. Over the years, we have launched several enhanced designs of lighter and longer blades • Leading edge erosion protection launched that are even more effective and we continue to boost and commercially, offering even better protection of develop our designs and manufacturing processes to increase the blades and securing Annual Energy output and reduce cost. Simply put, we strive to make the most Production. ProBladeTM has a clear aerodynamic efficient and reliable rotor blades at the lowest possible price. advantage over tape which is the most commonly used form of leading edge protection technology. Five new blade types, all longer than 52 meters, were launched in 2014, as well as several innovations that include a low • Noise serrations developed and tested. These weight, carbon hybrid blade, noise reducing blade add-ons, features help address one of the challenges for leading edge erosion protection, de-icing technology and intelthe expansion of wind power, namely the ligent monitoring systems based on radio technology. All these resistance to have them installed close to new developments will further improve the competitiveness of residential areas due to noise. wind power through boosting performance, or reducing downtime and cost of maintenance. 42 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4P R 1 ) 5 Improved production environment While developing and launching new technologies, we also had a firm eye on quality improvements and implementing more sustainable material solutions or more cost effective processes in manufacturing. The quality improvement initiatives led to new blade types longer progress on key metrics. Thus, the cost of quality issues comthan 52 meters introduced pared to sales decreased, as did the number of customer findings during inspections, which were at an all-time low level. Overall, quality performance is moving in the right direction, which was also evident in the feedback from our customers during the year. Customer satisfaction ratings improved We are determined to do anything possible to understand and ­generally and we were also recognized as Supplier of the Year manage the risks in our business better and at the same time we by key global customers in India and China. have pioneered alternative solutions. We already introduced low styrene gel coat in our global operations some years ago, which In the blade design and manufacturing area, two of the most we developed with a key supplier. Such innovations are now significant sustainability improvements in 2014 were the subavailable widely to all manufacturers using similar materials. stitution of PVC foam with PET and the testing of a styrene free resin and gelcoat system in our mold production. The testing of styrene free resin and gelcoat systems in 2014 supports our ambition to further minimize any risk from PET is used on some of the blade components and has a better ­styrene exposure, ideally creating a styrene free production environmental footprint and lower cost than PVC. Our supplier ­environment. This will benefit the employees who will experiis in the process of switching to 100% recycled PET, an initiaence improved working conditions and can potentially also tive that we welcome. In 2015, we will implement more PETbring savings through elimination of the need for some personbased material in our processes, further improving the al protective equipment and ventilation in work spaces. environ­mental performance of LM Wind Power blades. Our blades produce green energy every day, enabling millions of people and businesses to be more sustainable and offering part of the solution to some of the world’s most pressing ­challenges. “Styrene reduction has always been an area of focus for our sustainability activities, as it is an important component in some of our raw materials in the manufacturing process with suspected potential to cause harm to employees if not handled correctly. We fully accept that while we have set and try to adhere to the highest standards, we need to constantly scrutinize our processes, work environment training and protection measures.” 43 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 ( G 4P R 1 ) 2014 Sustainability performance at a glance SAFETY & QUALITY TECHNOLOGY 98.5% 5 of suppliers covered by Supplier Quality new blade types longer than 52 meters Agreements up from 93% the previous year introduced 82% reduction in material non-compliance rate Substitution of PVC with recycled PET compared to previous year 65% 5+ decrease in Lost Time Accident rate since 2011 material and technology innovations that significantly boost Annual Energy Production (AEP) and reliability 440 supervisors/team leaders went through safety excellence training in 2014 44 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 2014 Sustainability performance at a glance Headquarters ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE Kolding, Denmark Factories and 21% 0 service locations Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, India, Poland, Spain, USA Headquarters Kolding, Denmark decrease in total energy consumption since incidents of reported corruption 2012 despite increasing production levels Factories and 23% 4 service locations Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, India, Poland, Spain, USA 13 Blade factories 4,505 People worldwide reduction in water consumption since 2012 incidents of reported discrimination and harassment 120 13the carbon footprint curve despite breaking Million tons Blade Lower carbon footprint per kg blade produced, of CO2 mitigated factories 70 GW4,505 Installed Global plant leadership development training capacity launched People worldwide increased production levels 3.6 1/4 Turbines in the world ideas per employee implemented against have LM Wind Power blades 8,262 the Blades Record high amount spent on charitable produced 120 target of 2 Million tons of CO2 mitigated 70 GW in 2014 donations Installed capacity 4.3ms EUR 4.3ms in waste reduction savings against target of EUR 2.7m Record high number of employee hours spent on community work 1/4 Turbines in the world have LM Wind Power blades 8,262 Blades produced in 2014 45 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 GRI G4 content index 46 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 GRI Report Section Pages UNGC Comments External Indicator Principle Assurance Strategy and analysis G4-1 The long term recipe for a sustainable 3, 4 business Organizational profile G4-3 Organization profile 6 G4-4 Organization profile 6 G4-5 Organization profile 6 G4-6 Organization profile 6 G4-7 Organization profile 6 G4-8 Organization profile 6 G4-9 Organization profile 6 G4-10 People 52 6 Appendix 1 G4-11 People 37 3 G4-12 Stakeholder engagement: ‘Together we 12, 13, capture the wind to power a cleaner world 10, 8 Supplier dialogue is key to success G4-13 About this report 5 G4-14 List of material aspects, their boundaries 18 and significance to stakeholders: (Customer Health and Safety) G4-15 The long term recipe for a sustainable 3 business G4-16 Appendix 4 55 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Organization profile 7 No G4-18 Sustainability commitments: 17 No Defining material aspects G4-19 Sustainability commitments: 18, 19, No Defining material aspects 20 G4-20 List of material aspects, their boundaries 18, 19, No and significance to stakeholders: 20 G4-21 List of material aspects, their boundaries 18, 19, No and significance to stakeholders: 20 G4-22 About this report 5 No G4-23 About this report 5 No 47 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 GRI G4 content index GRI Report Section Pages UNGC Comments External Indicator Principle Assurance Stakeholder engagement G4-24 Stakeholder engagement: ‘Together we 12, 13 No capture the wind to power a cleaner world’ G4-25 Stakeholder engagement: ‘Together we 11 No capture the wind to power a cleaner world’ G4-26 Stakeholder engagement: ‘Together we 14 No capture the wind to power a cleaner world’ G4-27 Stakeholder engagement: ‘Together we 12, 13 No capture the wind to power a cleaner world’ Report profile G4-28 About this report 5 G4-29 Content 2 G4-30 Content 2 G4-31 About this report 5 G4-32 About this report 5 G4-33 Content 2 Governance G4-34 Sustainability organization and interfaces 8 Ethics & integrity G4-56 Values & Integrity, People 36, 37 10 Compliance & integrity Category: Environmental GRI Report Section Pages UNGC Comments External Indicator Principle Assurance Aspect: Energy G4-EN 3 Material use, Energy, Waste and Water 25 7, 8 Energy Aspect: Water G4-EN 8 Material use, Energy, Waste and Water 30 7, 8 Water consumption (m3) G4-EN 10 Material use, Energy, Waste and Water 30 8 Water consumption (m3) Aspect: Emissions G4-EN 15 Material use, Energy, Waste and Water 28 7, 8 Carbon footprint G4-EN 16 Material use, Energy, Waste and Water 28 7, 8 Carbon footprint G4-EN 17 Material use, Energy, Waste and Water 28 7, 8 Carbon footprint 48 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 Category: Environmental – Continued GRI Report Section Pages UNGC Comments External Indicator Principle Assurance Aspect: Waste G4-EN 23 Material use, Energy, Waste and Water 26 8 Waste Aspect: Transport G4-EN 30 Data not available N/A 8 Although we recognize that transport of our products and the material that goes into them is material, we are not able to report on the impact yet as we have prioritized mapping our own direct impact first. We are moving towards a full Life Cycle Assessment approach in which transport would be included, but have no fixed timeline yet. We expect this to happen within the next three years. Aspect: Supplier environmental assessment G4-EN 32 Stakeholder engagement 16 8 Supplier dialogue is key to success G4-EN 33 Stakeholder engagement 16 8 Supplier dialogue is key to success Category: Social GRI Report Section Pages UNGC Comments External Indicator Principle Assurance Labor practices and decent work Aspect: Labor/managemnt relations G4-LA 4 People 37 3 Aspect: Occupational health and safety G4-LA 5 Occupational Health & Safety 33 Training and communication G4-LA 6 Performance and awareness 33, 59 Appendix 8 Aspect: Training and education G4-LA 9 Training 39, 53 6 Appendix 2 G4-LA 10 Training 39, 54 Appendix 3 G4-LA 11 People development 39 6 Aspect: Supplier assessment for labor practices G4-LA 14 Stakeholder engagement 16 Supplier dialogue is key to success G4-LA 15 Stakeholder engagement 16 Supplier dialogue is key to success 49 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 Category: Social – Continued GRI Report Section Pages UNGC Comments External Indicator Principle Assurance Human rights Aspect: Investment G4-HR 2 Compliance & integrity 37 1 Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-HR 3 Compliance & integrity 37 6 Aspect: Freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-HR 4 Supplier dialogue is key to success 16 3 Aspect: Child labor G4-HR 5 Supplier dialogue is key to success 16 5 Aspect: Forced compulsory labor G4-HR 6 Supplier dialogue is key to success 16 4 Aspect: Supplier human rights assessment G4-HR 1O Supplier dialogue is key to success 16 2 G4-HR 11 Supplier dialogue is key to success 16 2 Society Aspect: Local communities G4-SO 1 Stakeholder engagement: ‘Together, we 13, 39 1 capture the wind to power a cleaner world’ Communities G4-SO 2 Communities 39 1 Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Compliance & integrity 37 10 G4-SO4 Values & Integrity 10, 11, 10 Compliance & integrity 37 G4-SO 5 Compliance & integrity 37 10 Aspect: Public policy G4-SO 6 Appendix 4 55 10 Procuct Responsibility Aspect: Customer health and safety G4-PR 1 List of material aspects, their boundaries 18, 43 and significance to stakeholders: Occupational Health and Safety Improved production environment 5 0 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 Appendix 5 1 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 Appendix 1 a) Total number of employees by employment c) Total workforce by employees and supervised workers contract and gender: and by gender: Exact figures 2012: 2012: Blue collar (female): 358, (7% of total) Female employees: 575, Blue collar (male): 3461, (71%) Female managers: 47, White collar (female): 264, (5%) Male employees: 3939, White collar (male): 773, (16%) Male managers: 295, Total: 4856 Total: 4856 2013: 2013: Blue collar (female): 377, (7%) Female employees: 579, Blue collar (male): 3231, (67%) Female managers: 46, White collar (female): 248, (5%) Male employees: 3680, White collar (male): 745, (15%) Male managers: 296, Blue collar (unknown gender):242, Unknown employees: 243, White collar (unknown gender): 1, Total: 4844 Total: 4844 2014: 2014: Female employees: 630 Blue collar (female): 422 Female managers: 51 Blue collar (male): 3331 Male employees: 3773 White collar (female): 259 Male managers: 305 White collar (made): 747 Total 4993 (including contractors and trainees) Blue collar (Unknown gender): 220 White collar (Unknown gender): 14 Total: d) Total workforce by region and gender: Exact figures 2012: b) Total number of permanent employees by employment China (Female): 128, China (Male): 1401, Total: 1529 type and gender: Europe (Female): 328, Europe (Male): 1452, Total: 1780 India (Female): 19, India (Male): 844, Total: 863 2012: USA (Female): 147, USA (Male): 537, Total: 684 Females on fixed-term contracts: 191, Total: 4856 Females on permanent contract: 431, Males on fixed-term contracts: 2001, 2013: Males on permanent contracts: 2233, China (Female): 103, China (Male): 1214, Total: 1317 Total: 4856 Europe (Female): 278, Europe (Male): 1137, Unknown: 14, ­Total: 1429 2013: India (Female): 19, India (Male): 808, Total: 827 Females on fixed-term contracts: 136, USA (Female): 225, USA (Male): 817, Unknown: 229, Total: Females on permanent contract: 489, 1271 Males on fixed-term contracts: 1671, Total: 4844 Males on permanent contracts: 2305, Unknown on fixed-term contracts: 239, 2014: Unknown on permanent contracts: 4, China (female): 129, China (Male): 1376, Unknown: 33, Total: Total: 4844 1538 Europe (female): 270, Europe (Male): 1044, Unknown: 19, 2014: Total: 1333 Females on fixed-term contracts: 174, India (Female): 28, India (Male): 773, Unknown: 6, Total: Females on permanent contract: 491, 807 Males on fixed-term contracts: 1819, USA+CAN (Female): 254, USA+CAN (Male): Unknown: 176, Males on permanent contracts: 2220, 886, Total: 1316 Unknown on fixed-term contracts: 178, Total: 4993 Unknown on permanent contracts: 32, Total: 4914 5 2 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 e) Percentage of the contractors compared to the entire China region: workforce: Exact figures • 2012: Training directed towards BC amounted to an average 20 hours per year, 0.88% of the total working hours. 2012: • 2012: Training directed towards WC amounted to an average Contractors: 192, 29 hours per year, 0.17% of the total working hours. Permanent employees: 4664, • 2013: Training directed towards BC amounted to an average Total: 4856 – 4% of the total workforce 55 hours per year, 2.41% of the total working hours. • 2013: Training directed towards BC amounted to an average 2013: 46 hours per year, 0.29% of the total working hours. Contractors: 461, • 2014: Training directed towards BC amounted to an average Permanent employees: 4383, 49 hours per year, 2.16% of the total working hours. Total: 4844 – 10% of the total workforce • 2014: Training directed towards WC amounted to an average 37 hours per year, 0.21% of the total working hours. 2014 Contractors: Bangalore: Permanent employees: • 2012: On average 32.89 hours of training per employee per Total: 4953 10.5% of total workforce year, 1.56% of the total working hours – only white collar employees. No significant variations in employment numbers. • 2013: On average 35.62 hours of training per employee per year, 1.69% of the total working hours – only white collar NB: Numbers do not include Brazil as it was not possible to employees. get ­reliable employment data for 2014. • 2014: On average 26.91 hours of training per employee per year Brazil will be included in the 2015 reporting and going forward. Dobaspet: • 2012: On average 4.25% training of the total working hours amounting to 91.5 hours in average per employee. Approx 85% for BC and 15% for WC Appendix 2 • 2013: On average 3.8% training of the total working hours amounting to 82.3 hours in average per employee. Approx The average hours of training that the organization’s 85% for BC and 15% for WC employees have undertaken during the reporting period, • 2014: On average 2.5% training of the total working hours by Gender, Employee Category amounting to 45 hours on average per employee. Approx 85% for and 15% for WC DK Functions: • 2012: On average 44.25 hours of training per employee per Ponferrada: year, 2.66% of the total working hours – only white collar • 2012: Training directed towards WC amounted to average 86 employees. hours per year, 4.89% of the total working hours. • 2013: On average 12 hours of training per employee per year, • 2012: Training directed towards BC amounted to average 0.73% of the total working hours – only white collar employ13.95 hours per year, 0.79% of the total working hours. ees • 2013: Training directed towards WC amounted to average • 2014: On average 15 hours of training per employee this year 104.46 hours per year, 5.94% of the total working hours. • 2013: Training directed towards BC amounted to average ASV – DK: 26.31 hours per year, 1.49% of the total working hours. • 2012: For BC and WC training amounted to average 4.87 • 2014: Training directed towards WC amounted to average hours per employee per year, 0.25% of the total working 50.16 hours per year, 2% of the total working hours. hours. • 2014: Training directed towards WC amounted to average • 2013: For BC and WC training amounted to average 185 hours 14.09 hours per year, 0,83% of the total working hours per employee per year due to lower productions, 9.62% of the total working hours. Castellon: • 2014: For WC, training amounted to an average of 72 hours • 2014: Training directed towards WC amounted to average per employee, 3.8% of the total working hours 9.29 hours per year, 0.53% of the total working hours. • 2014: For BC, training amounted to an average of 23 hours of • 2014: Training directed towards BC amounted to average training per employee, 1.8% of the total working hours 12.06 hours per year, 0.69% of the total working hours. 53 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 Appendix 3 Grand Forks and Little Rock US: a = The type and scope of programs implemented and assis• 2012: In average 60 hours of training per Blue collar tance ­provided to upgrade employee skills. ­employee per year. • 2012: In average 40 hours of training per White collar b = The transition assistance programs provided to facilitate employee per year. continued employability and the management of career • 2013: In average 60 hours of training per Blue collar endings resulting from retirement or termination of ­employee per year. employment. • 2013: In average 40 hours of training per White collar employee per year. a) Type and scope of programs: • 2014: Calibration • An average Qualified Blue Collar employee goes through French 198 hours of training their first full year SHL certification • An average Qualified Blue Collar employee goes through International transport 10 hours of refresher training each year thereafter HSE training • An average Certified Blue Collar employee goes through Skill Matrix 228 hours of training their first full year Technical training • An average Certified Blue Collar employee goes through Blade wagon training 10 hours of refresher training each year thereafter Documentation • An average White Collar employee goes through 60 hours LEAN of training each year IT Welding courses Gaspé Canada: Truck and crane courses. • 2012: In average 80 hours of training per Blue collar English (China region) ­employee per year. Training for common skills such as presentation, • 2012: In average 40 hours of training per White collar ­communication and IT skills employee per year. Six Sigma Green Belt (WC) • 2013: In average 40 hours of training per Blue collar Project Management (WC) ­employee per year. Coaching (WC) • 2013: In average 20 hours of training per White collar Leadership in Practice (WC) employee per year. Change Management (WC) • 2014: In average 120 hours of training per Blue collar Quality (WC) employee per year. Continuous Improvement (WC) • 2014: In average 80 hours of training per Blue collar Regulatory statutory requirement ­employee per year Production training 5S No data for The Netherlands Operator qualifications Certification training First aid training Fire fighting Basic NDT On job training Engeraning changing communication to shape 7QC tools for BC Customer training on AC b) Transition assistance programs: Exit interviews Pension plan Pension interviews Assistance with CV and cover letter 5 4 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 Appendix 4 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: holds a position on the governance body, participates in projects or committees, provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues, views memberships as strategic 2012: Extreme Materials NextRotor Overcoming Critical Aeroelastic Design Challenges of Wind Turbines Smartwind Plastindustrien i Danmark Dansk Industri EWEA Vindmølleforeningen i Danmark Business Kolding Innovatorium Herning Netværk for fagdirektører og funktionschefer Fagog emnenetværk indenfor HSE 2013: Blade King NextRotor Overcoming Critical Aeroelastic Design Challenges of Wind Turbines Smartwind Avatar iRotor Plastindustrien i Danmark Dansk Industri EWEA Vindmølleforeningen i Danmark Business Kolding Innovatorium Herning Netværk for fagdirektører og funktionschefer Fagog emnenetværk indenfor HSE 2014: Plastindustrien i Danmark Dansk Industri EWEA Vindmølleforeningen i Danmark Business Kolding Innovatorium Herning Netværk for fagdirektører og funktionschefer Fagog emnenetværk indenfor HSE To the best of our knowledge there have not been any ­political donations taking place in 2014 5 5 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 Appendix 5 Suppliers by Commodity Suppliers who signed the SQM Suppliers who signed the SQM requiring Code of Conduct requiring Code of Conduct compliance compliance 2013 (In %) 2014 (in %) Core 95.45 100 Glass 70 100 Liquids 64 100 Metals 75 100 Plastics 76 92.3 Appendix 6 Year Blades produced Year Raw materials (tons) 2014 8,262 2014 65,758 2013 7,173 2013 59,097 2012 8,856 2012 93,135 2011 10,333 2011 69,078 2010 10,241 2010 64,374 Year Energy consumption in Year Electricity for production operations (MJ) equipment, lights and ventilation (MJ) 2014 595,021,985 2014 347,974,598 2013 635,722,624 2013 288,631,814 2012 752,211,102 2012 348,598,869 2011 2011 2010 2010 Appendix 6 25 mio. Recycling 20 mio. Incineration Landfill 15 mio. Total 10 mio. 5 mio. 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 5 6 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 Appendix 6 – Continued Material use kg 100.000 90.000 80.000 70.000 60.000 50.000 40.000 30.000 20.000 10.000 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Energy consumption MJ 800 mio. 700 mio. 600 mio. 500 mio. 2012 2013 2014 Appendix 7 Year Total waste in Kg Year Kg 2014 21,259,860 2014 2,934,211 2013 16,204,841 2013 2,441,165 2012 22,214,878 2012 3,197,926 2011 23,739,012 2011 3,447,561 2010 17,458,369 2010 2,944,314 Year Kg Year Kg 2014 7,709,643 2014 10,616,006 2013 7,399,263 2013 6,364,413 2012 9,758,177 2012 9,258,775 2011 11,002,297 2011 9,289,154 2010 7,132,316 2010 7,381,739 57 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 Appendix 7 – Continued Year Water use Year Gound water/municipal (m3) water (m3) 2014 184,863 2014 143,069 2013 210,790** 2013 173,340 2012 238,782 2012 188,721 2011 2011 2010 2010 Year Water use, on site Year India water recycling/reuse (m3) (%) 2014 41,794 2014 23 2013 37,450 2013 18 2012 50,061 2012 18 2011 2011 2010 2010 Water m3 300.000 250.000 200.000 150.000 100.000 50.000 0 2012 2013 2014 Year Carbon Footprint Year Blades produced per kg blade 2014 6.5 2014 8,262 2013 6.9 2013 7,173 2012 8.0* 2012 8,856 2011 7.4 2011 10,333 2010 5.4 2010 10,241 5 8 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 Appendix 7 – Continued Carbon footprint per MW blade produced 87,500 87,000 86,500 86,000 85,500 85,000 84,500 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 No. of blades produced 12.000 10.000 8.000 6.000 4.000 2.000 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Appendix 8 Year Absentee rates, salaried Absentee rates, hourly paid employees employees 2014 0.6 1.3 2013 0.5 1.2 2012 0.7 1.5 2011 2010 Year Number of safety dialogues conducted by senior management and employees 2014 5,414 2013 2,496 2012 2011 2010 59 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14 Appendix 9 Year Employees trained in ­­ Year Percentage of employees anti-corruption policies receiving regular and procedures performance reviews 2014 23 2014 25.2 2013 20 2013 21.4 2012 23 2012 20.2 2011 23 2011 2010 15 2010 Year Charitable donations Year Community work (Employee hours provided) 2014 75,812 2014 12,155 2013 63,335 2013 3,127 2012 20,000 2012 N/A 2011 55,234 2011 1,184 2010 62,360 2010 2,472 60 | L M W I ND POWER G RI G 4 R EP ORT 20 14
