Communication on Progress UN Global Compact (COP) on 2014 Additional information is available in the referenced documents and the GRI indicators of the Sustainability Performance Report. Human rights  When selecting employees and determining their assignment in the company, Geberit attaches great importance to qualifications appropriate to the task description. Applicable local  G4-EC5 minimum wages are well met. This considerably reduces the risk of human rights violations.  In its Code of Conduct updated in 2014, Geberit undertakes to be an exemplary, reliable and Principle 1: fair business partner and employer at all times for all of the people with whom it has deal Code of Support and ings. As a fair partner, Geberit recognizes local, national and international laws as well as the Conduct for respect the proUN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and complies with them in full. employees tection of interna Approximately 98% of all employees were trained in the Code of Conduct in 2008. Since tionally prothen, new employees receive their training in the Code as part of their job orientation. The  G4-HR2 claimed human “Geberit Integrity Line” was launched in 2013 and gives all employees the opportunity to re G4-SO4 rights. port irregularities anonymously. There were no significant incidents in 2014.  Compliance with the Code of Conduct is monitored as part of an annual, binding Group-wide  Society survey. Verification is supplemented by internal audits on site. No significant breaches of the Code of Conduct were identified in 2014.  With respect to human rights violations, the greatest risk for Geberit lies with suppliers, who  Sustainabican be influenced only indirectly. Geberit does all it can to minimize this risk and requires lity Strategy that and suppliers comply with comprehensive standards.  The Code of Conduct for Suppliers is intended to ensure that Geberit’s suppliers act in Principle 2:  Code of accordance with internal and external guidelines, as well as the UN Guiding Principles on Make sure the Conduct for Business and Human Rights and the ILO core labor standards. As of the end of 2014, 728 company is not suppliers suppliers had signed the Code of Conduct. This equates to over 95% of the total procurecomplicit in hument value. man rights abuses.  Audits focusing on sustainability are performed primarily on suppliers in the highest risk category. 39 suppliers, which equates to less than 5% of the total procurement value, are  Suppliers, classified in this category. 29 of these 39 suppliers have already been audited. Four thirdchapter 14.2 party audits were carried out at suppliers in China in 2014. A shortcoming due to inadequate remuneration was uncovered in one case and corrective measures were imposed. Labor practices  No rights with respect to exercising freedom of association or collective bargaining as dePrinciple 3: fined in the ILO core labor standards are subject to restriction at the Geberit Group. This is  Chapter 11.3 Uphold the freeverified annually as part of a binding Group-wide survey. No restrictions were in effect in dom of associa2014. tion and the effective recognition of  Approximately 4,200 employees, and thus around two-thirds of all employees, are currently covered by collective agreements. Above all in Germany, Austria and Switzerland, over 95% the right to collec G4-11 of employees in production companies are governed by a collective labor or wage agreetive bargaining. ment. There are no collective agreements with employees in the USA and China. Principle 4:  Geberit’s exposure with respect to forced and child labor is considered low because of its Uphold the elimiindustry sector and the countries in which business activities are carried out, as well as its nation of all forms high quality requirements. of forced and  Forced and child labor are categorically rejected at Geberit. According to the annual, binding compulsory labor. Group-wide survey, no cases of forced or child labor were discovered in 2014, nor were any  Chapter 11.4 cases revealed during the course of the audits performed among the suppliers. The basic  Chapter 11.5 principles established in the Code of Conduct for Suppliers expressly include compliance Principle 5: with the ILO core labor standards for the exclusion of forced and child labor. Uphold the effective abolition of child labor.  The Geberit Code of Conduct clearly specifies how employees are to behave and how  Code of Geberit assumes responsibility as an employer in order to counteract discrimination in adConduct for herence with the ILO core labor standards. There was one case of sexual harassment in the employees Principle 6: reporting year 2014 that was settled amicably with the parties concerned. Uphold the elimi Chapter 11.2  Geberit has no personnel policy or employment practices providing for preferential treatment nation of discrimiof persons from local vicinities. nation in respect of employment  Protection of the principles of equality is anchored in the Geberit Code of Conduct. This and occupation. includes the prohibition of discrimination against any employee on the basis of gender. Fair and equal pay for men and women is a matter of course at Geberit, as was verified and doc Chapter umented in 2014 as part of the annual, binding Group-wide survey. The proportion of female 10.4, 10.5 employees as of the end of 2014 was 31%; in management this figure was 6.9%. Communication on Progress UN Global Compact (COP) on 2014 1 Environmental protection  With the precautionary approach in mind, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors has  G4-46 implemented an extensive system for monitoring and controlling the risks (incl. environmental risks) linked to the business activities.  Geberit has long stood for a high level of environmental awareness and been committed to environmentally friendly, resource-efficient production as well as to the development of water-saving and sustainable products. Environmental criteria are considered in all decision Code of Principle 7: making processes. A demonstrably high standard is achieved in this regard, one which often Conduct for Support a precaugreatly exceeds statutory requirements. employees tionary approach to environmental  An analysis of the CO2 footprint over the entire value chain – from the provision of raw matechallenges. rials, the manufacturing of products at Geberit, logistics and use, right through to disposal –  CO2 footreveals that product use (66%) and the provision of raw materials (22%) are by far the largprint est sources of CO2 emissions.  G4-EC2  Manufacture of the products by Geberit accounts for only 3% of total CO2 emissions. In absolute terms, CO2 emissions (Scope 1 and 2) decreased by 1% to 69,230 metric tons in 2014. The CO2 emissions per sales (currency-adjusted) improved by 6.9%. This confirms  Chapter 9.4 that Geberit is on track with its long-term CO2 strategy.  All production sites and logistics as a whole work with an integrated management system and have a group certificate in accordance with ISO 9001 (quality) and ISO 14001 (environ Chapter 9 ment). The annual preparation of corporate eco-balances has been an established part of Geberit’s environmental strategy since 1991. The absolute environmental impact decreased  Sustainabiby 1.6% in 2014. The environmental impact per sales (currency-adjusted) has improved by lity Strategy 7.5% and exceeded the target figure of 5%.  Geberit places its faith in energy saving and energy efficiency: In addition to the continuous modernization of the machine fleet, important measures include increasing the capacity utili Chapter 9.2 zation and efficiency of production equipment, the optimization of cooling plants through the  G4-EN19 Principle 8: use of natural ambient cold (free cooling, ground water), the improved use of waste heat Undertake initia(heat recovery) as well as the careful use of compressed air. Following on from Lichtenstein tives to promote (DE), the Pfullendorf (DE) and Langenfeld (DE) plants were also certified according to the greater environISO 50001 standard for energy management for the first time in 2014. mental responsi The share of purchased green electricity increased from 21 GWh to 23.4 GWh in 2014. In bility. total, renewable energy sources accounted for 37.4% of electricity (target figure for 2020:  G4-EN19 60%). Renewable energy sources already accounted for 19% of combustibles in 2014 (target figure for 2020: 25%).  Thanks to saving measures, fresh water consumption has been reduced by almost 39%  Chapter 9.3 since 2006 and is leveling out at a low level.  Geberit regards eco-design as the key to environmentally friendly products. Beginning with the development process, the most environmentally friendly materials and functional princi Chapter 9.6 ples are used, risks are minimized and high resource efficiency is pursued. Eco-design is also implemented in product modifications and technology projects. Every new product is to be better than its predecessor with respect to environmental aspects.  The “water footprint” throughout the Geberit value chain shows that nearly 100% of the water  G4-2 consumption is attributable to the use of Geberit products by customers. Water-saving solu Water footPrinciple 9: tions can therefore exert a major impact here: All dual-flush and flush-stop cisterns installed print Encourage the since 1998 have saved 2,128 million cubic meters of water in 2014. development and  Nine Geberit product groups – a total of over 480 sales products – carry the water efficiency  Sustainabidiffusion of envilabel WELL. Since 2013, the labels have been displayed on all packaging and documented lity Strategy ronmentally in catalogs. Eight of these nine product groups carry the top A class label and account for friendly technolomore than 20% of Group sales. gies.  Green building is a market of the future experiencing strong growth throughout the world. As  Story Green a leading system provider of sanitary solutions, Geberit is already offering suitable products Building for this purpose. Anti-corruption  As a long-time member of Transparency International Switzerland, Geberit is committed to high standards in combating corruption. Principle 10:  In 2014, the Internal Audit Department audited a total of 15 companies. This represents Work against almost one third of all Geberit companies. Each company is audited at least every five years, corruption in all its  Chapter 12.1 or considerably more frequently if it has a heightened risk profile. No cases of corruption forms, including were discovered in 2014. extortion and bribery.  As a rule, Geberit does not make donations to parties or politicians. All donations and related commitments are neutral from a party political point of view. This was verified and documented as part of the annual, binding Group-wide survey. Communication on Progress UN Global Compact (COP) on 2014 2
