United Global Compact. Communication progress 2015 Company Name Contact Name Submission Date Number of Employees Berendsen plc Nagore Marco 15 April 2015 Approximately 15,000 Address Position Membership Date Sector 4 Grosvenor Place Group Risk Manager 27 January 2009 Support Services London SW1X7DL Telephone Number Highest level executive Country 0044 207 259 6663 Chief Executive Officer United Kingdom Introduction and progress since joining This is our sixth communication on Progress. We outline below the progress we are making with each of the areas covered by the United Nations Global Compact’s ten principles, human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Berendsen plc became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact on 27 January 2009. Participation in the Global Compact continues to provide us with a recognised and respected policy framework for our work on corporate responsibility. Many of the markets that we operate in are continuing to demand suppliers that are embracing the ideals outlined in the Global Compact’s ten principles. Statement of continued support As Chief Executive Officer I commit Berendsen plc to continue to support the United Nations Global Compact in the coming year. Peter Ventress Chief Executive Officer Berendsen plc 02 United Nations Global Compact Communication on progress Our business and its impacts Our customers demand that we provide the highest standards of products and service; they require us to source the products that We continue to be a focused European textile maintenance they need, providing the highest standards of cleanliness. business. Our business provides specialist service solutions to Increasingly we need to be innovative and flexible, whilst source, clean and maintain the textiles that our customers need to maintaining high standards of reliability and timeliness of delivery. keep their business running. The European textile rental market in We continue to focus on maintaining excellent operational which we operate can be broken down into six key areas. standards both in our laundries and within our distribution Through our network of laundries and other production facilities network. We recognise that our customers and our own people we provide workwear, facilities, hotel, restaurant and healthcare demand that we comply with all appropriate employment textiles. We also provide some direct sales and production. standards, in all the countries in which we operate. We have Within each of our business lines there are market dynamics that identified a number of our businesses as “core growth” areas. will influence individual market segments. The specialist services Others we “manage for value”. Each of these businesses’ we provide are predominantly non-core activities for our clients. contribution to our total group revenue in 2014 and 2013 was as Our density and scale in our key geographies allows us to provide follows: an expert and cost-efficient service, meeting our client’s needs and allowing them to free up capital to invest in their own Business overview business. As clients expand, we can expand with them, working 2014 2013 efficiently across national boundaries. Our services may be nonRevenue Revenue core but they are often absolutely critical for the safe day-to-day running of our clients’ operations (e.g. food industry, R&D centres, Core growth hospitals). Our track record in understanding evolving standards and our ability to devise innovative products and service to meet Workwear £295.3m £305.8m them means we are a partner of choice in many industries. Our  Managed supply of dedicated garments; economies of scale mean that we can launder and sterilise far  Fitting and selection advice; and more cost-effectively and efficiently than our clients. Our focus on  Automated dispensing solutions. reducing our use of water, electricity, chemicals, oil & gas and CO2 emissions (WECO) not only gives us a competitive Facility £237.7m £243.3m advantage but also gives our clients the confidence to use us as  Mats; part of their own environmental supply chain due diligence.  Washroom; and The nature of our business dictates that the services we provide  Cleanroom. to customers have varying impacts on the environment, our employees and the communities in which we operate. These UK Flat Linen £207.5m £204.6m manifest themselves in varying degrees throughout the product Hotels and restaurants and service lifecycle, including the following:  Managed linen supply;  The production and/or purchase of textiles, much of which is  Product innovation; sourced from overseas, and as a consequence we are mindful  Workwear supply and chef wear; and of the importance of them maintaining appropriate labour  Restaurant textile services. practices; Healthcare  The washing, drying and packing of textiles at our plants where  Managed linen supply to hospital wards; the use of water, energy and detergents are closely monitored  Sterile textiles supply to operating within a programme of reduction; theatres; and  Many of our employees work in our plants with industrial  Supply of single use textiles, dressing laundry machinery and equipment so we recognise the packs and sterile consumables. importance of providing them with a healthy and safe working environment; Manage for value  Continually reviewing the routing of delivery vehicles to our customers to ensure the most efficient use of our fleet Hotels outside UK £298.1m £300.5m resources and fuel; and Healthcare outside UK Clinical solution  As our operations recruit where they can from their local and decontamination communities and many of our plants are in suburban areas we recognise the importance of maintaining a strong local reputation. Our businesses operate from more than 125 service centres in 16 countries across the UK and Europe. Berendsen plc 03 United Nations Global Compact Communication on progress Human rights and Labour Our Group Ethics Policy is complemented with appropriate training material and “Questions and Answers”. We recognise the principles importance of reinforcing the key messages in this policy to our people regularly. Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Our Health and Safety Policy, last reviewed and updated in 2013, internationally proclaimed human rights. identifies the key principles to be adopted to ensure that best practices are in place across the group. Each of our business Principle 2 units are required to adopt and operate with appropriate health Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in and safety documentation, at all times considering the appropriate human rights abuses. local legislation and specialist operational requirements. We are working towards the development of company health and safety Principle 3 standards which go beyond the requirements of local legislation. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Our goal is a working culture that is inclusive for all. We are committed to eliminating discrimination and encouraging diversity Principle 4 amongst our workforce. We aim for our employees to be Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced representative of the communities in which we operate and for each of our people to feel respected and able to give their best. and compulsory labour. Principle 5 In relation to 1, 2, 4 and 5 principles Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Of course we acknowledge the importance of supporting and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human Principle 6 rights and having in place procedures designed to ensure that we Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in are not complicit in human rights abuses. respect of employment and occupation. Our main human rights risks relate to our suppliers. We reduce these risks by closely managing our supply chain and awarding Our Policies contracts to large and trusted suppliers. In relation to 3 and 6 principles We maintain a firm focus on child labour, forced labour and labour conditions. We are absolutely committed to ensuring that child Our ability to look after the well-being and development of all our labour is never used by any Berendsen supplier. people has a direct impact on our overall strategic performance. By engaging our people we improve customer satisfaction and Supplier contracts incorporate our code of conduct, with suppliers retention and ultimately Berendsen’s growth prospects. signing their confirmation. The key principles of our code of conduct are: Our Human Resources and Employee Policy outlines our appreciation of our responsibility to our employees, and the  Act with the highest degree of integrity, morality and honesty in importance of creating and maintaining a working environment all matters; where the basic rights of all employees are recognised.  Understand and comply with all relevant laws and regulations in Our employment procedures continue to be guided by the their respective countries; following principles:  Not participate or be involved in any activity that might result in  Non-discrimination between employees or potential employees or could lead to a conflict of interest between themselves, fellow and equal opportunities for all; employees or their employer;  Recruitment, promotion and development of employees based  Not accept or offer anything of value in the nature of an on each individual’s aptitude, abilities and skills; inducement, facilitation payment or bribe;  Provision of suitable training according to role and  Report or present all information in a balanced, transparent and responsibilities; prompt manner; and  Employee pay that meets at least national minimum standards;  Not use company assets or information other than in the  Excessive hours not being encouraged; interests of the company, unless for example, obliged by law or regulation to make a disclosure.  Effective communication with our employees; We have a supplier whistleblowing scheme in place which  Acknowledgement of the right of any employee to join a trade enables suppliers to raise with us any issues or concerns they union; may have relating to the supply chain.  Non-toleration of victimisation, sexual or other harassment We regularly conduct supplier visits and these are complemented or bullying; and by our assurance provider’s independent audits, which report on  Regular feedback through biannual employee surveys. each supplier’s level of compliance and alert us to any areas that require improvement. Berendsen plc 04 United Nations Global Compact Communication on progress We also have teams of quality managers working at supplier plant This was developed during 2013 and combines behaviours which level across much of our business, and their responsibilities have made us successful up till now with other behaviours our include maintaining a clear focus on corporate responsibility people believe will make us even more successful in the future. matters including human rights. These behaviours are a cornerstone of our PDR (Performance and Development Review) process. In 2014 we continued to Implementation embed LEAD through the introduction of LEAD Development Vision and Values Centres. These are intensive and stretching one day events aimed at building competency around LEAD behaviours. They are Our One Berendsen Vision We take pride in doing what we're either one to one, or group based programmes and result in each best at, delivering unsurpassed levels of service, so our participating manager being provided with a tailored development customers can do what they're best at. and Values of report identifying leadership strengths and opportunities for determination, caring, empowerment and teamwork represent the ongoing learning and development. In total, 56 managers took core principles we stand for and believe in as a Group. These part in LEAD Development Centre programmes in 2014. In form part of our Performance and Development Review (PDR) so addition, we extended the programme to plant level managers that all our employees’ performance is also evaluated in within our UK Flat Linen business with 32 managers participating. accordance to our values. Management rewards In 2014 we continued to motivate, engage, develop, reward and recognise our employees. We reward our managers based on their performance, potential and contribution to the success of the business. We aim to Employee engagement provide competitive fair rates of employee pay and benefits in In 2014 we continued communication and discussion of the every country where we operate. In 2014 we continued to focus company-wide “One Berendsen” employee engagement survey on clear and transparent links between performance and reward. completed in September 2013. We worked with employee groups We incentivise managers through annual bonus programmes to identify three to four improvement actions for each of aligned to the key performance objectives of each business line Berendsen’s 140 workplaces, all aimed at further enhancing which in turn are in support of our strategy for growth. The new levels of engagement before the survey is undertaken again in Berendsen Long Term Incentive plan, first introduced in 2012, 2015. rewards approximately 100 managers for the achievement of strategic goals and encourages share ownership. Employee communication Diversity We place a high priority on employee communications and make use of a variety of channels to provide a wide range of company Our goal is a working culture that is inclusive for all. We are information, news and promote knowledge sharing and best committed to eliminating discrimination and encouraging diversity practice exchange. We continue to develop as a source of amongst our workforce. We aim for our employees to be information Berendsen Universe which is our group intranet representative of the communities in which we operate and for accessible to all employees. In 2014, we published eight editions each of our people to feel respected and able to give their best. of our corporate newsletter highlighting company successes in One of our commitments in this respect is to improve gender sales, product news and other developments across the whole diversity. Whilst 43% of our employees are female, they occupy company with each issue introduced by the CEO giving regular only 24% of middle management roles, and 9% of senior leader updates on company performance. roles. In 2014 we undertook a more detailed analysis of women in management positions across the company with a view to Training and development achieving a better understanding of their aspirations and career In all areas of the business we invest in the development of our development needs. We are committed to the development of people’s skills and in 2014 we spent over £2.11 million on training practical initiatives which will help us achieve our gender diversity and development. In addition to management and leadership objectives for 2016. development programmes, we invested in the skills development of our people in the areas of safety awareness, driving, customer service, engineering, selling, and our CL2000 methodology. In 2014 we continued to add to the learning and development opportunities provided through the Berendsen Academy. The Academy, first launched in 2012, is a Berendsen’s in-house “corporate university” for furthering company knowledge, expertise and leadership development. In 2014 the Academy trained over 200 managers in pricing and commercial terms to improve the profitability of our contracts and support our strategy for higher growth. Our LEAD (Leadership Effectiveness and Development) model defines key areas of effective leadership and behaviour for our senior manager and plant manager roles. Berendsen plc 05 United Nations Global Compact Communication on progress Supply chain and overseas textile suppliers Major injury rate statistics for 2014 reported to the Board and included in our 2014 Annual Report and Accounts were as We regularly visit suppliers and use a single assurance provider follows: to carry out independent audits of these suppliers to ensure that our ethical standards are being correctly observed, including Health & Safety statistics those relating to human rights and working conditions. During 2014 the assurance provider completed four audits at supplier Business Major Number of locations in Cambodia and Bangladesh. They made a number of lines injury rate major injuries recommendations to further improve the high standards that our Facility suppliers adopt. We have been working with our external specialist and our suppliers to ensure that actions are complete, Workwear 0.79 5 or are in progress, to address all of the recommendations made. This approach provides us with a standard audit process and UK Flat Linen 0.38 3 reporting mechanism, highlighting each supplier’s level of Flat Linen outside UK 0.54 3 compliance, flagging any actions required for improvement. For added assurance, we have a supplier whistleblowing scheme Clinical Solutions which enables suppliers to flag up any issues or areas of concern. and Decontamination – – Measurements of outcomes Total Group 0.44 11  69% employee engagement level. 8pts higher than Total Group– 2013 0.79 23 benchmark norm. Total Group– 2012 0.51 15  £2.11 million investment in 2014 in employees training and Major Injury Rate = (Number of major injuries/Total hours worked) X 1,000,000 development. The reporting and monitoring of all health and safety related  Four audits at supplier locations in Cambodia and incidents will continue into 2015 and beyond, including regular Bangladesh completed with clear recommendations made to reporting to the Board. suppliers. No significant issues have been reported. The health and safety of our people is paramount. As we operate in many countries, local standards, both in terms of regulation and Health and safety accepted best practice, do vary. Group-wide we want to achieve a Our employees are at the heart of our business and their much higher standard than mere compliance as the common motivation, health and safety is a fundamental element of our standard. strategy. Any health and safety related incidents, across the Group, are reported through our internal reporting system. This ensures that Our Incident Reporting System requires that all major injuries, incidents are promptly reported to senior management and that significant near misses/dangerous occurrences, and cases of any actions are taken to try and prevent incidents of a similar nature occupational disease are reported upwards through the occurring again. organisation. The Board receives information twice each year on health and safety, including details of all reported incidents, as well as incident statistics, including major injury rate. Our Operational Risk Management Group has placed increased focus on health and safety including more accurate reporting and categorisation of incidents as they occur. If there were to be any instance of an employee becoming disabled during their employment with us, every effort would be made to make sure that their employment with us continues and that, where needed, appropriate retraining is arranged. A new Health and Safety Director was appointed in January 2015. Implementing actions agreed from the commissioned independent review of Health and Safety completed in Q1 2014, completing a group-wide Health and Safety audit programme to monitor and access the ongoing improvement, rolling out a training programme for Country Health and Safety Managers and strengthening communication across business to enhance best practice are amongst the key priorities for 205. Berendsen plc 06 United Nations Global Compact Communication on progress Environmental principles Our priorities are therefore now well-established and are centred on our use of water, electricity, chemicals and oil/gas (WECO). Principle 7 Water and energy consumption Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Water plays an inevitably significant role in our washing processes and its effective use and recovery has an important Principle 8 impact on our overall environmental and operational performance. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Water recovery initiatives form the spearhead of our drive to responsibility; and improve efficiency. Across the group, most operations now have water recovery systems in place. Typically, these lead to a Principle 9 reduction in water consumption of 20%-25%. Recent initiatives Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally include the trialling of membrane water filtration technology that friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals recovers our waste water for re-use. Our Policy Product innovation is also playing a part in reducing water consumption. For example, the recent shift from cotton to We continue to acknowledge the importance of our business units polycotton in our UK operations has also led to a reduction in supporting a precautionary approach to environmental water and energy consumption. In the UK, up to 75% of effluent is challenges, undertaking initiatives to promote greater now recovered for re-use, which helps us cut consumption. environmental responsibility, and encouraging the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We also work alongside our suppliers to validate our water recovery processes. Chemical suppliers analyse our performance We remain committed to protecting the environment both through and identify areas for improvement, while our boiler water our own actions and also by working with our suppliers. Our treatment suppliers check boiler operation and provide reports on environmental principles are consistent with those of the efficiency. An efficient boiler is the mark of good energy European Textile Services Association, which represents and management, and we check performance by monitoring the promotes the textile rental services sector in Europe. Through the quality of the water. We also use flue gas thermometers, steam communication of our own Group Environmental Policy we trap surveys and check on hot well temperatures to help us actively promote awareness in our business units of the need for: identify efficiency issues.  Lower water and energy consumption; We will continue to focus on initiatives that will reduce our use of  Use of environmentally friendly washing detergents and water and increase our recovery rate, as long as they also make packaging materials; commercial sense in reducing our cost base to the benefit of us and our customers.  Minimisation of distances travelled when making deliveries;  Re-use or recycling of textiles; and Measurements of outcomes  Targeted staff training on environmental issues and  In the UK water consumption has been reduced by 32% from housekeeping. 9,512 litres/tonne shipped in 2008 to 6,499 litres in 2014. To complement the adoption of these principles our business  In November 2014 we were presented with the 2014 Silver units specifically focus on: Award from the prestigious Green Apple Award, for our accomplishments in reducing the environmental impacts  Researching with suppliers ways to minimise the amount and associated with our operations. concentration of detergents used in our laundries and disposed of in effluent, and opportunities for low temperature washing; Transport and logistics  Routinely recovering water for re-use; All vehicles conform to the requirements of low emission zones  Minimising heat, energy loss and fuel usage; and we always specify the latest and most efficient engines for new vehicles. In order to maintain tight control on our operations,  Regularly reviewing vehicle routing to ensure the most efficient we own and operate most of our fleets ourselves. We also use of fleet resources and fuel; and constantly review fuel costs and usage. We have a range of  Recycling textiles, paper and packaging materials wherever this initiatives and programmes in place to help us reduce this impact. is possible. The aim is to reduce fuel consumption by minimising harsh acceleration, braking, and excessive idling. Across the business, Implementation we monitor and regularly review vehicle routes to improve fuel efficiency and, wherever possible, use fewer large vehicles The nature of our business means that in our everyday operations instead of more of the smaller ones. Large vehicles have the we inevitably use significant amounts of raw materials, energy advantage of being able to carry greater volumes per mile driven, and chemicals. Reducing the volumes used and better managing which enables us to reduce the overall number of vehicles on the our overall environmental impact will make our business more roads at any one time. sustainable, reduce costs for both ourselves and our customers and ultimately help us to win and retain more customer contracts. Berendsen plc 07 United Nations Global Compact Communication on progress Energy and CO2 Emissions key priority for Berendsen. Our UK business also achieved the Carbon Trust Water Standard certification in 2012 and is currently Our activities consume energy and produce CO2 and we work going through the application process to be awarded this again. hard to reduce consumption and improve efficiency. To be re-awarded this unique accreditation our UK business must The initiatives on water recovery also have a positive knock-on demonstrate a 2.6% reduction in water usage from 2011 to 2013. effect on energy usage – when we use less water, it requires less energy to heat it. The recent initiatives including the trialling of Anti-corruption principles membrane water filtration technology also help to recover the heat energy in the waste water which leads to further reductions Principle 10 in our energy consumption. Because the recovered water is Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, already at a high temperature, we need less energy to bring it up including extortion and bribery to the correct temperature for washing. Across several plants in Europe we are changing the preferred Our Policy energy supply from “all oil” to take account of the opportunities offered by more sustainable local energy sources. In the future, We have zero tolerance of bribery and corruption and rolled-out energy for these plants could be derived from gas, solar power, our minimum requirements across the group in 2011. In 2014 we wind and groundsource heat, in addition to oil. carried out an internal survey to discover our employees’ understanding of our expectations and their duties. The results We are on track to comply with Article 8 of the EU Energy showed that 70% of respondents did believe that policies on antiEfficiency Directive which requires that large enterprises complete bribery and corruption were sufficiently well known by employees, regular energy audits. In the UK, our first audit is due to be and 60% said that training programme was in place. Although completed by the end of 2015. During 2014, we have identified these were broadly positive results, areas for further improvement what the audit process will require in our other operating and strengthening were identified. countries. The audit process for new suppliers includes compliance with our As the table below shows, Kg of CO2 per tonne of laundry anti-bribery and corruption requirements, a process that is shipped has fallen from 402Kg in 2013 to 379Kg in 2014, a overseen by our group procurement function. Each year, or upon reduction of 5.7%. any significant changes to the business, each business unit must complete an anti-bribery and corruption risk assessment, and Our total CO2 emissions bribery awareness is frequently an agenda item for management Kg of CO2 per tonne meetings. of laundry shipped 2014 2013 261 Implementation Facility 269 Our Group Ethics Policy, updated in February 2014, states that Workwear 500 522 we are committed to operating within the law of each and every jurisdiction in which we operate and to the highest ethical UK Flat Linen 369 387 standards. We recognise that this can only be achieved with the continued integrity and commitment of our employees. The policy Flat Linen outside UK 359 391 identifies key principles that should be adopted by all employees which include not accepting or offering anything of value in the Clinical Solutions nature of an inducement, facilitation payment or bribe. and Decontamination 1,163 1,146 All businesses within the group are tasked with adopting a riskTotal Group 379 402 based approach to managing any potential issues relating to bribery and corruption. We already have a well-established Incident Reporting System We use the Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology and which covers a number of different areas. This has been conversion factors to assess our carbon footprint. We updated the extended to include any known instances of actual or suspected conversion factors on 1 January 2014 to reflect the new factors bribery and/ or corruption. used by the Protocol. Our Audit Committee is regularly updated on compliance with our We are investing Combined Heat and Power (CHP) technology, anti-bribery and corruption procedures and this will continue into initially at two of our UK sites. CHP could help us lower electricity 2015 and beyond. costs, reduce CO2 emissions and improve security of supply. We value the role of the Carbon Trust Standard in helping Measurements of outcomes companies reduce emissions and our UK business is proud of its  We had no cases of non-compliance in 2014. existing certification which we will actively be looking to renew in 2015. The standard is only awarded to those organisations that measure, manage and reduce their carbon footprint, which is a Berendsen plc 08 United Nations Global Compact Communication on progress Reporting We will continue to work with our business units on ongoing improvement and will report annually and publicly on the progress that we are making. Our next Communication on Progress will be published by 15 April 2016. The importance of corporate responsibility continues to be recognised by our board and it has established policies that are distributed throughout the group. These groupwide policies cover ethics, health and safety, environment, human resources and employees, community and continuity planning for all the markets in which we operate. We have a comprehensive incident reporting system whereby any known or potential breaches of these policies are reported to senior management and the board. In addition we require that each of our business units’ Country Managers provide biannual confirmations that these policies are communicated throughout their business and that they are being complied with. The board is fully updated following receipt of these biannual confirmations including details of any areas of potential noncompliance. Communications on progress Berendsen plc 2015 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress can be downloaded from our website (www.berendsen.com) and has been submitted to the United Nations Global Compact. It will also be made available locally to our employees in each of the countries in which we operate, and to our customers and other stakeholders upon request.
