Paper Force (Oceania) Pty Ltd United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (COP) Period Covered by COP: 17 March 2014 – 17 March 2015 Contents Statement of Continued Support............................................................................................................ 3 Human Rights Principles ......................................................................................................................... 4 Labour Principles..................................................................................................................................... 6 Environmental Principles ........................................................................................................................ 8 Anti‐Corruption Principles .................................................................................................................... 11 Page | 2 Statement of Continued Support 17 March 2015 Dear Stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Paper Force (Oceania) Pty Ltd reaffirms its support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress (COP), we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. As a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact, the following COP describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to reporting our progress annually according to the Global Compact COP policy. Yours sincerely, Larry Jackson Managing Director Paper Force (Oceania) Pty Ltd Page | 3 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Paper Force supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights through upholding our performance and monitoring any potential risks. Our business activities continue to be low risk in relation to direct complicity in human rights violations, being a small Australian business with 15 employees. It is our policy to ensure that such rights are implemented for employees at all levels by promoting a culture of respect for the law, and respect of all members associated with our business, including employees and stakeholders. All employees have access to the company’s Equal Opportunity Policy, with the purpose of ensuring that they have a fair and transparent process available to them through which their concerns regarding equal opportunity can be promptly and appropriately addressed. Implementation Implementation of Paper Force’s own human rights risk management is based on our Equal Opportunity Policy which is introduced to all Paper Force employees through our induction process and is fully implemented across the business. Paper Force’s position on equal employment opportunity reflects our desire to enjoy a workplace free of discrimination where each person has the opportunity to progress to the extent of his and her ability. Our policy acknowledges the needs of women, aboriginal or Torres Strait Islanders, people of nonEnglish speaking background, people with a disability and other groups as deemed necessary, and will work towards ensuring these groups receive an equitable share of employment opportunities. Personal grievances are treated confidentially, seriously and expeditiously. If a member of staff believes they have not been treated equitably in accordance with this policy, they are encouraged to complete a grievance form which is located on our shared drive. The form, once completed, should be either emailed or given to a direct supervisor and will be followed up immediately. Page | 4 The individual also has the right at any time to refer the matter to the Australian Industrial Relations Commission, the Equal Opportunity Commission and/or any other appropriate body for conciliation. An employee who feels he/she has been treated unfairly or unreasonably should immediately advise their supervisor or manager at Paper Force who will be able to give them information in respect to the grievances process and available options. In the last year Paper Force has worked with its customers on projects that have advanced human rights within Australian communities. One such project included its work with Complete Office Supplies to develop a specific brand for aboriginal affairs procurement. Paper Force supplied two indigenous wraps for copy paper as part of Complete Office Supplies’ partnership with Muru Group – an indigenous owned company which provides office supplies, consumables and technology solutions. We were thrilled to be part of this initiative which sees 15 per cent of Muru Group’s profit from paper and notebooks being donated to indigenous community initiatives. Paper Force is committed to respecting human rights throughout the business, this extends to our business partnership with Asia Pulp and Paper (APP) and its mills. APP mills are also members of the United Nations Global Compact and adopt the United Nation’s “Protect, Respect and Remedy” framework, acting responsibly and with due diligence to avoid infringing on the rights of others. This forms an essential part of APP’s Sustainability Roadmap commitments. Measurement of Outcomes Paper Force had no reports of investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other events related to human rights abuse in the workplace in the last 12 months. Each year, all staff policies, processes and procedures relating to human rights are revisited and reviewed. We continually review these to ensure they are suitable, relevant and up-to-date to meet the needs of our employees. Page | 5 Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Paper Force upholds the rights of its employees in relation to freedom of association and collective bargaining (Principle 3), and recognises the importance of having a well-balanced team through our policies that support diversity and non-discrimination (Principle 6). The nature of Paper Force’s work means that labour related risks referred to in Principles 4 and 5 on forced and compulsory labour, and child labour are not applicable to Paper Force, nor do we engage where there are known risks relating to these areas. Paper Force acts within the laws of Australia in providing a free and fair workplace for all and has systems in place to monitor and manage labour rights issues within the business. We support the elimination of employment discrimination as stated in our Equal Opportunity Policy. Our business partner APP too does not tolerate any form of discrimination. Its Employee Welfare Policy includes commitments covering harassment and discrimination, and each mill emphasises this commitment in their Collective Labour Agreements, which also include mechanisms to report any grievances or harassment of any description. We create a safe and secure workplace for our employees, with all having access to our Occupational Health and Safety (OH&S) Policy. Each employee has a responsibility to their colleagues and the organisation to report and act upon any potential workplace hazards. The policy ensures all employees are aware of the type of hazards that are possible in our workplace. As a business, we are also committed to better protecting our employees and other stakeholders who visit our business. In order to provide a safer work environment for all we have set the goal that in the next 12 months we will have implemented a Corporate AED (Automatic External Defibrillator) Program. AEDs are designed to be easily used by non-medical persons with minimal training or instruction. Having one in the workplace can dramatically increase the survival rate of someone who were to have a Sudden Cardiac Arrest. Page | 6 Implementation Paper Force engages both internally and externally on the revisions of policies and other documentation that governs labour practices. Changes are clearly communicated to all employees in a timely manner. Additionally, any changes to legislation that cover employee rights, such as changes to Workers Compensation, are shared through regular team meetings. Health and safety of our employees is ensured with a report completed after any OH&S incident. This is located on our shared drive and is a very important step as we track the incidents and use the data to make the working environment safer for employees. Accurate documentation and reporting of all details may be able to prevent a similar incident or event from happening again in future. Paper Force employees are also encouraged to complete health and safety courses, including first aid courses on an annual basis. Measurement of outcomes Health and safety of our employees is monitored on an ongoing basis, with incident reporting shared at regular team meetings. There are no investigations, legal cases, fines or other relevant events to report in the last 12 months. Page | 7 Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals Paper Force supports the three environmental principles of the UNGC and is committed to the sustainable development of our business. We place environmental and social responsibility at the heart of what we do. It is our environmental responsibility to ensure that the raw materials we use in our products come from sustainably managed sources. This is achieved through the implementation of best practices such as Chain of Custody systems and Sustainable Forest Management certification. Paper Force has PEFC Chain of Custody (CoC) certification which is the world’s largest forest certification system and ensures 100% of the raw material in our products is either PEFC certified or non-controversial under PEFC guidelines. In the last 12 months, Paper Force’s Chain of Custody was audited and its certification renewed as a result. Paper Force has met the due diligence requirements of the Australian Government’s Illegal Logging Prohibition Bill 2012. As an importer of paper products, we and many other importers of timber based products in Australia, were asked to carry out reasonable due diligence to ensure our products do not originate from illegally logged timber. We continue to support our business partner Asia Pulp and Paper and its Forest Conservation Policy (FCP), which since February 2013 has seen the introduction of a moratorium on all natural forest clearance, and assessments to identify High Carbon Stock (HCS) and High Conservation Value (HCV) areas within its supplier concessions. All of which will be protected as part of APP’s Integrated Sustainable Forest Management Plan. Following a recent review of how we can minimise and better manage our environmental footprint, we have set the goal of installing LED lighting throughout the business. This is due to be completed within the next 12 months and will help to reduce our energy costs, which we will report on in our next Communication on Progress. Page | 8 Implementation As an environmentally conscious business, we encourage our staff to adopt environmentally friendly practices in the workplace. These are introduced to staff at their induction and we ensure training in this area is ongoing. Since the announcement of APP’s Forest Conservation Policy (FCP) in February 2013, we have made it a priority to update both staff and customers on the progress being made in implementing this policy. We have done this through hosting events, sending regular updates and holding one-on-one meetings to share the significant FCP developments with our key stakeholders. In March 2014, APP’s Managing Director of Sustainability & Stakeholder Engagement, Aida Greenbury hosted an executive briefing with Australian customers, NGOs and other key stakeholders about the challenges of implementing the company's FCP. The event highlights can be found here. Paper Force Managing Director Larry Jackson also had the opportunity to represent APP at a University of Sydney event as part of the Sydney Southeast Asia Centre ASEAN Forum. The panel explored issues of sustainability in Southeast Asia where Larry was able to bring a business perspective to the table. Larry presented APP as an example of a company that is now operating under a sustainable economic framework. The event podcast can be found here. An extension of the FCP has been APP’s commitment to support the protection and restoration of one million hectares of tropical rainforest in Indonesia, which they announced in April 2014. This is one of the most ambitious conservation commitments ever made by a private company. Over the last twelve months, APP has been engaged in a planning phase designed to map the threats, corporate actors, stakeholders and existing activities across the ten landscapes that APP has identified for conservation priorities. It has sought extensive input from stakeholders and has begun exploring broad-based financing options to fund conservation activities. Measurement of Outcomes In January 2014, international environment organisation, the Rainforest Alliance, agreed to conduct an external evaluation of the progress APP has made in implementing its FCP commitments through an independent audit. This evaluation is complete and a report released last month concluded that APP has made moderate progress towards meeting its commitments. APP and Paper Force welcomed the report as it recognising the progress APP has made in the last two year and shows its efforts to achieve zero deforestation is on the right track. The report also highlighted a number of areas that require additional focus. Its findings, along with feedback from other stakeholders, have been used to inform APP’s FCP implementation plan for 2015 and beyond. Page | 9 The above has been reported to Paper Force staff and customers as part of our regular updates. There are no investigations, legal cases, fines or other relevant events to report. Page | 10 Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Paper Force considers the risk of corruption within our business as low, however we expect all Paper Force employees to achieve a high standard of personal, ethical and professional conduct. This is clearly explained in our company’s Code of Conduct. As a signatory to the UNGC, we support the UN Convention Against Corruption and are committed to ensuring we are not involved in any corruption, extortion or bribery in our business dealings. Implementation Initiatives in place to combat corruption and extortion have included staff training and a whistle blower line. In the last 12 months Paper Force has held another training session with its employees and professional services firms, looking at our Competition Policy and Legal Compliance. The training helps identify where more education and understanding of the Competition and Consumer Act is required. There have been no incidents reported through the whistle blower line in the last 12 months. Paper Force’s Code of Conduct is fully implemented within the business and included in both our staff induction and annual performance review. This ensures employees maintain ethical and professional standards within the business. Specific responsibility for monitoring the conduct of staff formally lies with senior management and informally with all at Paper Force. Measurement of outcomes A confidential line through to senior management is taken with any whistle blower incidents. These are then reported to an independent body where the incident will be investigated and verified. Internal and external audits ensure consistency with our anti-corruption commitment, including periodic review by senior management. There have been no investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other relevant events related to corruption and bribery in the last 12 months. Page | 11
