WOOLWORTHS HOLDINGS LIMITED 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT OUR GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY HAS BEEN, AND WILL CONTINUE TO BE, DRIVEN BY THE ISSUES WHICH MATTER MOST TO OUR BUSINESS, CUSTOMERS AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS, AS WELL AS THE LEGAL, CULTURAL AND ECONOMIC CONTEXT OF OUR OPERATIONS. WHL GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY HIGHLIGHTS 2015 87% GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY SCORE SUSTAINABLE FARMING & ETHICAL SOURCING WATER ENERGY SOURCING OF RAW MATERIALS 86% B+ 75% 41% 14.5m 9 98% 85% Highest 40% 5 Star 64 David Jones Country Road UTZ certified Relative water Liters of Participating farms Primary suppliers Seafood species Year-on-year Relative reduction Green Star Woolworths supplier code Group rating in cocoa sourced reduction to date municipal water working as part of Farming for the meet our 2016 increase in the of energy in SA Industrial As Built SA stores meet confirmation since the 2015 Australian for Woolworths in Woolworths saved through Woolworths Ceres Future certified sustainablity use of organic stores since 2004 v1 rating given our green store April 2015 Fashion Report private label stores Woolworths water stewardship commitments cotton globally to Country Road status chocolates head office water project with Group Omni treatment plant WWF and M&S Fulfilment Centre WASTE HEALTH & WELLNESS SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT TRANSFORMATION 511 1.73m 93%+ 334 000 55% R590m R1m+ A$5m R2.4bn 40 R25.5m Tons of waste Reusable bags Waste from Customers linking Reduction since 2012 in Woolworths Raised by David Jones and Created in value Small businesses Value of clothing reduction sold in the last Woolworths Woolworths to Discovery total recorded injury SA social the MySchool Country Road for partcipants forming part donated to the and 92 year head office and Vitality HealthyFoodsTM frequency rates at contribution MyVillage MyPlanet Group social by the BEESOS of our supplier clothing bank Woolworths distribution centres David Jones programme per contribution scheme + R332m and enterprise food packaging recycled week in dividends development improvements programme 63.3 % 60 % R567m 41 110 WOOLWORTHS FOOD WOOLWORTHS CLOTHING GOOD BUSINESS TOTAL NUMBER PRODUCTS WITH A PRODUCTS WITH A JOURNEY SAVINGS TO OF GROUP SUSTAINABILITY ATTRIBUTE SUSTAINABILITY ATTRIBUTE DATE IN SOUTH AFRICA EMPLOYEES CONTENTS SETTING OUT 05 Setting Out 06 | Key Sustainability Indicators and Recognition 10 | About Us 11 | Integrated Sustainability Reporting 12 | Chief Executive Officer's/Sustainability Committee Chairman’s Statement 17 | Managing Sustainability 24 | Stakeholder Engagement 32 Our People & Transformation 42 Social Development 50 Health & Wellness 58 Ethical Sourcing 68 Sustainable Farming 78 Waste 86 Water 92 Energy & Climate Change 102 Independent Assurance Report WHL 4 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT SETTING OUT SETTING OUT KEY SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS 2015 2015 INDICATOR 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 PROGRESS TARGETS INDICATOR 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 PROGRESS TARGETS Estimated Good Business Journey R5671 m R269 m R189 m R105 m R80 m R100 m Revenue R58.1 bn R39.9 bn R35.4 bn R28.8 bn R25.8 bn – savings to date Health and safety – number of injuries 771 735 682 778 563 – Return on equity on duty 26.3%1 46.7% 49.7% 47.1% 44.1% – (ROE) Energy (reduction in relative consumption 40% 38% 31% 27% 22.5% 40% from benchmark) Headline earnings per share (HEPS) 419.4 379.9 340.4 267.3 214.9 – Green buildings (Adjusted) (as per Woolworths 64* 45 29 24 18 – model) 40% Share price Carbon footprint 2 092 1 228 1 402 2 129 567 – 621 132.72 444 249.80 398 568.00 411 522.35 452 996.73 relative appreciation (total tons of CO2) 2 reduction Water (reduction in Good Business relative consumption 41.35% 34% 20% 1% (5%) 50% Journey index overall from benchmark 87% 91% 90% 85% 86% 85% stores) score (new targets from 2012 to 2015) At least 100 92* 238 185 105 packaging Customer tracking 8.24% Foods packaging packaging packaging packaging packaging improvestudy regarding Good reduction 35% 35% 26% 26% 29% 28% improvements improvements improvements improvements ments Business Journey during elements the year Number of Produce suppliers permanent employees 28 344 25 598 23 538 22 462 20 433 – qualifying for the 98% 98% 98% 95% 70% 100% (Woolworths Pty Ltd) Farming for the Future programme Inclusion in JSE SRI Top Top Retain Training spend R131.41 m R110.2 m R99.8 m R75.1 m R58.2 m – Index Performer Performer position % of Clothing products with New focus 60% 60% 48% 50% 60% a sustainability area BEE score Level 32 Level 3 Level 3 Level 4 Level 4 – attribute % of Food products New focus with a sustainability 63.3% 58.4% 57.4% 52% 60% Corporate social area attribute investment R588 m R518 m R500 m R438 m R370 m R300 m p/a contribution (SA) (Rm) * Part of EY’s audited key performance indicators. The basis for measurement of this indicator can be found on www.woolworthsholdings.co.za 1 Significant increase as a result of detailed assessment of savings conducted in 2015 1 54.2% excluding David Jones goodwill 2 For 2015 includes Country Road Group and David Jones 2 Verification based on the amended BBBEE Codes of Good Practice still in progress for 2015 WHL 6 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 7 SETTING OUT SETTING OUT RECOGNITION T HOW WE'RE RATED his year Woolworths Holdings • WHL was again ranked as the • WHL was shortlisted for the 2015 Ethical • MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet was the ensure workers in their supply chain Limited (WHL) achieved supermarket industry leader for Corporation Responsible Business Awards winner at the 2015 International Loyalty are being protected from exploitation. the following accolades: customer satisfaction by the in the ‘Best Public Company’ category. Awards for Best Social Responsibility • Witchery won the Fashion with – WHL was included in the 2015 South African Customer Satisfaction • WHL was a joint winner for the Rhino (CSR) initiative linked to Loyalty. Heart award for 2015 at the Prix de Euronext Vigeo Sustainability index (Emerging 70). • WHL won three awards at the Index (SACSI). Conservation category and runner up in • Helene Brand, MySchool’s Marketing Marie Claire Awards in recognition 2014 National Business Awards. The • WHL achieved first position in the the Water category for the 2015 Mail & and CSI Manager was named Loyalty of the annual White Shirt Campaign, – WHL has voluntarily participated in the CDP Climate Change, awards recognise the contributions Reptrak™ Pulse Survey. The seven Guardian Greening the Future Awards. Industry Personality of the Year at the supporting the Ovarian Cancer CDP Water and CDP Forests made by organisations through reputation drivers used in the reputation • WHL's Waterstone store was International Loyalty Awards 2015. Research Foundation. disclosures in the last service excellence, ethical behaviour institute’s survey are products and awarded first place in the 2014 Visual • Woolworths was a finalist in the • David Jones was included in financial year. and environmental sustainability. Merchandising and Store Design Retail National Science and Technology Forum CDP ASX 200 Climate Disclosure services, innovation, performance, – WHL was included in the JSE Woolworths won awards in the citizenship, workplace, governance Renovation Competition. (NSTF)-GreenMatter Award for an Leaders Index 2014. Socially Responsible Investment following categories: National Business and leadership. • EY Excellence in Integrated Reporting individual or an organisation towards • David Jones was a Finalist in United (SRI) Index for 2014/2015. of the Year; Sustainability; and Awards – the 2014 WHL Integrated achieving biodiversity conservation, Nations Association of Australia: • WHL was a finalist in the 2014 environmental sustainability and a – WHL was included in the Corporate Citizenship. Report was rated as excellent . Victoria division (UNAA) World international Sustainability Leaders greener economy. Dow Jones Sustainability Index • WHL won the Energy Excellence Award • Woolworths 'What a day the difference Environment Day Awards 2015 in (DJSI), the world’s most respected Awards in the Stakeholder Engagement at the SAEE (South African Association makes campaign' was nominated in the • Woolworths was ranked fifth in the the large organisation sustainability sustainability index for 2014/15. category. for Energy Efficiency) Awards 2014. Communications Category for the 2015 Professionals: Business category of the leadership award. • WHL has been included in the list of 2Degrees Champions Award. Universum Most Attractive Employer • David Jones received the Roy Morgan • WHL was one of five companies Sunday Times Royal Companies. These Awards for 2014. awarded by the EU-Africa Chamber • WHL was shortlisted in the Nedbank Customer Satisfaction Award for are companies that have occupied • Country Road’s Life Through Wool film Department Stores. of Commerce for the best CSR projects Capital Sustainable Business Awards the top 20 positions of the Sunday campaign received the top honour in in Sub-Saharan Africa at the CSR in Trade and Services category for our Times Top 100 Companies for three Good Business Journey in 2014. the Australian Director’s Guild Awards Africa Awards 2014. WHL won The consecutive years. for best direction in the online TVC Environment Award. • W Magazine and TASTE were winners • WHL was also chosen as a finalist for category. The Summer Wonder film • WHL was ranked second on the list at the 2014 Eddies and Ozzies Awards. the 2014 World Retail Awards in the was also nominated for Best Fashion of the ‘ten most valuable African brands’ W Mag won the Best Full Issue at the Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative Film at the Berlin Fashion Film Festival. by the Brand Africa 100 ranking. The Eddie Awards. TASTE received of the year category for our Good honourable mention in the Series of • The Country Road Group's Omni index is drawn up based on a survey Business Journey programme. Articles and Cover Design categories Fulfilment Centre has received a of about 51% of the sub-Saharan African WOOLWORTHS WON THE population. • WHL was shortlisted for the 2014 at the Eddies and Ozzies Awards '5 Star Green Star – Industrial As Built v1 rating from the Green NATIONAL BUSINESS • WHL received a few awards at the Ethical Corporation Responsible respectively. Building Council of Australia. OF THE YEAR AWARD Ask Afrika Orange Index Awards 2014. Business Awards for Best Business • The Woolworths 2014 Christmas • In the 2015 Australian Fashion Report, NGO Partnership and Best Supplier Campaign was named the World’s best AT THE 2014 NATIONAL Woolworths Clothing came in fourth In-store Campaign at the IGDS conference Country Road Group received a B+ place overall and first in the Clothing Engagement categories. Woolworths BUSINESS AWARDS. Retail Industry. Woolworths Food came was Highly Commended in the category in Rome. IGDS is the largest association rating. The report, prepared by Baptist for department stores worldwide. World Aid, assesses the efforts of in seventh place overall and first in the Enterprise Development for category our global and local fashion brands to Food Retail Industry. Farming for the Future programme. WHL 8 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 9 SETTING OUT SETTING OUT ABOUT US INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING W W oolworths Holdings Limited (WHL) is a southern hemisphere As a largely private label retail group across food, clothing, HL regards its sustainability reporting process as a The recommendations of King III and the Global Reporting retail group which has been listed on the Johannesburg homeware and beauty, we have a particular business valuable opportunity to engage with its stakeholder Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines form the basis for this report and any Stock Exchange Limited (JSE) since 1997. It is one of the model based on long-term supplier relationships and a groups and to respond to issues that have been raised restatement of information is noted in the section concerned. This top 40 JSE-listed companies and had a market capitalisation of responsibility to influence change along our supply chain. during the course of the year. Through our sustainability report report is prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 Sustainability R100.5 billion at 28 June 2015. Approximately 40% of revenue is Through our Good Business Journey, we're embedding we aim to provide insight to our stakeholders in how we have Reporting Guidelines (Core). You can find the detailed GRI index derived from Australasian operations. sustainability into every aspect of our business and every progressed against our Good Business Journey targets and at www.woolworthsholdings.co.za. product we sell, with eight key focus areas: sustainable objectives, as well as provide an overview of the highlights, The group trades through three operating subsidiaries including WHL is a signatory to the UN Global Compact, and our farming, water, waste, energy, ethical sourcing, transformation, feedback and challenges we have experienced. As we close Woolworths Proprietary Limited (Woolworths), Country Road annual sustainability report also serves as our Communication social development, and health and wellness. this round of strategic objectives in our Good Business Journey Group Proprietary Limited (Country Road Group) and David Jones on Progress (COP). We have referenced the UN Post-2015 strategy, we also intend to reflect upon our future objectives Limited (David Jones), acquired as of 1 August 2014 and formerly Our vision is to be a world leader in retail brands that Development Framework and its sustainable development goals in the context of our expanded operational footprint and listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX). Woolworths appeal to people who care about quality, innovation, value in our strategy determination process. geography. Financial Services Proprietary Limited (WFS) is a joint venture with and sustainability. All data is based on the best possible systems that are currently Barclays Africa Group, which holds the controlling interest. Our Good Business Journey has been, and will continue to WHL now employs more than 41 000 employees across available to us and where applicable aligned with recognised be, driven by the issues which matter most to our business, Our footprint extends beyond our stores into our supply chain 15 countries and trades in over 1 300 store locations. standards. customers and other stakeholders as well as the legal, cultural and the communities that buy our products and use our services. and economic context of our operations. The materiality of these We welcome any feedback on our programme and reporting, We manage our broader business impact through comprehensive issues is based on our own risk management protocols as well and contact details for this purpose can be found on the inside social, ethical and environmental policies and practices. as feedback we receive from stakeholders. We hope that our back cover of the report. reporting credibly portrays the work we are doing to allow stakeholder groups to understand the strategy of the company and assess our prospects in a way that covers our financial and KEY SUSTAINABILITY RISKS Managing risk is an integral part of our strategy in protecting the TOGETHER, THE GROUP PROVIDES SHARED VALUE THROUGH RETAIL BRANDS THAT sustainability risks and opportunities. Group’s assets, including reputation, and enhancing shareholder MEET THE NEEDS OF ASPIRATIONAL CUSTOMERS IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE. This annual sustainability report covers the 52 weeks to 28 June value in a sustainable way. We follow a robust risk assessment 2015, is the successor to the 2014 Good Business Journey Report, approach to determine our risks. Risk registers are developed and focuses largely on South African-owned operations, as well as for key business areas to ensure that all identified risks are including information on our Australian subsidiaries, Country Road documented, weighted according to the agreed risk assessment Group and David Jones. It must be noted that David Jones is a method and action plans are identified to mitigate the risk. majority brands/concession model driven business, so the level of The material risks associated with the achievement of the 2015 influence into the supply chain is quite different from Woolworths Good Business Journey targets and related mitigating actions and Country Road Group. were reviewed during the current year, and are identified at the Our carbon footprint information covers the period from beginning of each section of the report. 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014, based on the timelines As in 2014, this report is structured according to the Group’s eight for our submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project. Good Business Journey strategic objectives – the main drivers of The 2015 Good Business Journey Report is intended to be read in value creation. The content of the report was further validated conjunction with the 2015 Integrated Report and the 2015 Annual by a process to determine those matters most material to the Financial Statements, as a compendium of our strategy and Group’s ability to create value in the short, medium and long term. performance. A diverse group of internal stakeholders considered the most pressing issues identified by the Board, key risks identified through In compiling this report we have considered and utilised various our risk management process and concerns raised by key external reporting protocols. As with our 2015 WHL Group Integrated stakeholders. Report, we have considered the application of the six capitals (as recommended by the International Integrated Reporting Council) in our thinking about sustainability. Where this report predominantly covers the aspects related to human, social and relationship and natural capital, the Integrated Report offers detail about financial, manufacturing and intellectual capital. WHL 10 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 11 SETTING OUT SETTING OUT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S/ SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT REFLECTING UPON AND REDEFINING OUR IN REFLECTION GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY TO 2020 Looking back, we are pleased with Now in its sixth year, we have 98% of design for ease of separation, increasing the progress we have made against our primary Woolworths fruit, vegetable, the use of recycled materials in packaging Sustainability is one of the core values of Woolworths and is deeply entrenched our targets to date, having obtained wine and horticulture producers working and the development of an on-pack in the heart of our business. Our Good Business Journey encompasses the issues an annual score of 87% for FY2015, and as part of this scheme. This programme labelling system for recyclability, an which matter most to us as a business, to our colleagues, customers, shareholders meeting or exceeding our targets in has proved to be a great success and industry first in South Africa. Although the and other stakeholders. As we complete the current phase of strategic commitments 164 of our over 200 indicators. Working we are seeing improvements in farm level recycling infrastructure network in South set in our Good Business Journey 2007-2015, we are able to celebrate the successes towards these targets has assisted us in environmental management, greater Africa is still developing, our combined as well as reflect upon the challenges that we have encountered and draw lessons improving operational efficiencies and productivity, efficiency, awareness and efforts are helping to create the market from these. driving innovation across our operations. innovation among suppliers as a result for recycled goods, an industry that Combined, the various initiatives have not of this. supports around 40 000 direct and In the past eight years, we have witnessed a significant change in mind-set among the only served to reduce our environmental indirect jobs in South Africa at present. global population that doing business is no longer only about profit, but about creating Through Farming for the Future we have and social impact but have also resulted shared value and meeting responsibilities to contribute to economic development and created a strong foundation for our In addition to managing our environmental in Group-wide cost savings of R567 million give back to our people and our planet. engagement with suppliers on important footprint, the Group’s contribution to since 2008. challenges such as water stewardship sustainable economies, transformation, To Woolworths, this means leading the way in terms of addressing the sustainability In South Africa, significant investment in and climate resilience. Our partnership social development and education of our value chain from field to shelf and post-consumer use. From a social perspective, energy efficiency, initial renewable energy with the World-Wide Fund for Nature is something that we remain deeply we strive to contribute meaningfully towards developmental priorities in the countries pilots and an advanced real-time metering (WWF-SA) has continued to deliver committed to. Through our procurement in which we operate as well as social transformation through being advocates for system throughout our property portfolio interesting and innovative research and supply chain teams we have ethical supply chains, building long-term partnerships with our suppliers and by has resulted in a relative energy reduction around these and other critical issues, implemented a preferential procurement supporting the growth of smallto medium-sized business enterprises. of around 40% since 2004, and has been and is serving to maximise positive and strategy to intensify support for small We have also recognised that the vision of what constitutes a “Good Business” is particularly valuable in the context of sustainable outcomes in the areas which businesses from previously disadvantaged a continually moving target, and we must therefore push ourselves to achieve more national energy supply challenges and matter most, as well as leveraging funding backgrounds in South Africa, where we ambitious targets and goals. Through this journey we have been able to deliver to tariff increases faced by our operations. for joint work with our suppliers. are currently providing support to over our strategic objectives in an integrated manner and have created shared value for 40 small businesses in the form of business Beyond our direct operations we continue our stakeholders. As a food and clothing retailer we form part of a complex and The waste associated with the end–use development support and also financial to make significant advancements in globalised supply chain. The potential to influence both upstream and downstream of our product continues to be an area assistance to the tune of R10.7 million in R2.4bn influencing our wider supply chain. value chain players in order to drive positive and sustainable change through the of improvement. In the last year, we loans in the last financial year. Our Black application of codes of conduct, sourcing policies and creation of lasting supplier In Southern Africa one of our proudest made significant strides in downsizing Economic Empowerment Employee Share relationships, presents both an opportunity and a challenge. Our expanded southern achievements has been the development our packaging by 511 tons, resulting in Ownership Scheme (BEEESOS) scheme hemisphere footprint provides the particular opportunity to further entrench the of our Farming for the Future programme more efficient transportation, increased officially ended on 30 June 2015, having IN VALUE CREATED FOR Woolworths vision and values consistently across our Australasian Country Road which, through independent auditing, carbon savings and reduced raw material created R2.4 billion for the participants‚ EMPLOYEE PARTICIPANTS Group and David Jones operations, while still recognising the need to respect local assists our produce suppliers to incrementally usage. As well as light-weighting, we who have also enjoyed dividends of OF BEEESOS SCHEME culture and the context of business in this region. improve environmental performance. have worked towards improving product R332 million during the life of the scheme. WHL 12 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 13 SETTING OUT The need to adapt to changing KEY CHALLENGES AND FOCUS AREAS LOOKING FORWARD regulations presents an ongoing Increasingly, we find that two-way As a business we strive for our challenge. We remain passionate about feedback with our customers is serving to sustainability initiatives to not only drive contributing to the transformation of our drive the direction of our strategies. improved efficiencies, meet the demands country. We are doing this through human of our customers and shareholders but capital transformation and transformation A myriad of communication and media also to empower our local communities of our supply chains whilst making efforts channels create the platforms for these to better tackle development issues to localise supply of products and services engagement dialogues in which we faced on a daily basis. where possible. Woolworths prides itself hope to raise awareness around key on progressing our journey towards sustainability issues, whilst also taking Looking forward to 2020, our plan is to embedding transformation as an integral cues around matters which are meaningful continue building on the platform we part of how we do business, regardless of to our customers. Our collaboration with have laid across our existing focus areas, changes in legislation. Pharrell Williams is aimed at ensuring and make significant progress against we include more and more young our newer focus areas – ethical sourcing In FY2015, we donated almost South Africans in this dialogue in a and health and wellness. In particular, we R590 million to various projects and meaningful and relevant way. are planning to better respond to global charities across South Africa, and concern around nutrition-based diseases contributed directly to upliftment projects Some of the most significant challenges such as obesity and diabetes through through the Woolworths Trust and we faced as a Group in 2015 relate to improving the nutritional value of our through donation of our surplus food and concerns from customers around ethical food offerings and the transparency clothing supplies. Through the MySchool sourcing and animal welfare. These issues in communication of the health attributes initiative we have donated almost have received a significant amount of of our products. R60 million in total and over R4.5 million per media and broader stakeholder attention month, on our customer’s behalf, to 8 207 and help to guide our ethical trade work Our strategy has, and will continue to schools, environmental and social charities, stream and responsible commodity assist us in doing business in the most thanks to our 885 000 active MySchool sourcing. transparent and ethical way possible. supporters. In Australia, David Jones We want to make an ongoing impact Our efforts in improving traceability of contributed R12.8 million to various Breast to alleviate critical environmental and products has involved drilling down our Cancer initiatives and charities and the social issues in our supply chain through supply chain to drive sustainable sourcing Country Road Group contributed focussed efforts on improving working practices for key commodities such as R35.6 million to a range of charity partners. conditions, food security and nutrition, cotton, timber, cocoa and palm oil. Our aim, through delivery of these funds, animal welfare, sustainable employment is to leave a lasting legacy for the causes In line with this drive, our clothing brands creation and support for local businesses. which are closest to our hearts. continue to make significant strides in the Our mission in the next phase of our ethical clothing revolution. Earlier this year, Good Business Journey strategy is to Woolworths was ranked in the top 15 firmly entrench ourselves as a leader in globally in terms of organic cotton users the African and Australian marketplace, by total volume, and first in year-on-year to ensure we deliver on our vision to ALMOST growth of organic cotton procurement R590m be the most sustainable retailer in the in the 2014 Cotton Market Report. southern hemisphere. The Country Road Group also scored comparably well in the 2015 Australian Fashion Report, in which an overall score of B+ was achieved with commendation LORD STUART ROSE DIRECTED TO A RANGE OF for wage practices through demonstration Chairman of the Sustainability Committee CHARITY ORGANISATIONS IN 2015 AS PART OF OUR of efforts towards paying better wages COMMITMENT TO FOOD for workers overseas. SECURITY AND EDUCATION IAN MOIR IN SOUTH AFRICA Group Chief Executive Officer WHL 14 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT SETTING OUT MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY KEY IMPACTS AND MATERIALITY OUR GOOD BUSINESS O ur Good Business Journey aims Reporting Initiative (GRI), legislation, JOURNEY AIMS TO to reduce our impact as a business investor and NGO questionnaires, peer and improve outcomes for the reviews, business intelligence, lifecycle REDUCE OUR IMPACT environment, people and economy across assessment results, stakeholder dialogue, AS A BUSINESS our entire value chain. We believe that market surveys and stakeholder reports AND IMPROVE working together in partnership is the best as well as media coverage. way we can make a positive difference. OUTCOMES FOR THE As a global multi-product retailer in ENVIRONMENT, PEOPLE A wide range of social, environmental clothing, foods and general merchandise and ethical issues have an impact on our we recognise the significant challenges AND ECONOMY ACROSS business, either directly or through our associated with the complexity of working OUR ENTIRE VALUE global supply chains. Consequently, we within a multi-tiered and geographically CHAIN. have to manage a continually evolving dispersed supply chain. Our material set of issues. We have developed and impacts are spread across our entire updated our Good Business Journey value chain, which spans from raw sustainability programme with the help material production to customers and the of stakeholders in order to address these end-uses of our products. By mapping key social and environmental challenges. these key impacts across our entire value They were identified through analysis of chain we are better able to address external standards such as the Global those impacts which are most material 1 . OUR VALUE CHAIN In this report, we show how the issues that matter extend far COMPONENTS beyond our direct operations, and encompass all components of our supply chain described in the diagram alongside. In each chapter, we include a materiality • Buying assessment, mapping where (in our FUNCTIONS • Logistics/ supply chain) the critical issues we • Processing distribution • Purchasing • Production • Retailing • Market influence have identified are occuring across • Raw material • Packaging • Core business • Use and disposal our eight Good Business Journey production • Auditing functions of goods focus areas, and to what extent these impacts present a risk. KEY: Mapping risks across our supply chain Agriculture Tier 1 suppliers WHL Customers Communities and processor operations Environment Economy 1 Material issues are defined as those that reflect the organisation’s significant economic, environmental and social impacts; or that substantively influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders as defined by the G4 guidelines. These are Global Reporting Initiative guidelines that we refer to for our sustainability reporting. WHL 16 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 17 SETTING OUT SETTING OUT The impacts identified as material to our business, and so included in this report and the Integrated Report are included in the following table: MATERIAL ASPECTS INCLUDED MATERIAL ASPECTS INCLUDED FOCUS AREA IDENTIFIED RISKS FOCUS AREA IDENTIFIED RISKS (SOME DERIVED FROM GRI-G4 INDEX2) (SOME DERIVED FROM GRI-G4 INDEX2) GOVERNANCE1 • Ethics and values Labour/management relations (G4) SUSTAINABLE • Ecological health Supplier environment assessments (G4) • Verification/assurance Employment (G4) FARMING • Climate change Supplier assessments labour practices (G4) • Risk management and business continuity Economic performance (G4) • Farmer access to market Environmental assessments (G4) • Anti-corruption Market presence (G4) • Animal welfare Biodiversity (G4) • Human rights Indirect economic impacts (G4) Environmental grievance mechanisms (G4) Procurement practices (G4) Compliance (G4) Public policy (G4) Animal welfare Investment (G4) WATER • Water availability Effluent and waste (G4) Anti-corruption (G4) • Wastewater Water (G4) Anti-competitive behaviour (G4) • Post-consumer water consumption Water stewardship Governance (G4) WASTE • Waste generation Materials (G4) Ethics and integrity (G4) • Waste disposal Products and services (G4) Non-discrimination (G4) • Natural resource consumption Product and service labelling (G4) TRANSFORMATION • Addressing diversity Equal remuneration for men and women (G4) Responsible marketing • Employment equity Diversity and equal opportunity (G4) ENERGY & CLIMATE • Energy prices Energy (G4) • Talent management Broad-based black economic empowerment CHANGE • Electricity availability Emissions (G4) • BEE codes Enterprise and supplier development • Energy efficiency Transport (G4) Training and education (G4) • Extreme weather patterns Freedom of association (G4) • Climate framework SOCIAL • Food security Local communities (G4) • Post-consumer use DEVELOPMENT • Education Food security • CSI capital Education 1 Governance underpins all our focus areas 2 G4 denotes that the aspect is aligned to the GRI-G4 reporting guidelines • Child vulnerability and safety Charitable donations HEALTH AND • Nutrition and wellness Occupational health and safety (G4) WELLNESS • Employee health Customer health and safety (G4) • Occupational health and safety Product and service labelling (G4) APPROVAL AND ASSURANCE Marketing and communications (G4) The Social and Ethics Committee and the Sustainability 1. The statistical data of the following KPIs: Committee review and recommend the Good Business a) green stores – ratings of stores according to the green Compliance (G4) Journey Report to the Board for approval. External assurance store model Child safety has been performed for selected indicators. WHL Responsible marketing b) water usage – head office, stores and distribution centres has always looked at obtaining independent opinion Nutrition on our progress as being a crucial part of gaining and c) number of packaging improvements Food safety maintaining credibility with our stakeholders. Additional 2. The GRI-G4 principles of materiality, completeness and stakeholder reviews have been performed and commentary sustainability context. ETHICAL SOURCING • Ethical conditions in supply chains Supplier assessments labour practices (G4) statements are included in this report. We aim to tackle • Traceability Investments (human rights) (G4) Ernst & Young Inc. also conducted a “dry run” limited assurance impacts wherever they occur in our value chain, and this • Environmental conditions in supply chains Supplier human rights assessments (G4) engagement in order to assess the readiness of certain other key is reflected in our reporting wherever possible. performance indicators for external limited assurance in future years: Supplier assessments impacts on society (G4) In the current financial year, in line with King III, we have • Percentage of foods with one sustainability attribute Environmental assessments (G4) once again engaged Ernst & Young Inc. (EY) for the fifth Grievance mechanisms(G4) • Percentage of clothing with one sustainability attribute consecutive year, to provide limited assurance over certain Non-discrimination (G4) quantitative and qualitative aspects of the 2015 Good • Good Business Journey savings to date Child labour (G4) Business Journey Report: Forced or compulsory labour (G4) Supplier capacity building Deforestation Wages WHL 18 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 19 SETTING OUT SETTING OUT Their assurance statement can be found SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT – all of which affect food security and GOVERNANCE OF SUSTAINABILITY buy-out of the non-controlling interest South Africa and Australia, as well as our on page 102 to 103. prices, putting pressure on South African The Social and Ethics Committee, a of Country Road Group, has created an community and environmental measures The retail sector continues to be in consumers. Unpredictable climate-related sub-committee of the Woolworths opportunity for greater influence across achieving the highest scores of all We have also undertaken an independent the spotlight in terms of its direct and events are putting even more strain on Holdings Board oversees the work of the our global supply chain and broader indicators across our annual Let’s Ask limited level verification of our carbon especially supply chain impacts. Issues this food production system. The National Sustainability Committee and the outputs customer base around sustainability employee survey. footprint data in conformance with the around traceability, ethical sourcing and Development Plan creates a strong vision of The Woolworths Trust, providing a issues. A lot of focus has been placed ISO 14064-3 International Standard for responsible sourcing of commodities are SUSTAINABILITY AND OUR STRATEGIC for resolving many of these challenges, single point of view and direction for all over the year on delivering to our vision GHG verifications performed by the material risks for the sector. Mitigating OBJECTIVES and Woolworths needs to understand Woolworths sustainability focus areas. of being the most sustainable retailer in Global Carbon Exchange, and their these risks requires the types of longSustainability is one of our eight our influence as a diversified retailer, the southern hemisphere by aligning our assurance statement can be found on term partnerships with suppliers The Sustainability Committee is chaired strategic focus areas as a business and apply our value chain approach Group strategies under the Good Business the Good Business Journey Report that Woolworths has been built on. by an independent non-executive and is integrated into the strategic to finding solutions in partnership with Journey banner. website. Our Farming for the Future Increasingly important is the expertise and director and meets quarterly to oversee planning cycle and balanced scorecard our stakeholders. Our consumers programme is audited by an independent guidance we gain from our partnership progress in achieving all aspects of the Sharing WHL's vision, the Country Road process. To ensure consistency across continue to show a strong interest in body – Enviroscientific. with WWF-SA. Good Business Journey programme. The Group has developed a new Group our operations, each business unit has environmentally responsible and ethical Group Chief Executive Officer and the strategy to embed sustainability across a set of Good Business Journey objectives EY provides limited assurance over all In South Africa, key issues include the need sourcing, and we increasingly need to Woolworths SA Chief Executive Officer the business. A Sustainability Steering against which they are measured David Jones greenhouse gas emissions to alleviate poverty and create jobs, to provide such product choices to them, are members of the Committee, together Committee has been established and twice per annum. This now includes data used in reporting to government improve education and grow the number without a significant premium. with three independent directors. meets monthly to guide the development Country Road Group, David Jones (National Greenhouse and Energy of skilled people ready to join the job In Australia there has been significant and implementation of the strategy, ensure and Woolworths Financial Services. Reporting Act) and the CDP, formerly market, while labour unrest and concerns These independent directors each have interaction with customers around the effective integration into the business, the Carbon Disclosure Project). about corruption continue. Environmental significant expertise and experience in a ethical sourcing issues, following the develop targets and review performance. PROGRESS MEASUREMENT 2015 challenges include energy supply stability range of corporate sustainability issues. We feel that the combination of the 2015 Australian Fashion Report, and a The Good Business Journey index has and costs, water scarcity (exacerbated by The main purpose of the committee is to The Country Road Group has prioritised assurance processes noted above number of high profile documentaries been reviewed during the current year drought conditions in many parts of the ensure that the sustainability strategy seven focus areas that align with the provides coverage over all our material into clothing supply chains. Other to ensure the ongoing applicability of country) and quality issues, and a host of and objectives are effectively integrated Woolworths Good Business Journey: focus areas by a range of audit, topical issues include mental health and the sophisticated weighted system agricultural concerns including security of into the business. The committee has ethical trade, sustainable farming and technical and scientific experts. wellbeing, cultural diversity and the that prioritises all 200-plus indicators land tenure, customer push back around considered the contents of this report. sourcing of raw materials, energy transition to a low carbon economy. and provides a score across each focus GMO and a declining number of farmers efficiency, waste reduction, water Progress towards meeting 2015 targets and area of the Good Business Journey, stewardship, social development, and the related one-year goals, is monitored as well as for each business unit in health and wellness. Furthermore, 16 at an operational level by the Executive achieving their specific targets. We have projects have been identified to start Committee and championed by the Group defined a revised set of targets through driving progress across the business in the Director: Marketing and Sustainability. to 2020 for the WHL group during the next financial year. course of the last financial year. During the year there has been a marked David Jones Good Business Journey increase in South Africa in environmental The index score is a key tool in driving forms a key component of the corporate legislation potentially affecting the Group, changes in behaviour in the business strategy and encompasses seven work specifically around carbon and wasteunits as well as providing comparable streams. The focuses under these work related issues, as well as a continued scorecard data and monitoring progress streams are the outcome of a robust focus on responding to the changes towards oneand five-year targets. The materiality and stakeholder engagement to the Broad-Based Black Economic total sustainability measurement score for process and each has ambitious targets Empowerment (BBBEE) codes. the year 2015 was 87% (2014: 91%). delivering to the overall strategic intent. No environmental or health and safetyWe had set 80% as a benchmark for WHL has achieved a number of milestones related precautions against Woolworths good performance and are pleased as part of our 2015 Good Business Journey occurred in the last financial year. to complete the current phase of our targets and has now set new challenging targets with a score well above that targets going forward to 2020. UPDATED GROUP STRATEGY benchmark. Sometimes we have failed AND TARGETS TO 2020 This has happened in the context of to meet the robust targets we had set The growth of the WHL Group, following growing customer awareness measured – either because they were a bit the acquisition of David Jones and the by various research interventions in unrealistic or due to change in business WHL 20 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 21 SETTING OUT SETTING OUT focus, but each of these instances has process. The annual Woolworths run by Deloitte. The Group has adopted been a valuable learning opportunity. employee survey, Let’s Ask, is an a whistle-blowing policy and an antiSteady progress has been made over opportunity for employees to rate their corruption and sanctions policy to align the lifetime of the Good Business Journey experience of the Woolworths culture with the Organisation for Economic programme, and the targets have been and leadership, as well as a measure of Co-operation and Development (OECD) well integrated into our strategy and engagement and the effectiveness of our guidelines on corruption. balanced scorecards. The scores per people strategies. The overall response We will take disciplinary action against factor are shown in the graph below. rate (which includes employees in the rest any employee who is involved in, or of Africa and the Country Road Group) VALUES AND ETHICS assists with, committing fraud, theft and increased from 86.2% in 2014 to 90.7% A strong value system forms the foundation corruption. In terms of the company’s in 2015. The overall score improved by of our business model and is fully disciplinary code, involvement in these 0.4% to 74.4%, with two of the five most integrated into the way we do business, acts is a dismissible offence. Through improved dimensions relating to ethics: measure performance and reward the our induction process, and awareness right behaviour. Processes to embed • The Woolworths Executive Committee creation around our policies, we these values into WFS, David Jones and is doing an effective job of leading specifically cover training around the Country Road Group are at different Woolworths in a values-based manner ethics, bribery and anti-corruption. stages of maturity, with the latter most (81.2%) advanced. These processes are necessary • Woolworths is doing an effective job to ensure that our employees in different of putting the corporate values into business units develop a deeper and practice (89%) common understanding of what they We have group-wide policies on gifts, mean. insider trading and conflicts of interest, The WHL values determine behaviour and a zero-tolerance policy towards and decision-making processes in the fraud, theft, corruption or any similar illegal Group, and form a material part of behaviour. In South Africa, we continue each employee’s performance appraisal promoting the anonymous tip-off line Mount Carmel – Woolworths produce supplier CONTRIBUTION TO THE SOUTH AFRICAN ECONOMY GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY INDEX SCORES FOR 2015 Woolworths continues to create shared value across a broad more closely with emerging suppliers, further supporting 100 97 spectrum of the South African economy, at the most fundamental South African business first as part of our indirect economic 93 91 level by generating direct employment and career opportunities contribution. 90 86 for over 28 000 people, and indirectly more than double that 81 through our manufacturing and processing network, as well One of our key contributions is to provide safe, healthy and 80 as assisting to bring small-scale suppliers into the value chain. good-quality products to consumers at a reasonable price. 70 Our food, clothing, home and beauty technologists ensure During the current year our staff complement has grown by 2 746. product development and innovation take into account our 60 We have also created over 8 000 new jobs directly in the last safety policies. We are also assisting to create our customer 50 five years. of the future by investing in education through a number of our 40 The vast majority of goods sold in our stores, by volume, are corporate social investment interventions. Our Good Business 30 manufactured in South Africa and we continue to encourage local Journey programme drives investment into efficient and green manufacturing wherever possible. We will only consider sourcing technology in our real estate, logistics and supplier networks, 20 abroad where local or regional supplier partners are unable to as a part of our contribution to South Africa’s green economy 10 provide the ideal quality, value and innovation that our customers growth. This is also supported by our initiatives in waste expect. Woolworths is also well placed to drive enterprise management and recycling, especially incorporating more 0 Economic Governance Social Transformation Environment development projects and has set up teams devoted to working and more recycled content into our products and packaging. WHL 22 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 23 SETTING OUT STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT W oolworths has always focused • Constructive and co-operative DURING THE YEAR, on understanding the needs and engagements views of a range of stakeholders. WHL CREATED A Over the last few years, we have been • Openness and transparency STAKEHOLDER working to refine our approach to these • Mutual respect FORUM TO ENSURE engagements, and ensure greater • Supportive and responsive interaction ALIGNMENT BETWEEN consistency and improved feedback • Working towards regular and loops across all stakeholder groups. The structured engagements OUR POSITIONING importance of developing these systems • Engagements which are based on AND MESSAGE TO has become even more pertinent as the business critical aspects, national STAKEHOLDERS. group footprint has expanded. priorities and material issues for the During the year, WHL created a business stakeholder forum to ensure alignment • Recognition that all stakeholders are between our positioning and message also existing or potential customers. to stakeholders, and coordinating our engagement. The forum established a WHL Group’s stakeholder universe includes platform for feedback to be consolidated customers, suppliers, communities, business and channelled appropriately and partners, employees, unions, NGOs, enables us to engage more efficiently. We academia, industry bodies, government, can now resolve complex, Group-wide regulators, and the media among issues centrally and in this way improve others. To focus our reporting on these our reputational risk management. We stakeholders, we have mapped them are in the process of finalising the formal according to materiality – in this case their stakeholder framework for the Group. ability to impact strategic planning and decision making. Although we consider From a sustainability point of view, the the entire universe of stakeholders in our matters that are most prominent for engagement planning, we focus our our stakeholders were identified as reporting on material stakeholders in our ethical sourcing, animal welfare, water, Integrated Report, while we go into more packaging and recycling, and local depth regarding a broader range of sourcing. We have also identified issues stakeholders in this report. around energy, security, water, carbon tax and land reform as important to our In the following table, we have listed these business and stakeholder interests. key stakeholder groupings, considering why, how and what we engage in. Through all of the stakeholder engagement we participate in, we retain vision of our key principles, which are to ensure: Tanya Rabie – In2Food – Woolworths Food Supplier WHL 24 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 25 SETTING OUT SETTING OUT STAKEHOLDER WHY WE ENGAGE HOW WE ENGAGE WHAT WE ENGAGE IN STAKEHOLDER WHY WE ENGAGE HOW WE ENGAGE WHAT WE ENGAGE ON Our customers – To meet our – Advertising – Product value and choice Our community – To contribute to the socio– EduPlant workshops – Education customers’ needs – In-store communication – Service economic development of – Making The Difference – Capacity building on – To enhance the and campaigns the communities in which educational programmes relevant issues such as – Rewards we trade WHL brand and thereby – Group company websites – MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet food security, nutrition grow revenue – Key sustainability issues: and child safety – Social media animal welfare, packaging programme via charity partners – Increase customer and recycling and responsible awareness and – Customer service centre Our shareholders – To create an informed – Annual General Meeting – Business performance, sourcing are amongst the understanding of – Focus groups and surveys issues we receive the most and investors perception of Woolworths – Biannual analysts expectations sustainability issues – WRewards loyalty programme customer feedback on and create a positive results review and strategy investment environment – Economic, social and – MySchool MyVillage – Innovation – Store walkabouts MyPlanet programme environmental risks – Annual Integrated Report – Participation in the Dow Jones Our employees – To share relevant – Exco talks and blog – Business strategy World Sustainability Index, information and get – Shop Talk magazine and performance JSE Socially Responsible input and feedback – Rewards and recognition Investment (SRI) Index, – GBJ Champ programme – Increase employee – Training and development Carbon Disclosure Project awareness and – 'Let’s Talk' team meetings (CDP) and other assessments understanding of – 'Let’s Ask' employee – Employee wellness sustainability issues and opinion survey – BBBEE and transformation Industry organisations – To discuss and contribute – Membership and engagement – Policy development our Good Business Journey – Pure Survey – Our Good Business Journey (such as the NBI, the to issues of mutual concern with industry bodies – Retail sector related issues Consumer Goods and optimise opportunities – Commentary and advice Forum, PETCO, – Key sustainability issues Unions – To engage on collective – Participation in CCMA, – Wages and conditions on emerging issues employment issues in Nedlac and other labour of employment PlasticsSA and the supply chain market institutions Australian Packaging – Retail and textile sector issues Covenant) Our suppliers – To deliver consistent – Supplier conferences – Timely payment and Government – To discuss issues of – Meetings and presentations – Policy development quality and standards – Supplier visits and audits favourable terms and regulators mutual concern and – Drafting of submissions – Labour market issues – To support the – Supplier and Enterprise – Product offering optimise opportunities and legislation – Engagement via industry development of small Development programme and innovation – To share our industry bodies – Food standards and safety black-owned businesses – Infrastructure and expertise and contribute to policy formation – Participation in government – Consumer credit and – To deliver socially logistical support forums protection issues and environmentally – BBBEE responsible and – Employment equity innovative products – Resource efficiency and transformation – Key sustainability issues – Social development in the supply chain – ethical and education trade – Sustainability priorities – Research e.g. life cycle for South Africa and assessments, water footAustralia printing of key products Academic institutions – To contribute towards – Participation in postgraduate – Corporate sustainability Our business partners – Support on issues – Joint projects – Strategy and research research and surveys – Reporting and governance of common interest – Partner meetings and reviews product expansion – To share our industry – Experiential learning – Create better – Key sustainability issues expertise and case studies opportunities for students sustainability solutions – Presentations – Participation in the Network for NGOs (such as WWF, – To share expertise, – Formal partnerships and – Driving sustainability Business Sustainability (NBS) the Red Cross, Baptist industry insights, local projects through our operations, World Aid, Food & knowledge, research – Participation in benchmarking products and supply chains – To influence stakeholder – – Trees for Africa, capabilities and networks The media Interviews and opinion pieces Retail and consumer issues and surveys – Social development perceptions, differentiate Childsafe and the – Press releases – Product information United Nations – Ethical sourcing the WHL Group company brands and market our – Publications – Key sustainability issues Global Compact) products – – Television Good Business Journey Debt funders – To enable effective funding – Regular meetings held with – Financial performance and – Raise the profile of key of Group expansion and funders through Group Treasury strategic focus areas of the sustainability issues in acquisitions function Group South Africa and Australia WHL 26 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 27 SETTING OUT MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY We believe that building strong stakeholder partnerships is key to building a more sustainable business and future. While we aim to engage with all our stakeholders around key sustainability issues and our Good Business Journey, those we engage with most prominently includes our employees, customers and partners with whom we interact daily in order to grow awareness around sustainability issues, as well as taking cues from them in terms of issues which affect or interest their daily lives. This in itself is a huge source of innovation for our business and assists us in staying relevant to our customers and ensuring we are doing business in the best possible way. GROWING OUR CUSTOMER GROWING OUR EMPLOYEE businesses. Through the integration of ENGAGEMENT AROUND UNDERSTANDING AROUND sustainability thinking into everything we CASE STUDY: SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY do at work, we continue to improve how #PHARRELLWITHWOOLIES Our broader marketing and We engage with employees regularly we operate, and create efficiencies within communications strategy continues to be on strategy, business performance and this. Since the start of the Good Business buoyed by an increasingly interested and to increase awareness and level of Journey in 2007 in South Africa through the In 2014, Woolworths entered into a partnership aware customer base. The use of social understanding of our sustainability issues conscious efforts of our employees we with Grammy Award-winning musician, have saved the business in the region record producer and philanthropist, Pharrell media is critical for us in order to receive and values. We use channels such as of R567 million. Williams. The collaboration is values-based the feedback and communicate with our leadership conversations and the Let’s Ask and relates to sustainability through social customers at a more personal level. More survey to generate discussion and prompt cohesion, advancement through education GROWING OUR PARTNERSHIPS and more, customers are demanding feedback. and environmental awareness. FOR SUSTAINABILITY more information about where products We embed sustainability throughout our Experience has shown us that most The call-to-action for the collaboration, come from and what their ethical and business with the help of our employees. sustainability challenges cannot be is “Are you with us?”, asks customers to environmental attributes are. At stores, we use our GBJ Champ solved by one company acting alone, pledge their allegiance and support for the These questions necessitate us to adopt programme as a way to provide and we are excited about the support Woolworths Good Business Journey. a lifecycle approach to developing our training, raise awareness and connect and input we have received from a products, and considering all aspects of with all employees in stores, as well as We have used the collaboration to range of stakeholders in implementing the journey that takes a product from field our customers. We are continuously reposition our credentials around fashion programmes like Farming for the Future, with a difference, highlighting our ability to fork, or hanger. This lifecycle approach sharing knowledge and communicating Fishing for the Future, EduPlant, sustainable to innovate and be sustainable, thereby ensures that we work closely with both sustainability issues in order to provide staff transport and customer recycling. These growing our appeal to a younger, largely our suppliers and our customers to make a with a deeper understanding and backing sustainability initiatives have often been black customer base in South Africa. The real difference in sustainability. In order to of our Good Business Journey. Though this a natural extension of the longstanding campaign is also aimed at acquiring new achieve this sustainability, we have had to we hope that it can positively influence partnerships we share with our suppliers WRewards cardholders and increasing spend maintain the strong focus that the Good thinking both at work and home. Employee and corporate partners such as Imperial of existing cardholders, while at the same time Business Journey has to embed our values understanding and backing of our Good Group, Mercedes-Benz and Engen, and relaunching the MySchool programme throughout our supply chains, and into Business Journey is measured through our specialist non-profit organisations including in the 2016 financial year. our products. annual ‘Let’s Ask‘ people survey which has WWF-SA and Food & Trees for Africa, shown high levels of support, and a growth As one of the ongoing initiatives throughout amongst others. Our broad range of Over the year, we have again continued this broad based campaign, we are aiming in this level of support over the last year. partnerships has helped us formulate to grow our customer engagement to raise R100 million for the thousands of This year 74.4% of the scores in our overall unique responses to material issues and around sustainability issues, within MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet charities 'Let’s Ask' employee opinion survey were in turn we have been able to support the traditional media forms as well as in-store with the help of our customers. positive compared to 74% last year. good work already being done by our awareness campaigns, increased use of partner organisations. social media platforms and relationships Over 90% of responses were positive 74% on TV with 50/50, Top Billing and Expresso. regarding Woolworths involvement in environmental protection and 87% positive The results have shown substantial regarding Woolworths involvement in customer support around the Good the community. Business Journey, as measured in the customer tracking study and our other We rely on our employees to be the OF WOOLWORTHS SALES ARE BEING customer research. creative and innovative hub of our TRACKED ON A WOOLWORTHS CARD WHL 28 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 29 SETTING OUT SUPPLIER ENGAGEMENT Our approach to the life cycle management of our products means that we work closely with our suppliers to deliver consistent quality and innovative products. We are also committed to supporting the development of small, black-owned WWF-SA HAS BEEN REPEATEDLY ENCOURAGED BY THE WILLINGNESS OF THE businesses in South Africa. GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY AND FOODS TEAMS TO EXPLORE NEW IDEAS AND TAKE Our relationship with suppliers has enabled us to successfully implement programmes like Farming for the Future and Fishing COURAGEOUS RISKS WITH A VIEW TOWARDS ACHIEVING GREATER POSITIVE BENEFIT. for the Future. Beyond these sustainability initiatives, our suppliers engage with us on issues such as timely payment and favourable terms, infrastructure and logistical support, resource efficiency and research support. We hold regular supplier roadshows, conferences and audits that create broad understanding of our strategy, business requirements and growth plans. WWF-SA AND WOOLWORTHS PARTNERSHIP In 2013, when the Worldwide Fund for Nature South Africa (WWF-SA) and Woolworths announced that the two organisations effort from all role players to ward off a • An alien clearing scoping exercise highest emissions, water and land were entering into a partnership around shared sustainability ambitions, the public response was unexpectedly sanguine. crisis. The most important message was in the upper Breede, leading to impacts. The overwhelming feedback was of cautious optimism and surprise. Commentators reflected on the potential for good in a that food security is a complex objective stakeholder agreement and a proper partnership – between two sectors which tended traditionally to be at odds – structured around genuine collaboration for the proposal for clearing as final output. These are just some of the tangible and solution will require partnership benefit of not just the Woolworths customer, but the natural environment on which every food business depends. deliverables against the targets and cross sector collaboration as in the • A community engagement exercise, set but there is another set of less WWF-SA Woolworths partnership. looking at water quality issues Now as this first phase of the partnership draws to a close, it is evident that the optimists were correct in thinking that together demonstrable shifts that are equally the NGO sector and business can achieve greater positive impact. In 2015, the partnership has continued to yield fruitful PROGRESS IN MEETING along the rapidly expanding important in the success of this contributions to both organisations, and achieve the intended goals of the collaboration. informal settlement parts of endeavour. First and foremost it is the PARTNERSHIP TARGETS Prince Alfred Hamlet. building of solid relationships based PROGRESS ON NEW AREAS OF COLLABORATION There has been good progress in most areas of collaboration. Woolworths is • A communication exercise, whereby on trust and transparency which have Update from Tatjana van Bormann, Market Transformation Manager, WWF-SA. published guidelines from project also to be acknowledged for having gone allowed for dynamic development The most significant new area of (M&S) in the project, which significantly the Cape Town Stadium at least five beyond a narrow focus on operating phase 1 and the web-based tool in the partnership’s conservation collaboration has been driven by increase the potential for transformative times over, represents 600 000 litres of efficiency to really starting to ask the are promoted, to expand water impact. WWF-SA has been repeatedly WWF’s expertise in climate change and market action to help increase resilience embedded water and energy equivalent difficult questions about stewardship stewardship initiatives in agriculture encouraged by the willingness of the Woolworths’ willingness to proactively in production landscapes. WWF to that required to power the city of of natural resources and influencing regionally and nationally. Good Business Journey and Foods respond to the challenge of increased works with both retailers in water Johannesburg for 20 years. Retailers their customers, over whom they have • Further promotion of the Alliance for teams to explore new ideas and weather variability. South Africa and risk programmes; the retailers also are not the biggest source of food waste, enormous influence. Water Stewardship (AWS) standard take courageous risks with a view the SADC region as a whole is expected have a long history of collaborative but for a retailer like Woolworths which among volunteer farmers – with the towards achieving greater positive to experience high levels of warming and engagement and, crucially, share is ready to look beyond its specific SUSTAINABLE SEAFOOD aim of getting a group of farmers benefit. Ultimately, this has been the escalating intensity in weather events suppliers. This project will ensure operations, there is potential to support This year Woolworths became the recognised as water stewards. underpinning of the partnership; a in the course of the next few decades. that two highly influential retailers suppliers and customers to reduce first retailer to go public with a shared sense of urgency in addressing In recent years extreme weather has learn together and collaborate around waste. To assist Woolworths in this comprehensive strategy for addressing BEEF natural resource risks and a willingness already led to many millions in cost solutions which ultimately should help process WWF-SA and key Woolworths sustainability in the tinned tuna range. WWF and Woolworths are currently to collaborate in better understanding for retailers. These climate anomalies reduce food security risk by building experts completed a high-level scoping Woolworths is also looking extremely collaborating on a life cycle assessment the challenge and seeking creative prompted Woolworths to set aside resilience to climate shocks through the of waste in the food supply chain and likely to meet their overall 2016 wild (LCA) of beef production in South Africa. solutions. R1.2 million to explore proactive action – value chain. identified areas for further intervention. capture targets. The study, which is investigating the supporting new technology investments Woolworths value chain for steak and and piloting solutions – in reducing risks The other two new areas of The Transformative Food Scenarios FRESHWATER mince products, starts at the very collaboration, namely food waste and process was also concluded with the Good progress was made in the water beginning of the system, right from in supply chains. food security also progressed in the support of Woolworths. The final four stewardship work in partnership with the grass grown to feed the cattle, and WWF-SA was able to leverage this last financial year. The urgency to scenarios defined a plausible sequence the German Development Bank (GIZ), concludes with the consumer, and commitment to secure additional address food waste volumes cannot be of events likely to play out in the areas M&S and Breede-Gouritz Catchment post-consumer waste. This is the third funding from the British High overstated. In South Africa, research of nutrition, political economy, natural Management Association (CMA). such LCA study undertaken within the Commission’s (BHC) Prosperity Fund. estimates that we currently waste resources and production in the next The project has four distinct project partnership and aims at addressing The BHC funding also provided the upwards of 9 million tonnes of food 15 years. In each, the future looks truly objectives, each key to better water environmental impacts of a product opportunity to include Marks & Spencer per annum, a quantity that would fill challenging and it will take a concerted management access: which is associated with some of the WHL 30 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 31 OUR PEOPLE & TRANSFORMATION STRATEGY OUR PEOPLE & W oolworths is a values-based organisation where we strive to behave in ways that reflect our values in everything that we do. Through shared values and OUR PEOPLE ARE TRANSFORMATION values-based behaviours we are building a highly engaged, innovative, and THE HEART AND successful business. FOUNDATION OF THE Within this context, the key objectives of the People Strategy are to: BUSINESS AND ENABLE • Attract, develop and retain talent by delivering a compelling employment brand and developing our people to support the delivery of Woolworths' strategic plans THE EXECUTION OF OUR and grow the next generation of leaders from within. BUSINESS STRATEGY TO • Align the structure, people and processes with the Woolworths future-fit business DELIVER SUSTAINABLE strategies and growth initiatives and improve overall productivity. PROFITABLE GROWTH. • Continue our commitment to diversity of our workforce including Employment Equity by developing integrated people plans and strategies that will transform our workforce and achieve employment equity targets. • Continue to build a high performance culture where both high performance and adherence to our values are recognised and rewarded. • Entrench a values-based culture by ensuring that our values are understood and integrated throughout the business. • Entrench transformation, including Black Economic Empowerment (BEE), as an integral part of how we do business through internal capacity building, external partnerships and meaningful stakeholder engagement. MAPPING OUR RISKS ACROSS THE SUPPLY CHAIN IDENTIFIED SUB RISK ISSUES Addressing Diversity • Workforce transformation Employment Equity • Promoting equality • Redress discrimination Talent Management • Build a high performance culture • Individual Performance Plans • Succession management • Rewards and recognition management BEE Codes • Entrench economic transformation • Completion of BEE employee share ownership scheme (BEEESOS) • Supplier development • Job creation KEY: Moderate Significant Major Not applicable Woolworths staff 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 33 OUR PEOPLE & TRANSFORMATION OUR PEOPLE & TRANSFORMATION OUR PROGRESS In line with our strategy of growing and developing our internal talent and leaders from within, the percentage of internal appointments was 82.1% for Corporate Head Office, Supply Chain and Stores Divisional and Regional management. For the entire CASE STUDY: WOOLWORTHS’ INSIDE RETAIL PROGRAMME category of junior management and above (including junior management in Supply Chain and Retail Operations), the internal appointment percentage was 82.6%, with labour turnover for the same category at 7.9%. The labour turnover improved from last year with a continued focus on delivering a compelling employment value proposition. Staff turnover in corporate stores The Inside Retail programme was The initiative provided on-the-ground was 26.6%, which is fairly static and still within the targeted range. All employees receive performance reviews and career conducted with the aim of raising experience of real life, operational development discussions on a regular basis. the quality of tertiary education processes within the industry and in the country, in line with the generally, practical experience to Education Ministry’s strategic supplement theoretical training plans. The programme targeted at colleges. SUMMARY SNAPSHOT Further Education and Training (FET) lecturers through a week-long, Participating colleges included the embedded course where they gain College of Cape Town, False Bay practical experience of the retail College, Northlink College, Boland PERFORMANCE SNAPSHOT RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES OUR STRATEGY value chain. The course also took College, and South Cape College, 74.4% Positive responses from 'Let’s • Addressing diversity within our Our people intent continues to the participants to the distribution as well as Cape Peninsula University Ask' employee survey human resources (direct and indirect establish and drive an employment centres, suppliers and to the shop of Technology. operations) value proposition that will continue floor to put theory to practice. Sibongile Antoni and Jeroldine Edwards 1 685 Employees on skills programmes to attract, engage and retain the best, • Inability to meet our transformation R131 413 847 spent on employee targets set in line with Black Economic diverse talent required to deliver the training in the last year Empowerment Codes of Good Practice Woolworths strategy. R4 085 average amount spent • Inability to attract, retain and develop talent per employee • Scarcity of skills EMPLOYEE OPINION SURVEY 2015 pulse survey revealed positive the skills transformation of our labour engagement scores across all areas of force. This also assists in career pathing Our latest 'Let’s Ask' employee survey the business. for the progression of our employees and received 74.4% positive responses, slightly to educate potential employees about up from 74% last year. This survey is TALENT MANAGEMENT careers in retail. one way in which we engage with our COMMITMENTS AND PROGRESS 2015 2014 2013 BY 2015 employees to understand their employee AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT As part of our strategy we’ve seen a experiences and also learn from them shift in the number of people who are Conversion of part-timers to flexible 40 hours 50% 50% 49% 44% Talent and succession management where we need to improve. registered on a learnership towards a remains a key focus for both the Board Union membership 5.3% 8.3% 11.6% n/a Excitingly, over 90% of our South African and Exco as a critical enabler of the nationally recognised qualification. employees participated this year. people and business strategies. We are We also offer a range of internal Labour turnover (management) 6.6% 8.5% 8.3% 12% committed to the skills development of and external NQF accredited training Our scores for benefits, workplace and our employees in line with our business and tertiary studies designed to help community remained high and we saw strategies and country’s skills development employees deliver our business strategies, an improvement in team leadership needs. Our talent pipeline programmes foster talent and equip our employees and development – which is especially provide extensive training opportunities TALENT AND SUCCESSION MANAGEMENT REMAINS A KEY FOCUS FOR BOTH THE pleasing given our focus on valueswith vital skills and experience and also in based leadership. Exco leadership was for the next generation of leaders and turn prepare our employees with skills for BOARD AND EXCO AS A CRITICAL ENABLER OF THE PEOPLE AND BUSINESS STRATEGIES. specialists within our business. the retail environment. very positive, and the improvement in rewards and recognition was particularly With the national challenge of inadequate Our focus remains on appointing the right encouraging, given that this is an integral skills levels, and poor work readiness leaders to source, develop, lead and part of striving to be the retail employer of many young people leaving formal retain the right talent, in the right roles, of choice. education and entering the labour market performing optimally, enabled by the right In order to address employees’ priorities, for the first time, we are also focused on culture. In this reporting year, a total of the Country Road Group also undertook helping to narrow the skills gap that exists 1 192 staff members received Values-based an externally hosted alignment and within the broader South African context, Leadership (VBL) training in line with our engagement survey. The results of the so that we can also be role players for vision of being a values-led organisation. WHL 34 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 35 OUR PEOPLE & TRANSFORMATION OUR PEOPLE & TRANSFORMATION CAREER PATHS AND This year the Country Road Group EMPLOYMENT EQUITY goals, coupled with an effective tracking EQUAL EMPLOYMENT • Recognise and reward individual in conjunction with Woolworths has and measurement capability, contribute responsibility, performance and DEVELOPMENT launched its Values-based Leadership Employment equity remains a key in embedding BBBEE as a way of working OPPORTUNITY (EEO) behaviour OPPORTUNITIES AT Programme. The programme was piloted lever within our business used to drive that is integral to business strategy. The Country Road Group is committed • Create a balance between short and COUNTRY ROAD GROUP in November 2014 and the first phase workforce diversity and bring change to equal opportunity in the workplace long-term incentive schemes through transformation. The total number of people with for all regardless of age, career status, The Country Road Group invests in the rolled out in the second half of the disabilities constitutes 1.64% of our disability, industrial activity, physical • Attract, retain and appropriately development of its people and focuses financial year. During the year, 38 head There has been extensive work done employees. The Department of Trade features, political belief or activity, reward top retail executives on providing strong career paths office employees participated in this to ensure integrated and sustainable and Industry (DTI) has set a BBBEE target pregnancy, race, religion, gender or • Create a balance between short and and development opportunities for programme, with plans to roll out the Employment Equity Act compliance and for black people with disabilities of sexual preference. Compulsory EEO long-term incentives. all employees. The number of internal programme further in the year ahead. consultation across the business via 2% of the company workforce. training is completed for all new management appointments across the diversity committees in all business units. A detailed report on remuneration is Witchery has collaborated with the employees to increase awareness business is a key measure in the corporate Our strategic approach to people with Currently black employees with disabilities available in our Integrated Report. RMIT University in Melbourne, to offer a of these issues. strategic plan, tracking positively against disabilities is aligned with our people and constitute 1.53% of our workforce, which All employees at the Country Road Group work placement programme to selected internal targets across the majority of transformation strategies and the national places us over the minimum threshold of participate in performance based incentive Visual Merchandising students. The the brands. programme is designed to provide work skills development strategy. This is enabled 1.2% of the workforce. Over the past year REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES programmes, from store team members, by an integrated, holistic implementation we’ve seen the numbers of all people Woolworths Remuneration Policy has been store managers, head office employees Formal succession planning meetings experience opportunities and bridge the approach to sourcing and developing with disabilities increasing slightly from designed and implemented to attract, through to the executive team. are conducted bi-annually, covering gap between students and experienced people with disabilities and sensitising the 413 to 466. Management is working on retain and reward top executives and store management positions, through merchandisers. Over the past year, environment. The implementation of this understanding the issues and the trends scarce skills. The principles applied in the to executive level. This process assists four students completed the placement strategy is being done in partnership with in terms of reasons for terminations and integrated Remuneration Policy are: to identify and plan the ongoing programme, with potential to extend the the Wholesale and Retail SETA and external will implement plans for retention. development and sustainability of high programme in the future. • Support the delivery of the providers. The continuous improvement potential employees across the Country The Woolworths Executive Committee company strategy In addition, Country Road partners of Integrated Performance Management Road Group, and determines current and is 50% black with a 50% female • Guaranteed pay (TCoE) is benchmarked with visual merchandising students from (IPM) has now seen Broad-Based Black future operational requirements in the representation. This is key in ensuring more against major South African retail RMIT University to produce an annual Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) and/ business. diversity in decision making at this level. and non-retail companies to ensure window display at the flagship or transformation included in individual South Yarra store in Melbourne. employees’ performance goals. Individual competitiveness SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROFILE 2014 2015 2014 2013 EMPLOYMENT EQUITY PROFILE 2015 A C I W FN TOTAL Number of employees trained (includes employees that have since left the business) 32 171 28 125 24 531 Top management 2 2 0 2 2 8 Black employees trained as a % of employees trained 95% 95% 94% Senior management 11 22 15 78 14 140 Number of employees trained on scarce skills 1 11 873 2 581 7 935 Middle management 312 525 177 676 46 1 736 Black employees trained as a % of scarce skills2 93% 79% 92% Junior management 1 453 1 142 260 450 22 3 327 Number of learning interventions 139 297 126 120 102 017 Semi-skilled 14 090 4 242 631 235 30 19 228 Number of learnerships registered 1 748 1 024 1 366 Unskilled 3 001 781 88 31 4 3 905 Number of employees on skills programmes3 1 685 1 615 599 TOTAL – PERMANENT 18869 6 714 1 171 1 472 118 28 344 1 The sector scarce skills list has been revised again for 2014/15, and Sales Assistants were included in the list. Despite this change, we have over Temporary employees 33 17 3 8 4 65 achieved on a like-for-like comparison (3663 vs 2581) 2 Black employees trained as a % of scarce skills increased to 93% including Sales Assistants. TOTAL 18 902 6 731 1 174 1 480 122 28 409 3 Skills programmes delivered in this period are mainly the Values-based Leadership programme that has been implemented as a key organisational focus to leadership development. This programme is offered to managers and leaders and is now available to senior staff levels as well, Male 6 397 2 352 434 604 54 9 841 i.e. CS levels 4 and 5. Female 12 505 4 379 740 876 68 18 568 A – African C – Coloured I – Indian W – White F – Foreign National WHL 36 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 37 OUR PEOPLE & TRANSFORMATION OUR PEOPLE & TRANSFORMATION OUR BBBEE STRATEGY WE WILL CONTINUE TO Under the governance of the WHL Social development CASE STUDY: BEEESOS SCHEME MATURES IN 2015 FOCUS ON TRANSFORMING Social and Ethics Committee of the Board, • Contributing to social development BOTH OUR OWN management has continued to improve and South African national priorities On 30 June 2007, as part of our either sell or keep. The transaction on ensuring that there are appropriate ORGANISATION AND strategies, policies and processes in through sustainable and relevant Good Business Journey, we launched has created R2.4 billion in value for our Black Economic Empowerment the participants and R332 million has OUR SUPPLY CHAIN. place in order to drive sustainable Woolworths efforts. Refer to Social Employee Share Ownership Scheme already been paid out as dividends Development section on pages 42-49. (BEEESOS) in a commitment to over the period of the scheme. Most of transformation. We continue to measure and track socio-economic transformation in the current eligible employees would In order for us to align with the national our country and with the intention receive more than R200 000 from efforts on BBBEE and transformation prescripts of the BBBEE legislation, we of empowering and benefiting the scheme should they decide to sell using the BBBEE scorecard on a monthly have identified a few focus areas: Woolworths employees. The scheme their shares, but the pay-out will differ basis and for each business unit. Direct empowerment was open to all employees who were based on many factors. Our 2013/2014 BEE verification results are employed as at 1 May 2007, and who • Broad-based beneficiation by Going forward, the Woolworths reported in the last table. Because of the were still employed at the initial increasing equity ownership. vesting date (30 June 2007), with the Education Fund will be established timing of the BEE verification in light of the in line with the BEEESOS Trust deed Human capital transformation amendments to the BBBEE codes and our exception of white employees who already participated in an existing to benefit from the unwinding of the • Improving diversity of workforce annual reporting, we will only be able to scheme and add the money set aside through advancement and upskilling report on the BEE results of the 2014/2015 Woolworths share ownership scheme. Shares were allocated to previously for the fund to the bursary funds of previously disadvantaged individuals. financial year in our next annual report. available to our staff. This extends disadvantaged employees based on Supply chain transformation length of service and seniority, with the empowerment efforts beyond the THE AMENDED BEE CODES life of the BEEESOS through education • Facilitating entry of small, black and OF GOOD PRACTICE 75% of the scheme beneficiaries working in stores. of employees and their families. women owned businesses into the The promulgation of the Amended BEE Woolworths supply chain and also Codes of Good Practice in October 2013 The scheme officially matured on supporting them to be sustainable by the Department of Trade and Industry 30 June 2015 and the shares allocated businesses. has meant that we need to revisit our have been converted into Woolworths Zukile Nomafu, transformational efforts and come up with ordinary shares, which owners can BEEESOS Trustee PROGRESS 20141 Overall BEE Level Level 3 strategic shifts that will see Woolworths Good Practice and their impacts on Our BEEESOS Trust matured on Total points 80.19 transformation journey supporting the key our current transformation efforts. 30 June 2015. Financial benefits country objectives meaningfully, e.g.: 2. Build capacity to deliver to the to staff participants, who have Equity ownership 7.94 • Upskilling the nation true intent of the amended codes. collectively received R332 million (2014: R241 million) in dividend Management control 10.33 • Stimulating job creation 3. Develop integrated and sustainable payments from inception of the • Advocating for localisation of supply strategies that will not only reflect the scheme, have been disbursed Employment equity 10.75 chains essence of the new codes but contribute to date. to Woolworths business strategy. Skills development 13.35 • Building strong supply chains whilst The total number of employees removing barriers to entry BROAD-BASED who benefitted from the BEEESOS R332m Preferential procurement 17.78 • Driving strong diversity in our workforce. as at 30 June 2015 was 5 543 Woolworths has used the year under BENEFICIATION compared to 5 875 in 2014. The Enterprise development 15 review to: OUR PEOPLE decrease in numbers is due to Socio-economic development 5 The following are some of the indicators labour turnover. 1. Understand the revised BBBEE Act and the amended BBBEE Codes of that demonstrate the impact of our IN DIVIDENDS PAID TO 1 BEE Level for 2015 to be reported in 2016 following alignment and verification with amended transformation efforts: BEEESOS SHAREHOLDERS BBBEE Codes of Good Practice WHL 38 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 39 OUR PEOPLE & TRANSFORMATION OUR SUPPLIERS: PREFERENTIAL PROCUREMENT ENTERPRISE AND SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT AND PARTNERSHIPS The Woolworths Enterprise Development (ED) programme has Finance. This further indicates that our ED strategy promotes and been designed primarily to support emerging black-owned positions ED beneficiaries to participate in the core business of organisations in the Woolworths greater supply chain, including Woolworths. We currently have 40 ED beneficiaries within our primary and secondary suppliers. This is used as a tool to remove supply chain and they are commercially viable and sustainable. barriers of entry into our supply chain for small, medium, black and black women-owned enterprises. These strategies have seen A further contribution is through Non-cash Grants; this is us through the increased targets for preferential procurement as driven mainly through the support of micro enterprises and per the Amended Codes of Good Practice. By doing this, we are entrepreneurship at the Clothing Bank. This contribution was able to ensure that our suppliers enforce our Code of Business R25.5 million in the last year. Principles within their operations and in so doing, we are able We establish a compelling business case for most of our to build long-lasting relationships with them. Empowering our transformation efforts as a motivator for us and our internal suppliers remains key to our preferential procurement initiatives. change agents to do more. Our supplier development initiatives During the year, four ED loans were disbursed to the value of have to meet expected return on sales whilst the small/medium R10.7 million, three of these loans were in Foods and one in business involved makes profit and grows. CASE STUDY: MARIGOLD FARMS Entrepreneur Monica Ndebele took These sustainable farming a leap of faith to join Maarten techniques qualified Marigold Farms Koppenol, an agronomist and as a Woolworths ‘Farming for the special consultant to Fresh To Future’ (See page 70 on Farming for Go (Pty) Limited, a fresh produce the Future) supplier. The business marketing and processing company also became a beneficiary of the that supplies Woolworths, to form a Woolworths Enterprise Development unique venture in the agricultural programme, receiving a R5 million industry. When Maarten loan to facilitate its expansion. decided to sell part of the farm (Eldorado Farms, where Monica To date, the farm employs over was employed as a Packhouse 70 people and produces high Manageress) in 2008, keeping 40 quality vegetables such as hectares to use in experimenting tenderstem broccoli, pak choy, with sustainable farming, Monica green beans, cauliflower, baby saw an opportunity to buy-in, and leeks, spinach, leeks, coriander, Marigold Farms was formed. baby spinach, baby carrots, spring onions and kale seeds. A number of sustainable farming The Woolworths funding also practices were introduced at assisted in clearing for additional Marigold that included solar panels farmland, an upgrade of the and a biological filter to soften packhouse, installation of the borehole water; a worm farm to irrigation system and the building produce vermiculture; compost of a water reservoir. Production production so that they can grow has grown from 47 tonnes to the produce in raised composted 250 tonnes, and Woolworths beds using crop rotation techniques procures 80% of Marigold to prevent soil degredation. Farms’ produce. WHL 40 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 41 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY O ur social development strategy articulates the role that we want to play as a retailer in empowering and building our communities for the future we want WE COMMIT TO to see. We do this by making a meaningful difference through the activities CONTINUE OUR of The Woolworths Trust, which was formed in 2003 to co-ordinate our community development and charity activities. Key to our Corporate Social Initiative (CSI) FOCUS ON CAUSES approach is the involvement of our stakeholders, including employees, customers, THAT ARE IMPORTANT business partners, government departments, NGOs and the communities themselves. TO OUR CUSTOMERS The community is central to delivering on our targets. AND COLLEAGUES, Core to this strategy is to support programmes that: AND THE COUNTRIES • Address food security, mainly through schools as hubs of community development. IN WHICH WE OPERATE. • Reduce child vulnerability by supporting child safety initiatives that reduce injuries and accidents. • Contribute towards education through working with the National Education Collaboration Trust and Woolworths Educational programmes. MAPPING OUR RISKS ACROSS THE SUPPLY CHAIN IDENTIFIED SUB RISK ISSUES Food security • Poverty alleviation • Addressing food waste Education CSI capital • Access to quality resources • Community access to CSI benefits Child vulnerability • Preventing injury R637m SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION FROM and safety WHL LAST YEAR KEY: Moderate Significant Major Not applicable SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT To find additional content on our social development initiatives go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 43 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT OUR PROGRESS SUMMARY SNAPSHOT CHILD VULNERABILITY AND SAFETY CHILDSAFE PERFORMANCE SNAPSHOT RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES OUR STRATEGY The Woolworths Trust works with Childsafe, a campaign of the Child Accident Prevention Foundation of Southern Africa, to raise Almost R590 million Woolworths social • Food insecurity in South Africa Woolworths social development strategy awareness of childhood injuries and their prevention. contribution for the year in South Africa • Quality of education, particularly is aligned both to our core business in marginalised communities strategy and to national development Woolworths continues to support the awareness campaign R59.8 million contributed through priorities of South Africa. We strive to MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet • Access to services in marginalised ‘You're Bigger Be the Adult’ as a means to help reduce preventable make a meaningful difference through communities the activities of The Woolworths Trust, accidents and injuries to children and to help make South Africa 8 207 Beneficiaries in our MySchool safer for our children. MyVillage MyPlanet programme • Access to capital for social development The MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet initiatives programme and other community and R22 million donated to the EduPlant • Community-based initiatives provide NGO partnerships. REDKITE programme in the last 11 years us with a way of offering enriching Country Road partners with Redkite, one of Australia’s leading 2 642 Schools benefitting from our experiences to our employees. In turn, cancer charities for children and young people. Making The Difference Educational this strengthens our employment value programmes proposition to potential and existing As the major programme partner of Redkite’s Red Bag programme, employees Country Road supports families with Redkite’s practical support pack. These packs are designed, produced and filled by Country Road with items designed to make the families more comfortable during their stay in hospital. Over 4 000 packs have been FOOD SECURITY IN SCHOOLS provided to date. Woolworths is in its eleventh year of supporting the EduPlant programme. EduPlant, initiated and co-ordinated by Food & Trees During the past year over A$149 000 was raised through customer, for Africa, and funded by Engen and The Woolworths Trust, is a Woolworths head office child safety awareness campaign during employee and corporate fundraising. Since the partnership began national food gardening and greening programme that supports Child Safety Week. in 2008, Country Road has raised more than A$900 000 for Redkite. schools and their surrounding communities to create abundant gardens using permaculture practices. The Woolworths Trust has donated more than R22 million to the EduPlant programme over the past 11 years. This includes CASE STUDY: TUTUDESK training for educators from hundreds of schools on permaculture techniques so that they can initiate and manage sustainable In South Africa an estimated three million children do food gardens at their schools. More than 80% of the schools not have classroom desks. Across the Sub-Saharan Africa that maintain EduPlant food gardens use the fresh vegetables region this number escalates to almost 100 million children to supplement feeding schemes at their schools. attending school without the benefit of classroom desks to work at. The Tutudesk campaign is addressing this classroom desk shortage by providing children with access to portable desks (known as Tutudesks) and in so doing is improving access, supporting literacy development and enhancing academic performance among the beneficiaries of the programme. In response to a recent call to action by Emeritus Archbishop Desmond Tutu (the campaign’s official patron), IN THE LAST YEAR, WE HAVE DONATED the MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet fundraising programme OVER R490 MILLION WORTH OF FOOD and The Woolworths Trust joined forces to provide 5 000 TO NEEDY CAUSES. IN ADDITION, Tutudesks to learners in the Eastern Cape, focusing specifically on schools that have less than 50% of the desks R25.5 MILLION WORTH OF SURPLUS they need. Many of the schools selected are also part of the CLOTHING WAS DONATED TO CHARITIES EduPlant programme where they are successfully growing THROUGH THE CLOTHING BANK. their own food gardens. WHL 44 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 45 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT IMPROVING EDUCATION NATIONAL EDUCATION COLLABORATION TRUST The high school programme is a design programme targeted CASE STUDY: SCOOT-2Education is a key focus for Woolworths. Through partnerships toward Grades 10 to 12 design learners and promotes sustainable SCHOOL SCOOTER with the National Education Collaboration Trust and the design. Experiential components include our annual 'Making the Woolworths Making the Difference educational programmes, Difference Through Design' competition and design workshops The Making the Difference Woolworths strives to improve education outcomes in South Africa. for teachers. The design competition winners’ works are Through Design Programme has The Woolworths Trust donated R2 million to support the work of exhibited at the annual Design Indaba Expo each year. developed a winning design into the National Education Collaboration Trust, a partnership between an actual product. A grade 12 government, civil society, and business to improve education. learner (Artemis Spyropoulos) at Red Hill High School in Sandton, MYSCHOOL MYVILLAGE MYPLANET designed the lightweight ScootIn the 2015 financial year we contributed R59.8 million to the 2-School scooter, which won the MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet programme through over 885 000 national Making the Difference active MySchool supporters. The contributions have supported Through Design competition 8 207 beneficiaries (includes schools, charities and environmental in 2012. organisations). R3.6 million of the total was given to our 131 Given the success of the scooter, MyPlanet charities over the past year (charities that care for Woolworths embarked on a animals and the environment). Over the past year, Country Road project with industry professionals Group stores in South Africa contributed over A$93 000 on behalf to produce 45 of these winning of customers to the MySchool programme. designs. These scooters were donated to Ibhongo High School MAKING THE DIFFERENCE EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMMES in Soweto. The Woolworths educational programmes includes a primary The Scoot-2-School scooter not school and high school programmes that provide teachers only gets learners to school on with both resources and a range of experiential components time, but are also made from directed toward both teachers and learners. The primary school mostly recycled materials which programme targets Grades 4 to 6 and focuses on healthy living makes them easy to maintain and and the environment. Experiential components include: class cost effective. lessons; store tours; learner talks; moms' tours; coastal cleanup, as well as various campaigns and competitions. There are over The Making the Difference 2 640 schools across the Western Cape, KwaZulu-Natal, Gauteng Through Design competition and the Eastern Cape currently benefiting from the programmes teaches high school learners – based on a R2 million annual contribution by Woolworths. about the value of design in our MTD learners everyday lives. The annual design competition for schools motivates original and innovative design ideas that develop awareness of THE WOOLWORTHS TRUST STRIVES TO MAKE A MEANINGFUL IMPACT IN LOCAL environmental and social issues. COMMUNITIES BY SUPPORTING PROGRAMMES THAT IMPROVE FOOD SECURITY, REDUCE CHILD VULNERABILITY AND UPLIFT EDUCATION. WHL 46 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 47 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT EMPLOYEE COMMUNITY get a cash donation of R10 000 each. PRODUCT DONATIONS These funds go towards programmes Research Foundation (OCRF) through the award for 2015 at the Prix de Marie Claire INVOLVEMENT This year, business units, divisions and supporting the conservation of rhino and annual White Shirt Campaign, the sale of Awards, in recognition of the annual White As part of addressing the issue of food distribution centres were encouraged other endangered species as well as silver ribbons and the sale of the Silver Gift Shirt Campaign and efforts to raise funds As part of the Woolworths social security, we have established a system to work together and come up with raising funds for campaigns such as breast collection in stores and online. for OCRF. development strategy, employees are of diverting our surplus food from going proposals on how they would actively cancer awareness and Operation Smile. encouraged and supported to get to waste. We donate this food to needy This brings the total donations raised by involve colleagues in making a difference SPONSORSHIP involved in activities in their communities communities via structured charity David Jones provides support to causes Witchery for the OCRF to more than A$7 in causes of their choice including caring and provide support for a variety of organisations. In the last year, we have that directly benefit the health and million since first partnering in 2000. Our sponsorship policy aims to facilitate for the aged, animals, vulnerable children, charitable causes. Initiatives such as donated over R490 million worth of food wellbeing of Australian women, with our activity as a dynamic role player and education and health care. Successful Witchery's ongoing support has helped Matching Funds, team up for a Just to needy causes. In addition, R25.5 million the majority of our support going to deliver to our business strategy. Some of teams get R10 000 to kick start their plans the OCRF make significant progress Cause and, the highlight of the calendar worth of surplus clothing was donated the National Breast Cancer Foundation. our key sponsorships include MasterChef and The Woolworths Trust will match the towards the development of an early Mandela Day, form part of the employee to charities through the Clothing Bank. Every year, David Jones holds a Shop Pink South Africa, Design Indaba and the funds by up to R40 000 for teams who detection test for ovarian cancer. More community involvement programme. Donation Day where all profits made on Cape Epic mountain bike race. No manage to reach their fund raising goals. Through Country Road’s Fashion Trade specifically, the funds have supported These initiatives support a wide range of the day from all stores across Australia political donations were made, in line programme, more than 44 000 items of a large number of research staff and causes, for example, children, animals, the EMPLOYEES SERVING COMMUNITIES are donated to the National Breast with our policy. clothing and accessories were donated by projects, and the purchase of research ON MANDELA DAY Cancer Foundation. environment, education and the aged. It customers and the Country Road Group, equipment. Witchery's funding also is through the efforts of employees that For the past three years, as part of OVARIAN CANCER RESEARCH provides support for scientific and contributing in excess of A$2.1 million (in Woolworths is able to extend its reach the Woolworths employee community FOUNDATION medical students undertaking higher retail value) to the Red Cross in Australia and make more of the difference to others. involvement programme, our employees degree studies into ovarian cancer. and New Zealand. This year Witchery raised over have devoted 67 minutes (and more) to 67 Witchery won the Fashion with Heart In the last year, over R2 million was A$1.4 million for the Ovarian Cancer projects in honour of Mandela Day. These donated to charities and organisations projects support a variety of organisations CAUSE-RELATED MARKETING through these initiatives by Woolworths employee community involvement such as the elderly, children, people with AND PARTNERSHIPS disabilities and abandoned animals. programmes. Further, The Woolworths Trust gives each Our cause-related marketing initiatives CASE STUDY: ROSE CLINICS ARE HELPING TO SAVE AUSTRALIAN WOMEN’S LIVES create awareness and raise funds for of the 67 projects a R5 000 donation. NEW TAKE ON JUST BECAUSE important conservation and sustainability Approximately 14 000 women are supported the clinics through a Every year, our employees are encouraged The Mandela Day activities form part related issues. In the last year, we have diagnosed with breast cancer in contribution of over A$560 000 as to nominate their choice of worthy causes of a portfolio of community projects raised just over R2.7 million through the Australia each year, with one in eight well as the provision of space within and in previous years, these causes would funded by The Woolworths Trust. sale of bags, sweets and bracelets. women being diagnosed with breast five stores across Australia. Results for cancer in their lifetime. As part of 2015 have been overwhelming, with our commitment to the health and over 24 000 women undertaking a wellbeing of Australian women, David breast screening at Rose Clinics. WHL FUNDING/SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT SPEND 2015 2014 Jones has partnered with BreastScreen associations in each state to establish In 2015, David Jones and the National Woolworths Trust R8.05 m R7.5 m Rose Clinics, initially in our Sydney Breast Cancer Foundation (NBCF) flagship store in 2002, and now in our celebrated a 20 year partnership in MySchool R59.8 m R52 m the fight against breast cancer. This Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Surplus food donations R490 m R424 m Perth stores. year, 650 David Jones staff supported the Mother’s Day Classic running Surplus clothing donations R25.5 m R28 m The Rose Clinics provide a free event, raising over A$75 000. Other breast screening service for women initiatives include the Shop Pink Day, MTD programme R2.3 m R4 m aged 40 and over to assist in the with all profits generated from the early detection of breast cancer. 38 stores nationally and online Cause-related marketing and partnerships R2.7 m R2.3 m The clinics use state of the art donated to the NBCF, the David The Country Road Group R35.6 m R27.3 m digital mammography technology, Jones Charity Bear, with 10% of sales offering a first class clinical service dedicated to breast cancer research David Jones R12.8 m R9.5 m in a comfortable, non-clinical and a new limited edition pink environment. David Jones has gift card. Total R636.75 m R555 m WHL 48 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 49 HEALTH & WELLNESS STRATEGY HEALTH & W ith a global surge in nutrition-and-lifestyle based diseases, including cardiovascular disease, type II diabetes and obesity, we make it our business THE GOOD FOOD WELLNESS to help customers make informed buying decisions through promoting JOURNEY IS THE awareness and improving labelling to ensure transparency in the communication of the nutritional content of our foods products. The increased consumption of energyNAME WE'VE GIVEN dense, nutrient-poor foods that are high in fat, sugar and sodium is identified as a risk TO OUR ONGOING factor which can affect all of our customers. QUEST TO OFFER We also recognise that food marketing affects food choices and influences dietary SOUTH AFRICA FOOD habits, especially of vulnerable groups such as expectant and new mothers, children, THAT'S BETTER FOR teenagers and disadvantaged people, therefore we also make it our mission to provide a variety of healthy options to support a multitude of dietary needs and inspire a OUR CUSTOMERS, healthy lifestyle by making healthy eating satisfying, delicious and convenient across BETTER FOR THE our product ranges. We assist customers to make informed choices through various ENVIRONMENT customer communication channels, such as providing nutritional information on products and on our website. AND BETTER FOR THE PEOPLE THAT The health, safety and wellbeing of our employees are at the core of our operations. We take the time to understand health challenges facing our employees and assist PRODUCE IT. in offering correct training and care programmes as well as ensuring that we are compliant with relevant legislation. We aim to create a safe and healthy environment with necessary support structures to enable employees to thrive in the workplace. MAPPING OUR RISKS ACROSS THE SUPPLY CHAIN IDENTIFIED SUB RISK ISSUES Nutrition • Non-communicable disease and wellness linked to over-nutrition or under-nutrition Transparency • Responsible marketing • Food labelling and safety Employee health • Prevalence of preventable and non-preventable diseases • HIV/Aids • Employee Wellbeing Occupational health • Accessibility for people with and safety disabilities • Accidents in the workplace KEY: Moderate Significant Major Not applicable 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 51 HEALTH & WELLNESS HEALTH & WELLNESS OUR PROGRESS SUMMARY SNAPSHOT WOOLWORTHS GOOD We pledge, through our Nutrition Woolworths products are developed Commitment, to both promote and enable based on these principles: FOOD JOURNEY healthy, nutritionally balanced lifestyles. 1. Inspiring a healthy lifestyle by making PERFORMANCE SNAPSHOT RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES OUR STRATEGY The Good Food Journey is the name During the course of 2014 we ran a Health healthy eating satisfying, delicious and we've given to our ongoing quest to offer and Wellness Campaign which included convenient across our product ranges: 334 000 customers linking their • An unhealthy diet and physical • To inspire a healthy lifestyle by a series of health and nutrition promotions Woolworths card to Discovery Vitality inactivity are among the leading causes making healthy eating satisfying, South Africa food that's better for our • ready-to-eat salads and meal solutions HealthyFoodsTM of poor health, including obesity, delicious and convenient across our customers, better for the environment using television, radio, print, and social • prepared vegetable and fruit packs heart disease and diabetes, which is an product ranges and better for the people that produce media over a six month period. • portion-controlled snack packs 2 300 products listed as part of the emerging global problem Discovery Vitality HealthyFoodsTM • To innovate and improve nutritional it. Through our Good Food Journey we • Slimmer’s Choice foods programme • Personal health and wellness is one of our customers' top sustainability quality through product reformulation without compromising taste aim to keep people as well informed as OUR NUTRITION • CARBCLEVER range possible about the food they are eating Approximately 2 238 employees concerns • To develop specific lifestyle solutions and how it impacts on health. Throughout COMMITMENT • foods for specific dietary needs supported through the Employee across various life stages, including • The health and wellbeing of our for a variety of dietary needs, e.g. the years our Good Food Journey has This commitment is not only to provide our Assistance Programme employees has the potential to gluten-free products foods for persons with allergies pioneered some key milestones important customers with appropriate food solutions, Less than 2% of private label foods positively or negatively influence • To assist customers to make informed and intolerances. productivity in the workplace to our customers, such as not using MSG, but to advance our Good Food Journey and remaining labelled Maybe GMO choices through various customer to support government and international or containing ingredients potentially communication channels, such as tartrazine and azo-dyes in any of our from GM crop sources providing nutritional information private label products and limiting the initiatives which aim to reduce obesity and on products and on our website use of additives. other non-communicable diseases. • To create a safe and healthy environment with necessary support structures to enable employees to thrive in the workplace CASE STUDY: HEALTHY FOOD GUIDE FOR SCHOOLS With obesity and malnutrition on The school environment provides a the rise among school children, vital context not only for children the Western Cape Department of to learn about healthy eating and Education in partnership with healthy lifestyles, but also for them Woolworths and the Sports Science to put knowledge into practice. Institute, developed a healthy eating South African school children face guide to help school tuck shops, nutritional challenges that range food vendors, teachers, parents from malnutrition to obesity. Schools and pupils make better and more can help to make the difference by nutritious food choices. ensuring that food provided on the school grounds meets the standards The guide is based on the latest of good nutrition for children. expertise in healthy eating and sets out how schools can develop a healthy The guide is intended to promote eating policy, and explains, among healthier lifestyles through food other things how to read food labels. choices and is intended to enhance It also provides schools with hygiene wellness, performance and provide and food safety advice and gives children with sustained energy a number of healthy tuck shop levels thereby positively impacting meal ideas. concentration, behaviour and enhanced learning in the classroom. The guide was developed by a team of nutrition experts and is aimed The guide is available at: at helping the many children who www.woolworthsinschools/primary face nutritional challenges. school/healthytuckshopguide.co.za WHL 52 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 53 HEALTH & WELLNESS HEALTH & WELLNESS 2. Innovating to improve the nutritional quality of our foods by: We offer curriculum-linked resources for schools on healthy HEALTH AND SAFETY We communicate offerings and how to HIV/AIDS MANAGEMENT • considering the nutrient profile of products eating, Store Tours helping teachers and parents learn about access them in detail to our employees In mid June 2014, according to Statistics Prevention is an important aspect of our • offering products with functional ingredients such as nutrition, healthy living and caring for the environment, and via notification boards around our South Africa it was reported that the health and safety procedures; hence, all Omega-3. Learner Talks hosted at schools by dietitians. buildings or on our intranet site. estimated overall HIV prevalence rate our buildings are designed within stringent 3. Promoting healthy informed choices through customer health and safety guidelines and with in South Africa is approximately 10.2%. INJURIES AND ABSENTEEISM communications with: PRODUCT SAFETY employee and customer well-being as a A total number of 771 injuries on duty The total number of people living with • clear nutrition labelling on our products and on our FOOD SAFETY AND INTEGRITY primary consideration. At our distribution were recorded during 2014/15 with 608 HIV is estimated at approximately Healthy Living Hub website Food safety is also critical to the business, and mechanisms are in centres, health and safety issues ensuring of these resulting in at least one day 5.1 million. For adults aged 15 to 49 years, • practical tools such as product information lists compliance with legislation are covered off work. No confirmed deaths due to an estimated 16.8% of the population is place to ensure that consumers are offered products which have • easily identifiable icons that are simple to understand in the collective agreement with the injury on duty were recorded. The Gross HIV positive. With a large majority of the undergone thorough testing and rigid process control to ensure • health promotion through marketing campaigns trade union. Furthermore, in support Absentee Rate (GAR) for the year was working class impacted, it is imperative they are safe. In addition, all Woolworths suppliers are audited • Making the Difference Educational Programme of our strategy to employ people with 2.54% for 2014/15. to have the necessary management independently by rigorous inspection services and visited by our resources and experiential learning components disabilities, we consistently re-evaluate systems in every work environment. technical teams to ensure that the highest standards of hygiene • Link to Discovery Vitality HealthyFoodsTM . our work environments to ensure that EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMME and safety are upheld. Woolworths acknowledges HIV/ reasonable accommodation is in place. The Woolworths Employee Assistance DIABETES DAY STORE TOURS Our labelling policy ensures that customers are given sufficient As per legislative requirements, health and AIDS as a potential threat which can Programme (EAP) is a worksite-based Diabetes is a growing concern in South Africa and around the accurate information to allow them to make informed buying safety representatives are appointed in programme, open to all Woolworths be managed and monitored with the globe. To help combat this global disease, Woolworths offers decisions, and we have stringent policies and processes in each part of the business, and health and employees, designed to assist in the appropriate leadership, strategic planning dietitian-led store tours during the week of World Diabetes Day place to ensure the integrity of our food. safety committees are in place. identification and resolution of personal and implementation of cost-effective (14 November) to help its customers understand the importance concerns that may or may not impact on and sustainable measures, to manage of good nutrition in managing the symptoms of diabetes. CHILD SAFETY Woolworths currently employs the impacts on the organisation and productivity or work performance. These 15 occupational health practitioners to its employees. The costs of HIV/AIDS From our no-pin policy and metal detectors in factories, to using concerns include, but are not limited to DISCOVERY VITALITY HEALTHYFOODTM PROGRAMME deliver a comprehensive occupational include costs associated with increased the softest and most protective fabrics, Woolworths is committed health, marital, family, financial, alcohol, Woolworths continues to support the Vitality HealthyFoodTM health and wellness programme which absenteeism, reduced productivity, to maintaining the highest possible levels of product safety drug, legal, emotional, social or work stress programme, launched in partnership with Discovery in 2013. includes: increased turnover, and healthcare costs. through the design and manufacturing of our baby and problems which may adversely affect job The programme is aimed at promoting healthy eating among children’s clothing products. • Employee Assistance Programme performance, productivity or safety. During FY2015 the total number of over 1.05 million Vitality members through a cash-back promise • Wellness screening including HIV screening employees and contractors receiving for purchasing from the range of more than 2 300 HealthyFoodTM PRODUCT RECALLS In FY2015 approximately 2 238 employees items on our shelves. The success of the programme has been • Basic primary health services and advice made use of the EAP programme. Voluntary Counselling and Testing (VCT) Woolworths has a robust product recall process in place, for HIV/AIDS was 4 447. significant, with more than 334 000 customers linking their whereby products posing a safety risk are removed from the • Monitoring of chronic illnesses Woolworths card and receiving benefits for healthy eating shelf within two hours of the respective executive being made • HIV/AIDS and TB policy and guidelines. choices. In addition, 36% of Vitality members are also linked aware of the risk. There were no public recalls for Woolworths to the MySchool MyVillage MyPlanet programme. food products during the course of 2014/15. WOOLWORTHS HEALTHY LIVING HUB Our online Healthy Living Hub includes meal plans, recipe ideas GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS and tips from our dietitian to further promote healthy eating. In keeping with our public commitment to remove or replace EMPLOYEE HEALTH INDICATOR 2015 2014 ingredients from genetically modified crops in our foods where Number of confirmed fatalities 0 0 EDUCATING SCHOOL LEARNERS AND PARENTS possible, Woolworths has reduced the number of products ON NUTRITION containing ingredients derived from genetically modified Number of primary healthcare cases (acute and chronic care) 8 817 Not reported Woolworths helps educate primary school learners and their organism crop sources in private label foods by 50%. Last year, parents on nutrition through the Woolworths Making the 5.3% of Woolworths private label foods contained ingredients from Number of injuries on duty 771 735 Difference educational programme. potential GMO crop sources. This has now dropped to less than 2%. Number of Lost Time Injuries 685 611 Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) 0.01% 0.01% Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 0.17% 0.16% Gross Absentee Rate 2.54% 2.86% To visit our Healthy Living Hub, go to www.woolworths.co.za/food/recipes/healthy-living WHL 54 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 55 HEALTH & WELLNESS HEALTH & WELLNESS To address some of the challenges that Woolworths has also identified the following The Woolworths Code of Business come with HIV/AIDS, we have adopted components to managing HIV/AIDS: Principles, against which all our firstCASE STUDY: EMPLOYEE WELLBEING A TOP PRIORITY FOR DAVID JONES a company-wide HIV/AIDS policy, last • Prevention of HIV/AIDS by offering tier suppliers are assessed, prohibits reviewed in June 2015. free voluntary HIV/AIDS screening and discrimination against affected and infected people across our supply chain. David Jones has a good track record activities and education programmes check in with their family, friends Woolworths commits to the Constitution of counselling to all employees. In addition, of improving workplace health and designed to support personal and colleagues who may not seem South Africa, and applicable employment the distribution of condoms in all safety outcomes, having already responsibility for improved health and themselves. David Jones also provides BREAST CANCER MONTH legislation and other related legislation facilities reduced workers compensation wellbeing. From eight week fitness ongoing support to employees and AT DAVID JONES which informs the HIV/AIDS policy. This • Living positively with HIV/AIDS premiums by A$2.6 million (47%) challenges, to a Healthy Recipes their families through Drake Employee David Jones is proud to be a Diamond policy is very explicit on how employees and delivered an industry leading competition and access to online tools Assistance Program, a free and • Communication, education and Partner of the National Breast Cancer who test positive for the virus are treated 55% reduction in Total Recorded such as FoodSwitch, employees have confidential counselling service. awareness across all our operations Foundation. Breast Cancer is one of the in order for them to continue to lead Injury Frequency Rates (TRIFR) become more informed about the The service saw a 68% increase in via our intranet and other staff most common causes of cancer-related productive lives: since 2012. Established programmes choices they can make when it comes access as a result of active promotion communication channels. deaths of women in Australia. Over 14 000 were expanded beyond compliance to healthy living, both at work and in during Mental Health Awareness • They will not be removed from their women are diagnosed with this position, victimised or discriminated In addition, we support and engage in a in 2015 to include the physical and their personal lives. month and a high level of engagement devastating disease per year, and sadly, mental wellbeing of the team, with in participating stores. against range of community wellness campaigns This year mental wellbeing had a thousands of women may not win the fight. some encouraging early results for pertaining to HIV/AIDS (e.g. World AIDS Day) significant focus, with Mental Health • They are entitled to confidentiality employees and the business. to raise awareness on a much wider scale As part of our partnership with the Awareness month coinciding with • They are entitled to treatment via the within our corporate environment, supply National Breast Cancer Foundation, Based on monthly themes, employees “R U OK? Day”, a suicide prevention Woolworths Clinical Management chain and the communities we impact. David Jones is the exclusive department are encouraged to participate in initiative encouraging people to programme run by Metropolitan Health We also engage with organisations such store retailer of Pink Ribbon merchandise risk Management under the name of as the South African Business Coalition on during Breast Cancer Month. “HIV Your Life Programme if they do HIV/AIDS in order to understand workplace not have access to a medical aid issues associated with the illness. • They are eligible for all employee benefits. DAVID JONES IS PROUD TO BE A DIAMOND PARTNER OF THE NATIONAL BREAST CANCER FOUNDATION. WHL 56 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 57 ETHICAL SOURCING STRATEGY ETHICAL W e are committed to ensuring that both WHL and our suppliers operate in a way that respects workers’ rights, maintains safe working conditions, upholds local WE WILL ONLY DEAL SOURCING employment laws and protects the environment and the welfare of animals. Not only is this what our customers expect; who we believe that suppliers and business WITH SUPPLIERS AND partners share our values, with safe, environmentally responsible and fair working PARTNERS WHO SHARE conditions, produce the best quality goods. OUR COMMITMENT Our approach to ethical sourcing is broadly built around a number of key elements: TO OPERATING IN • Building internal awareness and capacity around ethical trade AN ETHICAL MANNER. • Ensuring we work with suppliers and business partners who share our values • Monitoring supplier performance to identify issues • Addressing problems where they arise and supporting our suppliers to align with WHL best practice • Building capacity along the supply chain, as a means of improving social and environmental outcomes • Engaging our stakeholders regularly on ethical trade matters • Working with others to tackle complex and systemic problems that we cannot tackle on our own • Driving transparency – being open and honest about our challenges and progress. MAPPING OUR RISKS ACROSS THE SUPPLY CHAIN IDENTIFIED SUB RISK ISSUES Ethical conditions • Wages in supply chains • Safe working conditions • Freedom of association • BEE Traceability • Key commodity inputs across the Group Environmental • Deforestation conditions in • Energy supply chains • Water • Waste • Animal welfare KEY: Moderate Significant Major Not applicable To read our Position Statement on ethical sourcing, go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney WHL 58 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 59 ETHICAL SOURCING ETHICAL SOURCING OUR PROGRESS SUMMARY SNAPSHOT PERFORMANCE SNAPSHOT RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES OUR STRATEGY Good progress made around alignment • Increasing global pressure on retailers We have embarked on a journey to of Group companies in terms of ethical to consider both the environmental better manage our ethical supply chain sourcing impacts of products and the labour risk across the Group and to take more relations standards of the suppliers they responsibility for improving the lives of Country Road Group rated as B+ in are sourcing from workers in our South African and global the 2015 Baptist World Aid Australian supply chains. Fashion Report • Greater demands for accountability and transparency from customers, media First products containing mass balance and non-governmental organisations palm oil on the shelves • Long-term security of supply and Use of BCI cotton trebled year-on-year quality of commodities sourced is a concern W • Traceability becomes increasingly e believe that the most sustainable way to drive of Trade and Industry (DTI) BBBEE Codes of Good Practice and difficult where we do not have a improvements is to work collaboratively, as signatories requiring our South African suppliers and contractors to do direct relationship with producers, to the UN Global Compact, via the SEDEX programme the same. particularly in the case of commodities (the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange) and using the conventions Woolworths has always taken ethical sourcing very seriously and • Partnering with credible sustainability of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and Ethical Trading standards can increase transparency, driven this primarily through the Woolworths Code of Business encourage more sustainable farming Initiative (ETI) Base Code to underpin our programme, and to help Principles and supplier audits. We are also partnering with practices, ensure ethical working determine principles specific to WHL. credible third-party organisations and standards, particularly conditions and better prices where we are sourcing commodities and do not have direct WHL supports the following ethical sourcing principles: relationships with the producers. • That employment be freely chosen, not forced, bonded WW11558/E or resulting in involuntary prison labour WOOLWORTHS CODE OF BUSINESS TARGETS • That freedom of association and the right to collective PRINCIPLES AIMS FOR 2015 ACHIEVED bargaining is respected All our suppliers, service providers and franchisees, whatever • That working conditions are safe and hygienic their location, are bound by the Woolworths Code of Business Foods supplier compliance with Code 95% 94% of Business Principles • That child labour will not be permitted Principles and all our first-tier suppliers are regularly assessed • That minimum wages should be paid against it by a third-party auditor. This means that the quality Clothing & GM supplier compliance 95% 95% of their workmanship has to be the highest, their workforce has with Code of Business Principles • That working hours are not excessive to be treated fairly, their premises must be safe and that any UTZ Certified cocoa sourced for Woolworths 75% 75% 1 MILK, DARK • That discrimination should never be permitted or tolerated negative impact their operations might have on the environment private label chocolates OR WHITE? • That regular employment is provided is minimised. 1 Projected to be at 100% by December 2015. HOW ABOUT • That harsh or inhumane treatment should not be allowed We also have specific position statements (published on our GREEN? • Commitment to compliance with all applicable environmental website) that summarise our positions on most of the key ethical We’re sourcing more and more certified-sustainable cocoa for our chocolates. Currently, 75% of the cocoa we source for our Woolies boxed chocolates, bars and slabs is sustainable. By 2016, we’d like to be sourcing only sustainable cocoa. We’re working with an international organisation called laws and regulations and a commitment to environmental sourcing issues. UTZ Certified to support environmentally sound cocoa farming and to create better opportunities for farmers and their families. So you can enjoy this “guilty pleasure” with less guilt. efficiency and improvement over time Foods targeted 95% compliance with the Code of Business COUNTRY ROAD GROUP RATED AS B+ IN THE 2015 THANK YOU FOR YOUR SUPPORT AND FOR CHOOSING TO BE A PARTNER IN OUR JOURNEY TOWARDS SUSTAINABILITY • That animal welfare is promoted by the minimising Principles for 2015 and achieved 94% compliance. Common BAPTIST WORLD AID AUSTRALIAN FASHION REPORT. of any potential harm, stress or pain to animals trends bringing compliance rates down are suppliers not paying • That bribes, favours, benefits or other similar unlawful premium overtime rates and employing foreigners without permits 11558 GBJ Cocoa 275x210 v4.indd 1 2014/02/19 11:13 AM or improper payments, in cash or kind, whether given or with expired permits. to obtain business or otherwise is prohibited Clothing’s 2015 compliance target was 95%, and 95% was • Commitment in South Africa to the principles of broad-based achieved, with some challenges in the engagement of international black economic empowerment as set out in the Department suppliers and supplier turnover preventing an even higher score. WHL 60 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 61 ETHICAL SOURCING ETHICAL SOURCING We are revising and improving our in relation to ethical trade and the ETI innovative web-based platform, helping CASE STUDY: MIMCO PARTNERS WITH THE ETHICAL FASHION INITIATIVE Code of Business Principles in order base code. Suppliers undergo regular companies to manage ethical supply to proactively address more globally social compliance checks conducted by chain risk and streamline the challenging identified issues while also strengthening independent auditors, or are required to process of engaging with multi-tier MIMCO has partnered with the International Trade Centre’s supervisory skills) and 22% increase for semi-skilled areas which we felt were not prescriptive supply audit reports from independent supply chains. They are the largest Ethical Fashion Initiative (EFI) to play an active role in artisans (screen printing and building skills). Of the total auditors, to ensure they meet the enough. For instance, in response to the collaborative platform for managing empowering women and reducing poverty through fair 293 artisans, 95% received training over the production standards of the code. unfortunate incidents that took place ethical supply chain data, with over work opportunities. period, gaining the confidence and skills to share their knowledge within their communities. in some factories in Bangladesh in the 38 000 member companies from 30+ All manufacturers must also sign the The EFI’s goal is to connect some of the world’s most past few years, we have incorporated industry sectors in 150+ countries. Country Road Group Environmental Code marginalised artisans in Africa and Haiti with the “The MIMCO order was very good to me. I worked on stricter fire safety and building compliance SEDEX engages with all tiers of the international fashion industry. Predominantly fostering the beadwork component that amounted to about 5 300 of Practice (ECoP) for the dyeing, printing standards in our third-party audits. supply chain with the aim of driving female employment, the initiative offers fair working beads on each pouch! The order generated an income and finishing of merchandise supplied. This Updating of our code has taken longer code aims to ensure that within existing improvements and convergence in conditions and gender equality to all involved, as well which allowed me to pay for basic needs.” Alice, than initially planned, to ensure alignment technology, no dye or chemical used in the responsible business practices. as the opportunity to gain valuable skills. This not only Beader and preparer at Ethical Fashion Africa. across all WHL Group companies. provides the artisans with a route out of poverty, but production of garments, fabrics, leather During 2014/15, the SEDEX system was positively impacts their families and larger communities. “I am a widowed mother of two boys. The MIMCO order and/or textile-related products present piloted at seven food suppliers in South offered me a great opportunity to acquire knowledge COUNTRY ROAD GROUP an unacceptable health or environmental Africa. The pilot required the suppliers to This year MIMCO launched its first collection made in on quality standards and better stitching techniques. collaboration with the EFI and Kenyan artisans the I also got a good income, which I used to contribute CODE OF LABOUR PRACTICE risk during manufacturing, use or disposal. register with SEDEX, complete a detailed Suppliers are responsible for ensuring that Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) and Afrigraphico tote and pouch. Designed in Melbourne and towards my son’s wedding.” Dorcas, Tailor at Ethical As the majority of Country Road both their own facilities and those of their created in Kenya, the collection incorporates traditional Fashion Africa. Group’s apparel and accessories are then be subjected to a third party SEDEX third-party suppliers follow the guidelines Maasai hand-beading and artisan silk-screening with a sourced from regions outside of our Members Ethical Data Audit (SMETA) on futuristic, geometric pattern and motif hand-sketched by With two more collections planned for the coming financial in the ECoP. operational footprint, the social and a semi-announced basis. The results of MIMCO designers. year, and more planned for FY 2017 and beyond, MIMCO is committed to the 'not charity, just work' ethos for the long ethical implications of manufacturing in the audits are currently being analysed. The collection contributed to an average 38% increase in term with the EFI. these countries are seriously considered. SEDEX We are also mining the SAQ data to see salary for skilled artisans (stitching, embroidery, and All manufacturers must sign the Country Woolworths Holdings Limited is a member how best we can assist our buyers and Road Group Code of Labour Practice of SEDEX (the Supplier Ethical Data suppliers to better manage human rights which is aligned with ILO conventions Exchange) – a unique, not-for-profit and in the supply chain. CASE STUDY: DAVID JONES RAMPS UP ETHICAL SOURCING PROGRAMME Determined to evolve beyond the House of Brands to To date more than 86% of suppliers have signed the code, become known as the House of Ethical Brands, David Jones with all private label suppliers and the top 100 branded focused its efforts on building a solid foundation for its suppliers undertaking an extensive self-assessment ethical sourcing programme in 2015. A number of ethical questionnaire to enable David Jones to better understand sourcing experts joined the sustainability team to take on and manage the supply chain. Factory visits have the challenge of engaging with and supporting more commenced, initially focusing on private label suppliers, than 1 200 suppliers on their journey to more ethical to validate social audit data previously submitted to and sustainable management of their supply chain. David Jones. Five supplier events have been held as well as an additional 16 visits to suppliers to discuss their Recognising that David Jones is also at the beginning questionnaire responses and collaboration opportunities. of the ethical sourcing journey, 2015 has been a year focused on ensuring that suppliers have countersigned The David Jones Ethical Sourcing Programme was launched the David Jones Supplier Code of Conduct, updated in to supply chain partners and suppliers at an event hosted April 2015. The enhanced code has strengthened and by Sustainable Business Australia and the St James Ethics clarified requirements of suppliers and provided an Centre. It provided an opportunity for David Jones opportunity to align David Jones with Woolworths, CEO Iain Nairn and Group Executive Donna Player to Country Road Group and industry best practice. share with suppliers our vision for ethical sourcing. WHL 62 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 63 ETHICAL SOURCING ETHICAL SOURCING AUSTRALIAN FASHION REPORT 2015 The 2015 Baptist World Aid Australian Fashion Report was CASE STUDY: released in late April 2015 – this is the most high profile report WOOLWORTHS FIRST 'MASS BALANCE' SUSTAINABLE PALM OIL PRODUCT RANGE in Australia dealing with ethical trade issues. The report ranks 219 Australian brands (up from 128 in 2013) from 59 apparel Rhodes Foods Group (RFG) is the sole supplier of industry partner Sime Darby Hudson & Knight, companies, and revealed the following: Woolworths exclusive recipe pies, and the biggest one of South Africa’s primary importers of certified • David Jones scored a Cin 2015, up from F in 2013; ranked 38th single user of palm oil in Woolworths food products. sustainable palm oil, have now succeeded in realising overall out of the 59 companies. David Jones was ranked as the At Woolworths request, RFG has recently embarked upon Woolworths’ vision. Ilse Spies, Technical Manager second most improved company in the selection. a process to source a supply of certified sustainable palm of RFG, said, “Ethically, it’s the right thing to do.” oil through the 'mass balance' approach. A number of • Country Road Group was rated for the first time in 2015 and manufacturing facilities in the Western Cape and Gauteng Through this, RFG has set a strong industry benchmark received a B+, on par with the median score across the whole are now sourcing 100% certified sustainable palm oil among other Woolworths suppliers, and food processors sample. required for the over 30 Woolworths pie lines sold daily. more broadly. The facilities are due to receive their first RSPO audits at the end of 2015 to confirm compliance THE TRUE COST OF CLOTHING Woolworths has been working closely with RFG on this with the required standards. issue for a number of years and they, together with The True Cost is a documentary film that pulls back the curtain on an untold story and asks us each to consider, who pays the price for our clothing? This is a story about the clothes we wear, the people who make those clothes and the impact it’s having on our world. It was filmed in countries all over the world, from the Woolworths is also committed to working It is Woolworths' policy to avoid the use to ‘mass balance’ supply of RSPO certified brightest runways to the darkest slums and features interviews with industry and NGO partner, Canopy, of unsustainable and untraceable palm sustainable palm oil. with the world’s leading influencers including Stella McCartney, to shift the fabric supply chain towards oil. Our intention is to only use certified Livia Firth, Vandana Shiva and many more. To speed matters up, we are engaging practices that protect the world’s sustainable palm oil (CSPO) in our own with local oil refineries and encouraging remaining ancient and endangered brand products. WHL used the film as a key awareness vehicle for our textile them to commit to importing certified forests and endangered species habitat. teams, as well as engaging with customer queries for those Woolworths was the first South African sustainable palm oil and to become chain Woolworths is working to eliminate fabrics who have seen the film. company to become a member of the of custody certified. We are delighted made of dissolved pulp (e.g. rayon, viscose global Roundtable on Sustainable Palm with the progress made by our biggest and modal) which may have contributed DEFORESTATION to deforestation or forest degradation, Oil (RSPO) and since 2011, has been manufacturer of foods containing palm oil. purchasing GreenPalm certificates to They have already changed to using mass Deforestation and forest degradation is driven primarily by the through procurement of sustainably soured offset the many tons of palm oil used by balance sustainable palm oil – see case increasing global demand for agricultural commodities such as fabrics. We aim to meet this commitment source, and therefore may potentially have been illegally our suppliers in Woolworths’ food and study above. timber, palm oil, soy and leather, used to make a wide range of by 2020 or earlier where possible. harvested; that come from an area of high conservation value; beauty products each year. We declare food, clothing and other everyday products. According to WWF We ultimately want to see all Woolworths that contributed to the conversion of forest into plantations or for the type of oil used in our products in International, deforestation contributes to an estimated 15% of non-forest use; and/or, were obtained in violation of traditional SUSTAINABLE PALM OIL the ingredients panel of the packaging. suppliers converting to a ‘segregated’ the global greenhouse emissions. Furthermore, the destruction of supply of RSPO-certified sustainable palm and civil rights. Palm oil is an important and versatile these valuable habitats threatens the livelihoods of over 1.6 billion A payment from each certificate goes oil, but this will only be possible in a few raw material for both food and nonpeople that depend on forests for fuel, materials, nutrition and Through engagement with customers, suppliers, NGO partners towards incentivising Indonesian and years’ time when the demand for certified food industries, which contributes to the income generation. and certification bodies we aim to increase both awareness Malaysian palm oil growers to become sustainable palm oil in South Africa grows economic development of the producing around and demand for sustainably sourced forest products RSPO-certified sustainable producers. to a scale where it is viable to transport WHL recognises the environmental and social importance of countries and to the diets of millions of within our operations and thereby support an increase in the With only 20% of the global supply of fully segregated palm oil from origin safeguarding the world’s last remaining ancient and endangered people around the world. Although palm market share of sustainably sourced products at local and palm oil certified as sustainable, we through transport, storage and refining forests, as well as the role of reducing deforestation and forest oil has the highest yield per hectare of global levels. believe Woolworths is making a significant to end product. degradation in mitigating climate change. any oil or oilseed crop, it is recognised contribution through the GreenPalm Woolworths is working towards using only sustainably sourced that there are environmental and social We are committed to reducing and eventually, removing system (www.greenpalm.org). or recycled wood products throughout our operations. We will pressures on its rapid expansion to ecodeforestation and forest degradation from our direct operations sensitive areas, particularly as palm oil can endeavour to ensure that we use timber and paper which is This is just one step on the journey, and and supply chain. only be cultivated in tropical areas of Asia, chain of custody (CoC) certified through the Forest Stewardship we are actively working with suppliers to This commitment includes systematically removing commodities Council (FSC™), indicating that the product originates from Africa and South America. agree on time-bound plans for conversion from our supply chain that cannot be traced from a sustainable certified, well managed forests and/or other controlled sources. To read our position statement on deforestation, To read our position statement on palm oil, go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney WHL 64 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 65 ETHICAL SOURCING ETHICAL SOURCING ORGANIC AFRICAN COFFEE we will work in a mutually beneficial farmers learn to improve the quality and manner with them to improve supply yield of their cocoa while reducing their During the last year, numerous problems and quality, while paying fair prices that impact on the environment and enabling have been experienced with the supply allow them to contribute to development them to take better care of their workers of FairTrade, Organic, and African certified in their communities. and families. coffee beans to our WCafés. As the demand for FairTrade coffee has gone FairTrade coffee is still offered in our We started by sourcing 25% UTZ Certified up in Europe and America, the availability WCafés, but at a premium. cocoa for our boxed chocolates in 2012. and quality of FairTrade-certified beans As more UTZ Certified cocoa has become A wide range of certified sustainable has become a significant challenge, and available to meet our demand, we have packaged coffees from all over the the costs have gone up. A commercial increased this amount and are currently world is also sold in our stores. decision was taken not to pay the higher sourcing 75% UTZ Certified cocoa. We are cost and to move away in part from well on our way to meeting our target the FairTrade certification. (The Organic FAIR TRADE WINES to source 100% UTZ Certified sustainable certification and the African Origin Stellar Organic Winery, based in cocoa for all our Woolworths private principles have been maintained). Stellenbosch, supplies wines to label boxed chocolates, slabs and bars Woolworths. Fifty cents of the sale of by December 2016. We are now also While our Woolworths Code of Business Principles has served BETTER COTTON INITIATIVE People and systems are now being put in every bottle in the six lines of Stellar committing to source 100% UTZ Certified us well for many years (including our C99 Environmental, Woolworths is a member of the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) place to source coffee directly from the wines available at Woolworths is cocoa as an ingredient in all Woolworths Chemical and Factory Minimum Standards for Dyeing, Printing as part of our commitment towards sourcing more sustainable farmers. As we do with all our suppliers, contributed to the Stellar Foundation, an branded foods by June 2018. and Finishing Clothing and Textiles), we are now working with cotton, and helping to transform the cotton sector. The BCI aims independent non-profit organisation for a far more complex range of products from a truly global to create long-term change by helping farmers to grow cotton supply base, against a backdrop of tighter legislation. social development projects initiated by DETOX STRATEGY in a way that reduces stress on the local environment and the workers committee and the Trust’s Woolworths recognises the urgent need for eliminating improves the livelihoods of farming communities. It is a global The Detox campaign was launched by executive committee to raise funds industrial releases of all priority chemicals. Accordingly our approach that provides a solution for the mainstream cotton CASE STUDY: for investment in practical community Greenpeace in 2011 to expose the links approach is based on prevention and the Precautionary industry, including both smallholders and large scale farmers. ROUND TABLE ON initiatives on the farm. In the last year, between global clothing brands, their Principle and Woolworths is committed to zero discharge All farmers can benefit from implementing Better Cotton Principles RESPONSIBLE SOY suppliers and water pollution around 300 000 bottles of Stellar wines were sold of all priority chemicals from the whole lifecycle and all and the development of a new and more sustainable mainstream the world. in Woolworths stores, raising R150 000 for production procedures that are associated with the making commodity, Better Cotton. Woolworths acknowledges the the Stellar Workers Trust – contributing to Woolworths has always taken our and using of all products Woolworths clothing sells by significant deforestation risks the development of a crèche as well as a responsibility to protect customers, We have worked hard in conjunction with our suppliers to get 1 January 2020. associated with the clearing much-needed mobile clinic for the farm. workers and the environment seriously. key spinners BCI accredited and develop BCI-specific sourcing of ancient and endangered We accept that without the use of dyes We recognise that to achieve this goal, mechanisms for strategies, resulting in a 300% increase in the amount of BCI rainforests or areas of high and chemicals we would not be able to disclosure and transparency about the priority chemicals cotton in our garments. Our aim is to have at least 15% of our conservation importance for UTZ CERTIFIED COCOA used in our global supply chains are important and necessary, cotton fibre converted to Better Cotton by 2017. This would result provide our customers with satisfactory the production of soy. We have Sourcing UTZ Certified cocoa for our products, but it is incumbent on the supply in line with the ‘Right to Know principle'. in Better Cotton becoming our largest contributing sustainable completed a soy footprint chocolate provides assurance that the base to use chemicals responsibly and use fibre in the Clothing business. assessment, and have identified cocoa has been grown and harvested Woolworths also commits to support systemic (i.e. wider those that do not pose unnecessary risks societal and policy) change to achieve zero discharge of that 99% is consumed within the responsibly. The programme helps animal feed associated with the to workers, customers or the environment. priority chemicals (associated with supply chains and the LEATHER production of our fish, dairy, pork lifecycles of products). Leather is commonly used across our clothing and homeware and poultry. We have identified ranges. To Woolworths, the use of leather poses challenges in numerous challenges in the SANDBLASTING terms of ensuring the welfare of animals and the environmental traceability of soy and have WE ARE WELL ON OUR WAY TO MEETING OUR TARGET impact of processing animal hides. Woolworths Code of In addition to eliminating the use of harmful chemicals in recently become the first South Business Principles already includes standards around the use of African member of the Round TO SOURCE 100% UTZ CERTIFIED SUSTAINABLE COCOA the production process, we have banned sandblasting hazardous and toxic chemicals for processing leather. We are Table on Responsible Soy (RTRS) FOR ALL OUR WOOLWORTHS PRIVATE LABEL BOXED using crystalline silica for all Woolworths denim production. also working towards developing better traceability within our to collaborate with leading brands All our suppliers have signed a No-sandblasting Policy and and NGO’s on this issue. CHOCOLATES, SLABS AND BARS BY DECEMBER 2015, we will continue to do regular audits to ensure adherence supply chain to ensure that the leather we use in our products does not contribute towards deforestation or forest degradation, A YEAR AHEAD OF SCHEDULE. to this policy. and is not against our animal welfare policies. To read our position statement on UTZ cocoa, go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney WHL 66 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 67 SUSTAINABLE FARMING STRATEGY SUSTAINABLE FARMING A high proportion of the environmental impacts resulting from our operations is linked to the farming and/or processing of products that we sell. As a result, we make it our business to work together with our suppliers to minimise these impacts, and positively influence the environmental and social outcomes of doing business. WE WANT TO BE THE BIGGEST PROCURER OF SUSTAINABLE COTTON Challenges we face in our global supply chain include impacts of extreme weather IN THE SOUTHERN events, soil degradation, declining water quality and increasing input costs. In South HEMISPHERE. Africa, we are facing potential regulatory changes which may affect water allocation rights and land tenure and distribution. As well as monitoring and managing these challenges, we recognise our responsibility to ensure that our farmers and suppliers are meeting our exacting requirements for human rights and animal welfare. Through our work in promoting sustainable farming practices among our suppliers, we can improve soil health, protect water supply, restore biodiversity, support rural livelihoods, help communities adapt to climate change and ultimately help ensure we produce sufficient food to meet the needs of our customers. We continue to work with suppliers of Woolworths private label products to achieve this through our Farming for the Future, Fishing for the Future, animal welfare and sustainable fibre programmes. Our work conducted in partnership with WWF-SA is aimed at driving further progress in dairy, beef, seafood and textile production as well as addressing food waste. MAPPING OUR RISKS ACROSS THE SUPPLY CHAIN IDENTIFIED SUB RISK ISSUES Ecological health • Soil degradation • Water quality • Water availability Climate change • Extreme weather events 98% • Climate variability Farmer access • Security of land tenure to market • Rising input costs OF OUR PRIMARY SUPPLIERS Animal welfare • Humane treatment ACROSS PRODUCE, HORTICULTURE, of animals WINE AND DAIRY ARE FARMING FOR THE FUTURE ACCREDITED KEY: Moderate Significant Major Not applicable WHL 68 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 69 SUSTAINABLE FARMING SUSTAINABLE FARMING OUR PROGRESS SUMMARY SNAPSHOT CASE STUDY: IMPROVING THE CLIMATE RESILIENCE OF SOUTH AFRICAN FRUIT PERFORMANCE SNAPSHOT RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES OUR STRATEGY AND VEGETABLE FARMERS 98% of our primary suppliers across • Water scarcity and quality Our broader response includes: Climate change poses significant risks to South African farmers/suppliers, participating in government dialogue produce, horticulture, wine and • Poor soil quality and ecosystem • Working with suppliers to reduce the agriculture. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate and further commercial outreach. The project will dairy are Farming for the Future degradation environmental impact associated with accredited Change (IPCC) predicts that Southern Africa will face harness the experience of South African and UK retailers • Impacts of climate change the produce we sell through Farming increased variability in rainfall and an increase in average in strengthening the capacity of both retailers and food 73% of secondary suppliers are for the Future and Fishing for the • Security of land tenure, rising input Future initiatives temperatures. In order to address these risks Woolworths producers in South Africa to adapt to climate change. Farming for the Future accredited costs, declining number of farmers has collaborated with WWF-SA, Marks & Spencer and the Over time, we hope to help make the entire South African and trends towards urbanisation • Ensuring the welfare and dignity of 85% of the volume (tonnage) of the animals inside our supply chain British High Commission to better understand, proactively agricultural value chain more resilient. seafood species sold currently meets • Food insecurity respond to and communicate the climate change risks and our sustainability commitments • Procuring commodities such as palm Woolworths expects this project to improve our • Rising food prices oil, cocoa, coffee and cotton that have adaptation opportunities in the South African food system. The British High Commission has generously provided understanding of climate risks in our fresh produce supply 9% of all clothing and 15% of all • Sustainable farming practices can been farmed in a more sustainable chain and increase our ability to help our producers adapt general merchandise made from improve soil health, protect water way additional funding for the project. to climate change. Producers will benefit from the practical sustainable fibres supply, restore biodiversity, support • Working in partnership with WWFrural livelihoods, help communities The project includes understanding climate science in recommendations that come out of the case studies to Over 95% of private label food products SA to drive further progress in dairy, adapt to climate change and help beef, seafood and textiles production a local context and climate adaptation options for our improve their resilience to climate-related shocks. containing egg as an ingredient are ensure we produce sufficient food made with free range eggs as well as addressing food waste FARMING FOR THE FUTURE A number of years ago, Woolworths Among primary suppliers, a 98% pass rate and all have set goals for improvement. set about developing a programme was obtained across produce, horticulture, We aim to audit the rest of our Ayrshire to manage, monitor and transform wine and dairy, and a 73% pass rate was farmers/processors by June 2016. environmental performance among obtained among secondary suppliers, Our Farming for the Future programme produce suppliers – recognising this as significant progress considering that has proved to be a great success and a significant opportunity in that over many were audited for the first time we are seeing improvements in farm level 90% of our food for Woolworths is in the last year. environmental management, greater sourced locally. We developed Farming We audit all of our wine suppliers against productivity, efficiency, awareness and for the Future as our own independent our Farming for the Future standards innovation among suppliers as a result of audit and certification scheme where once every three years. All our wine this. It also shows that suppliers see the we work actively with our farmers to suppliers are already audited against benefit of this programme and are willing incrementally improve performance the Integrated Production of Wine to convert to better and more sustainable through enhancement programmes (IPW) standards and the majority of our farming practices. based on the individual needs of the wine suppliers are also members of the farmer. We focus on encouraging reduced Biodiversity and Wine Initiative (BWI). and sustainable pesticide and fertiliser This year, we made significant progress application, efficient irrigation practices in extending Farming for the Future to and soil conservation techniques, among dairy. In the past year, six of our Ayrshire others. Now in our sixth year of the processors and major corresponding programme, we have 141 of our primary Ayrshire farmers/suppliers, who account produce, horticulture, wine and dairy for most of our Ayrshire range, were suppliers and 92 of our secondary independently audited against the suppliers working as part of the scheme. Farming for the Future dairy standards To read additional content on Farming for the Future, go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney WHL 70 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 71 SUSTAINABLE FARMING SUSTAINABLE FARMING FISHING FOR THE FUTURE ANIMAL WELFARE issue in detail. Eventually we aim to ensure and reduce indiscriminate or non-selective all of our pork products come from farms predator control, while at the same time Woolworths remains deeply committed to procuring all seafood from sustainable fisheries and responsible farming operations. We believe it is our ethical obligation that only keep sows in stalls for one week improve the farmer’s commercial viability We have set time-bound sustainable seafood commitments and continue to work with a range of partners, including WWF-SA to ensure that our suppliers treat the rather than the entire 16-week pregnancy. by reducing stock loss. We hope to have and the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC), to ensure that we meet these commitments by 2016. animals in our supply chain with respect This will be a phased in journey with our first lambs coming to our stores from and in the most humane way possible, Of the volume (tonnage) of seafood species sold by Woolworths, 85% currently meets our sustainability commitments for 2015 several milestones that we will announce these projects by the end of 2015. and are committed to continuous (2014: 82%), 9% is comprised of species that have not yet been assessed by the WWF-SASSI (2014: 42%), and 6% do not yet meet our to our consumers when we have improvement in all aspects of animal commitments. Of the volume meeting our commitments, 62% is WWF-SASSI green-listed (2014: 48%), 13% is part of a credible, timeconfirmed that we have reached sufficient welfare. All manufacturers are required to bound improvement project (2014: 18%) and 10% has other certification that meets our commitments. We do not sell any WWF-SASSI volumes to maintain continuous supply. promote animal welfare by minimising any red-listed species. potential harm, stress or pain to animals, WILDLIFE FRIENDLY and adhering to relevant national and While the animals inside our supply chain international standards for animal welfare. are our main concern, we also believe In the past year we have made significant we have an ethical obligation to minimise progress against our key focuses. human-wildlife conflict. For several years, Woolworths has been involved with FREE RANGE PRODUCTS WOOLWORTHS SUSTAINABLE SEAFOOD GUIDE sponsoring and trialling Anatolian guard Woolworths remains the only major local dogs as well as the publication of a retailer to sell only free range whole eggs. The world’s fish stocks are seriously The guide will help consumers to The seafood guide also outlines our conservation manual for sheep and cattle Woolworths sources some 120 million eggs depleted. The good news is that a lot of better understand the icons on our seafood commitments. We’re working farmers. Woolworths is working towards every year, approximately half of which work is being done to ensure there will seafood packaging so that they with the MSC, WWF-SASSI and the creating a wildlife friendly lamb supply, are sold in cartons, while the remainder be plenty of fish for future generations know the name of the fish, where Aquaculture Stewardship Council and has committed R4.7 million over three are pasteurised liquid eggs used in to enjoy. As part of our Fishing for the it was caught and which method (ASC) to ensure that all the seafood at years to develop this vision. food products. Currently, over 95% of Future initiative, we have developed a was used to catch it. On the guide Woolworths is responsibly sourced. Woolworths private label food products The funding is being provided to key pocket-size sustainable seafood guide. consumers will find the WWF-SASSI The main aim of this guide is to help website and the SASSI FishMS containing egg as an ingredient are now NGOs operating in Southern Africa: consumers make informed choices number that will help them to find made with free range eggs, and we are Conservation South Africa, the Cape when buying seafood. out how sustainable a fish species is. aiming to reach 100% in the near future. Leopard Trust, the Landmark Foundation and the Endangered Wildlife Trust. These Woolworths continues to sell extensive NGOs are tasked with enlisting farmers lines of free range chicken, beef and Choose wisely: in a programme to trial various non-lethal FISH TODAY, lamb. As sourcing free range pork that is available all year round and competitively predator control methods such as the WE BELIEVE IT IS OUR FISH TOMORROW A few questions to help you make the best priced has been very challenging, we use of Anatolian guard dogs, llamas, protective collars, alpacas and shepherds ETHICAL OBLIGATION YO R choices when buying seafood: have focused on tackling some of the The bad news is that the world’s fish stocks are What fish is it? When buying from Woolies, practices used in intensive pig farming to protect livestock. Woolworths will then TO ENSURE THAT OUR poc pocket ket-siz -size e seriously depleted. The good news is that a lot of work is being done to ensure there will be plenty of fish for future generations to enjoy. As part of our FISHING FOR THE FUTURE initiative, we’re working you can be sure that the fish you get is what it says on the label (We’ve carried out DNA testing) Where is it from? How was it caught/farmed? Where and how fish such as the use of sow stalls. In August 2014 we launched pork sourced source lamb from these farmers. Funds have also been allocated to key SUPPLIERS TREAT THE ANIMALS IN OUR SUPPLY SUSTAINABLE support resources including Cheetah with the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC), WWF-SASSI (Southern African Sustainable Seafood are caught has an impact on sustainability.* from farms who only keep sows in stalls Outreach, which breeds Anatolian CHAIN WITH RESPECT Initiative) and the Aquaculture Stewardship Council Look for the informative icons on our packaging: for one week during gestation. When guard dogs, and the Nelson Mandela AND IN THE MOST SEAFOOD (ASC) to ensure that all the seafood at Woolworths the pregnancy is confirmed the sows are is responsibly sourced. Origin Fishing method placed in group housing where they can Metropolitan University, where the HUMANE WAY POSSIBLE, first South African scientific assessment South AND ARE COMMITTED GUIDE WILD CAUGHT WILD CAUGHT Africa Pole & Line Long Line move around and socialise. This has been of predators is being undertaken by at considerable expense to our farmers, Professor Graham Kerley. TO CONTINUOUS Norway WILD CAUGHT Farmed but they are also committed to do the Trawled right thing for their sows. Labels on the The three main bodies have now received IMPROVEMENT IN In line with our Good Business Journey, this is printed on Sappi Camelot Cartridge – fully recyclable. * Some species are red-listed if caught by certain methods, but orangeor green-listed if caught using more sustainable methods. products will appear soon which will their second year's payment and we are ALL ASPECTS OF redirect our consumers to the Woolworths well on the way to having some useful ANIMAL WELFARE. website that explains this complex farming data which we can share with our farmers To read additional content on Fishing for the Future, To read our position statement on animal welfare, go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney WHL 72 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 73 SUSTAINABLE FARMING SUSTAINABLE FARMING ANIMAL WELFARE TRAINING TARGETS CASE STUDY: Because the knowledge of best practice in animal welfare is CASE STUDY: SUSTAINABLE COTTON AIMS FOR 2015 ACHIEVED WILDLIFE FRIENDLY PROTOCOL constantly changing, Woolworths keeps itself up to date through regular training from leading international experts. This last year Increase the percentage Woolworths continues to grow our use of organic cotton of clothing sales from the Woolworths team of technologists received training from 12% 9% Conservation South Africa are working with farmers to and Better Cotton Initiative cotton as a step towards sustainable fibres sold Compassion in World Farming and Animal Welfare Training develop a wildlife-friendly, auditable code of practice replacing our conventional cotton with sustainable to 12% by 2015. Limited, as well as engaging with the NSPCA. The courses sources. In 2015, we were ranked number one in terms for farming lamb, as well as to provide training on attended focused on best practices on farm and at the slaughter of growth in organic cotton procurement globally by Increase the percentage rangeland management, herding and dog management house, with the aim being to ensure we are leaders in South the Textile Exchange, and were the 15th biggest user of of general merchandise so that they can adhere to this code. Woolworths Africa in how we monitor and manage farm animal welfare. organic cotton by volume. We have also developed a sales from sustainable 7% 15% in turn has the expertise to market and retail meat fibres sold to 7% by from farmers that adhere to this wildlife-friendly and specific sourcing strategy for increasing the amount ANGORA 2015. environmentally friendly code. A number of farmers of cotton sourced in Africa that we are using in our have expressed interest in selling their lamb as ‘WildlifeIn response to the animal welfare concerns highlighted by products, with a specific focus on RE: and Studio.W. friendly Lamb’. People for the Ethical Treatment for Animals (PETA)l, the WHL Our vision is to become the biggest procurer of Group ceased ordering product containing angora in January sustainable cotton in the southern hemisphere. This project also helped to create employment in the 2014. The Group will maintain this position until it is completely form of twelve eco-herders that have been hired to form satisfied that ethical standards of fibre procurement are being part of the research study. These jobs have been created followed by the angora industry. for one year while providing capacity building. Various drafts of the ‘Wildlife-friendly Lamb’ code of practice WOOL SUSTAINABLE FIBRES were developed by CSA and the other NGOs involved in The Country Road Group is a major supporter of the the project (Endangered Wildlife Trust and Landmark Australian wool industry and many wool products proudly We continue to drive the use of more sustainable fibres such social impacts. As part of the Pharrell Williams 'Are you with US?' Foundation). The final amalgamated version will be display that they are made from Australian merino wool. as organic and Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) cotton, as well campaign, we ran a t-shirt design competition during the early developed by Woolworths and the code will be based A proactive approach to sourcing a sustainable supply of as innovative alternative fibres from sources that reduce raw part of 2015; the winning designs will be printed on bionic yarn on Woolworths free-range protocol, the National ‘Veldmaterial consumption such as polyester made from recycled fabric to raise awareness about our oceans and the impact of non-mulesed wool has been undertaken. Raised’ Red Meat Production Standard, and Woolworths plastic bottles (recycled polyester) and ocean-derived plastic plastic pollution. In addition to our bionic yarn tees we also have criteria around predator management, which in turn LEATHER our range of duvet inners and pillows and reusable bags made (bionic yarn). This year, Woolworths made significant progress will all be in line with international standards for good from recycled plastic and a range of men’s RE: jeans made using We work with our suppliers to source the best quality leathers. in our mission to upscale the use of sustainable cotton, and were practice in the red meat sector. Cow, sheep and goat hide (those most commonly used) are to be ranked number one in the world in terms of growth in organic recycled polyester. a by-product of other industries and animals should be humanely cotton consumption by Textile Exchange (see case study). Woolworths is committed to working with industry and NGO slaughtered to ensure minimum distress. We do not use exotic skins. We have achieved well against our targets and overall, 9% partner, Canopy, to shift the fabric supply chain towards of Woolworths clothing sales come from products containing practices that protect the world’s remaining ancient and sustainable fibres and 15% of general merchandise sales had endangered forests and endangered species habitat. sustainable fibres. Going forward to 2017, we aim to have at Woolworths is working to eliminate fabrics made of dissolved TOGETHER WITH OUR SUPPLIERS WE least 15% of cotton consumption converted to BCI. pulp (e.g. rayon, viscose and modal) which may have contributed to deforestation or forest degradation, through procurement of ARE DEDICATED TO SELLING PRODUCTS We encourage research and development of new and sustainably soured fabrics. We aim to meet this commitment by THAT CAUSE THE MINIMUM OF HARM innovative alternative fibres which minimise environmental and 2020 or earlier where possible. TO THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT IN THE WAY THEY ARE FARMED. To read our position statement on animal welfare, To read our position statement on clothing, go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney WHL 74 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 75 DO YOU CARE HOW YOUR FASHION IS MADE? THREADS WITH BENEFITS. LET’S TAKE A STAND FOR FASHION THAT CARES FOR THE PLANET AND THE PEOPLE WHO MAKE IT. THAT’S FASHION WITH A DIFFERENCE. 2004 2014 2015 NEW SUSTAINABLE WE’RE MEMBERS OF THE COTTON PRODUCTS BETTER COTTON INITIATIVE (BCI) 72 LAUNCHING THIS WORKING WITH FARMERS WHO: WOOLIES LAUNCHES WOOLIES LAUNCHES THE WE’RE THE FASTEST GROWING SUMMER 19m FIRST ORGANIC FIRST PAIR OF RE: JEANS RETAILER IN THE WORLD IN • USE LESS ARTIFICIAL CHEMICALS COTTON RANGE MADE USING RECYCLED OUR USE OF ORGANIC • DO THEIR BEST TO SAVE WATER • CARE ABOUT SOIL QUALITY POLYESTER COTTON & YARN • HELP CONSERVE NATURAL HABITATS According to Textile Exchange. FASHION ITEMS • BELIEVE IN A FAIR DEAL • TAKE PRIDE IN PRODUCING QUALITY COTTON IN TOTAL RECYCLED FASHION ITEMS 4.4m POLYESTER BY USING RECYCLED POLYESTER, WE’RE 8 MADE USING RECYCLED POLYESTER THIS SUMMER PLASTIC BOTTLES SAVED FROM GOING TO THE LANDFILL EVERY YEAR. THAT’S 380 000 12 6 ABLE TO REDUCE THE WASTE WE SEND BOTTLES USED TO TO LANDFILLS AND CREATE JOBS MAKE FASHION 564 578 PLASTIC BOTTLES FOR OUR 3.5 M PLASTIC BOTTLES BAMBOO NO PESTICIDES ARE USED 12.8 METRIC TONS FOR OUR REUSABLE GROWS 6 INCHES PER DAY OF BAMBOO USED TO MAKE OUR DUVET INNERS & PILLOWS BAMBOO TOWELS & SOCKS SHOPPING BAGS ORGANIC COTTON GROWN FROM NON-GENETICALLY MODIFIED SEEDS, WITHOUT USING PROUDLY AFRICAN WHENEVER POSSIBLE, WE SOURCE COTTON FROM AFRICA ANY CHEMICALS OR SYNTHETIC FERTILISERS TO REDUCE OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT WASTE STRATEGY WASTE T he disposal of waste to landfill is a growing developmental pressure across the globe, which is resulting in significant environmental, social and economic costs. In the foods industry, an estimated 1.3 billion tons of food produced worldwide (around a third of all food) and the resources used to produce it are going to waste WE WILL STRIVE TO ELIMINATE each year. Concerns around food security, natural resource consumption and increasing WASTE PRODUCED environmental degradation compound these issues. THROUGHOUT OUR We recognise that the production of the goods we sell results in consumption of natural OPERATIONS AND resources for their production and processing, and the generation of waste throughout TO DEVELOP their lifecycles. A key component of this waste is the packaging that we supply our INNOVATIVE WAYS goods in, which serves a vital purpose in protecting our products but also poses a significant problem to the consumer in its disposal. TO REUSE WASTE. Woolworths is committed to reducing the amount of waste sent to landfill from our own operations, using recycled content in our products and packaging, and making it easier for our customers to recycle. We are also increasing our focus on reducing food waste in our supply chain, operations and customers’ homes domestic waste makes up more than a third of all waste going to landfill in South Africa. By making it easy for our customers to recycle the packaging from our products, we are helping to create a high-value market for consumer waste, supporting the local recycling economy, and minimising our dependency on limited natural resources. We will carry on increasing our efforts around waste reduction across our entire value chain, including suppliers, operations and with customers. MAPPING OUR RISKS ACROSS THE SUPPLY CHAIN RISK SUB IDENTIFIED ISSUES Waste generation • Packaging • Food waste • Plastic bags Waste disposal • Recyclability • Product labelling Natural resource • Product lightweighting consumption • Sustainable materials KEY: Moderate Significant Major Not applicable To read additional content on our waste management initiatives, go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney WHL 78 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 79 WASTE WASTE OUR PROGRESS SUMMARY SNAPSHOT TARGETS AIMS FOR 2015 ACHIEVED PERFORMANCE SNAPSHOT RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES OUR STRATEGY Achieve 100 packaging improvements per year 100 92* improvements 92* packaging improvements among • A growing population combined with Our strategy focusses on reducing the Woolworths private label products increasing competition for landfill space amount of waste sent to landfill from our own operations, using recycled 50% of the products sold in rigid packs to contain recycled materials by 2015 50% 41.5% 511 000 kg reduction in packaging • The economic and environmental cost of virgin and non-renewable materials content in our products and packaging, weight due to lightweighting and making it easier for our customers consumption 100% of all main packaging components to be recyclable by 2015 100% 98% 98% of products in packaging to recycle. We are also increasing our • Poverty and food security concerns focus on reducing food waste in our made of recyclable materials across some of our operating regions * Part of EY’s audited key performance indicators. The basis for measurement of this indicator can be found on http://www.woolworthsholdings.co.za supply chain, operations and customers’ 41.5% of rigid packaging containing • Enabling opportunities for the homes. post-consumer recycled plastic material development of recycling markets through our packaging 1.73 million reusable bags sold We have committed to achieve this by: Our Good Business Journey targets place emphasis on achieving packaging improvements every year. This year, we have * Part of EY’s audited key performance indicators. The basis for measurement of this indicator can be found on http://www.woolworthsholdings.co.za • Using the lightest weight of materials to do the job achieved well against all of our packaging targets. We achieved • Purchasing packaging materials from certified renewable almost all of the number of packaging improvements we set sources wherever possible out to make through lightweighting, substituting virgin material WASTE GENERATION • Encouraging the use of packaging materials which have with recycled material, designing for local recyclability and recycled content in them to help create a market for consumer supplying customers with clearer disposal instructions. We are At our own operations we are working towards achieving zero waste to landfill. In South Africa, challenges exist in that the also committed to ensuring that where renewable materials are waste and help build a recycling economy infrastructure for recycling still remains underdeveloped. Despite these challenges, we are proud to report that we sent just used these are sourced from well-managed forests and other 6.73% of waste generated at our head office to landfill, and 6.17% overall from distribution centres during the course of FY2015. • Designing packaging holistically with the product in mind in controlled sources (e.g. paper and board with certified chainWe have also implemented a recycling pilot across 40 of our stores, currently achieving a recycling rate of 53%. order to optimise overall environmental performance and of-custody) certified by the Forest Stewardship Council – FSCTM). considering the opportunities for recycling at the end of its life From these improvements we were able to lightweight our • Working with various industry bodies to encourage the packaging by 511 000 kg and minimise it's environmental impact. TOTAL WASTE development of recycling facilities to make recycling even easier GENERATED (Kg) % WASTE RECYCLED • Printing clear, simple labels on all our packaging to help South African Distribution Centres 9 650 623 93.83% customers identify the packaging material used and know if it can be recycled Woolworths South Africa Head Office 225 503 93.3% • Taking advice from leading experts and listening to our customers to ensure we deliver our goal of responsible packaging • Understanding more about the impact packaging can have on climate change and using this to help inform our PACKAGING decision making. Through using recycled material in our packaging, Woolworths is dedicated to reducing virgin raw materials consumption from our operations. We also support the growth of South Africa’s green economy through waste recycling initiatives and making it possible for customers to recycle more easily. Packaging reduction is an important environmental factor we are trying to address, but it needs to be balanced. We see it necessary THROUGH USING RECYCLED MATERIAL IN OUR PACKAGING, WOOLWORTHS IS to make sure that our products continue to stay protected; in the case of food we want it to remain safe and hygienic. It is also DEDICATED TO REDUCING VIRGIN RAW MATERIALS CONSUMPTION FROM OUR essential to extend shelf life for as long as possible so that food waste is not created. To us, this means using packaging responsibly. OPERATIONS. To read our position statement on packaging, go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney WHL 80 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 81 WASTE WASTE FASHION TRADE WOOLWORTHS UNVEILS NEW ECO MANNEQUIN Since 2010, Country Road has partnered with the Australian Red During the past year over 44 000 items of clothing and AT RE: MENLYN STORE IN MAY 2015 Cross and New Zealand Red Cross on Fashion Trade a clothing accessories were donated to the Red Cross and saved from exchange programme that rewards customers with a A$10 landfill. Of these, over 2 000 items were donated by customers, Global Display’s Eco-mannequin is the result of over three years research and voucher for donating pre-owned Country Road clothing to the and more than 42 000 items were donated by the Country development of a truly green mannequin produced from natural plant fibres Red Cross, and there by saving clothing from going to landfill. Road Group. and bio-resins which come from an indigenous sustainable source. It also uses a higher level of recyclable and biodegradable raw material content without sacrificing to strength or aesthetics. Compared to conventional fibreglass mannequins, the Eco-mannequin has up to 20% less styrene content. There is also less mineral content as glass fibres have CASE STUDY: PET RECYCLING been replaced by natural plant fibres, and can be finished in a bio-degradable, water-based coating. Five years after the first packaging containing recycled world’s first, and currently only, recycling plant operating plastic was introduced to the local market by Woolworths, an independently certified BRC system, which ensures The Eco-mannequin material is 45 – 55% biodegradable versus its fibreglass the local Extrupet Group (Pty) Ltd, dedicated to the good manufacturing practices are maintained and quality counterpart that is not biodegradable. It provides a reduction in CO2e emissions recycling of post-consumer polyethylene terephthalate is effectively managed. Systems like these are typically of approximately 60% over a conventional fibreglass mannequin. It also allows (PET) bottles, has completed a major expansion of their deployed in food factories to ensure food safety. In 2015 for substantially more opportunities for recycling at the end of life but can PhoenixPET plant in Wadeville, Johannesburg. Extrupet’s process also received a scientific opinion from alternatively be burned to provide energy with a calculated calorific value the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) on the safety that is higher than wood or paper. This first for the continent plastic recycling plant worth evaluation of the recycling process. To date only a few R75 million, recycles post-consumer bottles back into European operations have received such an opinion, The Eco-mannequin has subsequently also been rolled out to our RE: pods in material for new PET bottles and other PET packaging confirming that South Africa has a world-class operation David Jones stores in Australia. and will help ensure the long-term viability of PET plastics to be proud of, delivering a compliant product to the recycling in South Africa. The expansion, which started highest level, and managed by one of the best food in early 2014, includes the installation of a state-ofsafety systems in the world. the-art Bottle-2-Bottle recycling plant furnished with Starlinger recycling technology, specially engineered to This achievement is a major milestone in our commitment AUSTRALIAN PACKAGING against the Group’s Sustainable Packaging create much needed employment but fulfil the expectations and standards needed for bottles for to reducing packaging waste going into landfill. By Guidelines (SPG). The Country Road Group also divert surplus textiles from landfill. COVENANT will be updating both the action plan and carbonated soft drinks, bottled water and all other forms supporting this initiative over the last five years, we can The Australian Packaging Covenant The programme was launched in 2010 as of PET packaging. now use recovered and recycled valuable material back SPG in the next financial year. in our packaging, thus limiting our demand for natural (APC) is a federal government initiative an enterprise development programme By working closely with Extrupet, Woolworths supported through R1.5 million start-up capital from resources and creating many employment opportunities focused on reducing the amount of used this initiative and provided some guidance to ensure food packaging that reaches landfill. Signatory CLOTHING BANK Woolworths. The Clothing Bank has trained safety is not compromised. Extrupet’s plant became the in the recycling sector in South Africa. responsibilities include the submission and Woolworths donates surplus clothing as over 900 women, with 330 recruited in 2014. execution of a packaging and waste well as employees’ and customers’ preIn the past 12 months, the women have action plan. The APC provides a rating owned clothing to partner organisation, accumulatively generated profits worth based on previous years’ performance. the Clothing Bank. The project aims to R12.6 million, and since inception an amount empower unemployed women from of R29 million. The supporting retailers have For the most recent ratings period, disadvantaged areas in South Africa collectively donated 876 950 garments in 2014/2015, both Country Road Group through a programme of life-skills, the last 12 months, valued at R52.6 million, and David Jones achieved a rating of financial and career development to start of which R25.5 million was contributed 3.5 out of 5, which is well above the sustainable micro-clothing businesses. from Woolworths. industry average. David Jones maintained This highly successful programme is its score from the previous assessment currently being replicated across South We are piloting clothing recycling units in but Country Road Group was slightly Africa and now has outlets in Cape selected stores for customers to support down on the previous assessment. As part Town, Johannesburg, Paarl, Durban and the Clothing Bank, and will assess the of Country Road Group’s waste action Hermanus as support for the initiative customers response before looking at plan, all packaging is to be assessed continues to grow. This helps not only to further rollouts. WHL 82 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 83 WASTE WASTE FOOD WASTE We also have recycling facilities at merchandise contain 55% recycled PLASTIC BAG USAGE (MILLIONS OF BAGS) 21 schools in the Western Cape and material. We have also redesigned As an ongoing initiative Woolworths are looking to roll these out at selected our bags to reduce the amount of donates surplus food which would schools in other areas of the country. raw material required to manufacture 140 000 2 000 otherwise go to landfill from stores to a single bag. charities. In FY2015 we donated food to The relatively low oil price at present is 120 000 118 942 PLASTIC BAG SALES (000'S OF BAGS) the value of R490 million. We recognise, putting major financial pressure on the Plastic shopping bag usage has increased 118 729 however, that we generate waste across recycling industry and we continue to from last year with 0.87 bags used per 1 500 REUSABLE BAG SALES (000'S OF BAGS) 100 000 our entire value chain in the growing, look for new partners and ways of transaction compared to 0.70 last year. 88 502 86 104 making and manufacture of our products working in this area. We have some work to do to better 80 000 76 926 72 350 as well as in our customers’ homes. educate customers on this issue, and 1 000 Through various means such as excellent incentivising behaviour change. Reusable 71 498 STORE OPERATIONS 60 000 62 140 60 317 temperature control in our logistics chain bag sales also increased, with close to and stores as well as on clear on-pack In our stores we are continually discovering 1.73 million bags sold in FY2015. A number ways to reduce and recycle waste. 40 000 information pertaining to “Sell By”, “Best of new designs were launched to raise 500 Before” and “Use By” dates, we try and This comprises using recycled plastic in awareness and funds around sustainability 20 000 minimise this waste as far as possible. the lugs used to transport products to and conservation-related issues. There is still a long way to go, however, and from stores, and recycling all transit Through the sale of our cause-related 0 0 and we recently partnered with WWFpackaging used to protect clothes during 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 transportation, including hangers. Our reusable bags, Woolworths raised just SA, to complete a food waste scoping hangers are made of recycled material, as over R2.7 million for the conservation of PLASTIC BAGS REUSABLE BAGS study to better understand the extent are our store signage, shopping baskets endangered species and other causes to which food waste is occurring across and trolleys. Through our partnership with such as breast cancer awareness and the Woolworths value chain. The study Hangerman we have recycled over 300 Operation Smile in 2015. Since the launch was used to identify hotspots in levels and sources of waste, identify means million hangers since the project’s inception. of our first cause-related rhino bag in 2010, I.T. PRODUCTS AND CONSUMABLES we have raised over R8 million in total. We continue to drive reductions in printer consumables such Over the last two years Woolworths Financial Services of reducing food and packaging waste We also work with a number of partners on delivered to landfill and to propose new international coastal clean-up campaigns. Through selling reusable bags, we as paper and ink. In partnership with Lexmark, we recycle all has been driving significant printing reductions though ways of working and business practices support 140 jobs and skills development waste printer cartridges in our stores. In the last year we the implementation of electronic statements. We continue across the supply chain to prevent waste. at Woolworths two main reusable bag diverted 4 290 kg of cartridges from landfill as a result of our to see an increase in uptake as customers switch from The study found that, among other areas, PLASTIC BAG USAGE ongoing collection initiative. The proceeds generated from the traditional paper statements to e-statements and today suppliers, Isikhwama, based in Cape Town, significant volumes of waste is generated AND REUSABLE BAGS and Gusco, based in Uitenhage. Our ranges recycling initiative are donated to the charity “Cotlands”, which 63% of customers have made the switch, up from 54% in in the post-harvest phase of produce Reducing plastic bag usage is one of of the colourful fabric bags are made using supports learning and development for vulnerable children in previous years. processing. We are currently reviewing the strategies Woolworths is using in 85% post-consumer PET waste (recycled poor communities from birth to 6 years old. the recommendations of the study to see minimising impact on the environment, polyethylene terephthalate bottles). where we can make further improvements saving costs and assisting customers to Woolworths has used 360 tons of fibre to across our value chain. save costs. To reduce our impact from date made from recycled PET bottles to plastic bag use, we follow two main make the fabric bags. This translates to strategies; firstly, promoting the use of SINCE THE LAUNCH OF OUR FIRST CAUSE-RELATED RHINO BAG IN 2010, WE HAVE CUSTOMER RECYCLING approximately 9.5 million bottles diverted recycled plastic within our single-use from landfill, and reducing carbon emissions RAISED OVER R8 MILLION IN TOTAL. Woolworths had committed to plastic bags and secondly, encouraging associated with producing virgin material introducing a nationwide programme customers to buy and re-use one of our by approximately 54%. supporting the recycling of customers’ cause-related polypropylene or recycled waste by providing recycling facilities plastic reusable shopper totes. During the year Country Road in Australia at selected Woolworths stores, Engen offered customers a reusable cloth bag service stations and schools. We now Our plastic food carriers now contain as an alternative to plastic carrier bags. have recycling facilities at 50 Engen a minimum of 70% post-consumer and 3 497 units were sold in the last year. service stations in the Western Cape, manufacturing waste, while the shopping Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal. bags used for clothing and general To read our position statement on food waste, go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney WHL 84 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 85 WATER STRATEGY WATER O ur operations stretch across Africa and Australasia, which are among the most “at risk” regions in the world in respect of current and future projected water scarcity. We rely on a steady and clean supply of water across our entire value chain to process and manufacture our clothing and foods products, as well as to ensure the WE HAVE COMMITTED TO REDUCING WATER wellbeing and safety of our employees. Many parts of South Africa are in the grip of USAGE AND MANAGING the worst drought in 20 years, exacerbating the risk further. WASTE WATER ACROSS The demand for freshwater is growing globally, and in some cases is already limited by OUR OPERATIONS infrastructural constraints and threatened by pollution inputs from domestic, agricultural THROUGH COLLECTIVE and industrial sources. ACTION, PARTNERSHIPS, Growing public awareness regarding water use, conservation and access to clean RESEARCH AND drinking water has been driven by droughts, flooding, and in South Africa, concern EDUCATION. about the impacts of acid mine drainage. Within our supply chain and direct operations managing risks associated with assurance of supply is further complicated by the localised nature of water risks. Recent drought warnings in Southern Africa and the possible impact on commodity prices are a considerable cause for concern. We continue to evaluate risks from water on an ongoing basis through use of recognised water risk assessment frameworks, engagement with suppliers through Farming for the Future and through engagement in water stewardship activities with WWF-SA. MAPPING OUR RISKS ACROSS THE SUPPLY CHAIN RISK SUB IDENTIFIED ISSUES Water availability • Water security • Water quality • Sanitation and hygiene • Water consumption Wastewater discharge • Pollution of water resources from agricultural inputs and clothing manufacturing processes (dyes, chemicals etc.) Post-consumer water • Use of high quality treated consumption water for care/washing of garments KEY: Moderate Significant Major Not applicable To read our position statement on water, go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney WHL 86 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 87 WATER WATER OUR PROGRESS SUMMARY SNAPSHOT Woolworths is a signatory to the CEO Water Mandate, through During 2015, we have also invested considerably in a rainwater which we have committed to making a positive impact with capture system for the Montague Gardens distribution centre respect to the emerging global water crisis, and to remain (See Case Study on page 90). PERFORMANCE SNAPSHOT RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES OUR STRATEGY transparent on our performance. Our reporting follows the As a result of these programmes, our relative water consumption six core areas identified by the CEO Water Mandate that Reduced relative water intensity • Water scarcity and quality issues could Our strategy for water focuses on across stores has decreased by 41% from our 2011 benchmark companies should focus efforts on developing a comprehensive across stores by 41.35% negatively affect our operations reducing water consumption and (target: 50% by 2015). managing waste water across our own approach to water management. These are: Direct Operations, 14.5 million litres of renewable • Extreme weather events, exacerbated by climate change, can potentially operations as well as in our supply Supply Chain and Watershed Management, Collective Action, We have reduced our municipal water consumption at our head groundwater used in our head office chain, through partnerships, collective Public Policy, Community Engagement and, Transparency. complex, reducing municipal water disrupt our supply chain office complex through installation of a groundwater capture and action, research and education. We demand • Improving our measurement and are committed to creating awareness treatment system which taps into the previously unutilised Table 9 participating farms in our WWF management of water reduces costs among employees, suppliers, customers DIRECT OPERATIONS Mountain aquifer system. This water was previously removed Water Stewardship Pilot • Our partnership with WWF enables us and schools. from the basement of the buildings and pumped to stormwater. to collaborate on water stewardship Woolworths continues to assess opportunities to improve the monitoring, management and efficiency of water use across As a result of this system we have reduced municipal water our stores, warehouses, offices and distribution centres. consumption at head office by 55% from our 2008 benchmark (target: 70% by 2015), with a total consumption of 17 855 kilolitres*. During the course of the last few years, we have been working We are currently expanding the groundwater system and to roll out real-time metering across all of our operations in AIMS TARGETS FOR 2015 ACHIEVED 1 storage to another building in the head office complex. South Africa, and are currently looking to expand this programme Achieve a relative reduction in water 50% relative reduction 41.35% relative reduction in into Africa, Australia and New Zealand. The metering, currently We have also made considerable savings at the Country Road consumption across stores per square metre water consumption achieved operational in 88% (331) of our South African facilities, has assisted Group head office in Australia, where we captured approximately us in capturing accurate information around our water usage 1 million litres of rain water during the past year for use in toilets. Achieve a reduction of water consumption at 70% reduction A target of 55% reduction and has helped us identify leaks and inefficiencies. our head office complex was achieved We recognise the importance in increasing awareness among We are continuously evaluating real estate opportunities in new employees; during 2014 and 2015 we have been working to Reduce relative water usage per distributable unit (DU) 30% relative reduction Target 0.00092 kl per DU and existing stores to ensure that they are designed for efficient provide technical and functional training in water and energy at our distribution centres achieved 0.00079 kl per DU use of water and wastewater. Our Centurion distribution centre efficiency in our stores and have provided Water and Energy 1 Note that figures are based on water consumption for Woolworths in South Africa only. Currently we do not report for other international locations. in Johannesburg, one of our largest single consumers of water, is Toolkits to raise awareness among employees on how to currently using water reclaimed from the refrigeration systems conserve precious water resources. During National Water Week for non-potable uses, thereby minimising the water footprint (16 – 22 March 2015) we developed animations for in store plasma of the facility. screens to get the message out to our customers as well. 2015 WATER WITHDRAWALS (KL) 14.5 MILLION LITRES OF RENEWABLE Stores 472 143* GROUNDWATER USED IN OUR HEAD Distribution Centres 54 384* OFFICE COMPLEX REDUCING MUNICIPAL Head Office Complex 17 855* WATER DEMAND. * Part of EY’s audited key performance indicators. The basis for measurement of this indicator can be found on http://www.woolworthsholdings.co.za WHL 88 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 89 WATER WATER absolutely necessary to further address COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Our reach also extends to products that we CASE STUDY: MONTAGUE GARDENS DC RAINWATER CAPTURE AND RE-USE sustainability within our supply chains. sell, and we are continuously looking for We are committed to water conservation Not only has this partnership drawn ways we can reduce the impact of our education, especially by assisting in on the expertise of leading NGOs and products in customers’ homes. In 2015, In order to maintain high levels of cleanliness in our foods educating customers and school learners suppliers to address water related risks we released Woolworths new W.Lab distribution centres (DC’s), we wash trays used for carrying through increasing awareness around and build resilience at a farm level, but phosphate-free washing detergents and foods and floors on a daily basis. This means that our water conservation in the home and by driving collaboration within the liquids which help to preserve water quality. DC’s are typically high water users. The sheer size of our in schools. catchment, it is helping to address water Montague Gardens DC made it the perfect candidate for security risks at a more systemic level. During National Water Week in PUBLIC POLICY the installation of a rainwater harvesting system on the roof of the 18 000 m2 facility. March 2015, Woolworths engaged WATER BALANCE We support clear and decisive policy with customers and communities to This system captures rainwater through a roof-mounted Woolworths has also been working on water strategy and implementation raise awareness around water drainage system, and feeds the freshwater into a specially on the ongoing Water Balance project planning and maintenance to ensure conservation. Through the MySchool designed grey water pipe network. This water is not with WWF-SA in association with the preservation of South Africa’s scarce programme Woolworths hosted a intended for drinking, but is perfect for use in cleaning Department of Environmental Affairs water resources. 'Thirsty for Action' water-saving poster the facility. The water from tray washing is then further Working for Water project, helping to competition among primary school We continue to engage through re-used for flushing toilets. In its first week of operation, clear alien vegetation from two key learners where four rainwater membership in the CEO Water the system captured, and used 75 000 litres, which priority nodes in the Leeu, part of the harvesting tanks were the prizes. Mandate and through the NBI to reduces the need to draw upon precious potable upper Berg & Breede. municipal water supply. advance sustainable water policies Our Water Week marketing campaign To date, 133 hectares have been cleared and management across the industry. also included sponsoring the Watershed together with 51.54 hectares in follow Festival, in collaboration with the City of up. It is estimated that the total kilolitres Cape Town, to raise public awareness TRANSPARENCY remaining in the system due to clearing about water as a scarce and precious Woolworths is committed to improving SUPPLY CHAIN AND 14 key priority chemicals from our with the Alliance for Water Stewardship is 276 108 kl. The project has also resulted resource in South Africa through film disclosure about the financial and material clothing supply chain in recognition (AWS) and Marks & Spencer, to address in 4 815 person days of employment. WATERSHED MANAGEMENT of their harmful impacts on water water-related risks in the supply chain. So screenings, a fun day and a river walk. risks posed by water resources and our Woolworths regularly engages with AWARENESS own usage reduction strategies. For resources if not properly managed. far, nine stone fruit farmers in the Ceres Woolworths also used annual sponsorship suppliers on water issues. In South the last five years, we have voluntarily Valley, Western Cape, have volunteered In 2015 Woolworths once again of the Cape Epic mountain bike race to Africa, we engage with 98% of our We have also set ourselves ambitious reported our performance through the their cooperation, and together with participated in WWF-SA’s ‘Journey of place key messaging at water stations primary produce suppliers through their targets to increase the use of organic CDP Water disclosure project. We also the CSIR they have worked through the Water’ walk, creating awareness around to remind cyclists on the demanding participation in the Farming for the Future and Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) Cotton respond to the Dow Jones Sustainability AWS standard format, first understanding the long and complicated journey that eight day, 748 km mountain bike race programme. Through this programme in our private label clothing ranges, in Index and JSE Socially Responsible their own water use, then planning water takes from source to tap, and about wise water use. we continue to drive a reduction in recognition of the better practices in Investment (SRI) Index. improvements and finally implementing the the need to protect our threatened water usage through improved irrigation social and environmental, and particularly water sources. first water stewardship steps. Over the practices, soil moisture and wastewater water management aspects. In FY2015 course of the first year the work focused management, as well as broader we ranked first globally in organic cotton on on-site water stewardship actions. catchment level influences such as users by growth. Our membership of The second year is where the catchmentalien vegetation infestation on farms. BCI is a step in the journey to replace based initiatives will be implemented, in WE ARE COMMITTED TO WATER CONSERVATION EDUCATION, ESPECIALLY BY Through this programme we are seeing conventional cotton with a more order to address larger-scale water issues ASSISTING IN EDUCATING CUSTOMERS AND SCHOOL LEARNERS THROUGH INCREASING enhanced water-use efficiencies and sustainable source. in the upper Breede catchment. These AWARENESS AROUND WATER CONSERVATION IN THE HOME AND IN SCHOOLS. farmers converting to more sustainable include urban water quality issues, alien farming practices. COLLECTIVE ACTION plant clearing and the provision of more In our clothing teams, we are engaging WATER STEWARDSHIP water related information, allowing easier with our clothing suppliers through implementation of water stewardship Woolworths continues to work in supplier audits and also working with projects. partnership with WWF in the progression them on our chemical detox strategy, of the Ceres Water Stewardship project in This initiative is an example of how in which we have committed to eliminate association partnerships and collaboration are WHL 90 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 91 ENERGY & CLIMATE CHANGE STRATEGY O ur strategy for water focuses on reducing water consumption and ENERGY & of Cape Town’s storm-water system, and eventually discharges into the sea I n a growing number of studies, climate change is seen as among the world’s top global threats, particularly in developing countries. The interlinked nature of the ENERGY AND CLIMATE CLIMATE CHANGE managing waste water across our without previously having being used. impacts of climate change also brings the potential to exacerbate other threats own operations as well as in our supply to economic well-being. Higher temperatures, water scarcity, rising sea levels and CHANGE HAVE chain, through Farming for the Future, We are in the process of installing increased frequency of extreme weather events will affect infrastructure, logistics, STRATEGICALLY BEEN rainwater harvesting tanks at our partnerships, collective action, research distribution centre in Cape Town. business continuity, costs and access to raw material and resources. IDENTIFIED AS ONE and education. We are committed to OF THE PILLARS OF The lead up to the COP 21 in Paris has seen increasing participation by private creating awareness amongst employees, The water tank at the Country Road suppliers, customers and schools. Group Richmond Head Office captured and public sectors as well as investors to ensure that mitigation measures are agreed OUR GOOD BUSINESS and that these send a strong and clear long-term signal that there is a globally shared JOURNEY AND WE 920 000 litres of water during the past Woolworths is a member of the CEO commitment to meet the 2°C limit to global warming. Whatever the outcome, energy Water Mandate – a unique public-private year, which was used in the office toilets. prices and volatility will remain critical uncertainties and will continue to be of concern HAVE THEREFORE initiative designed to assist companies due to their potential to impact significantly across our supply chain. In addition, energy COMMITTED TO in the development, implementation and SUPPLY CHAIN efficiency continues to be a key focus for us to ensure we reduce our usage, become INCREASING ENERGY disclosure of water sustainability policies We continue to drive a reduction in water more energy independent, thereby building greener and more resilient supply chains. and practices. We have structured usage by all Farming for the Future fresh EFFICIENCY IN OUR feedback on progress on Woolworths’ produce suppliers. We are also busy OWN OPERATIONS water programme according to the six rolling out an energy, water and waste MAPPING OUR RISKS ACROSS THE SUPPLY CHAIN AND REDUCING OUR focal points of the CEO Water Mandate: self-assessment questionnaire to our CARBON EMISSIONS. primary food suppliers not covered by DIRECT OPERATIONS Farming for the Future, to help them better RISK SUB manage energy, water and waste. IDENTIFIED ISSUES Water usage (stores): 410 718 kilolitres* Energy prices • Electricity prices In the past year we have developed • Commodity prices (fuel) a chemical ‘detox’ strategy to further Water usage (distribution centres): Electricity • Electricity rationing reduce the discharge of harmful effluent 50 243 kilolitres* availability (South Africa) in our clothing supply chain (see page 40). Energy efficiency • Reducing energy use/ Water usage (head office): emissions 22 224 kilolitres* COLLECTIVE ACTION • Renewable energies Woolworths continues to ensure that both Woolworths has invested in WWF-SA’s • Climate mitigation and adaptation new real estate opportunities and existing Water Balance Programme, helping to stores are designed for efficient use of reducing the impact of invasive alien Extreme weather • Impact on supply chain patterns water and waste water. plants on our water supplies. Climate framework • Mandatory emissions Our relative water consumption across We are also working in partnership with reporting stores has decreased by 34% from our WWF-SA, WWF-UK, the Alliance for • Voluntary emissions reporting 2008 benchmark (target: 50% by 2015). Water Stewardship, M&S and some of our • Carbon tax and budgets shared suppliers to address water-related Our municipal water consumption at head Post-consumer use • Caring for clothing products risks in our supply chain and promote office has decreased by 43% from our water stewardship in the Western Cape 2008 benchmark (target: 70% by 2015), (see case study on page 53). KEY: Moderate Significant Major Not applicable with a total consumption of 22 224 kilolitres*. In 2014 we extended grey water In 2014 Woolworths participated in production at our head office campus WWF-SA’s ‘Journey of Water’ walk, to our CTC building and are seeing an creating awareness around the long and additional minimum saving of 180 000 complicated journey that water takes to litres of municipal water a month. We get to us, and the need to protect our are tapping into an underground water threatened water sources. supply – water that flows into the City To read our position statement on climate change, go to www.woolworths.co.za/goodbusinessjourney The Country Road Group Omni Fullfillment Centre solar panels 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 93 ENERGY & CLIMATE CHANGE ENERGY & CLIMATE CHANGE OUR PROGRESS SUMMARY SNAPSHOT CARBON MANAGEMENT PROGRAMME As 2015 sees the culmination of our strategic sustainability CASE STUDY: PERFORMANCE SNAPSHOT RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES OUR STRATEGY commitments, we find ourselves in an opportune place to SUPPLIER ENGAGEMENT align our strategic targets going forward to increasing global – THE PRIVATE SECTOR ENERGY Reduced relative electricity usage across • Energy prices (electricity and Our strategy for energy and climate pressure for industry to set long-term informed targets in this EFFICIENCY PROJECT (PSEE) stores by 40% since 2004 liquid fuel) change aims to increase energy space. In 2007 we made a commitment to reduce our relative • Not achieving our energy reduction efficiency in our own operations and energy consumption by 40% in 2015. We are pleased to report Reduced relative electricity usage at our reduce our carbon emissions. Working The National Business Initiative (NBI) is a voluntary corporate buildings by 31% (cumulative) targets could lead to increased costs that we have achieved this target. These energy management with stakeholders in our supply chain group of national and multinational companies • Climate change mitigation and is key to meeting the targets that we commitments have taken a holistic approach encompassing our R303 641 133 worth of electricity adaptation working toward sustainable growth and development saved to date through energy efficiency have set in order to achieve this. stakeholders, customers and employees as well as investment in South Africa. At the end of 2013, it launched a interventions • Access to capital for clean energy in energy saving initiatives across air transport, our logistics generation Private Sector Energy Efficiency Project, funded and real estate divisions. by the UK government through its Department • Carbon tax, carbon budgets and mandatory emissions reporting for International Development (DFID), aimed at • The impact of climate change and CONTINUED STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT empowering businesses to understand the impact extreme weather patterns on farms of their operations on the environment and also • Woolworths signed the National Energy Efficiency Leadership identify efficiency measures that could be put in in our supply chain Network (EELN) with the then Minister of Minerals and Energy place to minimise the impacts. in 2006 and is working towards achieving the National Energy Efficiency Strategy targets as part of the Energy Efficiency Through our relationship with the NBI, Woolworths Leadership Network. was afforded the opportunity to nominate over 100 suppliers from our supplier base for free energy AIMS TARGETS FOR 2015 ACHIEVED1 • We have a formal and broad-based sustainability partnership efficiency audits. These included both small and with WWF-SA (see page 30-31) to drive greater sustainability medium sized suppliers, our direct operations and Reduce energy use from our 2004 benchmark 40% relative reduction 40% relative reduction in energy through selected Woolworths products and operations. Through three of our distribution centres. across stores achieved (cumulative) this partnership, we have also agreed to collaborate around a proactive response to addressing climate risk in the supply chain. This has given us the opportunity to understand Reduce energy use from our 2004 benchmark 35% reduction 31% reduction was achieved our operations, energy efficiency gaps we can fill across corporate buildings (cumulative) • We engage, via the National Business Initiative, with other and those we can continue to implement, as well corporates on issues regarding climate, energy and water in as to support our suppliers in understanding and Shift to natural gas refrigerants 8 Natural gas refrigerant 32 Natural gas refrigerant (CO2 ) South Africa and how businesses can actively respond to these managing energy efficiency. Woolworths provided (CO2 ) installations installations thus far challenges. See case study alongside. the single largest network of suppliers to participate (achieved 8 in 2015) • Government departments are crucial in assessing and in the programme nationally. discussing regulatory risks associated with climate change and Increase stores meeting our green store status as per All new stores achieving Achieved for 2015. Cumulative total 64* in turn, assist us in finding ways and partnerships to mitigate our rating model based on sustainability features a green store rating (2015:6* Platinum, 8* Gold, 5* silver) where required. We are also able to provide input on policy Encourage regional sourcing of food We currently source over 92% of our food from formation through these engagements. Southern Africa, based on country of origin labelling • Woolworths and David Jones have voluntarily participated in the CDP Climate Change response for seven and four years Reduction of electricity consumption per DU (kWh) 0.224 0.1904 respectively. In 2014, David Jones was included in the ASX200 supply chain Climate Disclosure Leadership Index. Increase number of sites with clean energy sources 3 2 1 Note that figures are based on energy consumption for Woolworths in South Africa and Africa only * Part of EY's audited key performance indicators. The basis for measurement on this can be found on www.woolworthsholdings.co.za WOOLWORTHS WON THE ENERGY EXCELLENCE AWARD AT THE SOUTH AFRICAN ASSOCIATION FOR ENERGY EFFICIENCY AWARDS 2014. WHL 94 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 95 ENERGY & CLIMATE CHANGE ENERGY & CLIMATE CHANGE 58% CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT In order to make energy efficiency RECYCLING Our on-pack recycling labelling introduced SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT STRATEGY Our relationship with Imperial Group, responsible for the 49M more tangible to our customers at the in late 2013 is another way in which our OF OUR CLOTHING PRODUCTS management of our logistics, has continued to excel in A campaign to raise awareness on energy efficiency was product level, we have been scoping customers can contribute to reducing HAVE ENERGY AND WATER SAVING driving innovation through our transport strategy. Our launched in partnership with 49M and Imperial Fast ‘n Fresh ATTRIBUTES and implementing energy saving waste emissions at landfills by using the approach to sustainable transport involves behavioural at two of our distribution centres, Montague Gardens and techniques for the manufacturing guide to properly discard their waste. change interventions for our drivers/employees and also Centurion. This is to change behaviour in energy efficiency and caring of some of our products. introducing innovative technology across our logistics chain habits around day to day activities. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT and vehicle fleet. CLOTHING PRODUCTS CRYOFRIDGE 64 STORES * Our clothing products come with a wash care label that promotes washing TRAINING We conduct training workshops for I-PLEDGE This is a campaign aimed at addressing road safety by This is a closed loop system to be tested at one of our distribution centres. Using liquid nitrogen as a coolant, air at water temperatures of 30°C or less. our store employees through the GBJ MEET OUR GREEN STORE STATUS improving driver behaviour. The intervention is through inside the trailer is distributed over pipes filled with liquid A PER OUR RATING MODEL BASED This is to reduce our third-party emissions Champ programme. In the last year, we driver awareness, training and taking the I-Pledge, a stand nitrogen in order to maintain cold chain temperatures. ON SUSTAINABILITY FEATURES at the customer level, and also drive distributed energy and water packs to all committed to responsible road use. Efficient driving patterns engagement with our customers on stores and these contained a DVD, stickers NATURE FRIDGE and behaviour have been linked to monthly driver incentives. how to better care for their clothing. and a poster guiding our champs on how The nitrogen fuelled refrigeration units were trialled on some to implement water and energy saving FLEETBOARD of our trucks. These use a 'fail safe' system where nitrogen gas 40% Woolworths has committed to 60% of our clothing products having energy and water saving attributes by 2015. initiatives around their stores. We continue to distribute these to new stores. Our fleet has been fitted with the Fleetboard vehicle management system (a telematics-supported, internetis released into the trailer when the trailer doors are closed. The refrigerant gas is sprayed over the product in order to MESSAGING AND COMMUNICATION based system that provides real-time information on the maintain the temperature of the product, thereby reducing the RELATIVE REDUCTION ACHIEVED Currently, 58% have energy and water FROM OUR 2004 BENCHMARK IN operational performance of individual vehicles, fuel levels amount of energy needed to keep the truck within the desired saving attributes. Across our corporate buildings, we ENERGY USAGE ACROSS STORES and consumption via a network). A reduction of 5% – 15% cold chain temperatures. When the trailer doors are opened, ensure visibility of our energy savings IN-STORE COMMUNICATION in fuel consumption can be achieved via this system. the gas automatically turns off. focus through strategic communications, We also communicate energy use within including plasma screens in our corporate the store and saving tips for customers on buildings. plasma screens in some of our green stores. CASE STUDY: SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT – TOYOTA FORK LIFT Warehouse equipment can use a lot of resources, which and move three bins instead of one, thereby reducing ultimately contributes to our operational carbon footprint. the amount of energy required to move products. In In an effort to reduce this at warehouse operations as part addition, this equipment, a first in the country, is fitted of our renewal programme, we partnered with the Toyota with AC power and Trak air batteries and chargers, with Forklift business. The partnership has seen the introduction a wireless monitoring tool for the batteries. This Toyota of standardised materials handling equipment from a I Site is a fleet management solution that has ensured a national handler and management systems to increase our paperless, cost-effective and reliable operations system efficiency at the warehouses. IPX4-rated four wheel electric at the warehouses. This increases safety levels, enables forklifts, the world’s first electric forklifts with the ability longer operating times and increases lifespans of all the to operate in the rain, were supplied to supplement the equipment. In addition, customer support from Toyota existing fleet at Woolworths. Forklift has improved the productivity and efficiency of our The new fleet has improved efficiency at the warehouses truck operators by providing a centralised management – trucks are able to retrieve and put away pallets quicker system for the entire fleet. * Part of EY's audited key performance indicators. The basis for measurement on this can be found on www. woolworthsholdings.co.za WHL 96 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 97 ENERGY & CLIMATE CHANGE ENERGY & CLIMATE CHANGE CASE STUDY: LED LIGHTING TRIAL AIMED AT PLANT GROWTH – WATERSTONE TRIAL CASE STUDY: COUNTRY ROAD GROUP OMNI FULFILMENT CENTRE At Woolworths, flagship green store in Somerset West we have been experimenting with energy efficient lighting that The growth forecasted for WHL in The storage and handling technologies keeps our potted plants and flowers happy. We trialled LED light bulbs from Phillips (17W) and Valoya (7W), with specific Australasia, particularly in online at the OFC include a range of racking wavelengths aimed at plant growth versus our current approximately 35W standard store light. The aim was to try and sales, and regionalisation initiatives to options, scanning and live storage see how we could keep the plants healthier during store shelf life. We found that the correct light wavelength reduces support efficiency, required dedicated systems. stress on the plant, therefore reduces the chance of bacterial/fungal infections and fewer customer complaints about planning for an Omni Fulfilment quality. The herbs that were treated with LED lights were found to perform better across all parameters that were Centre (OFC) to consolidate supply The OFC is the first facility in Victoria evaluated A trial on a bigger scale at stores will give us a clearer indication of the benefits of this type of lighting not chain functions for Country Road to receive a ‘5 Star Green Staronly on plant quality, but also increased shelf life as well as energy savings. Group and David Jones. Industrial As Built v1’ rating from the Green Building Council of Australia. The fulfilment centre in Melbourne’s The facility incorporates built and western suburbs – well-served with operational design elements that seaport and airport facilities in close minimise environmental impact and DOUBLE-STACKING ON VEHICLES effectively track our energy consumption The Country Road Group continues to proximity – was already identified deliver benefits to both OFC employees on a real-time basis. We have also been drive energy efficiency and sustainable by Country Road Group in 2013. and the community. It features energy In order to maximise the volume of store design by: Plans to create the central specialised efficient sensor lighting, natural products our trailers can take, save trips able to challenge inaccurate billing from facility, with reduced fulfilment costs lighting, 1200 solar photovoltaic and save fuel, we are employing doublemunicipalities. • Installing LED light fittings in all new and improved service consistency, (PV) panels (providing around stacking. This allows a truck to carry and refurbished stores were accelerated and expanded to 403 600 kWh of electricity annually Our electricity consumption for 2014 72 pallets and not the standard 32. include David Jones Private Label and reducing carbon emissions by (January – December), as verified as • Using timers on shopfront lights and part of our carbon footprint verification, sensors in back areas product from 2016, following the 541 tons of CO2e each year) and water SOLAR POWERED TRAILERS Country Road Group transition to tanks. The facility has committed Solar panels on the roof of trailers are was 337 013 947 kWh (2013 January – • Using only cold water in most stores the centre in June 2015. to recycling the majority of supplier being trialled to power internal load December: 312 521 365 kWh). This only and timers on hot water systems in cartons for outbound purposes. body LED lights and supply power to the includes South Africa and international large stores tail lift via independent batteries. This (African) stores, head office buildings and • Encouraging employees to take public intervention will reduce fuel consumption, distribution centres. transport to work emissions, noise levels and also extend the This increase from last year is as a result • Using low VOC paints in all new lifecycle of component parts on the trailer. A solar installation at one of our distribution centres has also The boundary excludes franchise and proprietary stores not of more coverage of reporting across our stores and refits been approved and implementation will commence late in 2015. yet re-incorporated into corporate stores. TK TRACKING operations. We continue to successfully roll • Using timbers and veneer from This is now a standard fixture on all new out the metering online system to cover all sustainable sources. In this reporting year, we are also able to provide limited trailer fridge units that is web-enabled to facilities under our operational control. CARBON FOOTPRINT information on David Jones (one head office, one warehouse In the past year, the Country Road Group WHL's greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions were calculated for and 40 stores) and Country Road Group (one head track the temperature of the refrigeration Our relative energy usage was 375 kWh/m2 has conducted an energy efficiency the period 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014 with a focus office, two distribution centres, 341 stand-alone stores and unit in the trailer. The temperature can be for this year based on gross lettable assessment to get a better understanding on the company’s South African and International operations 149 concession stores). adjusted remotely, reducing the overall area. As such we have restated last of where the Group should be and independently verified by Global Carbon Exchange (GCX) potential of products rejected because years figures to be 398 kWh/m2, due Our WHL carbon emissions have increased this year as a prioritising their efforts to reduce energy in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate of fridge failure. to a change in methodology. result of: consumption. The Country Road Group Accounting and Reporting Standard published in 2004. Their CLEANER FUEL has since committed to reducing energy verification statement is included on the Good Business Journey • The inclusion of more facilities, the organisational boundary in We have tested the usage of low sulphur GREEN BUILDING consumption at head office by 20% and Report website. 2014 increased to include 21 additional stores in South Africa relative energy consumption in stores by and 60 stores in Africa. Data was available for ten distribution diesel to reduce our carbon emissions. INNOVATION 30% by 2020. We report on all emissions for 364 stores including all South centres, compared to only eight in the previous year. Bulk low sulphur fuel tanks will be available Whenever we design a new store, our African 'corporate' stores, four local Country Road and Trenery in all our main distribution centres. • During 2014 we increased our shareholding in Country Road team looks at how to include energystores and 63 international stores (three in Mauritius that had saving elements. We have created our CLEAN ENERGY been previously included and 60 in continental Africa that were Group, Australia from 87.88% to 100%. ENERGY USAGE own green building rating model which During the course of FY2015 our solar included for the first time), ten distribution centres and stockrooms • In August 2014, we also acquired another Australian retail chain, One of our most successful energy we use to classify our stores, allowing photovoltaic (PV) panels installed at and our head office buildings (excluding Woolworths Financial David Jones. saving installations is the Metering online us to easily identify stores that need our head office complex provided Services) using the Operational Control approach. monitoring system. This has allowed us to improvement. 254 369 kWh of electricity. WHL 98 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 99 ENERGY & CLIMATE CHANGE COMPARATIVE INFORMATION REPORTING YEAR TOTAL GHG WOOLWORTHS 2014 2013 2012 INTENSITY FIGURES 2015 Woolworths total Woolworths total Woolworths total Scope Source (CO2 eq tons) (CO2 eq tons) (CO2 eq tons) Emissions per full time equivalent employee (tCO2 e/FTE) 17.99 Mobile fuels 1 296.09 1 316.38 509 Emissions per square metre store/trading GLA (tCO2 e/m 2) 0.57 Scope 1 Stationary fuels 1 063.40 621.31 358 Emissions per square metre GLA including non-trading area (tCO2 e/m 2) 0.46 Air-conditioning and refrigerant gases 16 628.38 10 766.09 3 377 Emissions per square metre of trading area (tCO2 e/m ) 2 0.80 Sub Total – Scope 1 18 987.87 12 703.77 4 244 Emissions per million turnover (tCO2 e/turnover) 16.141 Scope 2 Purchased electricity – South Africa 341 580.52 311 968.71 299 958 Emissions per million EBITDA (tCO2 e/EBITDA) 124.371 Sub Total – Scope 2 360 568.52 325 001.87 304 202 1 In South African Rand Employee commute 18 984.41 15 752.08 15 032 Business travel – flights 7 405.64 8 602.25 4 643 3% 4% Business travel – car rental 113.88 111.04 83 Stationary Fuels Accommodation 410.91 329.78 DNR 8% Air-conditioning & refrigeration gas refills Distribution (third party) 38 542.44 39 288.62 36 695 Purchased electricity Scope 3 Water 532.86 472.93 554 2% Mobile fuels Non-Kyoto Protocol GHG emissions Waste (materials life cycle) 897.69 995.38 917 Business travel in rental cars Packaging: cardboard 8 619.90 8 619.90 DNR 8% Business travel in commercial airlines Office paper 100.56 88.78 DNR Business travel accommodation Plastic bags 2 896.88 2 896.88 DNR 67% Third-party vehicle fleet Fuel and energy related activities 31 052.92 Employee commuting Subtotal scope 3 109.558.07 77 157.63 57 924 Consumption of office paper Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 (GHG Protocol) 470 126.58 402 159.50 362 126 Consumption of cardboard packaging Fugitive emissions (non-Kyoto) 40 285.20 42 090.30 36 442 Consumption of plastic bags Total Woolworths 510 411.93 444 249.80 398 568 Generation of waste Country Road 13 391.57 14 175.32 17 610 Consumption of water David Jones 97 329.21 – – WHL 621 132.72 – – WHL 100 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 101 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT TO THE DIRECTORS OF WOOLWORTHS HOLDINGS LIMITED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28 JUNE 2015 SCOPE OF OUR ENGAGEMENT DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY Where a limited assurance conclusion is expressed, our evidence We believe that the evidence obtained as part of our limited We have completed our independent limited assurance The directors are responsible for implementing a stakeholder gathering procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement is sufficient and appropriate to provide engagement to enable us to express our limited assurance engagement process to identify all relevant stakeholders, to assurance engagement, and therefore less assurance is obtained a basis for our findings and our limited assurance conclusions conclusions on whether anything has come to our attention identify key issues, to respond appropriately to key issues than in a reasonable assurance engagement. expressed below. that causes us to believe that the Good Business Journey Report identified, to determine those key performance indicators which SUMMARY OF WORK PERFORMED CONCLUSIONS (“the Report”) for the year ended 28 June 2015, has not been may be relevant and material to the identified stakeholders, prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the and to design and apply appropriate sustainability reporting Set out below is a summary of the procedures performed Based on the work performed and subject to the limitations Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guideline’s principles of policies. The directors are also responsible for the preparation pertaining to the Report and the specified KPIs which were described above, nothing has come to our attention that materiality, completeness and sustainability context, and and presentation of the Report, the information and assessments included in the scope of our limited assurance engagement causes us to believe that: whether the following key performance indicators (“specified contained in the Report and for such internal control as the • We obtained an understanding of: • The Report has not been prepared, in all material respects, KPIs”) contained in the Report have not been prepared, in all directors determines is necessary to ensure that the information in accordance with the GRI G4 Guideline’s principles of – The entity and its environment; material respects, in accordance with the basis of preparation and data reported meet the requirements of the relevant criteria, materiality, completeness and sustainability context; and as described on the website for each of the specified KPIs and contains all relevant disclosures that could materially affect – Entity-level controls; • The specified KPIs have not been prepared, in all material (“management’s sustainability criteria”): any of the conclusions drawn. – The stakeholder engagement process; respects, in accordance with management’s sustainability • Water usage (in kilolitres) at the head office buildings, – The selection and application of sustainability criteria as described on the website for the year ended ASSURANCE PROVIDER’S RESPONSIBILITY for the twelve months ended 28 June 2015 as disclosed reporting policies; 28 June 2015. Our responsibility is to express our limited assurance conclusions on page 89; – How management has applied the principle of materiality on the Report and the specified KPIs based on our independent OTHER MATTERS • Water usage (in kilolitres) at the Maxmead, Montague limited assurance engagement. Our independent limited in preparing the Report and the specified KPIs; The maintenance and integrity of the Woolworths Holdings Gardens, Racecourse Gardens and Midrand distribution assurance engagement was performed in accordance with – The significant reporting processes including how Limited’s Website is the responsibility of Woolworths Holdings centres for the twelve months ended 28 June 2015 as the International Federation of Accountants’ (IFACs) International information is initiated, recorded, processed, reported and Limited management. Our procedures did not involve consideration disclosed on page 89; Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Assurance incorrect information is corrected, as well as the policies of these matters and, accordingly we accept no responsibility • Water usage (in kilolitres) for stores for the twelve months Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial and procedures within the reporting processes. for any changes to either the information in the Report or our ended 28 June 2015 as disclosed on page 89; Information. This standard requires us to comply with ethical assurance report that may have occurred since the initial date of requirements and to plan and perform our engagement to obtain • We made such enquiries of management, employees and • Number of packaging improvements as disclosed on presentation on the Woolworths Holdings Limited’s Website. limited assurance regarding the Report and the specified KPIs those responsible for the preparation of the Report and the pages 7, 80 and 81; and specified KPIs, as we considered necessary. contained in the Report, as expressed in this report. • Green stores rating as at 28 June 2015 as disclosed on • We inspected relevant supporting documentation and pages 7, 94 and 96. BASIS OF WORK AND LIMITATIONS obtained such external confirmations and management The procedures selected depend on our judgement, including the Ernst & Young Inc. The specified KPIs noted above have been highlighted for representations as we considered necessary for the purposes assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the subject Director – Jeremy Grist identification purposes in the sustainability report by an asterisk “*”. of our engagement. matter and the purpose of our engagement. In making these Registered Auditor Our responsibility in performing our independent limited assessments, we have considered internal control relevant to • We performed analytical procedures and limited tests of Chartered Accountant (SA) assurance engagement is to Woolworths Holdings Limited the entity’s preparation and presentation of the Report and the detail responsive to our risk assessment and the level of Ernst & Young House only and in accordance with the terms of reference for this information contained therein, in order to design procedures assurance required, including comparison of judgementally 35 Lower Long Street engagement (including the release letter dated 30 September appropriate for gathering sufficient appropriate assurance selected information to the underlying source documentation Cape Town 2015) as agreed with them. To the fullest extent permitted by law, evidence to determine that the information in the Report is not from which the information has been derived. 30 September 2015 we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than materially misstated or misleading as set out in the summary Woolworths Holdings Limited for our work, for this report, or for of work performed below. Our assessment of relevant internal the conclusions we have reached. control is not for the purpose of expressing a conclusion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal controls. Woolworths Holdings Limited has elected to prepare the Report in accordance with the principles of the G4 Guidelines We planned and performed our work to obtain all the which was published by the Global Reporting Initiative, of information and explanations that we considered necessary to which a full copy can be obtained from the Global Reporting provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusions pertaining Initiative’s website. to the Report and the specified KPIs, expressed below. WHL 102 / 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT 2015 GOOD BUSINESS JOURNEY REPORT / WHL 103 TO FIND OUT MORE ABOUT WHAT WE’RE DOING, VISIT WWW.WOOLWORTHS.CO.ZA/GOODBUSINESSJOURNEY WWW.WOOLWORTHSHOLDINGS.CO.ZA WWW.DAVIDJONES.COM.AU WWW.COUNTRYROAD.COM.AU WWW.MYSCHOOL.CO.ZA FOLLOW US ON TWITTER @WOOLWORTHSGBJ We appreciate any feedback on our sustainability focus areas or reporting. Please contact the sustainability team at GoodBusinessJourney@woolworths.co.za
