ANNUAL REPORT 2014 VISION It is a human right to feel safe. MISSION To make people safe by pushing intellectual and technological boundaries. CONTENTS Saab in brief Administration report 40 Saab 2014 1 Business areas 42 Chairman's statement 2 Risks and risk management 50 CEO comment 4 Corporate governance report 54 Saab's business 6 Board of Directors and Auditors 60 Market10 Group Management 62 Goals23 Financial statements and notes 66 The Saab share 24 Dividend motivation 130 Strategy26 Proposed disposition of earnings 131 Sustainability35 Audit report 132 Shareholder information 134 Multi-year overview 135 Glossary136 The formal annual report comprises the pages 40–131. CALENDAR Certain figures have been rounded off, due to which tables Annual General Meeting, 15 April 2015 and calculations do not always exactly add up. The Annual Interim Report January – March, 24 April 2015 Report is published in Swedish and English. In the event of differences between the English translation and the Swedish Interim Report January – June, 17 July 2015 original, the Swedish Annual Report shall prevail. Interim Report January – September, 23 October 2015 Financial reports can be ordered from servicecenter@servistik.se Year-end report January – December, 10 February 2016 SAAB IN BRIEF MAKING PEOPLE AND SOCIETY SAFE Saab is a global defence and security company that develops, manufactures and sells some of the world’s most advanced military and civilian solutions. The broad product portfolio is constantly evolving and currently ranges from combat aircraft, radar and weapon systems to civilian surveillance systems e.g. for ports and airports. BROAD OFFERING Air: The Gripen combat aircraft system, as well as command and 45% control and surveillance systems, unmanned aerial vehicles, selfprotection systems and signals intelligence, avionics, weapon systems and sensors. 22% Land: Tactical weapon systems such as Carl-Gustaf, surveillance, command and control systems and radar. Naval: Submarines, surface vessels, unmanned underwater systems, command and control systems, radar and early warning, situational 14% awareness, communication systems and tactical weapons. Civil security: Surveillance and situational awareness as well as solutions for secure, efficient flows at airports, in ports and along 10% coasts and emergency response. Commercial aeronautics: Including structures for commercial aircraft such as doors, wings and ailerons, advanced electronics for critical 8% applications for leading international aircraft manufacturers such as Boeing and Airbus and maintenance of the Saab 340 and Saab 2000 aircraft in operation. Share of Saab’s total sales 2014 FOR MORE INFORMATION ON SAAB’S OFFERING, SEE PAGES 18–21. ORGANISATION Saab’s operational and management structure is divided into six business areas based on products and technologies. FOR MORE INFORMATION ON SAAB’S BUSINESS AREAS, SEE PAGES 42– 48. North America 10% Latin America 2% STRATEGY FOR INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS Saab’s strategy is to: • Become closer to customers in key markets • Develop innovative solutions in priority product • Continue to improve efficiencies • Continuously develop leaders and employees while continuing to build a culture that encourages performance, engagement and diversity FOR MORE INFORMATION ON SAAB’S STRATEGY, SEE PAGES 26–34. ON LOCATION CLOSE TO CUSTOMERS A large part of Saab’s sales comes from Sweden and the rest of Europe. Asia and Latin America are growth markets for Saab. Saab’s market organisation is divided into five geographical areas and is based on a strong local presence in a number of key markets. 45% FOR MORE INFORMATION ON SAAB’S MARKET AREAS, SEE PAGES 13 –15. Sweden Rest of Europe 19% Asia 17% Africa 2% Share of Saab’s total sales 2014 Australia 5% SAAB 2014 2014 was an eventful year with a number of groundbreaking product launches as well as a contract with Brazil for the new generation Gripen. GRIPEN TO BRAZIL the US Army. In addition, the latest generation, Order bookings and sales Saab signed a contract with the Brazilian governCarl-­Gustaf M4, was launched. ment for the development, production and support of 36 next generation Gripen aircraft for the NEW VERSIONS OF THE AT4 WEAPON SYSTEM MSEK Brazilian Air Force. TO FRANCE 50,000 The French Ministry of Defence has ordered new 45,000 SAAB KOCKUMS versions of the AT4 anti-armour weapon, which 40,000 The Swedish shipyard ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems, will be employed by all three branches of the 35,000 now Saab Kockums, was acquired during the year. French Armed Forces (Army, Air Force and Navy). 30,000 25,000 20,000 NEXT GENERATION SUBMARINES WORLD’S FIRST REMOTELY CONTROLLED 15,000 Saab received an order from the Swedish Defence AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL TOWER CLEARED 10,000 Materiel Administration (FMV) to generate conFOR OPERATION 5,000 struction and production plans for Sweden’s next The Swedish air navigation service provider, LFV, 0 generation submarines. A contract was also received clearance from the Swedish Transport 10 11 12 13 14 received for overhaul and support of the country’s Agency to begin remotely controlled air traffic Order bookings Sales current submarine fleet. control at Örnsköldsvik Airport. EXPANDED PRODUCT PORTFOLIO IN ORDERS FOR MILITARY TRAINING SYSTEMS ­SURVEILLANCE RADAR During the year, Saab received a number of orders Saab’s proven surveillance radar systems, Giraffe for military training systems, including weapon Sales per business area 2014 AMB and Arthur, have been given improved techsimulators, from Finland, the US and the UK. nology and designs at the same time that Active Electronically Scanned Array (AESA) radar was DIVIDEND launched for land and sea. For 2014 the Board of Directors is proposing that the Annual General Meeting approve a dividend CARL-GUSTAF WEAPON SYSTEM to shareholders of SEK 4.75 (4.50) per share, correIn February, the Carl-Gustaf portable weapon sponding to 43 per cent (65) of net income. system was named a Program of Record by Financial highlights (MSEK) 2014 2013 2012 Aeronautics 28% Order backlog at year-end 60,128 59,870 34,151 Dynamics 12% Sales 23,527 23,750 24,010 Electronic Defence Operating income (EBIT) 1,659 1,345 2,050 Systems 18% Operating margin (EBIT), % 7.1 5.7 8.5 Security & Defence Net income 1,168 742 1,560 Solutions 24% Support & Services 14% Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 10.78 6.79 14.52 Combitech 4% Free cash flow -1,094 -1,460 -396 Dividend per share, SEK 4.75* 4.50 4.50 Equity/assets ratio, % 38.5 44.0 39.0 Internally funded R&D, share of sales, % 5.7 5.6 7.5 Number of employees at year-end 14,716 14,140 13,968 * Proposed dividend Sales growth Operating margin Equity/assets ratio -1% Goal: 7% Goal: 39% Goal: 5 per cent organic At least 10 per cent An equity/assets ratio growth per year over per year over exceeding 30 per cent a business cycle a business cycle SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 1 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 2014 – A SIGNIFICANT YEAR My fellow shareholders and others with an interest in Saab, as Chairman I would first and foremost like to thank Saab’s CEO, Group Management and employees for the excellent job they did in 2014. Saab strengthened its foundation for growth in a number of ways during the year, including by signing a contract with Brazil on the development and production of Gripen NG and by expanding its naval capabilities in Sweden through the acquisition of Saab Kockums. The world is constantly changing, and doing so including 1998, when Saab received its first export quickly. People are finding new solutions to the order for Gripen from South Africa, and 2006, when problems of today and tomorrow. There are Ericsson Microwave Systems was acquired, enanumerous uncertainties, but in many ways our bling Saab to develop world-leading radar systems. world is developing in a positive direction. More But 2014 was significant in several ways. In a children than ever, both boys and girls, are getting national referendum in May, the Swiss voted no to an education. In Sweden, progress continues to be the funding plan for Gripen. This was naturally a made in high technology, innovation and exports. disappointment, but the fact remains that the Swiss While there are many positive signs, there are government’s choice of Gripen helped in the sucalso plenty of challenges. Global economic developcessful development of the system. When the historment remains problematic, and is also affected by ical contract was later signed with Brazil on the next political developments in many parts of the world. generation Gripen, interest in the fighter increased Conflicts between countries and between various significantly around the world. Through an acquisigroups, not to mention the alarming increase in tion we have created Saab Kockums, further broadextremism and terrorism, make everyone less safe. ening Saab’s product portfolio. Today, the company Saab is affected by this trend. A high-tech comcan develop, produce and supply turnkey solutions pany that offers defence and security solutions so for military or civilian needs. In this way, Saab’s that countries can protect their borders and their solutions help to address security threats and to people is naturally going to be impacted in several promote security, democracy and development. ways. It has been that way since Saab was founded. The core of Saab’s daily mission is to push developGROWTH AND LONG BUSINESS CYCLES ment forward in order to safeguard the right of At year-end, Saab’s order backlog amounted to every individual to safety and security. It is a approximately SEK 60 billion, nearly double that of privilege to play a part in this process. two years earlier. This provides a stable foundation for future growth. At the same time, improvements COLLABORATIVE INNOVATION are continuously being made to the product portMy grandfather played a role at Saab at the very folio to ensure that Saab remains at the forefront of beginning. When the company was created, Par­ technological innovation. In 2014, after years of liament felt that Sweden should have the capacity self-financed development, the company launched to develop its own combat aircraft, since it was several world-leading technologies. The industry’s difficult on the brink of a world war to procure business cycles are long, and it is not unusual that defence materiel from other countries. Ever since, the time between initial discussion and signed it has been critical for Saab to co-operate with the contract is several years, or, in some cases, decades. Swedish Armed Forces and to supply cost-efficient, An established presence in local markets, a contininnovative and competitive products and soluuous focus on higher efficiency and openness to tions. Today, Saab is an international company. new development opportunities are the keys to In 2014, it devoted about 25 per cent of sales to successful growth. research and development. A large part of that development is conducted in close collaboration INCREASED TRADE STIMULATES GROWTH with customers from around the world, and their An increasingly integrated society requires techdemands help to shape us as a company. The Gripen nologies with the flexibility, multifunctionality coombat aircraft system is an example how internal and ability to operate jointly. In last year’s annual efficiency, close co-operation with customers and report I wrote about the importance of technology the best suppliers from around the world can transfers and exchanging skills, as well as longproduce high quality and commercial success. term collaborations between countries and various other parties. This remained important in 2014 2014 – A MILESTONE IN SAAB’S HISTORY and, in several ways, intensified. A good example In summing up 2014, I would call it one of the is the discussions on a trade agreement between modern Saab’s most important years ever. There the European Union and the US (Transatlantic have been a number of past milestones, of course, Trade and Investment Partnership, TTIP). An 2 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 For the defence industry and Saab, collaboration is vital. We have had established international partnerships for many years in training, research and development, and production, which have helped to make the company a success in its areas of expertise. important factor for TTIP is finding common SAAB – AN OPEN AND standards, so that US and European companies TRANSPARENT ­COMPANY can more easily do business across the Atlantic. Saab is an open and transparent company and For the defence industry and for Saab, colla­ takes an active part in the development of global boration is vital. We have had established internaguidelines and regulations for business ethics. tional partnerships for many years in training, In 2011, we endorsed the UN’s Global Compact research and development and production, which and its ten principles in the areas of human rights, have helped to make the company a success in its labour, the environment and anti-corruption. areas of expertise. While our research and develThe Global Compact is integrated in the Saab opment is primarily based in Sweden, we are conCode of Conduct. Saab is and will remain a longstantly expanding internationally. As part of the term, reliable business partner that embraces an Gripen contract with Brazil, for example, we are open and transparent market. broadening development ties with Brazilian industry and universities. Trade and international business relationships Stockholm, February 2015 make Saab and the world in which we live stronger. Like many other Swedish industrial companies, exports are critical to Saab’s strength and survival. Marcus Wallenberg With Sweden as a base, export opportunities conChairman tribute to our ability to develop more of tomorrow’s defence solutions. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 3 CEO COMMENT CHALLENGES AND CONFIDENCE IN THE FUTURE 2014 will go down in history as one of Saab’s most important years. It was a year highlighted by groundbreaking deals, important product launches and business successes. We have strengthened our customer offering and INNOVATIONS FOR THE FUTURE our competitiveness. Saab operates in a chall­en­ Investments in research and development during ging, highly competitive market, and I am proud the year corresponded to about 25 per cent of sales. that we are succeeding under these circumstances. The large part of R&D is done in close co-operation But at the same time there is still work to do to with customers, including the development of the reach Saab’s goals and ambitions. new generation Gripen. Our own major investments also resulted in the A GROUNDBREAKING YEAR FOR SAAB following launches in 2014: The contract with Brazil on the new generation • Experience with Active Electronically Scanned Gripen is the biggest export order in Saab’s history. Array (AESA) technology, combined with an This, together with the fact that we are already understanding of market needs, resulted in five developing Gripen for Sweden, ensures that the completely new radar systems for land and sea. Gripen system will be one of the world’s leading • The fourth generation of Carl-Gustaf, CG M4, fighter aircraft in coming decades. Innovative new was launched. products were launched, and after the acquisition • The Swedish Transport Agency gave clearance of ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems (Saab Kockums) to the Örnsköldsvik Airport to begin using we have become a turnkey supplier of military Saab’s Remote Tower, making it the first airport systems for land, air and sea. in the world to be managed remotely. CHANGING MARKET PRESENTS A big change for Saab happened during the summer OPPORTUNITIES with the acquisition of ThyssenKrupp Marine The defence market has been challenging since the Systems. This means that Saab has now taken a global recession began in 2008. Strained governfurther step in the naval area and become a turnment budgets have reduced investments in defence key supplier of submarines, among other things. and security products in recent years. Defence The design of the next generation submarine, A26, spending is projected to rise going forward, but the is now underway. turnaround is not expected to be quick or strong and therefore will not impact Saab in the short term. The market is changing at an accelerating pace. Technological developments, combined with completely different threat scenarios compared with a couple of decades ago, are creating opportunities for companies that are able to adapt to the new conditions. CONTINUOUS DEVELOPMENT AND IMPROVEMENT Two key internal priorities are project management and leadership development. We are developing a leadership culture on every level of the company with a focus on performance and a desire to continuously grow. Saab is a workplace that offers professional and personal development in combination with a positive and inclusive climate. 4 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 The order backlog is strong and there is every reason to be optimistic about the future. LONG-TERM GROWTH for investments primarily in development and The order backlog is strong and there is every marketing activities during the year. Adjusting reason to be optimistic about the future. We have capacity, the portfolio and the way we work is a already signed important contracts and see good natural part of our business and will continue. business opportunities, especially after our new We had a strong operating cash flow in the product launches. In 2015, the Gripen order from fourth quarter and came close to reaching our goal Brazil is expected to become official, provided that of positive cash flow for the second half of the year. certain benchmarks unrelated to Saab are met. Continued focus on improved processes throughSince the level of activity from major orders can out the chain, from negotiations to project implefluctuate between years and the deals take so long, mentation, is essential in order to improve cash it is also important for us to have a stable backlog flow. of smaller orders. Sales were in line with the previous year at TRUST IS ONE OF OUR CORE VALUES MSEK 23,527, but organic sales growth was negaWe continued to work on a number of activities in tive. It was mainly in business area Dynamics that 2014 to strengthen our compliance work, includsales fell, due to a challenging market in recent ing the launch of a program to audit our marketing years. At the same time, the business area Security consultants. We also began updating our Code of and Defence Solutions increased its sales, partly Conduct with the intent of launching a special through the acquisition of Saab Kockums. code for our suppliers and partners in 2015. Our long-term goal is to grow organically, No company is isolated from its environment. which makes it important to ensure that the order We are all dependent on a well-functioning society backlog increases and, with it, future sales. in order to grow over time. By acting responsibly and sustainably in everything we do, we can gain MONITORING AND TRANSPARENCY the trust of customers, employees and our commuOperating income in 2014 amounted to MSEK nities, which creates opportunities for increased 1,659, with an operating margin of 7.1 per cent. growth and long-term development. During the year, we continued to reassess our comA long-term approach is of great importance to pany portfolio. We have acquired Saab Kockums Saab and can be seen in everything we do. Many of and sold our minority interest in Hawker Pacific our commitments extend over decades, and Saab Airservices. has been creating value-added for nearly eighty In 2013, we introduced a clearer governance years. Some of the development projects we are model and the increased internal transparency working on today will create jobs and growth for has been valuable. Better monitoring helps us to many decades to come. navigate in increasingly complex markets. Efforts to further improve operations and efficiencies are continuing. The efficiency measures Stockholm, February 2015 announced in 2013 have been implemented and the goal of improving efficiency by MSEK 500 was reached in 2014. This was primarily achieved Håkan Buskhe through capacity adjustments and by reducing the President and CEO total number of FTE’s and external consultants by about 950 from the beginning of 2013, excluding the acquisition of Saab Kockums and deconsoli­ dation of Saab Grintek Technologies (Pty) Ltd in South Africa. The efficiencies left more room SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 5 SAAB’S BUSINESS SAAB’S BROAD BASED OFFERING Saab contributes to a safer society through world-leading solutions, products and services for military defence and civil security. The broad offering covers a variety of societal functions and meets a number of different security needs. In the military sector, Saab has leading positions in technologies and products, but customer offerings a number of segments on the ground, in the air usually involves multiple business areas. Different and at sea. Examples include fighter aircraft and parts of the Group also co-operate in research support weapons. Saab’s civil security operations and development. In this way, the Group can have offer air and maritime traffic management systems specialised offerings for each market segment and as well as security solutions, including solutions at the same time take advantage of synergies. for airports and prisons. In civil security, there are The offering is continuously refined and adapted also solutions for ambulance services, field hospitals to customers’ current and future needs. This is why and underwater vehicles for the offshore oil and around a quarter of sales is invested in research gas industry. and development. Saab is organised in six business areas based on ❺ ❶ ❷ ❼ ❸ ❹ ❽ ⓬ ⓭ ⓮ ⓯ 6 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 THE ILLUSTRATION BELOW SHOWS A SELECTION OF SAAB’S BROAD RANGE OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES FOR CIVILIAN AND MILITARY USE. 1. Technical consultancy. 11. Air traffic control towers, e.g. Remote Tower. 2. Research collaborations. 12. Airborne surveillance systems. 3. Dispatch system for security companies. 13. Naval vessels, e.g. Visby class corvette. 4. Protection against Chemical (C), Biological (B), 14. Remotely operated underwater vehicles, e.g. Radioactive (R) or Nuclear (N) weapons (CBRN). Double Eagle for mine disposal. 5. The Gripen combat aircraft system. 15. Development of next generation submarine, A26. 6. The Erieye airborne radar system. 16. Ground-based surveillance radar, e.g. Giraffe. 7. Systems for weather stations. 17. Field hangars. 8. Security systems for prisons. 18. Military training systems. 9. Subcontractor to manufacturers of commercial aircraft. 19. Anti-aircraft missile systems, e.g. RBS 70. 10. Runway lighting for airports. 20. Camouflage equipment, e.g. Special Operations Tactical Suits (SOTACS). Aeronautics ❻ Dynamics Electronic Defence Systems Security and Defence Solutions Support and Services Industrial Products and Services* * Industrial Products and Services is a new business area as of 2015, see also page 48. ❾ ⓫ ❿ ⓰ ⓱ ⓴ ⓳ ⓲ SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 7 SAAB’S BUSINESS BUSINESS MODEL Saab’s market offering consists of complex systems involving a great deal of research and development, alongside high volume, repeat order businesses. Saab’s business model is adapted to the product Dimensions of Saab’s business area, system complexity, customer group and geographical market. Complexity COMPLEX DEFENCE ORDERS COMPLEX DEFENCE ORDERS In complex defence orders, Saab directly supplies Complex systems with long delivery times, e.g., Gripen and Erieye. the customer. These comprehensive solutions, often also comprising training, maintenance, support and service, are designed to maintain functionality and cost efficiency over the product’s SUBCONTRACTORS entire life cycle. Deliveries can continue for several Subcontractor of civilian and military years after development. These systems are con­ command and control systems, e.g., figured and designed based on each customer’s Remote Tower and 9LV. specific needs and therefore often have a large share of customer-financed development. In addition, complex defence orders usually entail some form of industrial co-operation. One example is VOLUME ORDERS the development and delivery of Gripen. Repeat orders for maintenance, repairs and consumables, e.g., ammunition and technical SUBCONTRACTOR consulting services. Saab can also serve as a subcontractor to a partner with primary contact with the end customer, e.g., when supplying subsystems. Several of Saab’s systems, e.g., command and control systems, are Repetition platform dependent and can be integrated with Saab’s or other companies’ products and systems. Another reason for being a subcontractor can be that cost or other factors make it an effective strategy to build a presence in a market. VOLUME ORDERS Maintenance, support and training can also be sold separately, outside large defence orders. Consumables and spare parts also fall into this category. These products and solutions are usually sold directly to the customer. Some products and services are delivered the same day an order is placed, while others have a lead time of over a year. These orders involve less customer-financed development than complex systems. Examples include most of Saab’s civilian offering, as well as products sold in large volumes, such as ammunition. 8 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Sales distribution 2014 Sale of goods 13% 7% 14% 20% 24% Service assignments 20% 20% 9% 21% 50% 100% Service Long-term customer 71% 67% 66% assignments contracts 55% 43% Aeronautics Dynamics Electronic Security Support Combitech Defence and Defence and Service Systems Solutions As of 2015, Combitech, Aerostructures (previously in Aeronautics), Avionics Systems (previously in Electronic Defence Systems) and Saab Ventures is included in the newly formed business area Industrial Products and Services; see page 48 as well as notes 1 and 3 for more information. REVENUE DISTRIBUTION The third part of Saab’s sales model is the sale of Saab’s sales model is divided into three main parts: products and spare parts that Saab manufactures sales of products and spare parts, service assignand stocks or purchases on behalf of customers. ments and long-term customer contracts. In Sales are recognised when ownership has been addition, Saab generates a small share of royalties. transferred to the buyer. For more information, Long-term customer contracts account for about see notes 1 and 3. 60 per cent of sales, but, since Saab’s business areas are divided by product and market offering, the distribution differs by business area. Aeronautics is dominated by long-term customer contracts, while Support and Services and Combitech have a higher share of service assignments. Due to the nature of the revenue, sales, income, and cash flow fluctuate over the course of the year. Long-term customer contracts comprise the development and manufacture of complex systems. One example is FMV’s order for the development and modification of Gripen E, which Saab will work on until 2026. Long-term contracts are continually recognised in revenue, meaning that income and expenses associated with the project are recognised at the rate of completion of the project. Cash flows from these contracts depend on the timing of deliveries, advances and milestone payments during the order period. Service assignments consist of consulting and support services. Examples include training and ongoing maintenance associated with previous deliveries. Sales from service assignments on current account are recognised when the services are rendered, while service assignments as part of fixedprice contracts are recognised according to the same principles as long-term customer contracts. One of Saab’s aircraft mechanics working on a Gripen fighter. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 9 MARKET DESCRIPTION After declining for a number of years, global defence spending is expected to rise going forward, mainly due to global economic growth, but also because of growing geopolitical turmoil. While North America has historically been the dominant market for defence materiel, a shift toward Asia is expected in coming years. Nordic 1% +2% Russia 4% North America 36% Rest of Europe 17% +2% +1% +1% Middle East 8% China 12% +2% +6% Asia 17% Latin America 3% Africa 2% +3% +3% +3% Upper figure: Estimated share of global defence materiel market 2016 – 2020 Lower figure: Estimated average annual growth rate 2016– 2020 Source: IHS Group, December 2014 In 2014, global defence spending rose for the first time since 2010. After a temporary Value of the global defence materiel market, 2008 – 2020 slowdown in 2015, the global market is MUSD expected to grow by an annual average of 400,000 2 per cent between 2016 and 2020. Overall 350,000 economic growth will be the main driver. Growth is mainly expected in Asia, where 300,000 China, India and the countries of Southeast 250,000 Asia are driving the market. Europe is gene200,000 rating a slight growth, mainly driven by Poland and Turkey. 150,000 In the Middle East, growth has been high, 100,000 but is slowing owing in part to falling oil 50,000 prices. The fastest growth in recent years has been in Russia, but the growth rate there 0 -08 -09 -10 -11 -12 -13 -14E -15E -16E -17E -18E -19E -20E is expected to decline due to economic conditions in the country. Source: IHS Group, December 2014 10 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 MARKET DRIVERS The most important drivers in Saab’s markets are changing threat scenarios and new security needs in society. Defence spending has declined in the West in recent years, but is growing in other parts of the world. This increases the need for cost efficiency and the ability to respond to changing customer needs. ADVANTAGE FOR COST EFFICIENT NEW COLLABORATIONS AND ALLIANCES Saab estimates the PRODUCTS REQUIRE SYSTEM INTEGRATION value of the available After declining for a number of years, global In a number of wars and conflicts in recent decades, global market for defence spending bottomed out in 2014, with the opposing sides have been multinational coalislight growth expected in coming years. The focus tions. When different forces operate together, their security and traffic on maximising value and performance within the systems have to be coordinated and integrated. management systems tighter budgets that have resulted from years of Demand is therefore rising for open systems and at SEK 50 billion. limited resources still persists. It has become system integration. essential to offer advanced products that are also cost efficient. This means not only a lower INCREASED NEED TO SAFEGUARD AND purchasing price, but that they are efficient to IMPROVE EFFICIENCIES IN SUPPLY CHAINS operate and maintain. Another important way Increasing flows of goods, energy, capital, people to provide customers with cost efficiency is to and information in a globalised world increase design products for multiple purposes. the need for security and efficiency. This means not only protecting strategic infrastructure against DEMAND FOR LOCAL PRESENCE military threats and terrorism, but also safeguarAt the same time that military spending is decreading key functions, such as flows at major hubs. sing or stagnating in the West, it is increasing in Flows of goods and resources are playing an other regions, such as Asia, the Middle East and in­creasingly prominent role in the security strateLatin America. This is increasing competition in gies of countries and organisations. Added to growth markets and making it that much more this is the need to safeguard critical systems important to maintain a local presence in order from cyber­attacks. to adapt the offer to customers’ needs. LOCAL PRESENCE STRENGTHENS SAAB Saab established a new market area organisation in 2013 by moving a large part of the sales organisation that had been consolidated in Sweden to local offices in a number of key markets. “A local presence has significantly raised the profile of Saab’s brand and products and at the same time is a sign of our long-term commitment to the countries where we are active,” says Manod Jinnuri, marketing manager for Saab in India. “By being closer to customers, we also see firsthand what they need.” With employees on site, Saab gains a better understanding of the market and local procurement processes, at the same time that in-house staff can make sure that deals comply with Saab’s ethical guidelines. “We see that the market area organisation is helping us to identify new business opportunities. This applies to both the number of opportunities and situations where we can offer a customised and, in some cases, broader range of products and services to the market,” says Manod Jinnuri. MARKET MEGATRENDS A long period of relative calm in the world may be coming to an end. Conflicts within and between nation states could become more common, while the influence of international institutions is on the wane. The way in which conflicts are fought is changing as well, largely driven by technological developments. Over the long term, Saab and the rest of the defence industry asa whole are affected to a high degree by geopolitical and economic developments and their impact on the risk of conflict. A number of significant changes are now underway, two of which can be considered the most fundamental. The first is a change in global security systems. Secondly, there is a growing overlap between protecting borders and defending public services and therefore between the military and civilian sectors. GEOPOLITICAL SHIFT The old world order was built on the idea that independent, sovereign and self-sustaining nation states would create a stable balance of power, with military might if needed. This idea dates back to the Peace of Westphalia in 1648. After World War II, it was thought that peace and prosperity could be created with the help of a new security philosophy based on shared principles. This was reflected in institutions such as the UN, and later the EU. When the Cold War ended 25 years ago, it launrealisation that security has to include protecting ched a period in which the US became the domipublic services such as supply chains, infrastructure nant power. The geopolitical and economic and information. It also means that the defined balance is now being disrupted as the Asia Pacific line between military and civilian is gradually region, which lacks the security structures of being erased. NATO and the EU, grows stronger. This multipolar National security means making a society power structure could result in clashing interests robust enough to handle severe stress, at the same that challenge the geopolitical calm. Internal prestime ensuring that it has the capabilities to deter an sures are driving nationalistic fervour in a number attack. The basic idea is that in today’s high-tech of countries and, in time, domestic conflicts and world, a country simply cannot be defended in the terrorism could lead to multinational conflicts. old way, with strong protection everywhere. One consequence for the industry and Saab is DEFEND BORDERS AND PROTECT that demands will change as the definition of the PUBLIC SERVICES defence industry is broadened. A greater risk of The way conflicts are fought is largely driven by conflict means a higher demand for protection and technology. The aim of traditional security policies security, and companies in the defence industry is to defend borders, but there is also a growing have to show that they are capable of adapting. 12 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 MARKET MARKET AREAS The Group’s market organisation is divided into five geographical market areas and is based on a strong local presence in a number of key markets. A reorganisation was implemented as of 2015 to adapt to changes in the market. Saab’s market areas are now Nordic & Baltic, Europe, Middle East & Africa, North America, Latin America and Asia Pacific. 12,330 Number of employees in the market area 1,355 Number of employees in the market area 1% Share of global defence materiel spending 27% Share of global defence materiel spending 2016 – 2020 2016 – 2020 2% Average annual growth 2016 – 2020 2% Average annual growth 2016 – 2020 NORDIC & BALTIC EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA Nordic & Baltic is Saab’s largest market. In addition to the Nordic Europe is Saab’s largest market outside the Nordic countries. Defence and Baltic countries, the market area includes Poland. The Swedish spending has decreased in recent years, mainly due to the economic Armed Forces are an important reference for many international slowdown. Although a turnaround is expected within a few years. projects as well. Good relations with Swedish decision makers, civilian Most countries in the region are downsizing their defence organi­ and military customers and authorities are critical to the business. sations, in order to afford to modernise their equipment. Russia is Defence spending in the region is declining. In 2014, the decrease going against the grain and raising its defence spending in local was 4.1 per cent. However, forecasts point to increased defence budcurrency. Saab does not sell defence materiel to Russia. gets within a few years. Finland has appointed a working group for In the EU, there are growing demands for secure flows of goods the procurement of new fighter jets and Norway is preparing to buy and people and the protection of shifting borders. Multinational new submarines. The radar area also offers opportunities in coming collaborations between defence industries are considered necessary years. The Baltic countries have to modernise some of their equipto develop future high-tech defence solutions. ment, but have limited budgets. The market for civil security is Defence spending in the Middle East rose by 7.8 per cent in 2014. growing in the region. Growth is expected to continue in coming years, but at a slower rate. The acquisition of the Swedish shipyard ThyssenKrupp Marine Further progress was made during the year, mainly in surveillance, Systems was finalised during the second quarter and strengthens training and naval solutions. Saab’s position as a comprehensive supplier of naval systems. Africa south of the Sahara accounts for an estimated 1.0 per cent of global defence spending. Budgets rose by 3.7 per cent in 2014, and Order and sales trend growth is expected to remain strong for years to come. During the year, FMV ordered equipment, support and maintenance Saab’s operations in the region are concentrated in South Africa, systems for Gripen E valued at approximately SEK 5.8 billion for the with smaller operations in a number of other countries. For example, period 2013–2026. In Finland, the co-operation with the Finnish South Africa operates 26 Gripen. The market outlook is positive, Armed Forces resulted in an order for military training systems. Saab especially in the security sector, including the police, coast guard also received an order from the Finnish military vehicle manufacturer and oil and gas industry. Patria Land Systems Oy for electronics for the Patria AMV 8x8 vehicles being supplied to South Africa. Order and sales trend In 2014, Saab signed a letter of intent with FMV covering the Swedish Saab’s strong position in training and simulation, primarily in the Armed Forces’ underwater capabilities for the period 2015–2024 and UK, was consolidated through extended support contracts for several potential orders of approximately SEK 11.2 billion. military training centres. Radar still accounts for a significant share Saab also received an order from the South Korean shipyard of the Group’s sales in the UK. Saab also received a major order for Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering relating to healthcare new versions of the AT4 support weapon system from the French capabilities aboard a Norwegian Navy support vessel. The Norwegian Armed Forces. Army placed an order for the development and manufacture of the In Central and Eastern Europe, demand for Gripen remained next generation of vehicle simulators. strong among current users. The extended lease between Czech In addition, a five-year framework agreement was signed with Republic and Sweden was an important milestone. Slovakia, the Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Czech Republic and Poland to provide Czech Republic and Sweden signed a declaration of intent on joint ammunition for the Carl-Gustaf weapon system. airspace surveillance of Slovakia and Czech Republic that will pave the way for Gripen to become part of the Slovakian Air Force. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 13 MARKET MARKET AREAS 608 Number of employees in the market area 12 Number of employees in the market area 36% Share of global defence materiel spending 3% Share of global defence materiel spending 2016 – 2020 2016 – 2020 1% Average annual growth 2016 – 2020 3% Average annual growth 2016 – 2020 NORTH AMERICA LATIN AMERICA The US and Canada accounted for about 37 per cent of global defence Defence spending in Latin America has grown in recent years. spending in 2014, but budgets were reduced by 1.0 per cent during In 2014, the increase was 3.2 per cent, and growth is expected to the year. The decrease is expected to continue for another year before continue in the years ahead. Brazil, which accounts for about half spending levels off. of the region’s defence spending, has an ambition and the resources Saab and Boeing continued to jointly develop an advanced to develop a diversified defence industry. training aircraft, with the goal of participating in the US Air Force’s Saab’s commitment to the Swedish Brazilian Innovation & upcoming T-X programme. Research Center (CISB) continued in 2014. Among other things, around ten Brazilian researchers have been working at Swedish Order and sales trend universities under the auspices of CISB. Among other things, Saab signed a new, five-year framework contract during the year with the U.S. Special Operations Command Order and sales trend (SOCOM) for the Carl-Gustaf weapon system, for a total value of up In October 2014, a contract was signed with the Brazilian governto about SEK 1.3 billion. Carl-Gustaf was named a Program of ment (through the Aeronautics Command, COMAER) covering Record by the U.S. Army, which means that it could become standard the development and production of 36 Gripen NG fighters for the equipment for the U.S. Army’s light infantry. Brazilian Air Force. The total order value is approximately SEK 39.3 Saab was also awarded a contract for a Water Borne Improvised billion. Saab and COMAER have also signed an industrial co-operation Explosive Device Remotely Operated Vehicle in co-operation with contract to deliver substantial technology transfers to Brazilian the U.S. Underwater Hazardous Device Team. industry. The agreement will take effect when certain criteria are met, In Canada, Saab received orders for processors and displays for which is expected in the first half of 2015, at which point Saab will Textron’s Tactical Armoured Patrol Vehicle (TAPV), as well as a recognise the order. In March 2014, the Brazilian Army ordered support contract to modernise a number of Halifax class frigates. man-portable launchers, missiles and associated equipment for the RBS 70 VSHORAD very short range air defence system. 14 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 MARKET MARKET AREAS 411 Number of employees in the market area 17% Share of global defence materiel spending 2016 – 2020 3% Average annual growth 2016 – 2020 The Thai Air Force has operated Gripen since 2011. ASIA PACIFIC electronic warfare sector. India is in the midst of two bidding Defence spending increased by 3.2 per cent in the region in 2014. pro­cesses for an air defence system, in which Saab is offering Growth is expected to continue, primarily driven by China, which comprehensive solutions containing firing units, missiles, radar, alone accounts for nearly half of the region’s defence expenditures. and command and control. Some parts of the Asian market are not accessible for Saab for political reasons. Order and sales trend Australia and Thailand are important markets for the Group. In In the civilian market, Saab received an order during the year for Australia, Saab has had a local presence for several years mainly in Advanced – Surface Movement Guidance & Control Systems command and control systems. Saab’s Advanced Maritime Systems (A-SMGCS) for five Indian airports, as well as an order for two surface Centre in Adelaide, which brings together all the resources which movement radars and related services for Changi Airport in Singapore. have made Saab Australia a world leader in naval combat systems, In addition, an order was received from the government of Hong was opened during the year. Thailand operates 12 Gripen and also Kong Special Administrative Region to renew the existing Hong Saab Erieye Airborne Early Warning & Control Systems. Kong Vessel Traffic Services System. Saab also signed a contract to Saab has been active in India for some time and has mainly suppprovide the corrective maintenance and capital expenditure for the lied ground combat equipment, as well as other defence products and electronic security system for the Southern Queensland solutions. Among other things, Saab has been successful in the Correctional Centre in Australia. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 15 MARKET CASE: GRIPEN AROUND THE WORLD Saab has a strong position on the global market. In 2013 Sweden ordered 60 Gripen E and in 2014 a contract to supply the next generation Gripen to Brazil was signed. Gripen now has an established position as a technologically advanced, flexible and cost efficient combat aircraft system. CONTINUOUS DEVELOPMENT Gripen is continuously evolving through new generations and upgrades of existing aircraft. The entire system is designed to easily accommodate performance improvements and new functions. Due to the high level of computerisation on board, most of the upgrades are to the aircraft’s many computer systems. New functions can quickly be added through software patches. Gripen is modularly designed and can be flexibly adapted to different needs. The design also facilitates industrial co-operations and the manufacture of certain subsystems in customer countries. COST EFFICIENCY One effect of shrinking defence spending in many countries in recent years is an increased interest in cost efficiency. This benefits Gripen, which combines advanced technology and high performance with low operating costs. The total cost of an aircraft includes both the purchase price and the operating costs during its lifetime. Gripen has a low life cycle cost and a low cost per flight hour compared to its competitors. Reliability is a key. Gripen is also easy to maintain and repair. The aircraft can be readied in just ten minutes, with full weaponry and fuel, by six mechanics. An engine can be replaced in less than an hour. This is one reason why operating costs are far below the competition. These features are also a major tactical advantage for users. FLEXIBILITY Gripen is a true multi-role fighter. With the push of a button, the pilot can quickly change the aircraft’s roles. Whereas other types of aircraft have to be prepared for their mission while still on the ground, Gripen can switch in the air. This flexibility is an important advantage in combat. Having one aircraft can that can carry out different missions also increases cost efficiency. COMPATIBILITY The Gripen system is designed to take part in inter­ national missions with other countries and is fully compatible with NATO’s systems. The latest versions are even more globally interoperable. 16 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 INFORMATION SYSTEMS Knowledge is critical in combat situations. Gripen is equipped with advanced sensors and electronic warfare systems, enabling it to detect, identify and disrupt various threats as well as protect the aircraft against attack. The aim is to know as much as possible about the enemy while revealing as little information as possible. Gripen’s signal intelligence and self-protection systems are designed for future threat scenarios and are based on highly advanced signal processing and active sensors such as AESA radar. WEAPON SYSTEMS Gripen has weapons for all types of missions, from guided glide bombs to long-distance missiles. TRAINING Saab offers training systems and simulators to train fighter pilots and service personnel. GRIPEN IS FLOWN HERE Gripen is currently operated by the air forces in Sweden, South Africa, Thailand, Czech Republic and Hungary, as well as the Empire Test Pilots’ School (ETPS) in the UK. In 2014, a contract was signed to develop and produce 36 of the next generation Gripen for the Brazilian Air Force. SWEDISH SOUTH AFRICAN HUNGARIAN AIR FORCE AIR FORCE AIR FORCE CZECH ETPS ROYAL THAI AIR FORCE UK AIR FORCE SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 17 MARKET SAAB'S OFFERING Saab’s offering targets five market segments: Air, Land, Naval, Civil security and Commercial aeronautics. Products and solutions are often developed and supplied jointly by several of the Group’s business areas. In this way, the Group can offer specialised solutions for each market segment as well as broad, comprehensive solutions. The product portfolio is continuously refined and adapted to customer needs. Saab invests around one fourth of sales in research and development. The Ceros 200 fire control director is used on naval ships to detect, track and control firing against incoming threats. The system is based on radar and optical tracking technology, which makes it highly accurate regardless of weather conditions. Sales by market segment and business area Market segment Business areas Air Land Naval Civil security Commercial Other* Sales, MSEK aeronautics Aeronautics** 6,720 Dynamics 2,974 Electronic Defence Systems** 4,629 Security and Defence Solutions 5,762 Support and Services 3,570 Combitech** 1,649 Sales, MSEK 10,481 5,240 3,192 2,330 1,838 446 23,527 * Other includes sales attributable to civil telecommunications and other industry. ** As of 2015, Combitech, Aerostructures (previously in Aeronautics), Avionics Systems (previously in Electronic Defence Systems) and Saab Ventures are included in business area Industrial Products and Services; see page 48. CARL-GUSTAF WEAPON SYSTEM A new, lighter version of the man-portable anti-tank CarlGustaf, M4, was launched during the year. The new generation offers great flexibility, since it weighs less than 7 kg and is compatible with all existing and future ammunition. A new type of ammunition, HEAT 655 CS, was also launched to enable soldiers to use the weapon safely in confined spaces such as inside buildings, further increasing its flexibility. Carl-Gustaf was named a Program of Record by the U.S. Army during the year. This means that the weapon system, which has long been used by US Special Forces, could now become standard equipment for the U.S. Army’s light infantry. Saab also signed a new framework contract for Carl-Gustaf with the U.S. Special Operations Command (SOCOM), which can order weapons and ammunition over a five-year contract period for up to about SEK 1.3 billion. The multi-purpose weapon, which is fired from the shoulder, is used in more than 40 countries around the world. Saab is working continuously to make it even better in order to meet future operational needs. Further developments include programmable ammunition and advanced sights. 18 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 MARKET SAAB'S OFFERING AIR The best-known product in the market segment is the combat aircraft system Gripen, which is currently used by six customers. Gripen is a competitive system that can easily integrate new weapons and sensors. Saab also offers the Erieye airborne surveillance system, unmanned aerial systems, countermeasures and electronic warfare, avionics, weapon systems, sensors, training, service and support. A contract was signed with the Brazilian government during the year on the development and production of 36 of the next generation Gripen. 45% SHARE OF GROUP SALES 2014 Gripen regularly trains with other countries’ air forces. Aerial refuelling is one way to increase range on international missions. LAND Saab has leading positions in many segments and offers, among other things, tactical weapon systems, sophisticated surveillance and command and control systems, and solutions for troop protection. The offering also includes sensors, radar, signals intelligence and selfprotection systems, camouflage technology, reconnaissance and air defence systems, training and logistics solutions and support weapons, such as the Carl-Gustaf. 22%SHARE OF GROUP SALES 2014 Mounted on the roof of an off-road vehicle, Saab’s warning system can detect Chemical, Biological, Radioactive and Nuclear threats (CBRN). SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 19 MARKET SAAB'S OFFERING NAVAL Saab has a strong position in radar and early warning, command and control, and communication systems, tactical weapons for submarines and surface vessels, and unmanned under­ water systems. The Group’s naval offering was expanded in 2014 through the acquisition of Saab Kockums (see page 31). 14% SHARE OF GROUP SALES 2014 Saab Kockums manufactures the Gotland class submarines used by the Swedish Navy. CIVIL SECURITY Saab’s civil security offering includes air and maritime traffic management, security solutions for airports, prisons and emergency services and underwater vehicles for the offshore industry. 10% SHARE OF GROUP SALES 2014 Paratus is a mobile information system for police and emergency services. COMMERCIAL AERONAUTICS Saab is a subcontractor to leading international aircraft manufacturers such as Boeing and Airbus, supplying cargo doors, wing spars and avionics, system integration and support and maintenance solutions for a number of different aircraft types. 8% SHARE OF GROUP SALES 2014 Saab provides maintenance for the more than 300 self-manufactured Saab 340 and Saab 2000 aircraft in operation around the world. 20 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 MARKET PRODUCT AREAS SAAB’S LARGEST PRODUCT AREAS Gripen – Combat aircraft system Saab has a number of large product areas where Ground Combat Weapon Systems – Weapons increased sales or better operating margins have a for ground combat significant effect on the Group. They are summa­ rised below. Although the majority of R&D is in Maintenance, Repair & Overhaul – Maintenance these large product areas, investments are also and repair of components, spare parts and electromade in a number of other product areas with nics as well as vehicle, aircraft and platform overmarket potential. hauls Saab Kockums – Develops, builds and maintains Airborne Early Warning & Control Systems  submarines and surface ships – Airborne radar system with extended reach Self-Protection Systems – Signals intelligence Airborne ISR – Airborne surveillance system and self-protection systems designed to identify, for land and sea disrupt and protect against various types of threats Aircraft Support Solutions – Maintenance Surface Based Radar Systems – With surveillance solutions and complete support concepts for and air defence capabilities aircraft and helicopters Technical Consultancy – For military and civilian Airframe assemblies and integrated systems industries  Doors and avionics, among other things, for – commercial aircraft manufacturers Traffic management – For airports, ports and coasts Critical Systems & Communication Solutions  – Critical systems for civil security and communiTraining & Simulation – Military training centres cation, for example for prisons, emergency and combat simulation services and coast guards Underwater – Unmanned underwater vehicles Combat Systems & C4I Solutions – Combat for military and civilian applications as well as systems and command and control and surveiltorpedoes and underwater sensors lance solutions for military applications REMOTE TOWER LFV received approval from the Swedish Transport Agency in 2014 to remotely operate Örnsköldsvik Airport from Sundsvall using Saab’s Remote Tower (RT). This made Örnsköldsvik the world’s first RT airport. The decision proves that the concept and technology meet the aviation industry’s and government’s traffic management requirements. The RT system uses cameras, microphones and other sensors to re-create the environment where the air traffic controller would normally be, i.e., the local control tower. The information is sent in real time to the air traffic centre in Sundsvall, 150 km away, where air traffic controllers have full control over sensors, lighting, flight data and other tools in the same way they would if they were on site. RT combines new and existing technology with approved processes in a new application. The system meets all air traffic safety regulations and leads to increased safety, higher efficiency and lower costs. RT’s approval for use in Örnsköldsvik is expected to pave the way for other air traffic services and aviation authorities around the world to follow suit and seek approval for remotely controlled traffic management. The system, which is continuously updated with securityenhancing functionality, is seeing great interest in markets around the world. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 21 SAAB'S MARKET CASE: SAAB IN BRAZIL The Brazilian Air Force’s negotiating team visiting Gripen production in Sweden. Saab has been active in Brazil since the 1950s and, in October 2014, signed a contract with the Brazilian government on the development and production of the next generation Gripen for the Brazilian Air Force. The contract further strengthens Gripen’s position Industrial co-operations help to build skills and in the global market as a cost efficient combat stimulate growth in the buying country, but also aircraft system. Its relatively low lifecycle cost, have a positive effect for Saab, which comes into combined with Gripen’s capabilities and the opporcontact with new companies and forms partnertunity for technology transfers, proved decisive in the ships that can result in new products and open up negotiations. new markets. The co-operations also support Deliveries are scheduled for 2019–2024 and Saab’s strategy to be more local and come closer to the initial order value is approximately SEK 39.3 customers, to the benefit of all the parties involved. billion. The agreement will take effect when certain Saab has 30 years of experience with industrial criteria are met, which is expected in the first co-operations and is able to build trust by pointing half of 2015, at which point Saab will recognise to previous successful collaborations that have the order. produced positive long-term results. LONG-TERM INDUSTRIAL CO-OPERATION LONG HISTORY IN BRAZIL Agreements on industrial co-operations with signiSaab’s and Sweden’s industrial history in Brazil ficant technology transfers are common in major contributes to this trust. Saab has been active in the defence orders. In this case, Brazilian industry will country for nearly 70 years, including in commerplay an important role in the development process cial aviation and surveillance systems. Several and will be responsible for the manufacture of the large Swedish industrial companies have operated two-seater version of Gripen NG for the Brazilian in the country for years. São Paulo, where SKF, Air Force. Moreover, Saab was a founder the Ericsson and Scania, among others, have plants, Swedish Brazilian Innovation & Research Center is often called “Sweden’s largest industrial city”. (CISB), which was established 2011 and will now Though important in itself, the Gripen order be further expanded. Saab is a member of CISB from Brazil will also play a vital role as a platform along with a number of other Swedish and for new business. The deal has already greatly Brazilian companies, government authorities and raised Saab’s profile in Latin America, increasing universities. In addition to research collaborations, opportunities for new orders in the region for CISB’s activities include a scholarship program at Gripen as well as other parts of Saab’s broad Swedish universities. product range. 22 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOALS SAAB’S FINANCIAL GOALS The long-term financial goals as of 2011 consist of goals for organic sales growth, operating margin (EBIT) and equity/assets Sales, 2010 – 2014 ratio. Saab has a long-term dividend goal as well. SEK billion 25 20 15 SALES RESULT: Average organic sales growth of 5 per cent per The sales level has been stable for several years, 10 year over a business cycle. In 2014, organic sales while growth has been limited by budget consdeclined by -3 per cent (-2). traints in the defence and security market. Business 5 area Dynamics has seen a significant decline, while business area Security and Defence Solutions is 0 10 11 12 13 14 growing. The increased order backlog should lead to a future sales increase. OPERATING MARGIN RESULT: Operating margin, Average operating margin (EBIT) of at least 10 per In recent years, the market situation has been 2010 – 2014 cent per year over a business cycle. In 2014, the challenging with significant price pressure, not least operating margin (EBIT) was 7.1 per cent (5.7). in civil security. The efficiency measures Saab laun% 15 ched in 2013 have led to MSEK 500 in efficiency improvements. Saab has improved its competitive 12 strength, increased R&D investments and raised the operating margin in certain areas. Saab’s view on 9 capitalising development costs since 2009 has a negative effect on the operating margin, since develop6 ment costs are recognised directly in profit or loss, at the same time that previously capitalised develop3 ment costs are amortised faster than before. 0 10 11 12 13 14 EQUITY/ASSETS RATIO RESULT: Equity/assets ratio, The equity/assets ratio will exceed 30 per cent. At Saab’s equity/assets ratio has consistently exceeded 2010 – 2014 year-end 2014, the equity/assets ratio was 38.5 per the Group’s goal for many years. In 2014, the equity/ % cent (44.0). assets ratio fell to 38.5 per cent due to increased fun50 ding during the year. 40 30 20 10 0 10 11 12 13 14 4.75 DIVIDEND RESULT: The long-term dividend goal is to distribute For 2014, the Board of Directors proposes a 20–40 per cent of net income to the shareholders dividend of SEK 4.75 per share (4.50), corre­ over a business cycle. sponding to 43 per cent (65) of net income. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 23 THE SAAB SHARE SHARE CAPITAL AND NUMBER OF SHARES Distribution of shareholders, 30 December 2014 Saab’s share capital amounted to SEK 1,746,405,504 on 31 December Number of % of Number of % of share 2014, comprised of 1,907,123 unlisted Series A shares and 107,243,221 Number of shares shareholders ­shareholders shares capital listed Series B shares. Series A shares have ten votes each, while Series 1– 500 28,167 83.5 3,366,940 3.1 B shares have one vote each. The quota value per share is SEK 16. The 501– 1,000 3,040 9.0 2,354,451 2.2 Series B share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s Large Cap list. All 1,001– 5,000 2,134 6.3 4,046,323 3.7 Series A shares are owned by Investor AB. 5,001– 10,000 139 0.4 1,007,878 0.9 10,001– 20,000 78 0.2 1,143,325 1.0 Shares and votes, 30 December 2014 20,001– 50,000 57 0.2 1,895,414 1.7 Number of % of Number of % of Share class shares shares votes votes 50,001– 117 0.4 95,336,013 87.4 Series A 1,907,123 1.7 19,071,230 15.5 Total 1) 33,732 100.0 109,150,344 100.0 Series B 107,243,221 98.3 103,592,8571) 84.5 1) Including 3,650,364 repurchased Series B shares. Total 109,150,344 100.0 122,664,087 100.0 Source: SIS Ägarservice 1) Number of shares excludes 3,650,364 Series B shares repurchased to secure the Group’s Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan. The repurchased shares are held as treaTRADING VOLUME AND STATISTICS sury shares. A total of 42,935,663 of Saab's Series B shares (28,169,862) were Source: SIS Ägarservice traded on Nasdaq Stockholm in 2014, or about 76 per cent of Saab’s traded Series B shares. In 2014, about 17 per cent of Saab’s Series B OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE shares were traded on Chi-X, about 4 per cent on Turquoise, about Saab had 33,732 shareholders (30,352) at year-end 2014. Swedish 3 per cent on BATS and about 0.2 per cent on Burgundy. The share investors accounted for 81.7 per cent (76.9) of the capital stock price reached a high of SEK 212.30 on 27 November 2014 and a low and 83.7 per cent (79.6) of the votes. of SEK 157.00 on 13 February 2014 in Nasdaq Stockholm trading. Saab’s largest shareholders 30 December 2014 Saab B, 1 January 2010 – 31 December 2014 Number % of share Owner of shares capital % of votes1) SEK Volume Investor AB, Sweden 32,778,098 30.0 40.7 225 6,000 Wallenberg foundations, Sweden 9,468,700 8.7 7.7 200 5,000 Swedbank Robur Funds, 175 4,000 Sweden 6,366,372 5.8 5.2 AFA Insurance, Sweden 5,384,970 4.9 4.4 150 3,000 Unionen, Sweden 2,900,828 2.7 2.4 125 2,000 SHB Funds, Sweden 2,615,365 2.4 2.1 Nordea Funds, Sweden 1,504,257 1.4 1.2 100 1,000 Odey Funds, UK 1,469,231 1.3 1.2 75 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 First AP Fund, Sweden 1,458,947 1.3 1.2 B share, SEK SIX General Index Thousands of shares SEB Funds, Sweden 1,437,934 1.3 1.2 traded per month DFA Funds, US 1,212,269 1.1 1.0 Norwegian Bank Investment Management, Norway 1,155,734 1.1 0.9 Saab B, 1 January 2014 – 31 December 2014 Svolder AB, Sweden 978,000 0.9 0.8 Fourth AP Fund, Sweden 968,242 0.9 0.8 SEK Volume Lannebo Funds, Sweden 950,100 0.9 0.8 220 2,100 Foundation Asset Manage210 1,800 ment, Sweden 926,853 0.8 0.8 200 1,500 RAM One Fund, Sweden 800,000 0.7 0.7 190 1,200 Lazard Frères Gestion Funds, France 781,150 0.7 0.6 180 900 Fidelity Funds, USA 457,851 0.4 0.4 170 600 AMF Insurance & Funds, Sweden 413,126 0.4 0.3 160 300 Subtotal, 20 largest 150 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr Maj Jun Jul Aug Sep Okt Nov Dec ­shareholders 74,028,027 67.7 74.4 B share, SEK SIX General Index Thousands of shares Other Swedish shareholders 16,557,746 15.3 13.4 traded per month Other international share­ holders 14,914,207 13.7 12.2 Repurchased shares 3,650,364 3.3 Total 109,150,344 100 100 1) Per cent of votes is calculated based on the number of shares, excluding Treasury shares, at year-end. Source: SIS Ägarservice 24 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 THE SAAB SHARE SAAB’S LONG-TERM purchased a total of 1,340,000 Series B shares on Dividend per share INCENTIVE PROGRAMME Nasdaq Stockholm at a total cost of MSEK 252. SEK Since 2007, Saab offers permanent employees the Furthermore, the Annual General Meeting 5.0 opportunity to participate in a voluntary Share 2014 resolved to authorise the Board of Directors 4.5 Matching Plan. Purchases are made through to decide to repurchase Saab Series B shares up to 4.0 salary deductions of 1–5 per cent of the employee’s a maximum of 10 per cent of all the shares in the 3.5 monthly salary, after which Series B shares in company. The purpose of the authorisation is to be 3.0 Saab are purchased on Nasdaq Stockholm. If able to adapt the company’s capital structure and 2.5 the employee retains the purchased shares for thereby contribute to increased shareholder value 2.0 three years after the investment date and is still as well as to enable continuous use of repurchased 1.5 employed by the Saab Group, the employee will be shares in connection with potential company 1.0 allotted a corresponding number of Series B shares acquisitions and for the company’s share-based 0.5 free of charge. Since 2008, senior executives incentive programmes. Repurchases may be effected 0.0 10 11 12 13 14* and other key persons have had the opportunity on Nasdaq Stockholm. During 2014, the Board of *Proposed dividend to participate in a Performance Share Plan. Directors has not made any decisions regarding The Annual General Meeting held on 8 April exercise of this repurchase mandate. 2014 resolved in accordance with the Board’s Both repurchase mandates apply until the Equity per share proposal to adopt a long-term incentive programme Annual General Meeting 2015. 2014 (LTI 2014), consisting of a Share Matching SEK 125 Plan 2014 and a Performance Share Plan 2014. DIVIDEND AND DIVIDEND POLICY Share Matching Plan 2014 is unchanged from preSaab’s long-term dividend policy is to distribute 100 vious years’ programmes. Performance Share Plan 20–40 per cent of net income over a business cycle. 2014 was modified to attract and retain talented For the financial year 2014, the Board of Directors 75 employees on competitive terms as well as to better proposes a dividend of SEK 4.75 per share (4.50), reflect Saab’s business strategy and financial targets. corresponding to 43 per cent (65) of net income. 50 For more information on the incentive programme, see pages 64–65 of the Administration FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY 25 Report. For information on data per share, see www.saabgroup.com. 0 10 11 12 13 14 AUTHORISATION The Annual General Meeting 2014 also resolved ANALYSTS WHO COVER SAAB to authorise the Board of Directors to decide to For information on analysts who cover Saab, Earnings per share acquire not more than 1,340,000 Saab Series B see www.saabgroup.com. after dilution shares to secure delivery of shares to participants SEK in Saab’s long-term Share Matching Plan and 4,400 25 Performance Share Plan and for subsequent transfers to cover certain expenses associated with LTI 20 2014, mainly social security costs. Repurchases may be effected on Nasdaq Stockholm. On 5 June of Saab’s employees joined the 15 2014, Saab announced that the Board of Directors Saab Share Matching Plan 2014. had decided to exercise this authorisation and 10 during the period 21 July to 17 September 2014 5 0 10 11 12 13 14 Yield at year-end % 3.5 3.0 2.5 2.0 1.5 1.0 INVESTOR RELATIONS 0.5 Ann-Sofi Jönsson, Head of Investor Relations E-mail: ann-sofi.jonsson@saabgroup.com 0.0 10 11 12 13 14 Phone: +46 8 463 02 14 SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 25 STRATEGY FOUR PRIORITY AREAS To achieve its financial goals, the Group continued in 2014 to strengthen its presence in key markets, develop innovative solutions and acquire companies in priority areas, implement a comprehensive efficiency program and continuously develop leaders and employees. SAAB’S STRATEGY IS BASED ON FOUR PRIORITY AREAS: Profitable growth – Focus on product areas with good potential and a market area organisation with a strong local presence in key markets. Performance – Continuously improve PERFORMANCE PROFITABLE PORTFOLIO efficiencies in every part of the Group. Portfolio – Concentrate product innovation GROWTH and strategic acquisitions in priority areas. People – Develop leaders and employees and continue to build a culture that promotes performance, commitment and diversity. PEOPLE 26 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGY PROFITABLE GROWTH Saab will achieve profitable long-term growth by developing innovative, high-tech, cost efficient solutions while at the same time strengthening customer relationships through a local presence in key markets. High order bookings during 2013 and 2014 raised the order backlog to a record level and created a foundation for future sales growth. The contracts extend over many years, however, and the majority of the order backlog applies to 2018 and later. ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR PRIORITIES GOING FORWARD A growing order backlog Order bookings decreased by 55 per cent to To remain successful and achieve the long-term supports growth SEK 22.6 billion during the year. The decrease is goals in terms of growth and profitability, mainly because Saab received development orders activities are focused on a number of areas. MSEK in 2013 related to Gripen E for Sweden. In 2014, • R&D investments are concentrated in the lar70,000 Saab signed a contract with the Brazilian governgest and strategically most important product 60,000 ment on the development and production of areas. In addition to Gripen, this includes radar 36 next generation Gripen. Deliveries are planned and the development of the next generation 50,000 for 2019-2024 and the order value is approximately submarine. 40,000 SEK 39.3 billion. The contract enters into force • Orders from Sweden and Brazil for the next when certain criteria are met, which is expected in generation Gripen in 2013 and 2014 were 30,000 the first half of 2015, at which point Saab will important milestones. They also provide an 20,000 recognise the order. excellent foundation to market the Gripen 10,000 Saab also received a number of other important system to more countries and further develop orders, including to generate construction and the fighter. The development of Gripen E conti0 10 11 12 13 14 production plans for Sweden’s next generation nued according to plan in 2014. submarines and for support and maintenance • Sweden alongside the rest of the Nordic region Order backlog Order bookings systems for Gripen E from FMV as well as orders is an important base for Saab. Future growth, for military training systems from Finland and however, will primarily be in other markets. the UK. This is supported by a market area organisation The decrease in order bookings should be seen with a strong local presence in key markets. Sales and organic growth in light of the record-high Gripen orders in 2013, The purpose of the organisation is to quickly which were significantly higher than the preceding pick up on trends and adapt the portfolio and MSEK % years. The contracts extend over many years, offering to the market as well as to increase the 25,000 0 however, and the majority of the order backlog number of small and medium-sized orders. applies to 2018 and later. • Demands are increasing from many new 20,000 -1 Total sales decreased by 1 per cent compared to customers to include industrial co-operations 2013. Acquisitions and the deconsolidation of Saab in major deals. Technology transfers are there15,000 -2 Grintek Defence (Pty) Ltd. had a positive impact fore a key component to succeed in many on sales by 2 per cent, while currency effects had rapidly growing markets. Saab has extensive 10,000 -3 no material impact on sales. Saab’s goal is to grow experience with successful technology transfers organically by 5 per cent per year over a business and industrial co-operation programmes. 5,000 -4 cycle. • In addition, a continued evaluation of acquisiThe operating margin was 7.1 per cent (5.7). tions is underway in areas that complement the 0 10 11 12 13 14 -5 Excluding material non-recurring items, the product portfolio and in priority geographical operating margin was 6.7 per cent (6.6). The goal markets. Sales Organic growth is an operating margin of 10 per cent. • Saab continues to promote openness, transparency and responsible business based on the Saab Code of Conduct. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 27 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE Saab’s long-term profitability goal is an average operating margin of 10 per cent over a business cycle. To achieve this goal, the organisation must be underpinned by a business culture focused on efficiency. Saab continues to streamline its operations to increased slightly and corresponded to about create uniform business processes and achieve its 9.1 per cent (8.8) of sales. The operating margin strategic goals. At year-end 2014, the Group had was 7.1 per cent (5.7). reached its planned efficiencies of approximately MSEK 500. PRIORITIES GOING FORWARD Saab will continue to improve efficiencies and ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR create uniform global processes for procurement, Efficiency improvements initiated in 2013 continued sales, products and quality. The efficiency measuto have an impact in 2014. All business areas and res affect all operations, from research and deveGroup functions were affected and improvements lopment to sales. were made in the form of capacity adjustments The focus is on further improving cash flow, due to declining volumes, clearer prioritisation of including through efficient cash collection, product development and process development, payment terms and efficient project execution. to reduce development, production and indirect The aim is also to further improve the Group’s expenses. performance management processes. Saab continued during the year to implement Group-wide processes in the market area organisation. As a result, underlying marketing and selling expenses decreased, while expenses for the major Gripen campaigns in Brazil and Switzerland were charged against earnings in 2014. In 2014, clearer profit responsibility was introEFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENTS IN BUSINESS AREA SECURITY duced for the managements of various business AND DEFENCE SOLUTIONS units within the business areas. This is in keeping Achieving large, lasting efficiency improvements is not easy. It requires questioning with Saab’s performance management strategy, ingrained procedures and decisions while at the same time ensuring that the longwhich is an important part of the performanceterm health of the business is not sacrificed for short-term gains. Saab’s business oriented culture, where the connection between area Security and Defence Solutions (SDS) offers good examples of successful each employee’s individual development plan and measures. The product portfolio, staffing and processes have all been evaluated of the company’s business plan is clearly spelled and the results have been sales growth, cost savings and increased efficiency. out. Work processes have been reassessed throughout the business area. Smarter processes and the introduction of the Lean philosophy have led to shorter lead The effects of the personnel reductions initiated times and less personnel needs. Capacity adjustments have also been made in in 2013 became evident in 2014. In total, the numthe operating area, where demand has temporarily declined. As a whole, efficiency, ber of employees and external consultants had measured as sales per employee, has increased by 14 per cent. been reduced by about 950 at year-end 2014 comIn the case of SDS, it isn’t just a few measures that have had an impact, but pared to the beginning of 2013. The Group’s total many continuous improvements. Efficiency work doesn’t stop and is a natural number of employees increased, however, due to part of the business. the acquisition of Saab Kockums. +5% -8% +14% The gross margin decreased to 25.8 per cent (26.6), mainly due to a change in the product and project mix, where a larger share of customerfinanced research and development is included in production expenses. Reported administrative Organic sales growth Personnel expenses Efficiency expenses increased and corresponded to about 5.2 per cent (4.7) of sales. Marketing expenses The effect of efficiency improvements is calculated for the underlying operations, excluding the acquisition of Saab Kockums and deconsolidation of Saab Grintek Technologies (Pty) Ltd. 28 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGY PORTFOLIO Saab invests in product innovation and strategic acquisitions in key areas in order to achieve a more focused, market-oriented portfolio. The investments are primarily in areas where the Group is, or could be, a market or technology leader. In 2014, total internaööy and customer funded • A new generation of the Carl-Gustaf weapon research and development amounted to MSEK system was launched. The Carl-Gustaf M4 has a 5,970 (6,543), corresponding to 25 per cent (28) lower weight, better ergonomics and a new sight of sales. Examples of Saab's development work: functions. • Saab and Boeing continued the joint develop• Remote Tower, a system for remote air traffic ment of a new, advanced and cost efficient management, was further upgraded with secutraining aircraft. The goal is to participate in rity-enhancing components and during the the US Air Force’s upcoming T-X programme. year was placed in operation in Örnsköldsvik, • The product portfolio in surveillance radar was where air traffic control is now managed from expanded with five totally new radar systems. Sundsvall. The major investments in recent years have • The naval fire control system 9LV was further added, among other things, a modular antenna enhanced with new technology and virtualisaand signal processing. This significantly tion. This development is one example of Saab’s strengthens Saab’s offering and means that the use of open source code, which is a proven Giraffe product family now includes long-range approach and reduces the cost of the parts of air surveillance. The same basic technology can the system that do not need to be customised. be used in ground-based and sea radar as well as in airborne systems. Saab continued during the year to work on product • Development work during the year on the next development through modularisation. Modularisageneration Gripen included the modernisation tion allows the Group to quickly customise soluof the electronic warfare system. This technotions, while minimising investment. This makes logy can also be used in other parts of Saab’s development work more cost efficient and shortens portfolio, such as submarines. the lead time from development to sale, thereby reducing tied-up capital. NEW RADAR SYSTEM FOR A GROWING MARKET Saab expanded its surface radar portfolio with five new radar systems for land and sea. The new systems offer a number of advantages; not only do they see smaller targets at longer distances, but they are also more robust and less sensitive to disruptions. Modern aircraft have sophisticated jamming devices to avoid radar detection, because of which radar systems must contain advanced technology to counter jamming attempts. Moreover, the systems must be able to suppress “noise,” i.e., to sort out interfering signals that the radar may pick up. The new systems use AESA electronically scanned array radar technology, which can scan an area more efficiently than traditional radar, but, at the same time, place high demands on the software. Radar primarily has three applications: scanning an area for aircraft, linking to a weapon that can fire on intruders or localising where a weapon has been fired. Giraffe 4A, the first product in the new family, can do all three at the same time. Saab’s new radar systems have been developed over several years as part of the Group’s largest development project after Gripen. The systems are modularly designed, which means that additional models can be developed at relatively low costs. One example is Giraffe 8A for long-range air surveillance. The systems for land, sea and air share the same development department. Saab expects the radar market to produce solid long-term growth. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 29 STRATEGY PORTFOLIO ACQUISITIONS SAAB VENTURES Saab Ventures’ holdings ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems AB (Saab Kockums), Some of Saab’s development projects result in Ownership which designs, builds and maintains naval systems product ideas that fall outside the core areas. These Company interest such as submarines and surface vessels, was acquired projects have been consolidated in Saab Ventures, C-leanship Aps in 2014. The integration of Saab Kockums with whose role is to drive and develop the businesses (c-leanship.com) 48% Saab began during the year, and the scope for together with other co-investors before finding a ReVibe Energy AB (revibeenergy.com 38% synergies with Saab’s other naval operations are natural home for each company. Saab Ventures’ Cold Cut Systems AB considered good. The company is part of business other purpose is to find and invest in small, (coldcutsystems.se) 29% area Security and Defence Solutions. rapidly growing companies that could eventually Wrap International AB The acquisition is consistent with the strategy to complement Saab’s portfolio. (wrap.se) 23% expand the offering and strengthen Saab’s position Minesto AB in naval systems. It gives Saab another business (minesto.com) 5% with a strong local presence in Sweden and with good export potential. RESEARCH COLLABORATIONS Saab participates in many different research Cash flow from acquisitions and divestments, MSEK projects with the academic community and other companies. The aim is to continue to offer the 3,000 market advanced and efficient solutions. Saab’s close research collaborations with institu2,000 tions such as Chalmers, the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) and Linköping University are continuing. In addition, innovation partnerships are 1,000 underway in several other countries outside Sweden. 0 PRIORITIES GOING FORWARD Investments in product development remain -1,000 focused on a number of key product areas. Acquisition opportunities that strengthen the portfolio -2,000 in key areas or the company’s position in selected 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total markets are continuously evaluated. The Gripen order from Brazil will mean closer Cash flow from divestments Funds invested co-operation with Brazil on an academic level as well, largely through the Swedish Brazilian Innovation & Research Center (CISB). The Group’s During the period 2010-2014, Saab conducted a total of 39 transactions, stronger presence in important markets leads to of which 23 acquisitions and 16 divestments. In total, the transactions have had a net positive effect on cash flow amounting to MSEK 763. closer customer relationships that, in the long term, can lead to R&D collaborations. TRANSACTIONS 2010–2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Acquisitions and • Sensis • HITT • TIKAB • Saab Kockums investments • Medav • Hydro-Lek • Bayes Risk • Sörman • Pipavav Management Information • Bayes Risk Management Divestments Divestment of Divestment of Divestments of Divestments of • Scandinavian Air several holdings several holdings portfolio holdings in portfolio holdings in Ambulance including portfolio including portfolio Ventures Ventures • Fastighets AB holdings in Ventures holdings in Ventures Odengatan such as C3 Techno• Hawker Pacific logies Airservices • Saab Grintek • Technology 30 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGY PORTFOLIO SAAB KOCKUMS BROADENS SAAB’S NAVAL OFFERING In 2014, Saab acquired ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems. The company, now the business unit Saab Kockums, designs, builds and maintains naval systems such as submarines and surface vessels, but also offers a number of other products such as the Stirling external-combustion engine and systems for submarine rescues and mine clearance. The business unit has around 850 employees, with broad-based competence in production, development and service. During the second half of the year, Saab Kockums began to be integrated with Saab and creating collaborations with Saab’s other naval operations. Saab Kockums is a business unit within business area Security and Defence Solutions. Saab now a turnkey naval supplier The acquisition is part of a strategy to broaden the offering and strengthen the Group’s position in naval systems. Saab already had strong positions in integrated command and combat systems, radar, situational awareness and communication systems, tactical weapons, and underwater systems. Long-term contract with FMV Saab Kockums received orders from FMV in 2014 to generate construction and production plans for Sweden’s next generation sub­ marine, as well as for modifications of two Gotland class submarines. In addition, Saab and FMV signed a letter of intent covering the Swedish Armed Forces’ underwater capabilities. The letter of intent, which covers maintenance, development, design and production of submarines and other underwater systems, applies to the period 2015-2024 with potential orders of approximately SEK 11.2 billion. Naval export opportunities Using its strong position in Sweden as a platform, Saab feels that its expanded naval offering offers good potential in export market. The strategy is to deliver complete systems, as well as subsystems to other manufacturers. Saab is developing the Swedish defence’s next generation submarine, A26. Moreover, a co-operation has been established with the Damen Shipyards for example to bid on the Netherlands’ submarine replacement programme. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 31 STRATEGY EMPLOYEES Saab works actively to develop leaders and employees as well as to continue to build a culture that promotes performance, commitment and diversity. The ability to attract, retain and develop employees PERFORMANCE CULTURE 82% is important so as to be able to realise Saab’s strategy. To assist employees in realising their potential, Saab offers many forms of skills and leadership each is required to meet with a manager to set development, both internally and externally. Some individual goals aligned with Saab’s business goals. training is mandatory for all employees and is Goals and results are followed up at least twice often offered flexibly and cost efficiently through a year. Reviews include not only whether the Share of Saab’s e-learning. employee met the goals, but also whether they employees who feel A large part of the human resource development did so in accordance with Saab’s values. very proud to work plays out on a daily basis and in co-operation with In a performance culture, personal responsi­ at Saab.* colleagues. Saab also endorses learning in the form bility is critical so that every employee has the of networks and mentorships. There are many opportunity to impact their development. For #8 opportunities to try out different job assignments the individual employee, clear guidelines and within the Group, nationally and internationally. super­vision increase motivation and reduce stress. For the company, a performance-based culture is DEVELOP LEADERS critical for success in a globally competitive Saab’s trainee programme, “Saab Graduate leaderbusiness environment. Saab’s ranking in ship programme”, is designed for recent graduates Universum’s survey and young professionals who have the potential PROFESSIONAL PRIDE of the most popular and desire to become future leaders. As part of the Employees who feel proud of and are committed employers among programme, participants gain experience by worto their work and the company are vital to a knowSwedish engineering king in different parts of the Group, at home and ledge company like Saab. In the annual employee students. abroad. They also receive leadership training, persurvey, 82 per cent responded that they are very sonal development and the opportunity to build a proud to work at Saab; high compared to other 76% network of contacts within Saab. companies. Other important gateways for students are sumAmong the aspects that employees are proud mer jobs and thesis work. In Sweden, Saab’s goal is of are Saab’s high technology and breadth of accept at least 400 summer workers and 150 expertise, but also a corporate culture that offers master’s students each year. At the same time that a work-life balance. Share of employees they gain work experience, they also benefit the who consider Saab company by helping to drive development forward. FOCUS ON POSITIVE WORK ENVIRONMENT a very attractive For employees to reach their potential requires By working actively on occupational health issues, employer.* skilled and committed leaders. To strengthen its Saab reduces the risk of accidents, illnesses and managers, the company focuses on four areas: workplace injuries in both the short and long term. * Saab’s employee survey business acumen, performance leadership, interIn 2014, Saab introduced a new Group-wide nationalisation and being both a manager and a global work environment policy. Saab also began leader. The four areas have helped to clarify the developing a global occupational health and safety expectations placed on managers at Saab. In addiprocess based on the OHSAS 18001 international tion to courses with role-playing and leadership standard. conferences, workshops are held throughout the organisation. 32 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGY EMPLOYEES DIVERSITY DRIVES INNOVATION The percentage female managers, 2006 – 2014 A company that embraces gender equality and diversity, where everyone is given an equal % opportunity, is also more likely to be innovative 30 and profitable. One goal is that at least 30 per cent of managers who set wages at year-end 2015 will be female. 25 Saab attaches great importance to strong female candidates in the internal talent management process and in recruiting. At least one woman must be 20 interviewed for all managerial positions. Saab also has a special mentoring programme for women. 15 The focus on female leaders has produced results, and at year-end 2014 more than 25 per cent of managers at Saab were female, compared to 10 13 per cent when the goal was set in 2007. In total, 07-Q4 08-Q4 09-Q4 10-Q4 11-Q4 12-Q4 13-Q4 14-Q4 22 per cent of Saab’s employees are female. Percentage of female managers Percentage of female employees Diversity means respecting everyone equally regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation, religious belief, disability or ethnicity. It also means mixing people with different experiences and educational backgrounds. All those who work with recruiting receive diversity training, and diversity is a parameter in leadership training and the global recruitment process. People who are open to different perspectives and views will make the company more innovative and lead to better business. Around 60 nationalities are represented among Saab’s employees, and a central part of the growth strategy is to maintain a presence in local markets around the world. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 33 STRATEGY EMPLOYEES POPULAR EMPLOYER The supply of well-educated people who want to work at Saab is critical if the company is going to maintain a position among technological leaders. Saab’s popularity as an employer is evident by its ranking in the top ten favourite employers of Swedish engineering students. Sweden is Saab’s largest market; 45 per cent of sales come from Östersund Sweden and the company has just over 12,000 employees in more than 50 locations. Sweden is also where the majority of research and development work is done, which is one reason why it is important for Saab to be a popular and attractive employer. Number of employees No. of employees Dec 31, No. of employees by Dec 31, by country 2014 location 2014 Sweden 12,097 Linköping, Sweden 5,099 South Africa 582 Järfälla, Sweden 1,260 USA 555 Gothenburg, Sweden 1,257 Australia 301 Karlskoga, Sweden 721 UK 239 Karlskrona, Sweden 605 Arboga Järfälla Netherlands 130 Arboga, Sweden 540 Alvik Karlskoga Czech Republic 127 Centurion, South Africa 528 Norway 105 East Syracuse, USA 434 Nyköping Germany 104 Växjö, Sweden 327 Linköping Denmark 68 Jönköping, Sweden 326 Trollhättan Other 408 Malmö, Sweden 310 Gothenburg Göteborg Gamleby Total 14,716 Huskvarna, Sweden 295 Jönköping Huskvarna Adelaide, Australia 209 Östersund, Sweden 204 Fareham, UK 191 Växjö Trollhättan, Sweden 141 Slavkov, Czech Republic 105 Karlskrona Gamleby, Sweden 101 Alvik, Sweden 96 Malmö Apeldoorn, Netherlands 85 Nyköping, Sweden 70 Lillington, USA 70 Other 1,742 Total 14,716 34 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABILITY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS A responsible and sustainable business is of fundamental importance for Saab. All operations are conducted in accordance with external and extensive internal regulations, and employees receive continuous training, on anti-corruption measures for example. Saab’s products help to make countries, borders, CORRUPTION PREVENTION EFFORTS and transportation systems safer. But at the same Business ethics and risks are a recurring theme at time that they protect freedom and security, they Board meetings, Group-wide management confemay also represent a threat. This entails a great rences and meetings at the business area level. responsibility. Saab’s corruption prevention efforts are constantly developing and a number of functions are involved STRICT RULES in the work. All sales of weapons and other defence materiel Through the Audit Committee, the Board of must fall within strict, controlled frameworks in Directors is responsible for overseeing the Saab order to ensure that the materiel is exported in Code of Conduct and has ultimate responsibility for accordance with international law. monitoring and evaluating business ethics work. The majority of Saab’s exports are from Sweden, The Ethics and Compliance Board leads and where the Swedish Inspectorate of Strategic Prodraws up guidelines for the work, makes decisions ducts (ISP) determines on behalf of the governon business ethics issues and follows up whistlement which defence products Saab may sell to blower cases. The board meets at least eight times which countries. The guidelines on Swedish weaa year and is led by Saab’s General Counsel, who pon exports stipulate that there must be security or reports the work to the Board of Directors’ Audit defence policy reasons for the export and that it Committee. does not infringe on Swedish foreign policy. EvaluThe Ethics and Compliance function is respon­ ations are made on a case-by-case basis, and ISP sible for monitoring, co-ordinating and developing takes into account a number of criteria, including corruption prevention work and contributing the type of product, whether the weapon is intenexpertise in the area. ded for combat, other defence materiel (e.g., Market Network Management (MNM) is a fundefensive systems for surveillance and command ction that works with risk analyses and the process and control systems) or strategic products that can for marketing consultants, for example. MNM also be used for both civil and military purposes. Saab arranges training and develops tools for Saab’s sells products in all these areas. The product portanti-corruption work. folio also includes civil products, where exports Saab’s Internal Audit monitors implementation are not governed by ISP. of the company’s corruption prevention processes. VI EN RE N S RO BU PO TS SI NS C N IB ES L E PA S E C IM U D TAL RE EN EXPERTISE M IT IS A BUSINESS HUMAN RIGHT TRUST STRATEGY TO FEEL SAFE DRIVE C O O Y UTE O ER IC IB ETY PL E TR I N OC EM C H S TO F O Saab’s sustainability work goes hand-in-hand with the business strategy and contributes to long-term profitability. By living up to Saab’s values and acting responsibly, Saab builds the trust of its stakeholders and contributes to the vision, that it is a human right to feel safe. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 35 SUSTAINABILITY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS TRAINING AGAINST CORRUPTION general risk awareness, internal processes and the Saab has Zero tolerance Saab strives to be a reliable long-term partner that company’s tools for managing corruption risks. for corruption. promotes an open and transparent market. ConseEmployees who become aware of or suspect quently, Saab can never accept corruption. Saab non-compliance with laws or Saab’s Code of complies with current laws, the company’s Code of Conduct are expected to file a report through Conduct, processes and values, and industry-wide Saab’s whistleblower system. In 2014, Saab created codes of conduct to prevent corruption risks. a new whistleblower system that will be launched Among the factors that affect risk are where in 2015 and replace the previous system. The new a deal takes place, who the customer is, how the system complements ordinary line reporting and procurement is implemented, how Saab found out provides the option of reporting online or by tele­ about it, the business model and contract value. phone. The system is managed by an outside party If the risks that are identified cannot be minimised and guarantees employee anonymity. and managed satisfactorily, Saab will withdraw from the deal. The rule is simple: Saab has zero INCREASED FOCUS ON SUPPLIERS tolerance for corruption. To minimise social and environmental risks in Co-operation with marketing consultants or its supply chain, Saab began to develop a more similar represent an increased risk, since the comstructured way of working with suppliers in 2014. pensation paid goes to companies that are not Among other things, a special code of conduct is under Saab’s direct control. As a result, all such being drafted for suppliers based on the UN Global agreements must be evaluated and approved by a Compact’s principles of human rights, labour, central function. Saab’s aim is to reduce the numthe environment and anti-corruption. The code ber of marketing consultants and, instead, increase of conduct will be finalised during the first half use of its own employees in selected markets. of 2015. In addition to training on the Code of Conduct, To facilitate collaborations with suppliers, all employees receive separate, web-based antiSaab has a supplier portal, www.saabgroup.com/ corruption training. Employees in the marketing supplier, where it spells out its expectations of and sales organisation also receive mandatory suppliers. follow-up training covering, among other things, At year-end 2014, 74 per cent of employees had completed Saab’s web-based anti-corruption training. 36 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IS PART OF THE BUSINESS SECURE INFORMATION HANDLING reduce total energy consumption. From 2009 Saab handles information that is critical to its through 2014, consumption was slashed by 20 per customers’ security and in many cases to the secucent. The priorities are to change employees’ beharity of their countries. To maintain the trust of viours, use the best possible technology based on customers, Saab obviously has to handle sensitive analyses of lifecycle costs and strategically manage information in the best way possible. In 2014, Saab real estate assets. formulated a long-term strategy and action plan to The largest share of Saab’s total carbon dioxide achieve the goal of being a world leader in corpoemissions is from travel. As it becomes more interrate security and risk management. See also the national, Saab must strike a balance between the risk section on pages 50–53. need to travel and the need to reduce climate impacts. In 2014, Saab made further efforts to TRAINING CONTRIBUTES TO SOCIETY encourage travel-free meetings and reduce emisSaab is a highly research-intensive company, which sions from travel. Small changes in routines can is essential in order to remain competitive in the have a big impact in a global group. long term. This means both customerand product Since 2006, Saab has reported information on specific research and it means broad-based innovagreenhouse gas emissions to the Carbon Disclotion partnerships with industry, academia and the sure Project (CDP), an independent organisation public sector. Saab participates in research collabothat collects climate data from companies around rations in Sweden and other countries. the world. Information on CDP and Saab’s comIt is also in Saab’s interest to foster an interest in plete report can be found at www.cdproject.net. technology among young people, so that more of them seek an engineering education. For this PHASE OUT CHEMICALS reason, Saab runs an engineering-oriented upper Another focus is the phase-out of hazardous secondary school in Sweden and encourages its chemicals in processes and products. This work employees to get involved as math volunteers, for has been underway for some time and will continue example, and support students. for many years to come. Use of trichloroethylene to degrease parts has REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS gradually been discontinued over the last two Saab has worked determinedly to reduce its envidecades. By 2014, practically all trichloroethylene ronmental and climate impacts. Efficiency improhad been replaced by alternative solutions. The vements are being made at Saab’s facilities to remainder will be replaced in 2015. In most appliCO2 emissions within the Saab Group CO2 emissions by source within the Saab Group tonnes CO2 tonnes CO2 / MSEK sales 80,000 4 70,000 60,000 50,000 40,000 2 30,000 20,000 Owned heating/processes 10,000 and accidents, 3% Owned vehicles and aircraft, 18% 0 0 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Purchased electricity, 18% Purchased district heating, 15% Total emissions Relative target for greenhouse gas emissions: Purchased personal travel, 38% Relative emissions 20% reduction between 2007 and 2020 Purchased goods freight, 6% Leased premises, 1% SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 37 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IS PART OF THE BUSINESS cations, trichloroethylene has been substituted SUSTAINABLE INNOVATIONS with water-based alternatives and in some cases An important part of Saab’s efforts to reduce its Emissions of volatile organic solvents (VOCs) with alternative production methods. environmental impacts is research and developWith respect to chemicals used in the main­ ment collaborations within the industry to create tonnes 50 tenance of Saab’s products and which contain sustainable solutions for the future. hazardous substances, Saab has initiated a dialogue Saab is one of the main suppliers to Clean Sky, a 40 with customers and other stakeholders to find Joint Technology Initiative financed equally by the less hazardous alternatives. Saab is also working EU and the industry to reduce emissions of carbon 30 actively to reduce usage and emissions of volatile dioxide, hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxides as well organic solvents (VOCs). as noise from aircraft. In another EU project, Saab 20 Saab’s work with hazardous substances coris contributing its expertise and systems in remote responds well with the requirements of the EU’s towers and traffic flow management to develop 10 chemicals law – Registration, Evaluation and and improve air traffic management systems with Authorisation of Chemicals (REACH) as well as the aim of reducing climate impacts. 0 the requirements of the Group’s customers. Saab In a collaborative project between Sweden 10 11 12 13 14 actively participates in several collaborative and the US, biofuels are being tested for various groups, nationally and internationally, to enhance aviation applications. Saab is providing Gripen Energy consumption in Saab’s operations efforts in this area. as a test platform, and test flights are scheduled In 2014, Saab began implementation of various in early 2017. GWh 200 IT tools to make it easier to compile information on usage of chemical substances to ensure that the products meet environmental requirements. 150 100 50 Saab’s Code of Conduct provides guidelines on how employees are expected to act in relation to each other, in contacts with customers and partners, and in society. 0 10 11 12 13 14 Electricity Heating Consumption of trichloroethylene tonnes 2,0 1,5 1,0 0,5 0,0 10 11 12 13 14 During 2014 less than 0,1 ton trichloroethylene 38 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 SUSTAINABILITY UN GLOBAL COMPACT The UN’s Global Compact is a framework for companies that have undertaken to apply sustainable business methods in their operations through ten generally accepted principles within the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Saab has been affiliated since 2011 and has included the framework in its Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct is its entirety can be found at www.saabgroup.com. SAAB’S POSITION AND MEASURES TAKEN Principle 1 Businesses should In 2014, Saab provided internal training on human rights to increase understanding of the support and respect company’s responsibility. the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are Saab believes it is important to develop clear global regulations for trade with defence materiel not complicit in human aimed at safeguarding human rights and international humanitarian law. Saab has actively rights abuses. participated in the UN's international arms trade treaty. In 2014, Saab began formulating a code of conduct for suppliers based on the Global Compact’s principles. Principle 3 Businesses should Saab defends the right to organise and participate in trade unions. We respect the freedom uphold the freedom of association and all employees’ right to organise or join employee organisations, as well of association and the as the right of employee organisations to collectively negotiate. This is integrated in our Code effective recognition of of Conduct and will also be part of the code of conduct for suppliers. the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all Saab takes a clear position against forced and compulsory labour. In 2014, Saab began forms of forced and formulating a code of conduct for suppliers based on the Global Compact’s principles, which compulsory labour; will include a requirement that suppliers refrain from compulsory labour. Principle 5 the effective Saab takes a clear position against child labour. In 2014, Saab began formulating a code of abolishment of child conduct for suppliers based on the Global Compact’s principles, which will include a requirement labour; and that suppliers not use child labour. Principle 6 the elimination of According to Saab’s diversity policy, decisions that concern employment, promotions, developdiscrimination in ment and compensation shall be based on employees’ job knowledge and competence. Such respect of employment decisions shall not be based on irrelevant factors such as gender, age, ethnic origin, religious and occupation. belief, physical disability, sexual orientation, union membership or political affiliation. In our work, we will demonstrate respect for all individuals we come in contact with, regardless of differences. Principle 7 Businesses should Saab works actively to minimise environmental hazards and impacts. Protecting the environment support a precautionary is a natural aspect of Saab’s everyday operations in the development, manufacture and testing approach to environof products and systems. Environmental issues are managed and monitored through processes mental challenges; and routines within the operating systems. Principle 8 undertake initiatives Saab holds regular training sessions and information activities to increase understanding to promote greater of environmental problems and improve environment-related skills. Priority issues in the environmental responenvironmental area are identified and analysed on a continual basis. sibility; and Principle 9 encourage the Saab is researching whether technical solutions used in the aerospace and defence industry development and can be used to reduce environmental risks and impacts in its own operations and in society diffusion of environ­ in general. Saab participates with universities and other companies in various activities mentally friendly focused on spreading awareness of green solutions. Saab also participates in major European technologies. development projects such as Clean Sky, which aims to develop solutions that reduce aircraft noise and emissions. Principle 10 Businesses should Saab has zero tolerance of all forms of bribes and corruption. We neither offer nor accept work against corrupimproper gifts or hospitality. We are committed to conducting ourselves in an ethically tion in all its forms, correct manner in everything we do, based on current laws, our values and ethical rules including extortion and industry-wide codes of conduct. and bribery. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 39 ADMINISTRATION REPORT CONTENTS Group – Financial review 2014 41 Business areas 42 Other significant events 49 Risks and risk management 50 Corporate governance report 54 Board of Directors and Auditors 60 Group Management 62 Other information 63 Financial statements 66 Dividend motivation 130 Proposed disposition of earnings 131 Audit report 132 ADMINISTRATION REPORT GROUP – FINANCIAL REVIEW 2014 FINANCIAL REVIEW 2014 operations as well as Saab Aircraft Leasing. Saab AB (publ.), corporate identity number Corporate reported an operating income of 556036-0793, has its registered address in Linköping, MSEK -15 (-221) in 2014. Sweden and its head office at Gustavlundsvägen During 2014, the reversal of risk provisions, 42, Bromma. The company’s mailing address is attributable to the remaining risks related to Saab’s Box 12062, SE-102 22 Stockholm, Sweden and its lease fleet of turboprop aircraft, contributed posititelephone number +46 8,463 00 00. vely to the operating income. The positive effect Saab has been listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm was at thesame level as in 2013. since 1998 and on the Large Cap List since October In 2014, the owned share of the portfolio was 2006. The largest shareholder is Investor AB, with divested and the part held via operating leases has 30 per cent of the shares, corresponding to 41 per been reduced. As of 31 December 2014, Saab cent of the votes. The share of the votes is calculahas a lease portfolio of 6 (49) aircraft, consisting ted based on the number of shares, excluding of anowned share of 0 (14) and a leased share of treasury shares, at year-end. The total number of 6 (35). The agreements for the leased aircraft shares in the company is 109,150,344, distributed expired in January and the lease portfolio will be between 1,907,123 Series A shares with ten votes discontinued during 2015. each and 107,243,221 Series B shares with one vote In October, Saab divested its holding in Hawker each. At year-end, a total of 3,650,221 Series B shares Pacific Airservices Ltd., which resulted in a capital had been repurchased to guarantee the Group’s gain amounting to MSEK 93. During the year, various share matching plans. The repurchased the divestment of a Group company, whose assets shares are held as treasury shares. were mainly related to property, had a positive In accordance with the Swedish Annual impact on the operating income. Account Act, Saab has prepared a corporate goverDuring the second quarter of 2013, a payment nance report. The corporate governance report, of MSEK 314 was made relating to a lost legal found here on pages 54–62, contains the Board of dispute was made. MSEK 231 of the payment Directors’ report on internal control of financial was reported in operating income and MSEK 83 reporting, which includes information for both related to interest cost in financial net. the Parent Company and the Group. LONG-TERM FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES OPERATIONS The long-term financial goals as of 2011 consist As one of the world’s leading high technology comof goals for organic sales growth, operating margin panies, Saab offers products, solutions and services (EBIT) and the equity/asset ratio. for military defence and civil security. In 2014, the Average organic sales growth of 5 per cent per Group had customers in over 100 countries, while year over a business cycle. In 2014, organic sales research and development was concentrated in declined by -3 per cent (-2). Sweden. Most of the Group’s employees work Average operating margin (EBIT) of at least in Europe, South Africa, the US and Australia, 10 per cent per year over a business cycle. In 2014, but people are also on site in offices in more than the operating margin (EBIT) was 7.1 per cent (5.7). 30 countries around the world. The equity/assets ratio will exceed 30 per cent. Saab was organised in six business areas in At year-end 2014, the equity/assets ratio was 2014: Aeronautics, Dynamics, Electronic Defence 38.5 per cent (44.0). Systems, Security and Defence Solutions, Support and Services, and Combitech. Combitech, which DIVIDEND AND DIVIDEND POLICY provides consulting services, is an independent, Saab has a long-term dividend goal to distribute wholly owned subsidiary of Saab. 20–40 per cent of net income over a business As of 1 January 2015, Combitech is part of cycle to the shareholders. For 2014, the Board of a new business area, Industrial Products and Directors is proposing a dividend of SEK 4.75 (4.50) Services, which will bring together the Group’s per share, corresponding to 43 per cent (65) of business-to-business (B2B) business units. In net income. addition to Combitech, the business units include Aerostructures (previously reported within OUTLOOK 2015 business area Aeronautics), Avionics Systems In 2015, we estimate sales to increase more than (previously reported within Electronic Defence Saab’s long-term goal: annual organic sales growth Systems), Saab Ventures’ product portfolio of 5 per cent. (previously reported within Saab Corporate), The operating margin 2015 excluding material and a development project (previously reported non-recurring items is expected to be in line with within Saab Corporate). the operating margin in 2014. In 2015, increased internally funded research and development CORPORATE efforts within Aeronautics will have a negative In addition to the business areas, Corporate comimpact on the operating margin. prises Group staff and departments and secondary SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 41 ADMINISTRATION REPORT BUSINESS AREA AERONAUTICS Aeronautics engaged in advanced development of military and civil aviation technology in 2014. It also conducts long-term future studies of manned and unmanned aircraft as preparation for new systems and further development of existing products. Share of sales 2014 28% Order bookings 2014 SEK billion 30 25 20 15 SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS operations. Increased deliveries of aircraft compo• The Gripen combat aircraft system is extremely nents to Boeing and Airbus also had a positive 10 cost efficient with a level of performance that effect on sales. 5 meets stringent requirements and a design that The operating margin was positively affected facilitates continuous upgrades. by lower amortisation of capitalised development 0 • Unmanned/autonomous systems. expenditures in 2014 compared to 2013, while 10 11 12 13 14 • In 2014, Aeronautics was a subcontractor to increased international interest in Gripen C/D commercial aircraft manufacturers, a business and E led to slightly higher marketing expenses. Sales 2014 that is included in business area Industrial Markets outside Sweden accounted for 27 per SEK billion Products and Services as of 2015. cent (29) of sales. 7 6 Aeronautics includes the following business units: CASH FLOW Gripen E, Gripen C/D, Gripen Brazil and Air Operational cash flow was negative due to timing 5 Piloted Training Systems. As of 2015, Aerostructures differences in project execution and milestone 4 is part of the business area Industrial Products and payments from customers. 3 Services. EMPLOYEES 2 ORDERS RECEIVED The number of employees rose slightly during 1 Order bookings in 2014 included several orders the year, mainly due to increased activity in the from FMV for development work, support and development of Gripen E. 0 10 11 12 13 14 maintenance systems as well as project-specific equipment within the Gripen programmes. Operating margin 2014 In October 2014, a contract was signed with the Brazilian government on the development and % production of 36 Gripen NG. The initial order Key figures 7 value is estimated at SEK 39.3 billion, of which 6 MSEK 2014 2013 approximately SEK 25.4 billion is attributable to Order bookings 6,890 29,677 5 Aeronautics. The order will be finalised during the first half of 2015 after certain criteria are met. Order backlog 34,283 34,113 4 Orders received with a total value exceeding Sales 6,720 6,869 3 MSEK 100 represented 94 per cent (98) of total EBITDA 539 603 EBITDA margin, % 8.0 8.8 2 order bookings. Operating income, EBIT 480 456 1 SALES, INCOME AND MARGIN Operating margin, % 7.1 6.6 0 Sales for Gripen C/D operations decreased slightly Operational cash flow -656 -227 10 11 12 13 14 in 2014, which was offset by growth in Gripen E No. of employees (FTE) 3,263 3,210 42 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ADMINISTRATION REPORT BUSINESS AREA DYNAMICS Dynamics offers a market leading product portfolio comprising ground combat weapons, missile systems, torpedoes, unmanned underwater vehicles and signature management systems for armed forces as well as niche products for the civil and defence market such as underwater vehicles for the offshore industry. Share of sales 2014 12% Order bookings 2014 SEK billion 5 4 3 SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS SALES, INCOME AND MARGIN 2 • Ground combat weapons, including NLAW, Sales decreased in 2014 compared to 2013 due to AT4, Carl-Gustaf and Bill 2. low order bookings in 2014 and earlier years. 1 • Land-based air defence systems, including RBS Lower sales led to a lower operating margin in 70, RBS 70 NG and BAMSE. 2014 compared to 2013. 0 • RBS 15 air-to-surface missile and missile Markets outside Sweden accounted for 81 per 2014 10 11 12 13 14 programmes such as Meteor, Taurus and IRIS-T. cent (85) of sales. • Underwater systems, including remote operated Sales 2014 and autonomous vehicles as well as torpedoes CASH FLOW SEK billion and underwater sensors. Operational cash flow was negative in 2014, partly 5 • Camouflage systems, including Barracuda as a result of lower operating income and partly MCS, ULCAS and SOTACS. due to timing differences in deliveries and 4 milestone payments. Products and solutions have been sold to more 3 than 60 countries around the world. EMPLOYEES Dynamics includes the following business The number of employees decreased in 2014 as a 2 units: Ground Combat, Missile Systems, Under­ result of the efficiency measures implemented in water Systems and Barracuda. 2013, which included downsizing mainly at the 1 production unit in Karlskoga. ORDERS RECEIVED 0 10 11 12 13 14 Market conditions were challenging in 2014, which is reflected in low order bookings. During Operating margin 2014 2014, an order was received from the French Ministry of Defence’s procurement branch to % supply the next generation of shoulder-launched Key figures 15 weapon system. Also, an order for RBS 70 VSHOMSEK 2014 2013 12 RAD was received from the Brazilian Army, and FMV ordered design plans for a New Lightweight Order bookings 2,325 3,345 Order backlog 3,915 4,548 9 Torpedo (NLT). A five-year framework agreement regarding the weapon system Carl-Gustaf was Sales 2,974 3,566 6 signed with U.S. SOCOM (Special Operations EBITDA 226 428 Command). EBITDA margin, % 7.6 12.0 3 Orders received with a total value exceeding Operating income, EBIT 165 366 MSEK 100 represented 23 per cent (47) of total Operating margin, % 5.5 10.3 0 order bookings. Operational cash flow -69 503 10 11 12 13 14 No. of employees (FTE) 1,461 1,523 SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 43 ADMINISTRATION REPORT BUSINESS AREA ELECTRONIC DEFENCE SYSTEMS The business is built on Saab’s close interaction with customers that require efficient solutions for surveillance and for threat detection, localisation and protection. The business area has a product portfolio covering airborne, land-based and naval systems for radar, signals intelligence and self-protection. Share of sales 2014 18% Order bookings 2014 SEK billion 8 6 4 SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS CASH FLOW • Sensor systems Erieye, Giraffe and Arthur. Operational cash flow was negative due to conti• Electronic warfare systems, including IDAS, nued investments in development and tangible 2 Camps, BOL and LEDS. assets as well as timing differences in milestone • Signals intelligence (SIGINT) systems and payments and deliveries. 0 self-protection systems. 10 11 12 13 14 • Flying surveillance systems, including AEW&C EMPLOYEES (Airborne Early Warning & Control). The number of employees decreased due to Sales 2014 • Avionics systems, including AviGuide and ongoing efficiency measures initiated in 2013. SEK billion AviCom. 5 Electronic Defence Systems includes the following 4 business units: Surface Radar Solutions, Airborne Surveillance Systems, Electronic Warfare Systems 3 and Avionics Systems. As of 2015, Avionics Systems is included in business area Industrial 2 Products and Services. 1 ORDERS RECEIVED The market remains challenging. Order bookings 0 10 11 12 13 14 for 2014 included orders for the weapon locating system Arthur, an order for advanced vehicle Operating margin 2014 protection and a number of service orders within radar. % Orders received with a total value exceeding Key figures 8 MSEK 100 represented 36 per cent (70) of total 6 MSEK 2014 2013 order bookings. Order bookings 2,943 7,587 4 SALES, INCOME AND MARGIN Order backlog 7,619 9,171 Sales 4,629 4,560 2 Operating income for 2014 strengthened as a result of the efficiency measures implemented in EBITDA 622 373 0 2013 and 2014, lower product development EBITDA margin, % 13.4 8.2 expenses and successful project execution. Operating income, EBIT 205 -115 −2 Markets outside Sweden accounted for 71 per Operating margin, % 4.4 -2.5 −4 cent (72) of sales. Operational cash flow -677 116 10 11 12 13 14 No. of employees (FTE) 2,550 2,588 44 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ADMINISTRATION REPORT BUSINESS AREA SECURITY AND DEFENCE SOLUTIONS Operations comprise combat management systems for the navy, air force and army as well as the design, construction and maintenance of submarines and surface vessels. The portfolio also includes systems for training and simulation, security systems, solutions for secure communication as well as systems for maritime and air traffic management. SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS • Design, construction and maintenance of Share of sales 2014 submarines and surface vessels. • Naval combat management systems based on 9LV, complete solutions integrated with sensors for surface vessels or submarines. Combat 24% management systems are also supplied to air forces and armies. • Training systems and solutions mainly for the army, but also for navies and air forces. These systems and solutions include both live and Order bookings 2014 virtual training. SEK billion • Air traffic management systems for airports. 7 Systems and solutions include landing and 6 security systems as well as traffic control tower solutions. The latter include Remote Tower for 5 remote air traffic control. 4 • Maritime traffic management. Systems and The takeover of Saab Kockums, and hence new 3 solutions range comprise AIS transponders business conditions, had a positive impact on with AIS base stations, coast and port security, income. 2 navigation solutions and hydrographic systems. The operating margin rose as a result of the 1 • Security systems and solutions for secure comefficiency measures initiated in 2013. munications. Systems comprise security and Markets outside Sweden accounted for 73 per 0 10 11 12 13 14 case management systems for prisons, airports, cent (78) of sales. armoured transports, police and ambulance Sales 2014 services. CASH FLOW Operational cash flow was at a high level in SEK billion Security and Defence Solutions includes the the fourth quarter as a positive effect of timing 7 following: Combat System and C4I Solutions, differences between delivery, activity and mile­ 6 Critical System and Communication Solutions, stone payments. 5 Traffic Management, Training and Simulation and Saab Kockums. EMPLOYEES 4 The deconsolidation of Saab Grintek Technologies 3 ORDERS RECEIVED (Pty) Ltd as of 31 March 2014 resulted in a de­crease 2 Order bookings increased in 2014 compared to of 265 FTE’s, while the acquisition of Saab Kockums 2013, partly due to several orders for military increased the number of FTE’s by 855 at year-end. 1 training systems. Excluding this, the number of FTE’s further 0 Saab and FMV signed a Letter of Intent regardecreased following the efficiency measures 10 11 12 13 14 ding the Swedish armed forces’ underwater capainitiated in 2013. bility. The Letter of Intent refers to the period Operating margin 2014 2015-2024 and includes potential orders of % approximately SEK 11.2 billion. In 2014, orders Key figures 7 were received from FMV regarding construction 6 and production plans for the next generation MSEK 2014 2013 submarines as well as mid-life updates and overOrder bookings 6,110 4,736 5 haul of three submarines. Order backlog 6,823 5,571 4 Orders received with a total value exceeding Sales 5,762 5,095 MSEK 100 represented 47 per cent (35) of total EBITDA 468 328 3 order bookings. EBITDA margin, % 8.1 6.4 2 Operating income, EBIT 356 213 1 SALES, INCOME AND MARGIN Operating margin, % 6.2 4.2 Sales increased mainly due to the acquisition of Operational cash flow 157 122 0 10 11 12 13 14 ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems (Saab Kockums). No. of employees (FTE) 3,234 2,843 SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 45 ADMINISTRATION REPORT BUSINESS AREA SUPPORT AND SERVICES Support and Services offers reliable, cost efficient service and support for all of Saab’s markets. This includes support solutions, technical maintenance and logistics as well as products, solutions and services for military and civil missions in locations with limited infrastructure. Share of sales 2014 14% Order bookings 2014 SEK billion 5 4 3 SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS SALES, INCOME AND MARGIN 2 • Integrated service solutions for businesses in Sales decreased slightly in 2014 compared to 2013 air, land, marine and civil security. due to fewer large orders. Underlying operations 1 • Package solutions for equipment maintenance were stable and sales from smaller orders were in and service, technical training, spare parts, line with 2013. 0 logistics solutions and field support as well as The operating margin was negatively impacted 10 11 12 13 14 round-the-clock service centres. by a change in the product mix in 2014 compared • Flexible, scalable, adaptable and upgradable to 2013. Sales 2014 solutions. Markets outside Sweden accounted for 37 per SEK billion • Operations are global and comprise Saab cent (40) of sales. 4,0 systems as well other OEM systems and 3,5 equipment. CASH FLOW • Support and service for a large share of the Saab Operational cash flow was negative due to timing 3,0 340 and Saab 2000 operating globally. Today, differences in project execution, milestone pay2,5 328 aircraft are flown by 70 operators in ments and investments. 2,0 37 countries, corresponding to around 1,5 1,400 flights per day. EMPLOYEES 1,0 The number of employees decreased slightly as a Support and Services includes the following result of the efficiency measures initiated in 2013. 0,5 business units: Air, Land, Maintenance Repair 0,0 10 11 12 13 14 Operations, Life Cycle Logistics and Airborne ISR. Operating margin 2014 ORDERS RECEIVED During 2014, an order was received from FMV for % support and maintenance of Gripen in Sweden, Key figures 14 Czech Republic, Hungary and Thailand. FMV 12 also ordered advanced aerial target services for the MSEK 2014 2013 10 Swedish Armed Forces. In addition, an order was Order bookings 4,720 4,602 received from Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Order backlog 7,976 6,683 8 Engineering Co. Ltd. (DSME) to design and inteSales 3,570 3,772 6 grate healthcare capability aboard a Norwegian EBITDA 394 517 support vessel. EBITDA margin, % 11.0 13.7 4 Orders received with a total value exceeding Operating income, EBIT 376 498 2 MSEK 100 represented 58 per cent (55) of total Operating margin, % 10.5 13.2 0 order bookings. Operational cash flow -32 -149 10 11 12 13 14 No. of employees (FTE) 1,818 1,840 46 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ADMINISTRATION REPORT BUSINESS AREA COMBITECH Combitech is an independent subsidiary of Saab and until year-end 2014 an independent business area within the Saab Group. It is one of Sweden’s largest technology consulting firms, combining technology with cuttingedge expertise in the environment and security to create solutions for our customers’ specific needs. Share of sales 2014 4% Order bookings 2014 SEK billion 2,0 1,5 1,0 SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS CASH FLOW • Combitech is active in aviation, defence, teleOperational cash flow was at a lower level in 2014 0,5 com and other industries as well as the public compared to 2013, mainly due to lower operating sector. income. 0,0 • Combitech offers services in systems develop10 11 12 13 14 ment, systems integration, information EMPLOYEES security, systems security, communications, The number of employees increased slightly, mechanics, technical product information mainly because a business previously organised Sales 2014 and logistics. under the business area Security and Defence SEK billion Solutions was transferred to Combitech. 2,0 As of 2015 Combitehc is included in the business area Industrial Products and Services. 1,5 SALES Order bookings decreased and sales decreased 1,0 slightly in 2014 compared to 2013 due to a challenging market situation and hence a lower utilisation 0,5 rate. Markets outside Sweden accounted for 8 per cent (8) of sales. 0,0 10 11 12 13 14 INCOME AND MARGIN Operating margin 2014 The operating margin was lower in 2014 compared to 2013 due to the challenging market. % Key figures 10 MSEK 2014 2013 8 Order bookings 1,494 1,740 Order backlog 387 540 6 Sales 1,649 1,684 EBITDA 100 157 4 EBITDA margin, % 6.1 9.3 2 Operating income, EBIT 92 148 Operating margin, % 5.6 8.8 0 Operational cash flow 76 162 10 11 12 13 14 No. of employees (FTE) 1,405 1,345 SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 47 BUSINESS AREA INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Industrial Products and Services was established on 1 January 2015 and comprises the business units Combitech, Avionics Systems and Aerostructures as well as the development of product ideas that fall outside of Saab’s core business. The business units within Industrial Products and Industrial Products and Services includes the Services differ from Saab’s other operations by following business units: Aerostructures, their focus on business-to-business (B2B) custoAvionics, Combitech and Saab Ventures. mers or because they are not dependent on Saab’s principal end-customers. Other business areas EMPLOYEES within Saab have a customer base largely consisOn 1 January 2015, Industrial Products and ting of public authorities. With different customer Services had 2,411 employees. groups come different management strategies and priorities. Opportunities to strengthen these operations in the long term are greater in the new organisation. Industrial Products and Services will work with individual growth strategies for each business unit. SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS • The technology consulting company Combitech; see page 47. • Aerostructures is a subcontractor to the aviation industry and manufactures, among other Key figures, restated things, wing flaps and doors for commercial MSEK 2014 aircraft manufacturers such as Boeing and Airbus. Order bookings 2,604 • Avionics, including surveillance, display Order backlog 9,537 and digital recording systems. Sales 3,465 • Saab Ventures gathers together and develops EBITDA 143 product ideas that derive from development EBITDA margin, % 4.1 projects that fall outside of the core business. Operating income, EBIT 112 Saab Ventures also invests in small, rapidly Operating margin, % 3.2 growing companies that could eventually Operational cash flow -320 complement the core portfolio. No. of employees (FTE) 2,370 48 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ADMINISTRATION REPORT OTHER SIGNIFICANT EVENTS OTHER SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE had signed a memorandum of understanding to PERIOD JANUARY-DECEMBER 2014 partner on joint management of the Gripen • Saab has received a cintractt from the Norwegian programme within the framework of the Brazilian army regarding development and serial deliveF-X2 project, where Gripen NG has been chosen ries of the new generation vehicle simulators. as Brazil’s next generation fighter. • On 8 April 2014, Saab AB held its Annual • On July 22, Saab announced that the acquisition General Meeting in Stockholm. In accordance of Swedish shipyard ThyssenKrupp Marine with the Nomination Committee’s proposal, Systems had been finalised. Håkan Buskhe, Johan Forssell, Sten Jakobsson, • Saab announced that changes will be made in Sara Mazur, Per-Arne Sandström, Cecilia Stegö its business area structure to develop and Chilò, Lena Treschow Torell, Marcus Wallenstrengthen the organisation in accordance with berg and Joakim Westh were re-elected to the the overarching business strategy. At the same Board of Directors. Marcus Wallenberg was time, changes were made within Group Manare-elected as Chairman of the Board of Directors. gement. All changes apply as of 1 January 2015. At the statutory Board meeting after the Annual • Saab received an order from the government of General Meeting, Sten Jakobsson was elected Hong Kong Special Administrative Region to Deputy Chairman of the Board. renew the existing Hong Kong Vessel Traffic • In a national referendum in May, the Swiss Services System. people voted No to the funding plan for Gripen. • In December, an order was received from FMV • In June, an order was received to provide the for the extended lease for Gripen from Sweden corrective maintenance and capital expenditure to Czech Republic. The agreement covers modifor the electronic security system for the Southern fications, the upgrade of system functionality Queensland Correctional Centre in Australia. and support to FMV for the aircraft flown by the • Saab’s Board of Directors resolved to repurchase Czech Air Force for an additional 12 years. Series B shares to secure delivery of shares to • FMV also ordered maintenance, technical sysparticipants in Saab’s long-term Share Matching tem support and spare parts for Gripen during Plan and Performance Share Plan. 2015 on behalf of the Swedish Armed Forces. • In June, Saab issued MSEK 600 in bonds maturing on 19 December 2019 and in October it issued SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFTER THE MSEK 400 in bonds maturing on 19 December CONCLUSION OF THE PERIOD 2019 as part of the existing Medium Term Note • In January, Saab signed a revolving credit facility programme. of SEK 4 billion with an initial term of five years • A three-year contract for support and service and with a possibility to extend the term with of weapon simulators was signed with the UK one plus one year. Ministry of Defence. • Saab announced in January that it has teamed • In July, a framework agreement was signed by up with Dutch shipbuilder Damen Shipyards Saab and the European Defence Agency (EDA) Group to explore future opportunities in the for potential orders of Carl-Gustaf ammunition international submarine market. The companies to Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Czech Republic have signed an exclusive teaming agreement and Poland. The agreement extends five years to work together in pursuit of the potential and includes a possible two-year extension. Walrus-class submarine replacement programme • Saab and Embraer announced in July that they for the Netherlands. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 49 ADMINISTRATION REPORT RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Saab’s business generally entails significant investments, projects delivered over long periods of time, and high-tech product development or refinement. Operations involve customer and supplier relationships, joint ventures and other corporate alliances as well as Saab’s own business activities in many countries. All businesses entail risk. A risk can be specific to managed, including preparations to replace the the company or related to a certain industry or chemical data system. In 2014, a new whistleblomarket. Certain risks can be fully managed by the wing unit and policy were established and several company, while others are out of its control. Saab’s other compliance initiatives were started so as to operations primarily involve the development, continue to improve the processes at Saab. production and supply of technologically advanced hardware and software to customers around POLITICAL AND MARKET RISKS the world. Saab supplies, among other things, systems and Our operations entail not insignificant riskequipment that are classified as strategic products, taking in various respects. The key risk areas are the sale of which are regulated by national laws and political, financial and operating risks and we ordinances that also include international agreediscuss this in the following paragraphs. ments. Access to vital components and systems may be subject to export restrictions and various MANAGING RISKS types of regulations. Significant identified risks are managed continuRegulations are amended on an ongoing basis ously at all levels of the organisation and in the and therefore impact Saab’s business opportunistrategic planning process. Various guidelines, ties. The ability to establish and maintain longpolicies and tools govern the management of signiterm customer relationships is a key issue for Saab, ficant risks. In addition, Saab has an internal audit as some projects extend over decades. The Swedish unit that serves as a dedicated resource to indepenstate – through the Armed Forces and FMV – has dently audit the effectiveness of a selection of intertraditionally accounted for a large proportion of nal control processes. Risks are also managed by Saab’s product renewal, and therefore Sweden's procuring insurance. Saab has a Group-wide defence policy will affect Saab's business. programme where insurance is obtained on the Another type of risk are market risks, which market or through the Group’s own insurer, can affect customers’ ability to fulfil current contLansen Försäkrings AB. racts due to economic or other circumstances such as natural disasters, an economic crisis, a shift in RISK ANALYSIS AND ACTIVITIES 2014 power or an embargo. In 2014, Saab continued to introduce and monitor the harmonised risk assessment process within Managing political and market risks the Group. Saab manages political and market risks through The focus was on information processing, the various types of export guarantees, insurance development process and how Saab introduces solutions and other instruments. It is impossible, new systems and products in new markets, as well however, to avoid losing business opportunities as project execution. In addition, Saab worked or incurring damage if political and market risks actively to improve how environmental risks are are realised. 2013: 2014: 2015: Internal focus on better understanding Implementation of measures to streamIn 2015, Saab intends on launching an uplocal requirements. Ongoing training in line development processes, including dated edition of the Code of Conduct and anti-corruption work for Saab employees thorough use of the product dataa special code for suppliers. Other prioriand partners. Continuous improvements to base introduced in 2013. Strengthen the ties include further developing the product the overall risk assessment process. whistleblowing unit and integrate Saab’s development process and more strongly environmental policy at Saab Kockums. integrating security in Saab's Win Business A number of measures were also taken process. In addition, Saab will continue to to increase security awareness among improve the risk management process. employees. 50 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL RISKS OPERATING RISKS In its operations, Saab is exposed to various finanA number of significant areas have been identified cial risks. Management of financial risks is goverwith respect to operating risks, which are ned by the Group Treasury Policy established by important in assessing the Group’s results and the Board of Directors. Saab also has an extensive financial position. pension obligation managed by Saab’s Pension Fund. Detailed directives and processes are in Development and introduction of new systems place for the operational management of each area. and products Overarching responsibility for managing financial The Group invests heavily in the research and risks lies with Group Treasury. development of its own products and systems as well as acquisitions of technology. Its own proFinancial risks ducts mainly include radar systems, command and control systems, tactical weapons, UAV systems Risk Currency risks Pension and electronic warfare systems. One example of Interest risks obligation Refinancing risk acquired technology is the radar technology obtaiCredit and counterned through the acquisition of Ericsson Microparty risks wave Systems AB in 2006. Investments in new sysCommodity risks tems and products are made after a strategic and financial analysis and assessment of future busiRisk Management of See below managefinancial risks is ness opportunities. ment governed by a The risk associated with developing and Group Treasury introducing new systems and products is that Policy established they will fail to meet market demands and not by the Board of yield the return estimated at the time the decision Directors. was made. See not 41 for further information. Management of development and introduction of new systems and products Pension obligations Saab’s new product database, with more than 600 The Group’s pension obligations are substantial, as products grouped by product area, was launched indicated in note 37. In the calculation of pension in 2013. In 2015, the focus is on packaging offers obligations, future pension obligations are dis(combinations of products, services tied to procounted to present value. The size of the liability is ducts, etc.). The product database is linked to dependent on the level of discount rate: a low inteSaab’s CRM system (Customer Relationship Manarest rate produces a high liability, and vice versa. gement) and provides strong support for the market area organisation. Good packaging facilitates a Management of pension liability dialogue with customers and reduces design costs. The predominant plan in Sweden is the ITP plan During the year, Saab further improved efficiencies under collective agreements between the Confedein product development through modularisation. ration of Swedish Enterprise and the Negotiation This means that new customer requirements can Cartel for Salaried Employees in the Private Busibe met more quickly and at a lower cost. One ness Sector (PTK). Saab Sweden has three different example is Roquette NG, a next generation ways of securing its defined-benefit plans: as shoulder-launched weapon system for the French liabilities on the balance sheet, in pension funds Armed Forces, where Saab's ability to quickly meet or funded through insurance with mainly Alecta. new requirements turned the deal in Saab's favour. The Saab Pension Fund, that secured part of the Development costs are capitalised in accorITP plan, had assets of MSEK 5,091 (4,595) as of dance with established accounting principles. 31 December 2014, compared to an obligation Amortisation of capitalised development costs is of MSEK 7,428 (5,793) according to IAS 19, or a scheduled over the estimated production volume solvency margin of 69 per cent (79). or an estimated period of use, though not more To manage the pension liability, the Saab Penthan ten years. Future business opportunities are sion Fund was established in 2006 and capitalised periodically reassessed, which can lead to impairwith the corresponding PRI liability. The Group’s ment losses. Capitalised development costs are obligations are calculated on an actuarial basis shown in note 16. each year, after which a comparison is drawn with the fund’s assets. Deficits may require Saab to conLong-term customer contracts tribute additional funds. The Saab Pension Fund’s Management of long-term customer contracts objective is a real annual return of at least 4 per entails risks. Saab’s operations involve complex cent on invested capital. The fund invests in intedevelopment projects on the leading edge of techrest-bearing securities, equities and hedge funds. nology where the competitive situation is complex. Our success depends on the ability to offer costSA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 51 ADMINISTRATION REPORT RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT effective high technology solutions and in some introduced strict routines for risk assessment, cases on participation in the customer-country’s supervision and control of chemicals. Established economy through various forms of industrial routines for safe chemical handling are also used in co-operation. other locations where Saab is active. Health and The risk in managing long-term customer environmental information on chemical products contracts is that Saab will be unsuccessful in is available through the Group’s chemical data sysmeeting customer requirements, as a result the tem, which will be replaced in 2015. In 2014, sevecommitment is not fulfilled or the costs run ral activities were initiated to meet the anticipated significantly higher. prohibition on the use of certain hazardous chemicals, according to the REACH chemical legislation. Management of long-term customer contracts Preparations were also made to replace the chemiThe majority of all long-term customer contracts cal data system. Saab works actively to assess and include significant development work, which is minimise fire risks in its operations. Since a fire in associated with risk. Every contract with a customer a production facility can cause extensive environto supply a product, solution or service is preceded mental damage to the local area, effective fire preby a thorough analysis of the conditions and risks vention is an important part of the efforts to reduce associated with the delivery, based on an internal environmental risks. The integration of Saab’s process established within Saab for customer environmental policy at Saab Kockums AB began contracts, the Win Business process. This process in 2014 and will continue in 2015. includes a comprehensive analysis of the risks in Saab analyses its operations and properties the project and requirements for managing identiaround the world to assess the Group's risk expofied risks. sure resulting from soil contamination. If a contaDuring 2014, Saab further improved the prominated area is identified, liability is determined cess, which has been adapted to changes in Saab’s and an overall risk assessment is conducted. internal governance and new external demands. Information on contaminated areas is documented The Win Business process has also been adapted as it is received. An insurance solution to manage to the market area organisation introduced in soil contamination cases has been in place since January 2013. Regular project reviews are conduc2009. Overall risk assessments are made to ted during the project implementation stage using determine how operations are affected by climate design reviews, project reviews, decision reviews, change. These risks are reported within the etc. An important element is to identify risks and framework of reporting for the Carbon Disclosure assess them and the measures taken to mitigate the Project (CDP). risks with the help of a uniform risk assessment process. Compliance risks The Group applies the percentage of compleThe Group has clear guidelines on how employees tion method to recognise revenue from long-term shall act in contact with customers and society. customer contracts. An estimation of total costs is Saab conducts business all over the world and has critical to revenue recognition and provisions for relationships with customers and other stakeholders onerous contracts as well as the valuation of invenon every continent. Saab's commitment is to act in tories. The outcome of technical and commercial an ethically correct manner in all that is done, risks may affect income and cash flow. deliveries based on current legislation, Saab's Code of Conaccoring to project plan and milestones is duct and common industry standards. Saab strives important to cash flow as payment upon achieveto be a long-term, reliable business partner that ment of milestones. Saab works continuously to promotes an open and transparent market. The improve this process and ensure its implementarisk involved when Saab does business is that this tion. In 2014, Saab further implemented and commitment is broken. improved the process. These improvements will continue in 2015, including adjustments to new Management of compliance risks external and internal demands. Saab's Code of Conduct is based on OECD guidelines and the UN Global Compact. All employees Environmental risks and liabilities receive Code of Conduct training. A cornerstone The most significant environmental risks are the of our compliance work is that every business improper management of hazardous chemicals, transaction and market activity shall be preceded fires in buildings and plants, and soil contaminaby a corruption analysis. To facilitate the analysis, tion. For more information on environmental risks Saab has developed a Corruption Risk Assessment and liabilities, see note 48. Tool which helps to single out factors that typically influence the risk of corruption. All employees in Management of environmental risks and liabilities the marketing and sales organisation receive trainThe operations in Linköping and Karlskoga, Sweing that stresses the importance of the requirement den are subject to Europe’s Seveso law, which is that business managers perform a corruption designed to reduce risks in connection with the assessment in connection with every business large-scale use of chemicals. Saab has therfore transaction. The training also includes knowledge 52 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 of current laws and Saab’s processes for hiring conlerated, while the security measures to protect sultants and other advisors. systems and information have not kept pace. The Use of marketing consultants and other advivulnerabilities in today’s global IT systems are, and sors is customary in a complex world. At Saab, will for the foreseeable future remain, one of the every co-operation is tested, evaluated and motivamost complex issues Saab faces. IT services in ted centrally. A clear decision-making process is modern businesses are often complex and spread followed, and every decision is preceded by a out both physically and organisationally. Informathorough analysis. Saab also offers training for the tion security risks are becoming more difficult to marketing consultants it retains. Undergoing this assess and identify as data passes multiple juristraining and signing a commitment to follow Saab’s dictions and technological systems. Information guidelines are prerequisites for signing a new security has also taken on a growing political contract. All Saab employees are also required to dimension of late. Cyber espionage and cyberatcomplete web-based anti-corruption training. tacks are part of the “security policy toolbox” in a The programme, which is designed to specifically growing number of countries. As a result, society’s, reflect the risks that arise in Saab’s operations, is and Saab’s, information and IT security is subjecavailable in both English and Swedish. ted to increasingly complex threats, which are not In 2014, Saab created a new whistleblower unit necessarily just technological in nature. and policy that was introduced at the end of the year and allows external reporting via the internet Management of information security risk and telephone. In addition, Saab launched a proTo prevent risks in information security, Saab gramme to audit its marketing consultant contworks with a set of administrative and technologiracts. Other initiatives included an update of Saab's cal protections that include clearly defined roles, teacher-led anti-corruption training and expanprocesses, routines and technological solutions for sion of the target group to include people outside information, IT and communication security. the marketing organisation. Saab also began a During the year, several new projects and collaboreview and update of our Code of Conduct. The rations were launched in an effort to further aim is to launch an updated edition of its Code of improve security. Saab's focus in 2015 is to protect Conduct and a special code for suppliers and busiits most critical information and communication ness partners in 2015. against the most sophisticated threats. To ensure that they handle information in INFORMATION SECURITY RISK accordance with current regulations, all new perSaab’s knowledge, information and intellectual sonnel undergo security training when hired. As assets are of vital importance to the Group's coman employee, they then receive continuous training petitiveness, as are well-functioning IT systems, and information. The focus in 2015 is to further networks and efficient communication. Saab also increase security awareness through training. manages information in confidence that is critical Saab formulated an overarching long-term to its customers and in many cases to their national security strategy in 2014, where one of the goals is security. Consequently, maintaining and continuto be a leader in corporate security and risk manaously improving information and IT security is crigement. Security will be a natural and integral part tical if Saab is to achieve its business goals, comply of Saab’s operational management processes, leadwith current requirements and maintain the trust ership and culture. As part of the action plan, a of customers, owners, authorities and partners. reorganisation was implemented and the Group’s Society greatly needs to improve IT security at security function was significantly strengthened in the same time that the gap in security is growing 2014. The focus in 2015 is to integrate security as a ever faster. IT developments in general have accenatural part of Saab's Win Business process. SIGNIFICANT RISKS Political and market risks Financial risks Operating risks Exportl regulation Currency risks Develop and introduce new Macroeconomic factors Interest risks systems and products Refinancing risks Long-term customer projects Credit and counterparty risks Environmental risk and liabilities Commodity risks Compliance risks Pension obligation Information handling risks SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 53 ADMINISTRATION REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTRODUCTION LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS, 30 DECEMBER 2014 Saab AB is a Swedish public limited liability company and the company’s shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. According to SIS Ownership Service Share of capital, % Share of votes, % Saab’s corporate governance is based on Swedish legislation, priInvestor AB, Sweden 30.0 40.7 marily the Swedish Companies Act, the Swedish Annual Accounts Wallenberg Foundations, Sweden 8.7 7.7 Act, Nasdaq Stockholm Rules for issuers – which also include the Swedbank Robur Funds, Sweden 5.8 5.2 Swedish Code of Corporate Governance – and other relevant AFA Insurance, Sweden 4.9 4.4 Swedish and foreign laws and guidelines. Unionen, Sweden 2.7 2.4 Saab has a Code of Conduct with ethical guidelines in a number SHB Funds, Sweden 2.4 2.1 of areas on how employees are expected to act in contacts with Nordea Funds, Sweden 1.4 1.2 customers, business partners and in society as well as with each other Odey Funds, UK 1.3 1.2 as colleagues. Saab’s Code of Conduct is a part of the governance of First AP Fund, Sweden 1.3 1.2 Saab. For further information, see pages 35, 39 and 52. SEB Funds, Sweden 1.3 1.2 Swedish Code of Corporate Governance As of 31 December 2014, Saab held 3,650,364 of its own Series B Since Saab shares are traded on Nasdaq Stockholm and it must follow shares, corresponding to about 3.3 per cent of the share capital. good practices in the securities market, Saab is also obligated to comFor additional information on the ownership structure, see page 24. ply with the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (the Code). The The Board of Directors has an authorisation from the Shareholders’ Code is available at www.bolagsstyrning.se Meeting to repurchase shares, see page 65 for further information. Saab applies the Code and strives to maintain a high standard in its corporate governance. This Corporate Governance Report is preNOMINATION COMMITTEE pared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and the Code, According to the Nomination Committee process, which was adopand describes how Saab applied the Code during the financial year ted at the Annual General Meeting in 2011 and applies until further 2014. The Annual General Meeting 2014 was planned and carried out notice, Saab shall have a Nomination Committee consisting of one in accordance with the Code. The Annual General Meeting 2015 will representative of each of the four shareholders or groups of share­ also be planned and carried out pursuant to the provisions of the holders with the greatest number of votes, along with the Chairman Code. Saab’s website, www.saabgroup.com, has a special area for of the Board. The names of the four shareholder representatives and corporate governance issues, which is updated in accordance with the shareholders they represent shall be announced at least six the Code. months prior to the Annual General Meeting based on known voting The Board annually issues a report on how the internal control rights as per the last business day of August in the year before the of financial reporting is organised, which can be found at the end of Annual General Meeting. The nomination committee process incluthis report. des procedures, where necessary, to replace a member who leaves the This Corporate Governance Report has been reviewed by the committee before its work has been completed. company’s auditor pursuant to the Annual Accounts Act; see pages According to the nomination committee process, the Nomination 132–133. Committee shall provide proposals regarding the following issues, to Saab did not deviate from the provisions of the Code in 2014. be presented to the Annual General Meeting for resolution: a) the Chairman of the Shareholders’ Meeting, SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING AND OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE b) the Board of Directors, Pursuant to the Swedish Companies Act, the Shareholders’ Meeting c) the Chairman of the Board, is a company’s highest decision-making body. At a Shareholders’ d) the remuneration to the members of the Board, allocated betMeeting, the shareholders are given the possibility to exercise their ween the Chairman and other members of the Board, and voting rights. The Annual General Meeting shall be held within six remuneration for committee work, months after the end of each financial year. At the Annual General e) election of auditors, if applicable, and Meeting, resolutions are voted on relating to matters such as the f) fees to Saab’s auditors. annual report, dividend, election of Board members, Board fees, auditors’ fees, adoption of remuneration guidelines for senior execuAhead of the Annual General Meeting of Saab AB on 15 April 2015, tives and, when applicable, election of the external auditor and other it was announced in a press release on 14 October 2014 that, in matters stipulated in the Companies Act. The Annual General Meeaddition to Chairman of the Board Marcus Wallenberg, the following ting of Saab was held on 8 April 2014 in Stockholm and attended by shareholder representatives had been appointed to Saab’s Nomina531 shareholders, representing approximately 72 per cent of the total tion Committee (shareholder’s name in parentheses): Petra voting rights in the company. This year the Annual General Meeting Hedengran (Investor AB), Peter Wallenberg Jr (Knut and Alice will be held on 15 April 2015 in Stockholm. For more information, Wallenberg Foundation), Tomas Hedberg (Swedbank Robur Funds) see page 134. and Anders Algotsson (AFA Insurance). Petra Hedengran is the On 31 December 2014, Saab’s share capital amounted to Chairman of the Nomination Committee. SEK 1,746,405,504 and consisted of 1,907,123 Series A shares and These persons in the aggregate represent approximately 56 per 107,243,221 Series B shares. Series A shares have ten votes each, cent of the votes in Saab based on the ownership structure as of 31 while Series B shares have one vote each. One Series A share may, on August 2014. demand of the owner, be converted into one Series B share. The Saab The proposal of the Nomination Committee will be presented shares are registered with Euroclear Sweden AB. The quota value per not later than in connection with the notice of the Annual General share is SEK 16. The Series B shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm Meeting 2015. on the Large Cap list. The Series A shares are not listed. All Series A shares are owned by Investor AB. 54 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 GOVERNANCE AND REPORTING 2014 ① Shareholders’ meeting ② Nomination Committee ⑦ Auditors Representatives of each of the four sharePricewaterhouseCoopers AB. Elected in Ev holders or groups of shareholders with the alu 2011 for the term until the Annual General at greatest number of votes, along with the ion Meeting 2015. Auditor in charge is Håkan Chairman of the Board. Malmström. ⑤ Remuneration ③ Board of Directors Committee ④ Audit Committee ⑥ President and CEO Internal Boards Group Management ⑧ Intern revision Finance Board Strategy Board Ethics and Compliance Board Communication Board Business areas Group Functions Aeronautics Finance The internal boards handle and resolve Dynamics HR issues within their respective areas on a Electronic Defence Systems Communications Group level and prepare certain issues to be Security and Defence ICT resolved by the Group Management. Solutions Quality and Environment Support and Services Legal affairs Combitech* Procurement Reports Strategy Appoints All operating units report monthly and quarterly according to a standardised routine. * Included as of 1 January 2015 in the new business area Industrial Products and Services (IPS). MEMBERS OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE FOR ANNUAL Meeting Sten Jakobsson was elected Deputy Chairman of the Board. GENERAL MEETING 2015 Among Board members, only President and CEO Håkan Buskhe is % of votes % of capital employed by the company. Member Representing 31-8-2014 31-8-2014 Information on the remuneration to the members of the Board Petra Hedengran Investor AB 39.5 30.0 as resolved by the Annual General Meeting 2014 is set forth in note Peter Wallenberg Jr Knut och Alice Wallenbergs Stiftelse 7.6 8.7 37 of the annual report. Tomas Hedberg Swedbank Robur Fonder 4.6 5.3 Anders Algotsson AFA Försäkring 4.0 4.6 Members of the Board elected by the Shareholders’ Meeting Marcus Wallenberg Styrelseordförande Marcus Wallenberg Sten Jakobsson Cecilia Stegö Chilò Saab AB Håkan Buskhe Sara Mazur Lena Treschow Torell Johan Forssell Per-Arne Sandström Joakim Westh BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board Members’ other significant professional commitments, Composition of the Board work experience, shareholdings etc. are set forth in the presentation According to Saab’s Articles of Association, the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors; see pages 60–61. shall, in addition to the employee representatives, consist of at least six and not more than twelve members. The Board members are elected Employee representatives annually at the Annual General Meeting. According to resolution Regulars Deputies at the Annual General Meeting on 8 April 2014, Saab’s Board of Stefan Andersson Göran Gustavsson Catarina Carlqvist Jan Kovacs Directors shall consist of nine members elected by the Shareholders’ Conny Holm Nils Lindskog Meeting with no deputies. In addition, the employee organisations appoint three Board members with an equal number of deputies. Independence requirement At the Annual General Meeting on 8 April 2014, Håkan Buskhe, The table on page 56 sets forth the members of the Board elected by Johan Forssell, Sten Jakobsson, Sara Mazur, Per-Arne Sandström, the Shareholders’ Meeting who, according to the provisions of the Cecilia Stegö Chilò, Lena Treschow Torell, Marcus Wallenberg and Code, are considered independent in relation to the company and its Joakim Westh were re-elected. management, as well as in relation to the company’s major share­ Marcus Wallenberg was elected Chairman of the Board of holders. Directors. At the statutory Board meeting after the Annual General SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 55 COMPOSITION AND INDEPENDENCE OF THE BOARD IN 2014 meeting. The rules of procedure and special instruction for the President set forth the delegation of responsibilities between the Board Independent Independent and its two committees, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit of the company/ of major Member Elected management shareholders Committee, including the role of the Chairman of the Board, and Marcus Wallenberg 1992 Yes No1) between the Board and the President. The instruction for the PresiHåkan Buskhe 2011 No2) Yes dent sets out the President’s duties and authority, including matters Johan Forssell 2010 Yes No3) which require a Board resolution. The instruction also includes Sten Jakobsson 2008 Yes Yes policies on investments, financing and reporting. Sara Mazur 2013 Yes Yes During the year, the Board was assisted by the Secretary of the Per-Arne Sandström 2005 Yes Yes Board of Directors, General Counsel Annika Bäremo, who is not a member of the Board. Cecilia Stegö Chilò 2010 Yes Yes The Board of Directors’ meetings follow an agenda. Prior to the Lena Treschow Torell 2005 Yes No4) meetings, the Board Members receive documentation and supJoakim Westh 2010 Yes Yes porting material for the issues on the agenda. At each Board meeting 1) Member of Investor AB’s Board 2) President and CEO of Saab the President presents a Market and Operations Report. A financial 3) Employed by Investor AB 4) Member of Investor AB’s Board report is presented at each Board meeting and in detail before the quarterly reports and year-end report. The Board regularly reviews and considers investments, research and development matters, orgaAccordingly, the company fulfils the requirement of the Code that a nisational issues, mergers and acquisitions, and divestments of commajority of the Board Members appointed by the Shareholders’ Meepanies. The Board’s annual work includes deciding on the company’s ting are independent of the company and its management, and that at business plan and strategy, which is normally resolved by the Board least two of them are independent of the major shareholders. in June. The Board meeting every December considers the company’s budget for the coming year. During 2014, the Board particularly a Work of the Board ddressed the acquisition of Saab Kockums and the company’s naval According to the Board’s rules of procedure, six ordinary meetings operations. Furthermore, the Board set aside time for the contract shall normally be held each year, in addition to the statutory meeting. with Brazil on Gripen NG and issues related to Gripen E to Sweden. The Board may also meet whenever circumstances demand. During During the year, the Board also worked with other key export and 2014, the Board held one statutory meeting, seven ordinary meetings marketing strategies as well as the company’s ethical standards. and three extraordinary meetings, for a total of eleven meetings. The Committee work represents an important part of the Board’s majority of the Board meetings during 2014 were held in Stockholm. work. After each meeting of the Audit and Remuneration CommitIn September, a meeting was held in Linköping with focus on the tees, the respective Chairman submits a report to the Board on the development of Gripen E. In connection with a Board meeting in issues that were dealt with at the meeting. The Board then resolves early October, where the focus was on the company’s naval operaon issues where the committees have prepared matters for resolution tions, the Board visited Saab Kockums in Malmö and the shipyard in by the Board. Karlskrona. The Board annually adopts rules of procedure, an instruction on BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ COMMITTEE WORK the allocation of work between the Board and the President, and an Audit Committee instruction on financial reporting to the Board. In accordance with the principles set out in the Swedish Companies The rules of procedure contain provisions on the number of board Act and the Code, the Board of Directors has appointed an Audit meetings, a list of matters to be considered at the meetings, reporting Committee consisting of three members. The work of the Audit from the auditor and special decisions to be taken at the statutory Committee is mainly of a preparatory nature, i.e., preparing matters Saab’s Board of Directors visited Saab Kockums in Karlskrona in 2014. 56 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 for ultimate resolution by the Board. The Audit Committee has The Remuneration Committee’s tasks are to prepare the Board’s certain limited decision-making power. For example, the Committee resolutions on remuneration principles, remuneration and other has established guidelines for services other than auditing that the terms of employment for the Group Management, monitor and company may procure from its auditors. evaluate variable remuneration programmes for the Group ManageThe Audit Committee consists of the following members: ment, both ongoing and those ended during the year, and monitor Per-Arne Sandström (Chairman of the Committee), Johan Forssell and evaluate the application of the remuneration guidelines for and Joakim Westh, of whom Per-Arne Sandström and Joakim Westh senior executives adopted by the Annual General Meeting as well as are independent of the company and its management as well as of the the current remuneration structures and levels in the company. The major shareholders. All members of the committee have accounting Remuneration Committee also proposes remuneration guidelines or auditing competence. The General Counsel, Annika Bäremo, was for senior executives to be submitted to the Annual General Meeting Secretary to the Audit Committee during 2014. following resolution by the Board of Directors. Matters concerning The Audit Committee’s assignment is set forth in the Board’s rules employment terms, compensation and other benefits for the Presiof procedure. Among other things, the Audit Committee shall monident are prepared by the Remuneration Committee and adopted by tor the company’s financial reporting, monitor the efficiency of the the Board. The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the intercompany’s internal control, internal audit and risk management in pretation and application of the remuneration guidelines for senior respect of the financial reporting, keep informed about the audit of executives. The Remuneration Committee has no decision-making the annual report and group accounts, review and monitor the audipowers of its own. During 2014, the Remuneration Committee was tors’ neutrality and independence, and assist the Nomination Comparticularly involved in issues related to the company’s long-term mittee in preparing proposals for the Shareholder Meeting's decision incentive programme. on election of auditors. In addition, the Audit Committee annually The Remuneration Committee keeps minutes of its meetings, monitors and evaluates the effectiveness and appropriateness of the which are promptly distributed to the other members of the Board. company’s business ethics programme, including the Code of ConIn 2014, the Committee held two ordinary meetings. duct, keeping informed of material deviations or non-compliance with the company’s ethical standards, including whistleblower EVALUATION reports, through regular reporting from the Ethics and Compliance The Chairman of the Board annually performs an evaluation of the Board. The company’s external auditor is co-opted to the meetings of Board’s work and possible improvements in order to develop the the Audit Committee. During 2014, the Audit Committee focused on forms and efficiency of the Board work. The evaluation is made by current issues involving the company’s financial position, financial having the Board Members respond to a questionnaire on how well reporting, budget, internal control and questions related to the the Board and the Board work are functioning. The results are then company’s business ethical standards and also assisting the Nominacompared with previous years and discussed at the Board’s meeting tion Committee ahead of the election of auditors at the Annual in December. The questionnaire consists of six parts covering the General Meeting 2015. breadth of competence represented by the Board, how the work is The Audit Committee keeps minutes of its meetings, which are performed, the Chairman, the Board’s composition, the co-operative promptly distributed to the other members of the Board. atmosphere and areas of improvement. The purpose of the evaluation In 2014, the Committee held six meetings. is to understand the Board Members’ opinion of the Board’s work. The Chairman of the Board does not participate in the Board's Remuneration Committee discussion on the result of the evaluation of the Chairman. No In accordance with principles set out in the Code, the Board of Direcexternal consultants are involved in the Board evaluation. tors has appointed a Remuneration Committee consisting of three The Nomination Committee is also informed of the results of the members: Marcus Wallenberg, Sten Jakobsson and Lena Treschow evaluation in connection with its analysis, evaluation and proposal Torell. Lena Treschow Torell is Chairman of the committee. All the for the composition of the Board. members are independent of the company and its management. The The Board continuously evaluates the President’s work by monitoGeneral Counsel, Annika Bäremo, was secretary to the committee ring business results in relation to established objectives. During during 2014. 2014, the Board also evaluated the President’s work by responding to a questionnaire about the President in the areas of performance, ATTENDANCE AND BOARD REMUNERATION 2014 Audit Remuneration Board Committee Audit Remuneration Name ­Committee Committee ­meetings1) ­meetings2) Board3) ­Committee Committee Total kSEK Marcus Wallenberg x 11 2 1,230 80 1,310 Håkan Buskhe 11 Johan Forssell x 11 6 480 120 600 Sten Jakobsson x 10 2 525 80 605 Sara Mazur 10 480 480 Per-Arne Sandström x 11 6 480 180 660 Cecilia Stegö Chilò 11 480 480 Lena Treschow Torell x 11 2 480 135 615 Joakim Westh x 11 6 480 120 600 1) Of a total of 11 meetings in 2014. 2) Of a total of 6 meetings of the Audit Committee and 2 meetings of the Remuneration Committee in 2014. 3)  Refers to the fee resolved by the Annual General Meeting 2014 for the period until the Annual General Meeting 2015. President and CEO Håkan Buskhe does not receive a fee. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 57 organisation, people and leadership. The President does not particiAUDITORS’ FEES FOR THE GROUP, 2013–2014 pate in this evaluation. MSEK 2014 2013 PRESIDENT AND CEO Audit assignments: The President and CEO of Saab, Håkan Buskhe, is also a member of PwC 18 16 the Board. His significant professional commitments outside the Others 2 2 company, earlier positions and shareholding are set forth in the preOther assignments: sentation of the Board of Directors and the Group Management; see PwC 3 4 pages 60-62. Håkan Buskhe does not own shares nor is he a partner in any company with which Saab has material business ties. THE BOARD’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL GUIDELINES FOR REMUNERATION AND OTHER BENEFITS FOR OF THE FINANCIAL REPORTING SENIOR EXECUTIVES Under the provisions of the Swedish Companies Act and the Code, The guidelines for remuneration and other benefits for senior executhe Board of Directors is responsible for internal control. This report tives are explained on pages 63–64. on internal control of financial reporting has been prepared pursuant to the provisions of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. AUDITOR On behalf of the shareholders and in accordance with current laws Financial reporting and regulations, the external auditor examines the financial stateThe Board of Directors documents the manner in which it ensures ments, group accounts, annual report, and administration and manathe quality of the financial reports and how it communicates with the gement of the company by the Board of Directors and the President, company’s auditor. and also carries out the statutory audit of the Corporate Governance The Board of Directors ensures the quality of financial accounting Report. In addition, the Q1, Q2 and Q3 interim reports have been through its Audit Committee, according to the report submitted reviewed by the auditor. The auditor also presents an Auditors’ above. The Audit Committee considers not only critical accounting Report to the Annual General Meeting. questions and the financial reports presented by the company, but The Shareholders’ Meeting elects the auditors. Pricewaterhousealso matters of internal control, regulatory compliance, potential Coopers AB was the firm elected as the new auditor by the Annual material uncertainty in reported values, post-statement events, chanGeneral Meeting 2011 for the period 2011–2015. Election of auditors ges in assessments and evaluations and other circumstances that may will be held at the Annual General Meeting 2015. affect the quality of the financial statements. The auditor participated in five of six meetings with the Audit Committee in 2014. PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) The entire Board of Directors reviews the interim reports before • Elected in 2011 for the term until the Annual General Meeting they are published. 2015. The Board of Directors has met with the auditor to discuss their • Håkan Malmström, Authorised Public Accountant, Auditor in review of the company for the financial year 2014. The Board of charge. Other audit assignments: Axel Johnson, Karo Bio, NCC, Directors has also met on one occasion with the auditor without Nordstjernan. the presence of the President or any other members of the Group • Anna-Clara Af Ekenstam, Authorised Public Accountant. Other Management. audit assignments: Swedish Cellulosa SCA AB and Knowit AB. Internal control over financial reporting PricewaterhouseCoopers AB is a member of PwC’s global network in Saab’s system of internal control is designed to assist the business in around 150 countries. PwC has competence and experience in areas achieving its goals and managing associated risks. Internal control important to Saab: auditing of large and listed companies, accounting over financial reporting is part of all internal control processes within issues, industry experience and experience in international business. Saab, the framework for which is developed by the Committee of The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that the indeSponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). pendent position of the auditor is maintained, including by staying Internal control over financial reporting aims to provide reasonable informed of ongoing consulting assignments. The Audit Committee assurance of the reliability of external financial reporting and to has also established guidelines for services other than auditing that ensure that it is prepared in accordance with legislation, applicable the company may procure from its auditors. accounting standards and other requirements for listed companies. AUDIT FEES Control environment Saab’s auditor receives a fee according to approved invoices as resolDelegation of responsibilities is based on the Board of Directors’ ved by the Annual General Meeting. rules of procedure and a directive which sets forth the roles, PwC has performed services on behalf of the company in 2014 in responsibilities and activities of the Board and the President. addition to its audit assignments, consisting of related consultations, Internal control is based on Saab’s organisation, where operating including on accounting and tax issues. responsibilities and powers are delegated to business areas and support units, which are also supported and supervised by Group functions with specific competencies. These Group functions issue Group guidelines that clarify responsibilities and powers and constitute part of the internal control in specific areas such as finance, accounting, investments and tenders. 58 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 THE ANNUAL ASSESSMENT PROCESS OF INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS Preparation of Corporate Q1 risk selfRemediation of issues identified during Q3 risk selfIndependent review Governance report assessment Q1 risk self-assessment assessment of risk self-assessment results Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Continuous Risk Assessment Status of financial controls reported to Group Management on monthly basis. Self-Assessments are communicated to the Audit Committee, Internal Audit and External Auditors. Risk assessment the Group’s total profitability and financial position. Accounting Saab’s operations are mainly characterised by the development, managers and controllers are in regular contact with Group Finance production and supply of technologically advanced hardware and concerning any questions related to finance and accounting. software for customers around the world. Sales are predominantly To assist in evaluating internal control in each business area, generated outside Sweden. As a rule, projects entail considerable Saab uses an annual self-assessment to identify and test key control sums of money, stretch over long periods of time and involve tech­ functions in each business process. nological development or refinement of products. The Internal Audit department, part of the internal control strucBased on Saab’s operations, the material risk areas in financial ture, is a dedicated resource for independent review of the effectivereporting are project accounting, acquisitions and goodwill, developness of internal control processes. At the same time, Internal Audit ment costs, hedging and other financial transactions, leasing operasupports the locally applied internal control process and the central tions, taxes and accounting for pensions. In addition to business risks controller staff. Together they serve as a resource for monitoring and risks of inaccurate financial reporting, the processes are also financial reporting routines. Internal Audit’s tasks are initiated by the assessed on the basis of the risk of exposure to any improprieties. Audit Committee or on its own initiative and then reported to the Group Finance continuously coordinates an overall risk assessCommittee. From time to time, Group Management and its members ment of financial reporting. This process involves self-assessments can also submit assignments to Internal Audit. by Group functions and business areas. The current risk assessment is reviewed with Saab’s Internal Audit, which adjusts its annual audit Activities in 2014 plan accordingly. Information on developments in essential risk In 2014, two self-assessments were performed in all business areas areas as well as a report on planned and executed activities in these and in the Group’s accounting units, tax and treasury. They were areas are communicated regularly to Saab’s Audit Committee. Saab’s performed in late March and late September, after the close of each risk assessment is also communicated regularly to Saab’s external quarter. The self-assessments were followed up and reviewed to auditors. ensure their thoroughness. The results of the reviews were reported back to each business unit. A training session for management and Information, communication and control activities personnel involved in the self-assessment process was held in March. Internal control within Saab is based on clearly defined areas of The Group’s Internal Audit unit has supported the self-assessment responsibility and authority, issued Group guidelines, processes process. and controls. All market areas implemented a simplified risk self-assessment Uniform handling of financial reporting is assured by adopting process. and issuing Group guidelines approved by the President or by function The results and status according to the self-assessment process managers appointed by the President. All Group directives are updawere reported to the Finance Board, Group Management and ted on an ongoing basis, are clearly communicated and are available Audit Committee. Implementation of the self-assessment process on the internal website. has continued in Saab’s subsidiaries outside Sweden. Each business area designs its risk management routines and structure for internal control based on overall routines and Group Focus in 2015 guidelines. The focus on internal control and self-assessments will continue in The most significant risks identified as regards financial reporting 2015. Efforts to further strengthen key control functions in sensitive are managed through control structures within the business areas business processes. and Group functions and are based on Saab’s minimum requirements The self-assessment will be implemented on at least two occasions for good internal control in the financial reporting processes. and involve all business areas and Group functions. An independent evaluation will be made at least once. Monitoring and evaluation The self-assessment process will be implemented at Saab Kockums, All operating units report monthly and quarterly according to a which was acquired in 2014. Implementation of the self-assessment standardised routine. process will continue in Saab’s subsidiaries outside Sweden. Quarterly reports are the basis of Saab’s external financial The Internal Audit department will take an active role in monitoring reporting. In operating reports, each business area’s measures of Saab’s anti-corruption processes and in the self-assessment process. profitability and financial position are consolidated to measure SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 59 BOARD OF DIRECTORS MARCUS WALLENBERG HÅKAN BUSKHE JOHAN FORSSELL STEN JAKOBSSON SARA MAZUR Chairman of the Board since Member of the Board since Member of the Board since Member of the Board since Member of the Board since 2006 April 2011 2010 2008 and Deputy Chairman 2013 Deputy Chairman of the Board President and Chief Executive Member of Saab’s Audit since 2010 Vice President and Head of 1993–2006 and Member of the Officer (CEO) of Saab AB Committee Member of Saab’s Ericsson Research, Ericsson AB Board since 1992 Born 1963 Member of the Management Remuneration Committee Born 1966 Member of Saab’s RemuneraM.Sc., Licentiate of Engineering Group Investor AB, Head of Born 1949 Ph.D., Electrical Engineering, tion Committee Core Investments M.Sc. in Engineering KTH Royal Institute of TechEmployed 2010 Born 1956 Born 1971 Shares in Saab: 5,500 nology Shares in Saab: 47,436 B.Sc. of Foreign Service M.Sc. in Finance, Stockholm Other board commitments: M.Sc., Electrical Engineering, Other board commitments: School of Economics KTH Royal Institute of Lieutenant in Royal Swedish Chairman of Power Wind Naval Academy Board member of Vattenfall AB Shares in Saab: 7,000 Technology and the Association of Swedish Partners AB and LKAB, Board Shares in Saab: 100,000 Other board commitments: member of Stena Metall AB, Shares in Saab: 500 Engineering Industries (TeknikföOther board commitments: retagen) until May 2014 Board member of Atlas Copco FLSmidth A/S and Xylem Inc Other board commitments: Chairman of SEB and FoundaFormer employment Former employment Former employment Member of the Strategic tion Asset Management AB, and positions: and positions: and positions: Advisory Board of the School Board member of AstraZeneca President and CEO of ABB of Electrical Engineering, KTH President and CEO of E.ON Project Manager at Aleris Royal Institute of Technology, PLC, Investor AB, Temasek Nordic AB and E.ON Sweden AB, Head of Research Core Sweden, Executive Vice Holding Ltd and Knut and Alice President of Asea Brown Boveri and member of the Royal SweAB, Executive Vice President Investments, Head of Capital dish Academy of Engineering Wallenberg Foundation of E.ON Sweden AB, Senior Goods and Healthcare Sector, AB, Sweden, Business area Manager for business area Cables, Sciences (IVA), Division XI – Former employment Vice President of E.ON Sweden Head of Capital Goods Sector Education and Research and positions: AB, Chairman of the Board of and Analyst Core Holdings at President of ABB Cables AB, Green Cargo, CEO of Land Investor AB President of Asea Cylinda, ProFormer employment Chairman of the Board of duction Manager for Asea Low and positions: Electrolux and LKAB, Board Operations, Schenker AG, Schenker North, Schenker-BTL Voltage Division, Asea central Vice President of System member of Stora Enso Oyij and staff – production trainee EQT Holdings AB, President AB, Storel, Carlsberg och CocaManagement, Business Unit and CEO of Investor AB, Cola Distribution AB, Production Networks, Ericsson AB, Director Director, Stora Feldmühle AG, Director for Carlsberg Sweden of Wireless Access Networks Düsseldorf, Skandinaviska EnResearch, Ericsson Research, skilda Banken, Stockholm and Ericsson AB, Board member of London, Citicorp (Hong Kong), the School of Electrical EngiCitibank N.A. (New York) neering, KTH Royal Institute of Technology and Wireless@KTH, Royal Institute of Technology EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES STEFAN ANDERSSON CATARINA CARLQVIST CONNY HOLM Member of the Board since 2008 Member of the Board since 2007 Member of the Board since 2008 President of the local salaried Vice Chairman of the local and Deputy Board member employees’ union Unionen at Swedish Association of Graduate 1995–2008 Saab Dynamics AB, Linköping Engineers, Saab Dynamics AB, President of the local trade union Born 1974 Karlskoga IF Metall at business area Industrial Born 1964 Products and Services, Jönköping B.Sc. Luleå University of Technology Born 1947 Shares in Saab: 2,296 Shares in Saab: 58 Upper secondary engineering education Shares in Saab: 1,378 60 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 PER-ARNE SANDSTRÖM CECILIA STEGÖ CHILÓ LENA TRESCHOW TORELL JOAKIM WESTH Member of the Board since Member of the Board since Member of the Board since 2005 Member of the Board since 2010 2005 2010 Chairman of Saab’s Board member of Saab’s Chairman of Saab’s Audit Adviser to management of Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Committee corporations and organisations Born 1946 Born 1961 Born 1947 Born 1959 Professor in Physics, Ph.D. M.Sc. in Aeronautics, (KTH) Upper secondary engineering Studies in political science and Shares in Saab: 5,400 Royal Institute of Technology, school economics M.Sc. in Aerospace Engineering, Other board commitments: (MIT) Massachusetts Institute Shares in Saab: 3,000 Shares in Saab: 600 Board member of Investor of Technology Other board commitments: Other board commitments: AB and SKF AB, Chairman Shares in Saab: 8 000 Board member of TeliaSonera AB Chairman of Gotlands Bryggeri of the Chalmers University of AB, Deputy Chairman of Fortum Technology and the FoundaOther board commitments: Former employment and positions: Värme AB, Board member tion for Strategic Environmental Board member of CGI Group of Spendrups Bryggeri AB, Research (MISTRA) Inc., Absolent AB and Swedish Deputy CEO and COO of L M Linköping University Holding Match AB Ericsson, President and CEO Former employment AB, Investment AB Spiltan, the and positions: Former employment of Ericsson Inc., USA, Vice Expo Foundation and the Yump President and General Manager, Deputy Chairman of ÅF AB, Preand positions: Foundation Business Unit GSM, Ericsson sident and Chairman of the Royal Chairman of EMA Technology Radio Systems AB, Executive Former employment Swedish Academy of Engineering AB and Absolent AB, Board Vice President and Managing and positions: Sciences (IVA), Board member of member of Intrum Justitia AB, Director, Cellular Systems, EricsBoard member of AMF Fonder, Getinge AB, Telefonaktiebolaget Rörvik Timber AB, Telelogic AB son Ltd, UK, Vice President and Länsforsäkringar Liv and MargiL M Ericsson, Gambro AB and and VKR Holding A/S, Deputy General Manager, GSM Western nalen Kredit och Finans, CEO of Micronic Mydata AB, Chairman Board member of Sony Ericsson Europe, Ericsson Radio Systems the Free Enterprise Foundation of European Council of Applied Mobile Communications AB, AB, Vice President and General of Sweden and the think tank Sciences Technology and Senior Vice President of Group Manager, Airborne Radar Timbro, Cabinet member and Engineering (Euro-CASE), Function Strategy & Operational Division, Ericsson Microwave Head of the Ministry of Culture, Director, Joint Research Centre, Excellence at Ericsson and Systems AB, Department Editorial writer and foreign European Commission (Brusmember of the Group ManaManager, Naval Command policy commentator at Swedish sels), Vice President of Chalmers, gement Team, Ericsson, Group and Control Systems, Ericsson Dagbladet, Commentator Gothenburg, Professor of Vice President and member Microwave Systems AB at Sveriges Radio, Swedish Material Physics at Chalmers, of the Executive Management Employer’s Confederation, Gothenburg, Professor of Group of Assa Abloy AB, Partner Swedish Conservative Party Solid State Physics at Uppsala at McKinsey & Co. Inc. University DEPUTIES AUDITORS GÖRAN GUSTAVSSON NILS LINDSKOG PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Deputy Board member since Deputy Board member since HÅKAN MALMSTRÖM 2008 2007 Authorised Public Accountant, Auditor in charge President of the local trade Member of the local Swedish AsANNA-CLARA AF EKENSTAM union IF Metall at Saab AB, sociation of Graduate Engineers Linköping at Saab AB, Gothenburg Authorised Public Accountant Born 1953 Born 1955 Shares in Saab: 1,636 M.S.E.E. from Chalmers University of Technology Shares in Saab: 698 JAN KOVACS Deputy Board member since 2008 President of the local salaried employees’ union Unionen at Saab, Linköping Born 1960 Upper secondary technical school Shares in Saab: 1,885 SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 61 GROUP MANAGEMENT HÅKAN BUSKHE LENNART SINDAHL MAGNUS ÖRNBERG ULF NILSSON GÖRGEN JOHANSSON President and Chief Executive Deputy CEO, Senior Executive Executive Vice President and Senior Vice President and Head Senior Vice President and Head Officer (CEO) Vice President Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of business area Aeronautics of business area Dynamics Member of the Board of Born 1956 Born 1965 Born 1964 Born 1964 Saab AB since 2011 M.Sc. in Engineering MBA MBA M.Sc. in Engineering Born 1963 Employed 1986 Employed 2012 Employed 2004 Employed 1989 M.Sc., Licentiate of Engineering Shares in Saab: 17,360 Shares in Saab: 4,256 Shares in Saab: 3,131 Shares in Saab: 3,482 Employed 2010 Shares in Saab: 47,436 See also page 60. MICAEL JOHANSSON DAN JANGBLAD GUNILLA FRANSSON JONAS HJELM ANNIKA BÄREMO Senior Vice President and Head Senior Vice President and Head Senior Vice President and Head Senior Vice President and Head Senior Vice President and Head of business area Electronic of business area Industrial of business area Security and of business area Support and of Group Legal Affairs, General Defence Systems Products and Services Defence Solutions Services Counsel, Secretary of the Board Born 1960 Born 1958 Born 1960 Born 1971 of Directors B.Sc. M.Sc. in Engineering M.Sc. and Ph.D. (Tec. Lic.) Employed 2006 Born 1964 Employed 1985 Employed 2000 Employed 2008 Shares in Saab: 6,668 LLB Shares in Saab: 5,593 Shares in Saab: 24,133 Shares in Saab: 7,292 Employed 2012 Shares in Saab: 2,318 LENA ELIASSON ÅSA THEGSTRÖM Senior Vice President and Head Senior Vice President and Head of Group Human Resources of Group Communication Born 1967 Born 1966 M.Sc. in Engineering Technical college engineer Employed 2012 Employed 1990 Shares in Saab: 4,080 Shares in Saab: 1,002 62 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ADMINISTRATION REPORT OTHER INFORMATION GUIDELINES FOR REMUNERATION AND programmes adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting. OTHER TERMS OF EMPLOYMENT FOR One-off agreements on variable cash remuneration SENIOR EXECUTIVES 2014 may be made in extraordinary circumstances, proPursuant to the Swedish Companies Act, the Board vided that such agreements are made solely on an of Directors shall propose remuneration guidelines individual basis for recruitment or retention purfor the company’s senior executives to the Annual poses or as compensation for extraordinary efforts General Meeting. The Annual General Meeting above and beyond the individual’s ordinary duties. 2014 adopted the Board’s proposed guidelines for Such remuneration shall never exceed the fixed senior executives as described below. annual salary and shall not be paid more than once The senior executives comprise the President a year per individual. Resolutions on such cash and CEO and other members of the Group Manaremuneration shall be made by the Board based on gement. The members of this group are presented a proposal from the Remuneration Committee. on the company’s website. In special cases these Variable cash remuneration shall not be paid guidelines apply to Saab AB Board members, as under any other circumstances. described below. Saab shall offer market terms in order to recruit Other benefits and retain senior executives. To the greatest extent All members of the Group Management may be possible, remuneration structures shall be characentitled to other benefits in accordance with local terised by predictability with respect to both the practice. The benefits shall contribute to facilitating cost for the company and the benefit for the the executive's discharge of his or her duties. These employee. They shall be based on factors such as benefits shall not constitute a material part of total position, competence, experience and perforcompensation and shall be equivalent to what is mance. Benchmarking against comparable considered reasonable in relation to market practice. industries and markets shall be practiced. Other benefits can include a company car, travels, The guidelines are based primarily on agreeovernight accommodation and medical insurance. ments in effect between Saab AB and individual executives. No board fees are paid to members of Pension the Group Management for participation on the The retirement age is 62 under pension agreements boards of the business areas or Saab subsidiaries. entered into after 1 January 2005. In addition to the The Remuneration Committee is responsible for ITP agreement, the pension is part of a defined developing and reviewing remuneration and other premium plan and provisions are made annually. employment terms for the Group Management. For the President and CEO the provision is limited The Board is entitled to divert from the guide­ to 35 per cent of fixed salary. For other senior exelines if there are reasonable grounds to do so in cutives the percentage is based on ”Saab Plan” specific cases. regulation. According to this plan, the percentage These guidelines apply as of the Annual is dependent on the number of years remaining General Meeting 2014. until retirement age upon joining the plan. The aggregate insurance balance should cover a targeFixed remuneration ted pension from age 65 of approximately 32.5 per Cash remuneration shall consist of a fixed salary. cent of salary levels between 20 and 30 basic The fixed salary shall be reviewed annually as per income amounts and approximately 50 per cent 1 January for all members of the Group Manageof segments above 30 basic income amounts. ment. Fixed salary shall be set at market terms and All senior executives may also be entitled to based on factors such as position, competence, enhanced disability pension and survivors’ pension. experience and performance. Miscellaneous terms Variable remuneration All Group Management executives, including the Saab’s operations are characterised primarily by the President and CEO, may terminate their employdevelopment of complex products and systems. The ment with six months’ notice. If employment is products are marketed, further developed, produced terminated by Saab the notice period is also six and maintained over long periods – in some cases, months, after which severance equal to one year’s three or four decades – and normally involve signifisalary is paid. An additional year’s salary may be cant investments and long-term relationships with paid in the event no new employment has been customers around the world. It is therefore obtained during the first 18 months from the time important that senior executives share a long-term notice of termination was served. view and commitment to the company’s operations With respect to employment agreements signed and profits. Long-term incentives are thus partiafter 1 January 2005 that are terminated by Saab, a cularly well suited to Saab and its shareholders, and severance is payable for a maximum of 18 months consist of a share-based incentive programme. following a six-month notice period. The President and CEO and senior executives are In both cases, any income from other employentitled to participate in the long-term incentive ment is deducted from severance. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 63 ADMINISTRATION REPORT OTHER INFORMATION Consultant fees to Board Members INCENTIVE PROGRAMMES PROPOSED In special cases Saab AB’s shareholder-elected TO THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2015 Board Members may receive a fee for services The Board of Directors propose that the Annual performed within their respective areas of experGeneral Meeting resolve to adopt a long-term tise, separately from their Board duties and for a incentive programme 2015 consisting of two parts: limited period of time. Compensation for these Share Matching Plan 2015 and Performance Share services shall be paid at market terms. Plan 2015. The terms and estimated costs for Share Matching Plan 2015 and Performance Share Plan INFORMATION IN THE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 are presented in the Board of Director’s comNOTE 37 plete proposal to the Annual General Meeting. Note 37 of the Annual Report includes a description of existing remuneration for senior executives, SAAB’S LONG-TERM INCENTIVE including fixed and variable compensation, longPROGRAMMES AND AUTHORISATION term incentive programmes and other benefits. TO REPURCHASE SHARES In April 2007, Saab’s Annual General Meeting INCENTIVE PROGRAMMES PROPOSED resolved to offer permanent employees the opporTO THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2014 tunity to participate in a voluntary share matching The Board of Directors proposed that the Annual plan under which they can purchase Saab Series B General Meeting 2014 resolve to adopt a long-term shares on Nasdaq Stockholm over a 12-month incentive programme 2014 consisting of a Share period. Purchases are made through deductions of Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan. The between 1 and 5 per cent of the employee’s Annual General Meeting resolved in accordance monthly salary. If the employee retains the purchawith the Board’s proposal. sed shares for three years after the investment date and is still employed by the Saab Group, the BOARD OF DIRECTORS PROPOSAL FOR GUIemployee will be allotted a corresponding number DELINES FOR REMUNERATION AND OTHER of Series B shares free of charge. The plan was introTERMS OF EMPLOYMENT FOR duced in autumn 2007 in Sweden and Norway. In SENIOR EXECUTIVES, APPLICABLE AS OF 2008, it was expanded to include employees in THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2015 Denmark, Germany, the UK, the US, Switzerland The Remuneration Committee has evaluated the and Australia. South Africa was included in 2009, remuneration for Saab AB senior executives, incluFinland in 2010, Czech Republic in 2011, India in ding variable remuneration, the application of the 2012, and Thailand, Holland and Canada in 2013 remuneration guidelines and other employment In April 2008, Saab’s Annual General Meeting terms for senior executives resolved at the Annual resolved to introduce a performance-based plan General Meeting 2014, and the current remunerafor senior executives and key employees entitling tion structures and remuneration levels in the them to 2–5 matching shares depending on the company. category to which the employee belongs. In addiThe Remuneration Committee has recommention to the requirement that the employee remain ded that the Board of Directors propose that the employed by Saab after three years, earnings per Annual General Meeting approve remuneration share must grow by an annual average of 5 to 15 guidelines with terms and conditions identical to per cent during the three-year period. Participants those that were adopted by the Annual General in this programme may allocate a maximum of 7.5 Meeting 2014. In light of the above, the Board of per cent of their fixed gross salary to purchase Saab Directors proposes that the Annual General MeeSeries B shares. The Annual General Meetings ting 2015 adopt guidelines for remuneration and held from 2009–2013 resolved to renew the Share other terms of employment for senior executives Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan. As of with terms and conditions identical to those resol2011 the Share Matching Plan covers all employees, ved at the Annual General Meeting 2014; see above. including senior executives and key persons. The 64 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Performance Share Plans for 2011 to 2013 (solely short of the maximum level but exceeds the minifor senior executives and key persons) entitle mum level, a linear proportioned performance participants to 1–4 matching shares, depending matching will occur. No performance matching on the category to which the employee belongs. will occur if the performance outcome amounts to The Annual General Meeting held on 8 April or falls short of the minimum level. Performance 2014 resolved in accordance with the Board’s proshares are allotted three years after the investment, posal to adopt a long-term incentive programme i.e., normally during 2018 and in January 2019. 2014 (LTI 2014), consisting of a Share Matching The Annual General Meeting 2014 also resolPlan 2014 and a Performance Share Plan 2014. ved to authorise the Board of Directors to decide Share Matching Plan 2014 is unchanged from preto acquire not more than 1 340 000 Saab Series B vious years’ programmes. Performance Share Plan shares to secure delivery of shares to participants 2014 was modified to attract and retain talented in Saab’s long-term Share Matching Plan and Peremployees on competitive terms as well as to better formance Share Plan and for subsequent transfers reflect Saab’s business strategy and financial tarto cover certain expenses associated with LTI gets. The Performance Share Plan covers a maxi2014, mainly social security costs. Repurchases mum of 175 key people, including the President may be effected on Nasdaq Stockholm. On 5 June and CEO. Participants can save up to 7.5 percent 2014, Saab announced that the Board of Directors of their base salary to purchase Series B shares over had decided to exercise this authorisation and twelve months. Investments made under this produring the period 21 July to 17 September 2014 gramme also count as a basis for participation in purchased a total of 1 340 000 Series B shares on the Share Matching Plan 2014, up to a maximum Nasdaq Stockholm at a cost of MSEK 252. of 5 per cent of base salary. If the purchased shares Furthermore, the Annual General Meeting are retained by the employee for three years and 2014 also resolved to authorise the Board of Directhey remain employed by the Saab Group, the tors to decide to repurchase Saab Series B shares employee will be entitled to matching perforup to a maximum of 10 per cent of all the shares in mance shares, free of consideration, provided that the company. The purpose of the authorisation is the performance targets are met. The programme to be able to adapt the company’s capital structure gives the employee the right to 2-7 performance and thereby contribute to increased shareholder shares for each purchased share. The number of value as well as to enable continuous use of performance shares is linked to the performance repurchased shares in connection with potential targets established by the Board of Directors. The company acquisitions and for the company’s terms for the performance matching are based on share-based incentive programmes. Repurchases three independent targets: organic sales growth, may be effected on Nasdaq Stockholm. During EBIT margin and operating cash flow1) during the 2014, the Board of Directors has not made any financial year 2015. The relative apportionment decisions regarding exercise of this repurchase between the targets is as follows: 30 per cent of the mandate. allotment is attributable to organic sales growth, Both repurchase mandates apply until the 40 per cent to EBIT margin and 30 per cent to opeAnnual General Meeting 2015. rating cash flow. The performance targets are established by the Board of Directors with a minimum and maximum level for each target. The Board of Directors decides on the performance matching after the end of the one-year measuring period, i.e., the financial year 2015. If the maximum levels for the performance targets are reached or exceeded, the performance matching will amount to (and not exceed) the maximum number of 440,000 shares. If the performance outcome falls 1) As of 1 January 2014, free cash flow is reported by the Group. It was previously named as operating cash flow. Performance targets tied to cash flow in Performance Share Plan 2014 is named as “operating cash flow” in accordance with the Annual General Meeting’s resolution. In its proposal for Performance Share Plan 2015, the Board of Directors has suggested that the performance target named in the 2014 programme as “operating cash flow” instead be named as “free cash flow” in the 2015 programme. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 65 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income Statement, Consolidated 67 Income Statement, Parent Company 73 Statement of Comprehensive Income, Comprehensive Income, Parent Company 73 Consolidated 68 Balance Sheet, Parent Company 74 Statement of Financial Position, Consolidated 70 Statement of Changes in Equity, Statement of Changes in Equity, Consolidated 71 Parent Company 76 Statement of Cash Flows, Consolidated 72 Statement of Cash Flows, Parent Company 77 NOTES 1 Accounting principles 78 20 Investment properties 100 37 Employee benefits 106 2 Assumptions in the application of the 21 Shares in associated companies and joint 38 Provisions 112 accounting principles 85 ventures consolidated according to the 39 Other liabilities 112 3 Revenue distribution 85 equity method 100 40 Accrued expenses and deferred income 113 4 Segment reporting 86 22 Shares in joint ventures consolidated according to the proportional method 102 41 Financial risk management and financial 5 Other operating income 88 instruments 113 23 Parent Company’s shares in associated 6 Other operating expenses 88 companies and joint ventures 102 42 Assets pledged and contingent liabilities 122 7 Government grants 88 24 Receivables from Group companies 102 43 Transactions with related parties 122 8 Business combinations 89 25 Financial investments 103 44 Group companies 122 9 Employees and staff costs 90 26 Other long-term securities holdings 103 45 Untaxed reserves 124 10 Auditors’ fees and compensation 91 27 Long-term receivables and other 46 Statement of cash flows, supplemental 11 Operating expenses 91 receivables 103 information 124 12 Depreciation/amortisation and 28 Inventories 104 47 Information on Parent Company 125 write-downs 91 29 Accounts receivable 104 48 Environmental report 126 13 Financial income and expenses 92 30 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 104 49 Restated accounting 2013 regarding 14 Appropriations 92 new structure 126 31 Liquid assets 104 15 Taxes 92 50 Restated accounting 2014 regarding 32 Assets held for sale 104 new structure 127 16 Intangible fixed assets 96 33 Shareholders’ equity 104 51 Exchange rates used in financial 17 Tangible fixed assets 97 34 Earnings per share 105 statements 129 18 Lease assets and lease agreements 99 35 Interest-bearing liabilities 105 52 Definitions of key ratios 129 19 Biological assets 100 36 Liabilities to credit institutions 105 66 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT MSEK Note 2014 2013 ORDERS Order bookings were lower in 2014 Sales 3, 4 23,527 23,750 than in 2013 mainly due to the developCost of goods sold -17,450 -17,422 ment and production orders of Gripen E, Gross income 6,077 6,328 amounting to SEK 29.8 billion, that Saab received in 2013. During 2014 an Other operating income 5 430 204 order of SEK 5.8 billion concerning supMarketing expenses -2,144 -2,082 port and maintenance equipment for Administrative expenses -1,214 -1,111 Gripen E was received. In all, 80 per cent (87) of order booResearch and development costs -1,487 -1,762 kings were attributable to defenceOther operating expenses 6 -21 -257 related operations and 45 per cent (30) Share in income of associated companies and joint ventures 21 18 25 were attributable to customers outside Operating income 10, 11 ,12 1,659 1,345 Sweden. During 2014, index and price Financial income 103 62 changes had a positive effect on order Financial expenses -239 -428 bookings of MSEK 346 compared to MSEK 97 during 2013. Net financial items 13 -136 -366 Orders received, where the total Income before taxes 1,523 979 order value exceeded MSEK 100, represented 61 per cent (80) of total Taxes 15 -355 -237 order bookings. Net income for the year 1,168 742 The order backlog at the end of the Attributable to: period amounted to MSEK 60,128 Parent Company’s shareholders 1,153 741 compared to MSEK 59,870 at the beginning of the year. Non-controlling interest 15 1 Earnings per share before dilution (SEK) 34 10.86 6.98 Order backlog duration: 2015: SEK 17.8 billion Earnings per share after dilution (SEK) 34 10.78 6.79 2016: SEK 10.2 billion 2017: SEK 5.7 billion SALES BY MARKET REGION SALES BY MARKET SEGMENTS 2018: SEK 5.6 billion After 2018: SEK 20.8 billion Jan-Dec Jan-Dec Jan-Dec Jan-Dec MSEK 2014 2013 MSEK 2014 2013 SALES Sweden 10,512 9,814 Air 10,481 10,693 During 2014, sales declined 1 per cent compared to 2013. EU excluding Sweden 3,770 3,933 Land 5,240 6,462 Acquisitions and the deconsolidaRest of Europe 592 621 Naval 3,192 2,292 tion of Saab Grintek Technologies (Pty) Americas 2,895 2,987 Civil Security 2,330 1,979 Ltd had a positive effect of 2 per cent. Asia 4,007 4,311 Commercial ­Aeronautics 1,838 1,615 Currency effects had no material impact on sales. Africa 573 930 Other 446 709 Sales in markets outside of Sweden Australia, etc. 1,178 1,154 Total 23,527 23,750 amounted to MSEK 13,015 (13,936), Total 23,527 23,750 or 55 per cent (59), of total sales. 79 per cent (81) of sales were related to the defence market. INCOME, MARGIN AND PROFITABILITY The gross margin during 2014 amounted to 25.8 per cent (26.6) and was lower Hawker Pacific Airservices Ltd. 2013 was negatively impacted by a non-recurring than 2013, mainly due to a changed product and project mix. Total depreciation, item amounting to MSEK 231 as a result of a lost legal dispute. amortisation and write-downs amounted to MSEK 872 (1,047). Depreciation and ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems (Saab Kockums) was acquired in July 2014. write-downs of tangible fixed assets amounted to MSEK 398 (398) while depreciaAt that time the business had a declining order backlog, low activity level and poor tion of the leasing fleet amounted to MSEK 8 (25). profitability. The takeover, and hence new business conditions, had a positive Total investments in research and development (R&D) amounted to MSEK 5 970 impact on the operating income in 2014. (6 543). Internally funded expenditures in R&D amounted to MSEK 1,338 (1,332), During 2014, reversal of risk provisions relating to Saab’s leasing fleet of turbo of which a total of MSEK 171 (24) was capitalised. The internally funded investprop aircraft (SAL), contributed positively to the operating income. The positive ments within radar and sensor technology development continued during the year, impact was at the same level as for 2013. and capitalisation was at a higher level than during 2013 as orders were received in During the fourth quarter, an agreement for the right of use of an IT platform this area. developed by Saab, had a positive effect on the operating income. Amortisation of intangible fixed assets amounted to MSEK 466 (624), of which During the year, the divestment of a Group company, whose assets were mainly amortisation of capitalised development expenditures amounted to MSEK 320 related to property, had a positive impact on the operating income. (454). The implementation of the efficiency measures that were initiated during 2013 The share of income in associated companies and joint ventures amounted to were finished in 2014 as the objective of efficiencies of approximately MSEK 500 MSEK 18 (25). were reached, mainly through capacity adjustments. The operating income amounted to MSEK 1,659 (1,345) with an operating marCurrent and deferred taxes amounted to MSEK -355 (-237), the equivalent to an gin of 7.1 per cent (5.7). The operating income adjusted for non-recurring items effective tax rate of 23 per cent (24). amounted to MSEK 1,566 (1,576) and the operating margin was 6.7 per cent (6.6). The pre-tax return on capital employed was 11.1 per cent (9.1) and the after-tax The operating income for 2014 was impacted by a non-recurring item of MSEK 93 return on equity was 9.9 per cent (6.3), both measured over a rolling 12-month concerning a capital gain related to the divestment of a minority shareholding in period. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 67 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME MSEK 2014 2013 Revaluation of net pension obligations Net income for the year 1,168 742 has had a pre-tax effect of Other comprehensive income: MSEK -1,220 (1,255) on net comprehensive income for the year, see note Items that will not be reversed in the income statement: 37 for more information. The after-tax Revaluation of net pension obligations -1,220 1,255 effect of net gain/losses of cash flow Tax attributable to revaluation of net pension hedges on net comprehensive income obligations 266 -285 amounted to MSEK -910 (-196), see Total -954 970 note 41 for more information. Items that may be reversed in the income statement: Translation differences 517 -132 Net loss on available-for-sale financial assets 27 Net gain/loss on cash flow hedges: Change in value -1,140 -174 Reversed through profit and/or loss -23 -81 Tax attributable to net gain/loss on cash flow hedges 253 59 Total -366 -328 Other comprehensive income -1,320 642 Net comprehensive income for the year -152 1,384 of which Parent Company’s shareholders’ interest -167 1,399 of which non-controlling interest 15 -15 FINANCIAL NET The financial net related to pensions is the financial cost for net pension liabilities recognised in the balance sheet; see note 37, for more information regarding defined-benefit pension plans. Net interest items refer to return on liquid assets and short-term investments including interest expenses on short-term and long-term interest-bearing liabilities. Currency gains/losses reported in financial net are related to hedges of the tender portfolio, which are valued at fair value. Other net financial items consist of costs attributable to the programme for the sale of accounts receivables, unrealised results from the market valuation of short-term investments, project interest and other currency effects, for example changes related to liquid assets in currencies other than SEK. In 2013, a non-recurring item of MSEK 83, relating to a lost legal dispute, was reported in financial net. In 2013, Saab invested in the Indian company Pipavav Defence and Offshore Engineering Company Limited. A combination of negative currency effects and share price development resulted in a value decline of MSEK 133 in 2013 and MSEK 19 in 2014, which are recognised in financial net. FINANCIAL NET MSEK Jan–Dec 2014 Jan–Dec 2013 Financial net related to pensions -57 -74 Net interest items 7 23 Currency gains/losses -5 -26 Other net financial items -81 -289 Total -136 -366 68 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Opening balance MSEK Note 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 2013 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ASSETS At the end of December 2014, the net Intangible fixed assets 16 6,351 6,340 6,849 liquidity amounted to MSEK -2,113; a Tangible fixed assets 17 3,702 3,239 3,162 decrease of MSEK -2,926 during 2014 Lease assets 18 197 304 compared to the year-end liquidity for 2013. Biological assets 19 289 296 306 Cash flow from operating activities Investment properties 20 33 31 33 amounted to MSEK -713. Provisions Shares in associated companies and joint ventures 21 397 367 759 for pensions, excluding special employFinancial investments 25 292 295 193 ers’ contribution, as of 31 December 2014 amounted to MSEK 2,528, comLong-term receivables 27 152 122 136 pared to MSEK 1,389 at year-end Deferred tax assets 15 656 239 213 2013, and had a negative impact of Total fixed assets 11,872 11,126 11,955 MSEK 1,139 on net liquidity. The Inventories 28 5,819 4,563 4,420 increase in provisions was mainly due to the decrease in the discount rate Derivatives 41 469 396 514 used in the valuation of pension obligaTax assets 60 62 39 tions from 4.00 per cent to 2.50 per Accounts receivable 29 3,414 3,295 3,449 cent during the period. This was partly Other receivables 27 4,255 3,727 2,228 mitigated by a strong return on plan assets and by the amendment of the Prepaid expenses and accrued income 30 1,113 854 867 inflation assumption for calculating the Short-term investments 25 1,270 2,002 3,963 pension obligation from 2.00 per cent Liquid assets 31 1,284 1,764 1,616 to 1.50 per cent. For more information Total current assets 17,684 16,663 17,096 about Saab’s defined benefit plans, see note 37. Assets held for sale 32 During 2014, net liquidity was negatively impacted by net investments TOTAL ASSETS 29,556 27,789 29,051 amounting to approximately MSEK 381, 2013 has been restated according to the changed accounting principles for joint arrangements (IFRS 11). by dividend to shareholders of See note 22 for more information. MSEK 479 and repurchase of own shares of MSEK 252. Currency exchange rate differences in liquid assets and unrealised results from financial investments had a positive impact on net liquidity of MSEK 43. Dividend to non-controlling interest amounted to MSEK 5. In 2009, Saab changed its view on the application of accounting principles for development costs. As a result of this more conservative view, development costs are capitalised at a later stage in all projects and all capitalised development costs are amortised over a maximum period of ten years. Capitalised development costs have been reduced from MSEK 3,628 at the end of 2008 to MSEK 952 at the end of 2014. Inventories increased during 2014 due to larger projects. Inventories are recognised after deducting utilised advances. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 69 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Opening balance MSEK Note 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 2013 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 33 Capital stock 1,746 1,746 1,746 Other capital contributions 543 543 543 Other reserves -363 4 316 Retained earnings 9,365 9,843 8,563 Equity attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 11,291 12,136 11,168 Non-controlling interest 82 91 112 Total equity 11,373 12,227 11,280 Liabilities Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 35 2,105 1,095 105 Other liabilities 39 141 179 315 Provisions for pensions 37 3,149 1,680 2,874 Other provisions 38 1,234 1,043 1,286 Deferred tax liabilities 15 48 501 184 Total long-term liabilities 6,677 4,498 4,764 Short-term interest-bearing liabilities 35 264 718 1,968 Advance payments from customers 856 818 553 Accounts payable 1,840 1,918 1,904 Derivatives 41 1,400 316 254 Tax liabilities 47 61 228 Other liabilities 39 978 839 760 Accrued expenses and deferred income 40 5,609 5,735 6,775 Provisions 38 512 659 565 Total current liabilities 11,506 11,064 13,007 Liabilities attributable to assets held for sale 32 Total liabilities 18,183 15,562 17,771 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 29,556 27,789 29,051 For information on the Group’s assets pledged and contingent liabilities, see note 42. 2013 has been restated according to the changed accounting principles for joint arrangements (IFRS 11). See note 22 for more information. 70 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Other reserves Total equity Availableattributable to Other capiNet result for-sale and Parent NonCapital tal contriof cash flow Revaluation revaluation Retained Company’s controlling Total MSEK stock butions hedges reserve reserve earnings shareholders interest equity Opening balance, 1 January 2013 1,746 543 531 -226 11 8,563 11,168 112 11,280 Net comprehensive income for the year -185 -127 1,711 1,399 -15 1,384 Transactions with shareholders: Share matching plan 46 46 46 Dividend -477 -477 -1 -478 Acquisition and sale of non-controlling interest -5 -5 Closing balance, 31 December 2013 1,746 543 346 -353 11 9,843 12,136 91 12,227 Opening balance, 1 January 2014 1,746 543 346 -353 11 9,843 12,136 91 12,227 Net comprehensive income for the year -908 514 27 200 -167 15 -152 Transactions with shareholders: Repurchase of shares -252 -252 -252 Share matching plan 50 50 50 Dividend -479 -479 -5 -484 Acquisition and sale of non-controlling interest 3 3 -19 -16 Closing balance, 31 December 2014 1,746 543 -562 161 38 9,365 11,291 82 11,373 For a definition of other reserves, see note 33. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 71 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS MSEK Note 2014 2013 CAPITAL EXPENDITURES Gross capital expenditures in property, Operating activities plant and equipment, amounted to Income after financial items 1,523 979 MSEK 732 (543). Expenditures were Adjustments for items not affecting cash flow 46 725 1,224 higher partly due to investments in a new plant in Linköping. Income tax paid -394 -368 Investments in intangible assets Cash flow from operating activities before amounted to MSEK 239 (68), of which changes in working capital 1,854 1,835 MSEK 171 (24) was related to capitaliCash flow from changes in working capital sed development costs, mainly within Increase (–)/Decrease( +) in inventories -856 -147 radar and sensor technology, and Increase (–)/Decrease (+) in current receivables -282 -1,346 MSEK 68 (44) to other intangible assets. Increase (+)/Decrease (–) in advance payments from customers 21 278 Increase (+)/Decrease (–) in other current liabilities -914 -1,005 CASH FLOW Increase (+)/Decrease (-) in provisions -536 -277 As of 2014, operational cash flow is Cash flow from operating activities -713 -662 reported by business area as opposed Investing activities to previously when free cash flow was reported by business area and named Investments in intangible fixed assets -68 -44 operating cash flow. Capitalised development costs -171 -24 Cash flow from operating activities Investments in tangible fixed assets -732 -543 excluding taxes and other financial Sale of tangible fixed assets 15 46 items amounted to MSEK -346 (-155), see note 46. Sale of lease assets 105 81 During the second quarter of 2013, Sale of and investments in short-term investments 720 1,936 payments of MSEK 314 relating to a Dividend from joint ventures 430 lost legal dispute were made. Investments in other financial assets -248 Saab has an established programme to sell accounts receivable to Sale of other financial assets 40 10 strengthen its financial position and Investments in operations and associated increase financial flexibility. As of companies, net effect on liquidity 8, 46 152 -68 31 December 2014, net receivables of Sale of subsidiaries and associated companies, MSEK 1,071 were sold, compared to net effect on liquidity 46 299 MSEK 555 as of 31 December 2013. Cash flow from investing activities 360 1,576 This had a positive impact on the cash Financing activities flow of MSEK 516 from operating activities during 2014. Repayment of loans -468 -1,100 The operational cash flow amounted Raising of loans 1,000 845 to MSEK -1,197 (-639). It is defined as Repurchase of shares -252 cash flow from operating activities, Dividend paid to Parent Company’s shareholders -479 -477 excluding taxes and other financial items, acquisitions and divestments of Dividend paid to non-controlling interests -5 -1 intangible assets, tangible assets and Cash flow from financing activities -204 -733 lease assets. The lower level of operational cash flow in 2014 compared to CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR 46 -557 181 2013 is mainly attributable to investLiquid assets at beginning of year 1,764 1,616 ments, timing differences in invoicing, Exchange rate difference in liquid assets 77 -33 milestone deliveries and payments. Liquid assets at year-end 46 1,284 1,764 Free cash flow amounted to MSEK -1,094 (-1,460). For more detai2013 has been restated according to the changed accounting principles for joint arrangements (IFRS 11), see note 22 for led information about the free cash more information. flow, see note 46. 72 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY INCOME STATEMENT MSEK Note 2014 2013 SALES AND INCOME The Parent Company includes units Sales 3, 4 16,175 16,521 within the business areas Aeronautics, Cost of goods sold -11,869 -12,556 Electronic Defence Systems, Security Gross income 4,306 3,965 and Defence Solutions, and Support and Services. Group staff and Group Marketing expenses -1,365 -1,368 support are included as well. The busiAdministrative expenses -730 -680 ness areas Dynamics and Combitech Research and development costs -1,170 -1,088 are subsidiaries to Saab AB and are Other operating income 5 170 87 not a part of the Parent Company. Other operating expenses 6 -11 -254 The Parent Company’s sales in 2014 amounted to MSEK 16,175 (16,521). Operating income 1,200 662 Operating income was MSEK 1,200 Result from financial items: 13 (662). Result from shares in Group companies 554 875 Net financial income and expenses was MSEK 706 (707). After appropriaResult from shares in associated companies and joint ventures 194 8 tions of MSEK -419 (-284) and taxes of Result from other securities and receivables held as fixed assets -67 -180 MSEK -317 (-200), net income for the Other interest income and similar items 205 195 year amounted to MSEK 1,170 (885) Interest expenses and similar items -180 -191 Income after financial items 1,906 1,369 Appropriations 14 -419 -284 Income before taxes 1,487 1,085 Taxes 15 -317 -200 Net income for the year 1,170 885 PARENT COMPANY COMPREHENSIVE INCOME MSEK Note 2014 2013 Net income for the year 1,170 885 Other comprehensive income Net comprehensive income for the year 1,170 885 SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 73 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET MSEK Note 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 LIQUIDITY, FINANCING, CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND ASSETS NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES The Parent Company’s net debt Fixed assets amounted to MSEK 2,577 at Intangible fixed assets 16 1,117 1,392 31 December 2014 compared to Tangible fixed assets 17 2,574 2,279 MSEK 984 at 31 December 2013. Financial fixed assets: Gross capital expenditures in proShares in Group companies 44 6,764 6,471 perty, plant and equipment amounted to MSEK 551 (387). Investments in Receivables from Group companies 24 865 747 intangible assets amounted to Shares in associated companies and joint ventures 23 135 137 MSEK 63 (63). At the end of the year, Other long-term securities holdings 26 137 136 the Parent Company had 8,695 Other long-term receivables 27 25 22 employees, compared to 8,781 at the beginning of the year. Deferred tax assets 15 131 182 Total financial fixed assets 8,057 7,695 Total fixed assets 11,748 11,366 Current assets Inventories, etc. 28 4,490 3,653 Current receivables: Accounts receivable 29 1,826 1,489 Receivables from Group companies 2,838 2,183 Receivables from associated companies and joint ventures 9 15 Other receivables 27 2,784 2,315 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 30 794 736 Total current receivables 8,251 6,738 Short-term investments 1,270 1,990 Cash and bank balances 377 1,268 Total current assets 14,388 13,649 TOTAL ASSETS 26,136 25,015 74 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET MSEK Note 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 33 Restricted equity: Capital stock 1,746 1,746 Revaluation reserve 694 700 Statutory reserve 543 543 Unrestricted equity: Retained earnings 4,316 4,107 Net income for the year 1,170 885 Total equity 8,469 7,981 Untaxed reserves 45 1,979 1,560 Provisions Provisions for pensions and similar commitments 37 140 219 Other provisions 38 638 832 Total provisions 778 1,051 Liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 36 2,000 1,000 Liabilities to Group companies 5,921 5,827 Advance payments from customers 439 393 Accounts payable 1,301 1,390 Liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures 244 33 Tax liabilities 17 28 Other liabilities 39 821 933 Accrued expenses and deferred income 40 4,167 4,819 Total liabilities 14,910 14,423 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 26,136 25,015 Assets pledged 42 10 Contingent liabilities 42 4,551 3,992 SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 75 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE PARENT COMPANY Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Net compreCapital Revaluation Statutory Retained hensive income Total ­ MSEK stock ­reserve ­reserve ­earnings for the year equity Opening balance, 1 January 2013 1,746 707 543 4,531 7,527 Items reported directly in equity: Change in revaluation reserve -7 7 Net comprehensive income for the year 885 885 Transactions with shareholders: Dividend to shareholders -477 -477 Share matching plan 46 46 Closing balance, 31 December 2013 1,746 700 543 4,107 885 7,981 Opening balance, 1 January 2014 1,746 700 543 4,992 7,981 Items reported directly in equity: Change in revaluation reserve -6 6 Net comprehensive income for the year 1,170 1,170 Transactions with shareholders: Dividend to shareholders -479 -479 Repurchase of shares -252 -252 Share matching plan 50 50 Closing balance, 31 December 2014 1,746 694 543 4,316 1,170 8,469 76 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS MSEK Note 2014 2013 Operating activities Income after financial items 1,906 1,369 Adjustments for items not affecting cash flow 46 182 614 Income tax paid -277 -283 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,811 1,700 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase(–)/Decrease(+) in inventories -926 -146 Increase(–)/Decrease(+) in current receivables 2,184 -1,175 Increase(+)/Decrease(–) in advance payments from customers 45 103 Increase(+)/Decrease(–) in other current liabilities -3,488 -775 Increase(+)/Decrease(–) in provisions -193 -216 Cash flow from operating activities -567 -509 Investing activities Shareholders’ contributions paid -30 -27 Investments in intangible fixed assets -63 -70 Investments in tangible fixed assets -551 -386 Sale of tangible fixed assets 11 36 Sale of and investments in short-term investments 708 1,936 Investments in financial assets -122 -250 Sale of financial assets 4 113 Investments in subsidiaries -341 -29 Sale of subsidiaries and associated companies 375 Cash flow from investing activities -9 1,323 Financing activities Change in receivables/liabilities from Group companies -839 -763 Raising of loans 1,000 346 Repayment of loans -160 -1,100 Repurchase of shares -252 Dividend paid to shareholders -479 -477 Group contributions and dividends received 415 1,499 Cash flow from financing activities -315 -495 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR -891 319 Liquid assets at beginning of year 1,268 949 Liquid assets at year-end 46 377 1,268 SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 77 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES consistently for all periods presented in the Group’s financial reports, unless otherwise indicated below. OPERATIONS APPLICATION OF NEW AND REVISED ACCOUNTING RULES Saab AB is a Swedish limited company with its registered address in Linköping. IASB and IFRIC have issued and the EU has adopted the following new and reviThe company’s Series B shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s large cap list. sed standards, which apply as of the fiscal year 2014: The operations of Saab AB with its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated • IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, additional guidance for situations companies (jointly referred to as Saab or the Group) were divided into six business where control is difficult to assess. areas in 2014: Aeronautics, Dynamics, Electronic Defence Systems, Security and • IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, focusing on rights and obligations rather than an Defence Solutions, Support and Services, and Co­mbitech. The operations in each arrangement’s legal structure. There are two types of joint arrangements: joint business area are described in note 4. operations and joint ventures. Joint operations are recognised based on the As of 1 January 2015, Saab’s operations are divided into six business areas: holder’s share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. Joint ventures are Aeronautics, Dynamics, Electronic Defence Systems, Security and Defence Solurecognised according to the equity method. The proportional method is no tions, Support and Services, and Industrial Products and Services. The new busilonger permitted. ness area Industrial Products and Services includes the independent consultancy • IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, comprising disclosure requirefirm Combitech, the business units Aerostructures (previously in business area ments for subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associated companies and unconsoAeronautics) and Avionics Systems (previously in business area Electronic Defence lidated structured entities. Systems), Saab Ventures and a development project, previously included in Saab • IAS 28 (amended 2011) Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, containCorporate. ing requirements on the recognition of joint ventures and associated companies Saab has a strong position in Sweden and the large part of its sales are generaaccording to the equity method. ted in Europe, in addition to which Saab has a local presence in South Africa, Aus• Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, IAS 36 Impairment tralia, the US and other selected countries. of Assets, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement will, On 16 February 2015, the Board of Directors and the President approved this for Saabs part, only lead to minor changes to disclosures. annual report and consolidated accounts for publication, and they will be presented to the Annual General Meeting on 15 April 2015 for adoption. The effects of amendments to IFRS 11 are reported in the annual report for 2013 and in note 22 in this annual report. Other new and amended standards and interCONFORMITY TO STANDARDS AND LAWS pretations have not had a material effect on the Group’s financial reports for 2014. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting NEW AND AMENDED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS Standards Board (IASB) and the interpretations of the International Financial THAT HAVE NOT YET ENTERED INTO FORCE Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) as approved by the EU. The consoliIASB has issued the following new and amended standards that have not dated accounts have also been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Financial yet entered into force: Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups, which contains certain additional disclosure requirements for Swedish Will apply to financial consolidated accounts prepared in accordance with IFRS. Standards years beginning: The annual report for Saab AB has been prepared according to the Annual IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 (not adopted by EU) Accounts Act, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts Reporting by Legal Entities and the pronouncements of the Swedish Financial with Customers 1 January 2017 (not adopted by EU) Reporting Board. Differences between the accounting principles applied by Saab AB and the Group are the result of limitations on opportunities to apply IFRS by the Parent Company owing to the Annual Accounts Act, the Act on SafeguarIFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers governs the recognition of reveding Pension Commitments and in certain cases current tax rules. Significant diffenue. The principles that IFRS 15 are based on give users of financial statements rences are described below under “Significant differences between the Group’s more useful information on the company’s revenue. The expanded disclosure obliand the Parent Company’s accounting principles.” gation means that information must be provided on the nature, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. According to ASSUMPTIONS IN THE PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL REPORTS IFRS 15, revenue is recognised when customers obtain control over purchased The Parent Company’s functional currency is Swedish kronor (SEK), which is also goods or services and are able to use and obtain benefits from the goods or servithe reporting currency for the Parent Company and for the Group. The financial ces. IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts. Saab reports are presented in SEK. All amounts, unless indicated otherwise, are rounhas not yet evaluated the effects of the introduction of the standard. ded off to the nearest million. Assets and liabilities are carried at historical cost, with the exception of certain OPERATING SEGMENTS financial assets and liabilities, investment properties and biological assets, which Segment information is presented based on management’s view, and operating are carried at fair value or amortised cost. Derivatives are carried at fair value. segments are identified based on internal reporting to the company’s chief operaNon-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are carried at the lower of ting decision maker. Saab has identified the Chief Executive Officer as its chief their carrying amount and fair value less selling expenses at the time they were operating decision maker, while the internal reports used by the CEO to oversee classified as held for sale. operations and make decisions on allocating resources serve as the basis of the The preparation of the financial reports in accordance with IFRS requires the information presented. The segments are monitored at the operating income level. Board of Directors and Management to make estimates and assumptions that The accounting principles for reportable segments conform to the principles affect the application of the accounting principles and the carrying amounts of applied by the Group as a whole. assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. Estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and knowledge of the industry that Saab operates in, and The Group had six reportable segments in the year: under current circumstances seem reasonable. The result of these estimates and • Aeronautics assumptions is then used to determine the carrying amounts of assets and liabili• Dynamics ties that otherwise are not clearly indicated by other sources. Actual outcomes may • Electronic Defence Systems deviate from these estimates and assumptions. • Security and Defence Solutions Estimates and assumptions are reviewed regularly, and the effect of changed • Support and Services estimates is recognised in profit or loss. • Combitech Estimates made by the Board of Directors and Management in applying the accounting principles in compliance with IFRS that may have a significant impact Complementing the six segments is Corporate, which comprises Group staffs and on the financial reports as well as estimates that may necessitate significant adjustdepartments as well as other non-core operations. ments in financial reports in subsequent years are described in more detail in Sales of goods and services between segments are made on market terms. note 2. A detailed description of the segments, together with the factors used to identify The accounting principles described below for the Group have been applied segments, can be found in note 4 and on pages 42–48. 78 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES As of 1 January 2015, Saab’s operations are divided into the following six business ved from associated companies and joint ventures reduce the carrying amount of areas: Aeronautics, Dynamics, Electronic Defence Systems, Security and Defence the investment. Solutions, Support and Services, and Industrial Products and Services, which will If the Group’s share of the accumulated deficit in an associated company or joint also be reported as operating segments. See note 50 for more information. venture exceeds the carrying amount of the shares in the Group, the value of the shares is reduced to nil. Losses are also offset against long-term uncollateralised CLASSIFICATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES financial balances that in their economic significance represent part of the ownerCurrent assets and current liabilities generally consist of amounts that can be recocompany’s net investment in the associated company or joint venture. Subsequent vered or paid within twelve months of the closing day. Other assets and liabilities losses are not recognised as a liability in the consolidated accounts as long as the are recognised as fixed assets or long-term liabilities. Group has not issued any guarantees to cover losses arising in the associated company or joint venture. CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES When significant influence over the associated company or shared decisive influGroup companies ence over the joint venture ceases but the Group retains an interest in the comGroup companies are companies in which Saab AB has a decisive influence through pany, the remaining shares are initially recognised at fair value. The gain or loss that a direct or indirect shareholding amounting to more than 50 per cent of the votes, arises is recognised in profit or loss. other than in exceptional circumstances where it can be clearly demonstrated that such ownership does not constitute a decisive influence. Decisive influence also Eliminated transactions exists when the parent owns not more than half of the voting power of an entity but Intra-Group receivables and liabilities, revenue or expenses, and gains or losses otherwise has a decisive influence over more than half the voting rights or the power that arise from transactions between Group companies are eliminated in their to govern the company’s financial and operating policies under a statute or agreeentirety in the preparation of the consolidated accounts. ment. When determining whether a decisive influence exists, potential voting shares Gains that arise from transactions with associated companies and joint ventures that can be exercised or converted without delay are taken into account. are eliminated to an extent corresponding to the Group’s ownership interest in the Subsidiaries and acquired operations (business combinations) are recognised company. Losses are eliminated in the same way as gains, but only to the extent according to the purchase accounting method. This means that a business combithere that is no impairment loss. nation is treated as a transaction whereby the Group indirectly acquires the business’s assets and takes over its liabilities and contingent liabilities. The Group’s FOREIGN CURRENCY cost is determined through an acquisition analysis with regard to the acquisition of Functional currencies are the currencies in each primary economic environment operating entities. Cost is comprised of the sum of the fair value of what of is paid in where units of the Group conduct their operations. cash on the acquisition date through the assumption of liabilities or shares issued. Contingent consideration is included in cost and recognised at its fair value on the Transactions and assets and liabilities in foreign currency acquisition date. The subsequent effects of revaluations of contingent consideration Transactions in foreign currency are recognised in the functional currency at the are recognised in profit or loss. Acquired identifiable assets and assumed liabilities exchange rate on the transaction day. Monetary assets and liabilities are translated are initially recognised at their acquisition-date fair value. The exceptions to this printo the functional currency on the closing day at the exchange rate then in effect. ciple are acquired tax assets/liabilities, employee benefits, share-based payment and Exchange rate differences that arise through these translations are recognised in assets held for sale, which are valued in accordance with the principles described in profit and loss. Non-monetary assets and liabilities recognised at fair value are the sections below for each item. Exceptions are also made for indemnification translated to the functional currency at the rate in effect at the time of valuation at assets and repurchased rights. Indemnification assets are valued according to the fair value. Changes in exchange rates are then recognised in the same way as same principle as the indemnified item. Repurchased rights are valued based on the other changes in value of the asset or liability. remaining contractual period regardless of whether other market players might consider opportunities for contract extensions in connection with valuations. Translation of financial reports of foreign operations to SEK Recognised goodwill consists of the difference between, on the one hand, the Assets and liabilities in operations with a functional currency other than SEK are cost of Group company’s interests, the value of non-controlling interests in the acquitranslated to SEK at the closing day exchange rate. Revenue and expenses in foreign red company and the fair value of the previously owned interest and, on the other, the operations are translated to SEK at the average rate. Translation differences that carrying amount of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities in the acquisition anaarise through currency translations are recognised directly in other comprehensive lysis. Goodwill is recognised according to the section on intangible fixed assets. Nonincome. The amount is recognised separately as a translation reserve in equity. controlling interests are recognised on the acquisition date either at fair value or their proportionate share of the carrying amount of the acquired company’s identified REVENUE assets and liabilities. Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are recognised as Revenue is measured at the fair value of what is received or will be received after transactions affecting the owners’ equity. deducting sales tax, returns, discounts or other similar deductions. In Saab, reveThe financial reports of Group companies are included in the consolidated nue is referred to as sales in the financial reporting. accounts from the point in time when a decisive influence arises (acquisition date) until this influence ceases. When decisive influence over the Group company ceases Sales of goods but the Group retains an interest in the company, the remaining shares are initially Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in profit or loss when the significant recognised at fair value. The gain or loss that arises is recognised in profit or loss. risks and benefits associated with ownership have transferred to the buyer, when it is considered likely that payment will be received and the revenue and related Associated companies and joint ventures expenses can be calculated reliably. Associated companies are companies over which the Group has a significant, but not decisive, influence over operating and financial controls, usually through a shareService assignments holding of between 20 and 50 per cent of the votes. Joint ventures are companies in Revenue from service assignments is recognised when the services are rendered. which the Group, through a cooperative agreement with one of more parties, shares Revenue from services rendered as part of fixed-price contracts is recognised in a decisive influence over operating and financial controls. As of the date that signifiaccordance with the principles that apply to long-term customer contracts; see cant influence in an associated company and shared decisive influence in a joint venbelow. Revenue is recognised only if it is likely that the economic benefits will ture arises, the shares in the associated company or joint venture are recognised accrue to the Group. according to the equity method in the consolidated accounts. The equity method is applied as of the date when significant or shared decisive influence ceases. Long-term customer contracts The equity method means that the carrying amount of the shares in associated A large part of the Group’s operations comprises long-term customer contracts. companies and joint ventures corresponds to the Group’s share of the associated Long-term customer contracts relate to the development and manufacture of comcompanies’ and joint ventures’ equity based on an application of the Group’s plex systems that stretch over several reporting periods. When such contracts accounting principles as well as Group goodwill and any remaining Group surplus concern development and hardware that can be reliably calculated, revenue and or deficit values. “Share in income of associated companies and joint ventures” in expenditures attributable to the assignment are recognised in the consolidated the income statement comprises the Group’s share of the net income after tax and income statement in relation to the assignment’s stage of completion, i.e., accorthe non-controlling interests in associated companies and joint ventures adjusted ding to the percentage of completion method. for any depreciation, impairment loss or dissolution of acquired surplus and deficit The stage of completion is based on a determination of the relationship between values determined in the same way as for operating acquisitions. Dividends receiexpenditures incurred for services rendered as of the closing day and estimated SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 79 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES total expenditures. Of the estimated total revenue for an assignment, the portion as an expense when they arise. Development expenditures are recognised in the corresponding to the stage of completion is recognised in each period. The stage statement of financial position at cost less accumulated amortisation and any of completion can also be determined in certain cases based on milestones or deliimpairment losses. Customer-financed research and development is recognised in veries. With regard to orders that are financed to a significant extent with advance cost of goods sold rather than capitalised. payment from customers, the effect on interest of advance financing is recognised in gross income. The interest amount that affected gross income is indicated in Other intangible fixed assets note 13. Other acquired intangible fixed assets, which include acquired assets such as traAn anticipated loss is recognised in profit or loss as soon as it is identified. demarks and customer relations, are recognised at cost less accumulated amortiRecognised subcontracting revenue for which the customer has not yet been sation and any impairment losses. invoiced is recognised as a receivable from that customer. All projects in progress from customers for whom invoiced amounts exceed project expenses and reporAmortisation ted profits are recognised as liabilities to those customers. Amortisation is recognised in profit or loss over the intangible fixed assets’ estimated periods of use, provided such periods can be determined. Intangible fixed OPERATING EXPENSES assets, excluding goodwill and other intangible fixed assets with indeterminate The income statement is classified according to function as follows: periods of use, are amortised from the day they are available for use. Estimated • Cost of goods sold comprises costs for material handling and manufacturing periods of use and amortisation methods are as follows: costs, including salary and material costs, purchased services, premises, and the depreciation/amortisation and write-down of intangible and tangible fixed • Patents, trademarks, customer relations and other technical rights: 5-10 years assets other than self-financed capitalised development cost (see below). Custoon a straight line basis. mer-financed research and development is recognised in cost of goods sold. • Capitalised development costs: Self-financed capitalised development costs are • Administrative expenses relate to expenses for the Board of Directors, Group amortised based on estimated production volume, but over a maximum period Management and staff functions as well as expenses attributable to business of 5 years. Production volume is set using future sales projections according to a area and business unit managements. business plan based on identified business opportunities. Acquired development • Marketing expenses comprise expenses for the in-house marketing and sales costs are amortised on a straight line basis over a maximum of 10 years. organisation as well as external marketing and selling expenses. • Goodwill: In the Parent Company, goodwill is amortised over a maximum 20 • Research and development costs are recognised separately and comprise the years. Goodwill is not amortised in the Group. cost of self-financed new and continued product development as well as amortisation of capitalised development costs; see below. Periods of use are tested annually and unfinished development work is tested for • Other operating revenue and expenses relate to secondary activities, exchange impairment at least once a year regardless of any indications of diminished value. rate differences on items of an operating nature, changes in the value of derivatives of an operating nature and capital gains/losses on the sale of tangible fixed TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS assets. Also included at the Group level are capital gains/losses on the sale of Tangible fixed assets are recognised as an asset in the statement of financial posisubsidiaries and associated companies. tion if it is likely that the future economic benefits will accrue to the Group and the cost of the asset can be reliably estimated. Government grants Tangible fixed assets are recognised at cost after deducting accumulated depreGovernment grants are recognised in the statement of financial position as prepaid ciation and any write-down . Cost includes the purchase price and costs directly or accrued income when there is reasonable certainty that the grant will be received attributable to putting the asset into place and condition to be utilised in accorand that the Group will meet the conditions associated with the grant. Grants are dance with the purpose of the purchase. Examples of directly attributable expenditsystematically recognised in the income statement in the same way and over the ures included in cost are delivery and handling, installation, title and consulting sersame periods as the expenses for which the grants are intended to compensate. vices. Government grants related to assets are recognised in the statement of financial The cost of fixed assets produced by Saab includes expenditures for material, position as a reduction in the asset’s carrying amount. expenditures for employee benefits and, where applicable, other production costs considered directly attributable to the fixed asset. FINANCIAL REVENUE AND EXPENSES The cost of tangible fixed assets includes estimated costs for disassembly and Financial revenue and expenses consist of interest income on bank balances, removal of the assets as well as restoration of the location or area where these receivables and marketable securities, interest expenses on loans, dividends, assets are found. exchange rate differences, unrealised and realised gains on financial investments The carrying amount of a tangible fixed asset is excluded from the statement of and derivatives used in financial operations as well as financial revenue and expenfinancial position when the asset is sold or disposed of or when no future economic ses related to pensions. benefits are expected from its use. The gain or loss that arises on the sale or disposal is comprised of the difference between the sales price and the asset’s carrying INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS amount less direct selling expenses. Such gains and losses are recognised as other Goodwill operating income/expenses. Goodwill is distributed among cash-generating units and tested annually for impairment in the fourth quarter. Goodwill arising through the acquisition of associated companies Incremental expenditures is included in the carrying amount of the shares in the associated company. Incremental expenditures are added to cost only if it is likely that the future econoIn acquisitions where the cost is less than, on the one hand, the net of the cost of mic benefits tied to the incremental expenditures will accrue to the Group and the the Group company’s shares, the value of non-controlling interests in the acquired expenditures can be reliably estimated. All other incremental expenditures are company and the fair value of the previously owned interest and, on the other, the recognised as costs in the period they arise. carrying amount of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities in the acquisition The determining factor whether an incremental expenditure is added to cost is analysis, the difference is recognised directly through profit or loss. whether it relates to the replacement of identifiable components, or parts thereof. If so, the cost is capitalised. Even in cases where a new component is created, the Research and development expenditure is added to cost. Any undepreciated carrying amount of replaced comExpenditures for research undertaken in an effort to gain new scientific or technoloponents, or parts of components, is disposed of and expensed in connection with gical knowledge are expensed when incurred. the replacement. Repairs are expensed as incurred. Expenditures for development, where the research results or other knowledge is applied to new or improved products or processes, are recognised as an asset in Borrowing costs the statement of financial position from the time when the product or process in the Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or profuture is expected to be technically and commercially usable, the company has sufduction of an asset and takes a substantial period of time to prepare for its intended ficient resources to complete development and subsequently use or sell the intanuse or sale is capitalised as part of the asset’s cost when it is likely that they will lead gible asset, and the product or process is likely to generate future economic beneto future economic benefits for the Group and the expenditures can be measured fits. The carrying amount includes expenditures for material, direct expenditures for reliably. Other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they arise. salaries and, if applicable, other expenditures that are considered directly attributable to the asset. Other expenditures for development are recognised in profit or loss 80 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Depreciation FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES AND Depreciation is booked on a straight-line basis based on the asset’s cost less estiOTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS mated residual value at the end of the period of use, over the asset’s estimated Financial instruments recognised in the statement of financial position include, on period of use. Land is not depreciated. Component depreciation is applied, which the asset side, liquid assets, accounts receivable, shares, loans receivable, bonds means that fixed assets consisting of various components or where significant receivable, derivatives and part of accrued income and other receivables. Liabilities parts have different periods of use are depreciated as separate assets based on include trade accounts payable, loans payable, derivatives and certain accrued their periods of use. expenses and other liabilities. Financial assets are recognised as of their settlement date. Estimated periods of use: Financial instruments are initially recognised at cost, corresponding to the • Operating properties: 20–90 years instrument’s fair value plus transaction expenses for all financial instruments with • Plant and machinery: 5–10 years the exception of those in the category financial assets at fair value through profit or • Equipment, tools, installations and computers: 3–10 years loss. The instruments are subsequently recognised at fair value or amortised cost, • Aircraft: 20–25 years depending on how they have been classified as follows. The fair value of listed financial assets and liabilities is determined using market prices. Saab also applies Each asset’s residual value and period of use are estimated annually. Periods of use various valuation methods to determine the fair value of financial assets and liabiliare unchanged compared with the previous year. ties traded on an inactive market or unlisted holdings. These valuation methods are based on the valuation of similar instruments, discounted cash flows or accepted LEASE ASSETS valuation models such as Black-Scholes. Amortised cost is determined based on Lease assets mainly refer to the regional aircraft that were owned by legal entities the effective interest rate calculated on the acquisition date. within Saab Aircraft Leasing. These aircraft were divested during the year, due to A financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the statement of financial which Saab’s leasing operations for this part of the portfolio ceased. For more inforposition when the company becomes party to the instrument’s contractual terms. mation, see note 18. Accounts receivable are recognised in the statement of financial position when an Leasing is classified in the consolidated accounts as either finance or operating invoice has been sent. Liabilities are recognised when the counterparty has perforleasing. Finance leasing exists when the economic risks and benefits tied to ownermed and there is a contractual obligation to pay, even if an invoice has not yet been ship are essentially transferred to the lessee; otherwise it is operating leasing. received. Accounts payable are recognised when an invoice is received. A financial asset is removed from the statement of financial position when the rights BIOLOGICAL ASSETS in the agreement are realised, expire or the company loses control over them. The Biological assets in the form of forests are carried at fair value after deducting estimated same applies to part of a financial asset. A financial liability is removed from the stateselling expenses. Fair value is based on the valuation of an independent appraiser. ment of financial position when the obligation in the agreement has been discharged or otherwise extinguished. The same applies to part of a financial liability. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES On each reporting date, Saab evaluates whether there are objective indications Investment properties are properties held to earn rental income, for capital apprecithat a financial asset or pool of financial assets is in need of write-down . Financial ation or a combination of both. Investment properties are carried in the statement assets and liabilities are offset and recognised as a net amount in the statement of of financial position at fair value. Fair value has been determined by calculating net financial position when there is a legal right to a set-off and when the intent is to rental income, which then serves as the basis of a valuation of fair value. settle the items with a net amount or to realise the asset and settle the liability at the same time. Exceptions are made for derivatives where derivatives with positive ASSETS HELD FOR SALE values are recognised as assets and derivatives with negative values are recogniWhen an asset is classified as held for sale, it means that its carrying amount will be sed as liabilities. recovered primarily through a sale rather than through use. In order to classify a fixed asset as an asset held for sale, the asset must be available for immediate sale Financial assets and liabilities are classified in one of and it has to be highly likely that a sale will take place. the following categories: Immediately before classification as held for sale, the recognised value of the • Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: assets is determined according to the Group’s accounting principles. Upon initial Assets and liabilities in this category are carried at fair value with changes in value classification as held for sale, assets are recognised at the lower of their carrying recognised in profit or loss. This category consists of two subgroups: financial amount and fair value less selling expenses. assets and liabilities held for trading and other financial assets and liabilities that Assets are not depreciated/amortised after they are classified as held for sale. the company initially chose to recognise at fair value through profit or loss. A financial asset is classified as held for trading if it is acquired for the purpose of IMPAIRMENT selling in the near term. Derivatives are always recognised at fair value through The carrying amount of fixed assets, with the exception of assets stated at fair profit or loss, unless hedge accounting is applied. value, is tested on each closing day for any indication of impairment. If an indication • Held-to-maturity investments: exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is calculated. A description of impairment Financial assets in this category relate to non-derivative assets with predetermiprinciples for available-for-sale financial assets is provided below. ned or determinable payments and scheduled maturities that the company For goodwill and other intangible fixed assets with an indeterminate period of use intends and has the ability to hold to maturity. They are valued at amortised cost. and intangible fixed assets not yet ready for use, recoverable values are calculated • Loans receivable and accounts receivable: annually in the fourth quarter. Loans receivable and accounts receivable are non-derivative financial assets with The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value less selling expenfixed payments which are not listed on an active market. Receivables arise when ses and value in use. Value in use is measured by discounting future cash flows using the company provides money, goods or services directly to the debtor without a discounting factor that takes into account the risk-free rate of interest plus supplethe intent to trade its claim. The category also includes acquired receivables. mental interest corresponding to the risk associated with the specific asset. Assets in this category are recognised after acquisition at amortised cost. If essentially independent cash flows cannot be isolated for individual assets, the Accounts receivable are recognised at the amount expected to be received assets are grouped at the lowest levels where essentially independent cash flows based on an individual valuation. Accounts receivable have a short maturity, due can be identified (cash-generating units). An impairment loss is recognised when to which they are recognised at their nominal amount without discounting. the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable Impairment losses on accounts receivable are recognised in operating expenses. value. Impairment losses are charged against the income statement. Saab has an accounts receivable sales programme with an independent party. Impairment losses attributable to a cash-generating unit (pool of units) are mainly When a receivable is sold, the entire credit risk is transferred to the counterparty, allocated to goodwill, after which they are divided proportionately among other because of which the proceeds received are recognised as liquid assets. Other assets in the unit (the pool of units). receivables are receivables that arise when the company provides money without Impairment of goodwill is not reversed. Impairment losses from other assets are the intent to trade its claim. reversed if a change has occurred in the assumptions that served as the basis for • Available-for-sale financial assets: determining recoverable value. Impairment is reversed only to the extent the carrying Available-for-sale financial assets are those assets that are available for sale or amount of the assets following the reversal does not exceed the carrying amount that are not classified in any of the other categories of financial assets. These assets the asset would have had if the impairment had not been recognised, taking into are measured at fair value. Changes in value are recognised directly in other account the depreciation or amortisation that would have been recognised. comprehensive income. When assets are sold the cumulative value changes are SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 81 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES reversed to the income statement. Unrealised decreases in value are recognised When the hedged future cash flow refers to a transaction that will be capitalised in in other comprehensive income unless the decrease in value is significant and the statement of financial position, the net gain or loss on cash flow hedges in has lasted for a long period, when the value is impaired through the income staequity is dissolved when the hedged item is recognised in the statement of financial tement. If the write-down relates to equity instruments, such as shares, the position. If the hedged item is a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the write-down is not reversed through the income statement. reversal from the net gain or loss on cash flow hedges in equity is included in the • Other financial liabilities: original cost of the asset or liability. If the hedged item is a financial asset or financial Liabilities classified as other financial liabilities are initially recognised at the liability, the net gain or loss on cash flow hedges in equity is gradually reversed amount received after deducting transaction expenses. After acquisition, the through profit or loss at the same rate that the hedged item affects earnings. loans are carried at amortised cost, according to the effective rate method. When a hedging instrument expires, is sold or is exercised, or the company revoTrade accounts payable are classified in the category other financial liabilities. kes the designation as a hedging relationship before the hedged transaction Trade accounts payable have a short expected maturity and are carried without occurs and the projected transaction is still expected to occur, the recognised discounting at their nominal amount. cumulative gain or loss remains in the net gain or loss on cash flow hedges in equity and is recognised in the same way as above when the transaction occurs. Calculation of recoverable value If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the hedging The recoverable value of financial assets in the categories held-to-maturity investinstrument’s cumulative gains and losses are immediately recognised in profit or ments, loans receivable and accounts receivable measured at amortised cost is loss in accordance with principles described above for derivatives. calculated using the present value of future cash flows discounted by the effective interest rate in effect when the asset was initially recognised. Assets with a maturity Fair value hedges of less than one year are not discounted. Certain forward exchange contracts and currency swaps (hedge instruments) Write-down of held-to-maturity investments and loans receivable and accounts entered into to hedge future receipts and disbursements for currency and interest receivable recognised at amortised cost is reversed if a subsequent increase in rate risk are accounted for according to the rules for fair value hedging. These hedrecoverable value can objectively be attributed to an event occurring after the ges are recognised at fair value in the statement of financial position with regard write-down. both to the derivative itself and the future receipt or disbursement (hedge item) for the risk being hedged. The change in fair value of the derivative is recognised in Liquid assets operating income together with the change in value of the hedged item. Liquid assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, immediately accessible balances with banks and similar institutions, and short-term liquid investments with a Hedge of currency exposure in assets and liabilities maturity from acquisition date of less than three months, which are exposed to no Currency exposure from an asset or liability is hedged with forward exchange contmore than an insignificant risk of fluctuation in value. racts. No hedge accounting is applied, due to which both the hedged item and hedging instrument are recognised with respect to currency risk at fair value with Financial investments changes in value through profit or loss. Changes in the value of operations-related Financial investments comprise either financial fixed assets or short-term investreceivables and liabilities are recognised in operating income, while changes in the ments, depending on the intent of the holding. If the maturity or the anticipated holvalue of financial receivables and liabilities are recognised in financial revenue and ding period is longer than one year, they are considered financial fixed assets, and if expenses. it is shorter than one year they are short-term investments. With recognition at fair value through profit or loss, changes in value are stated in INVENTORIES financial revenue and expenses. Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in continuing operations after deducting estimaValuation principles ted expenses for completion and expenses incurred in selling. The fair value of listed financial assets is determined using market prices. FurtherCost is calculated by applying the first-in first-out method (FIFO) or the weighted more, Saab applies various valuation methods to determine the fair value of finanaverage method and includes expenses to acquire inventory assets and bring cial assets that are traded on an inactive market or unlisted holdings. These metthem to their present location and condition. For finished and semifinished goods, hods are based on the valuation of similar instruments, discounted cash flows or cost consists of direct manufacturing expenses and a reasonable share of indirect customary valuation methods such as Black-Scholes. See note 41. manufacturing expenses as well as expenses to customise products for individual customers. Calculations take into account normal capacity utilisation. DERIVATIVES AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING Derivatives include forward exchange contracts, options and swaps utilised to DIVIDENDS cover risks associated with changes in exchange rates and exposure to interest The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors reduces earnings available for rate risks. Derivatives are recognised on their acquisition date at cost and subsedistribution and is recognised as a liability when the Annual General Meeting has quently at fair value. approved the dividend. Derivatives with positive values are recognised as assets and derivatives with negative values are recognised as liabilities under the heading derivatives in the EMPLOYEE BENEFITS statement of financial position. Gains and losses on a derivative arising due to a The Group has two types of pension plans: defined-contribution and definedchange in fair value are recognised in profit or loss if the derivative is classified benefit pension plans. among financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. In hedge accounting, derivatives are classified as fair value hedges or cash flow Defined-contribution plans hedges. The recognition of these hedging transactions is described below. In defined-contribution plans, pensions are based on the premiums paid. Obligations with regard to defined-contribution plans are expensed in the income statement. Cash flow hedges Certain forward exchange contracts and currency swaps (hedge instruments) Defined-benefit plans entered into to hedge future receipts and disbursements against currency risks are In defined-benefit plans, pensions are based on a percentage of the recipient’s accounted for according to the rules for cash flow hedging. Derivatives that protect salary. Saab has around ten different types of defined-benefit plans. The predomifuture receipts and disbursements are recognised in the statement of financial nant plan is the ITP plan, which accounts for 91 per cent (90) of the total obligation. position at fair value. Changes in value are recognised in other comprehensive The Group’s net obligation for defined-benefit plans is calculated separately for income and separately recognised in the hedge reserve in equity until the hedged each plan by estimating the future compensation that employees have earned cash flow meets the operating profit or loss, at which point the cumulative changes through employment in present and previous periods. This compensation is disin value of the hedging instrument are transferred to profit or loss to meet and counted to present value. Saab has secured main part of the obligation through match the effects on earnings of the hedged transaction. provisions to a pension fund, and the fair value of the fund’s assets is offset against Interest rate exposure from future variable-rate liabilities is hedged with interest rate the provision for the pension obligation at present value in the statement of financial swaps. In its reporting, Saab applies cash flow hedging, which means that the change position. The discount rate to calculate the commitment at present value has been in value of the interest rate swap is recognised in other comprehensive income and determined based on the interest rate on the closing day for a first-class mortgage separately recognised in the hedge reserve in equity. The change in value is recognised bond with a maturity corresponding to the pension obligation. The calculation is in financial revenue and expenses when transferred to profit or loss. made by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. 82 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES When the compensation terms in a plan improve, the portion of the increased Onerous contracts compensation attributable to the employees’ services in previous periods is A provision for an onerous contract is recognised when anticipated benefits are expensed through the income statement. less than the unavoidable costs to fulfil the obligations as set out in the contract. The obligation is estimated on the closing day, and if the calculated amount deviates from the estimated commitment an actuarial gain or loss arises. All actuarial Guarantees gains and losses as of 1 January 2013, the date of transition to revised IAS 19, are A provision for guarantees is normally recognised when the underlying products or recognised in equity and other items in the statement of financial position. Actuarial services are sold if a reliable calculation of the provision can be made. The provigains and losses after 1 January 2012 are recognised directly in other comprehension is based on historical data on guarantees for the products or similar products sive income. The same interest rate is used to calculate financial income of assets and an overall appraisal of possible outcomes in relation to the likelihood associaunder management as in discounting pension liabilities. ted with these outcomes. If pension obligations are lower than assets under management, this amount is recognised as an asset. Soil remediation When there is a difference in how the pension cost is determined for a legal entity In accordance with the Group’s publicly announced environmental policy and appand the Group, a liability or receivable for the special employer’s contribution arises licable legal requirements, periodic estimates are made of Saab’s obligations to based on this difference. restore contaminated soil. Anticipated future payments are discounted to present value and recognised as an operating expense and a provision. Severance A provision is recognised in connection with termination of personnel only if the CONTINGENT LIABILITIES company is obligated to terminate an employment before the customary time, e.g., A contingent liability exists if there is a possible commitment stemming from events when compensation is paid in connection with a voluntary termination offer. In whose occurrence is dependent on one or more uncertain future events and there cases where the company terminates personnel, a detailed plan is drafted containis a commitment that is not recognised as a liability or provision because it is unliing at the minimum the workplaces, positions and approximate number of individukely that an outflow of resources will be required or the size of the obligation cannot als affected as well as compensation for each personnel category or position and a be estimated with sufficient reliability. Information is provided as long as the likelischedule for the plan’s implementation. hood of an outflow of resources is not extremely small. Share-based payment TAXES Share-based payment refers solely to remuneration to employees, including senior Income taxes consist of current tax and deferred tax. Income taxes are recognised executives. Share-based payment settled with the company’s shares or other in profit or loss unless the underlying transaction is recognised in other comprehenequity instruments is comprised of the difference between the fair value at the time sive income, whereby the related tax effect is also recognised in other comprehenthese plans were issued and the consideration received. This remuneration is sive income. recognised as staff costs during the vesting period. To the extent the vesting condiCurrent tax is the tax paid or received for the current year, applying the tax rates tions in the plan are tied to market factors (such as the price of the company’s shathat have been set or essentially set as of the closing day to taxable income and res), they are taken into consideration in determining the fair value of the plan. adjusting for current tax attributable to previous periods. Other conditions (such as earnings per share) affect staff costs during the vesting Deferred tax is calculated according to the balance sheet method based on temperiod by changing the number of shares or share-related instruments that are porary differences that constitute the difference between the carrying amount of expected to be paid. assets and liabilities and their value for tax purposes. Deductible temporary differences are not taken into account in the initial reporting of assets and liabilities in a Share matching plan for employees transaction other than a business combination and which, at the time of the transSaab has a Global Share Matching Plan where all permanent employees are entitaction, do not affect either the recognised or taxable result. Moreover, temporary led to participate. The payroll expenses for matching shares in the plan are recognidifferences are not taken into account if they are attributable to shares in subsidiased during the vesting period based on the fair value of the shares. The employees ries and associated companies that are not expected to be reversed within the pay a price for the share that corresponds to the share price on the investment foreseeable future. The valuation of deferred tax is based on how the carrying date. Three years after the investment date, employees are allotted as many shares amounts of assets or liabilities are expected to be realised or settled. Deferred tax as they purchased three years earlier provided that they are still employees of the is calculated by applying the tax rates and tax rules that have been set or essentiSaab Group and that the shares have not been sold. In certain countries, social ally are set as of the closing day. security expenses are paid on the value of the employee’s benefit when matching Deferred tax assets from deductible temporary differences and tax loss carry fortakes place. During the vesting period, provisions are allocated for these estimated wards are only recognised to the extent it is likely that they will be utilised. The value social security expenses. Share repurchases to fulfil the commitments of Saab’s of deferred tax assets is reduced when it is no longer considered likely that they share matching plans are recognised in equity. can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are set off against deferred tax liabilities when In addition, a plan was introduced for senior executives entitling them to the receivable and liability refer to the same tax authority. 2–5 matching shares depending on the category the employee belongs to. As of the 2011 Plan this was changed to 1-4 matching shares. In addition to the requirement that the employee remain employed by Saab after three years, there is also a requirement that earnings per share grow in the range of 5 to 15 per cent on average per year during the three-year period. In April 2014 at the Annual General Meeting the decision was made to modify the Performance Share Plan in order to increase interest in the plan. See also note 37. PROVISIONS A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the Group has a legal or informal obligation owing to an event that has occurred and it is likely that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. Where it is important when in time payment will be made, provisions are estimated by discounting projected cash flow at a pre-tax interest rate that reflects current market estimates of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks associated with the liability. Restructuring A provision for restructuring is recognised when a detailed, formal restructuring plan has been established and the restructuring has either begun or been publicly announced. No provision is made for future operating losses. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 83 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE GROUP’S AND Derivatives and hedge accounting THE PARENT COMPANY’S ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Derivatives that are not used for hedging are carried by the Parent Company accorThe Parent Company follows the same accounting principles as the Group ding to the lowest value principle. For derivatives used for hedging, recognition is with the following exceptions. determined by the hedged item. This means that the derivative is treated as an off balance sheet item as long as the hedged item is recognised at cost or is not incluBusiness combinations ded on the balance sheet. Receivables and liabilities in foreign currency hedged Transaction costs are included in the cost of business combinations. with forward contracts are valued at the forward rate. Associated companies and joint ventures Employee benefits Shares in associated companies and joint ventures are recognised by the Parent The Parent Company complies with the provisions of the Law on Safeguarding of Company according to the acquisition value method. Revenue includes dividends Pension Commitments and the regulations of the Swedish Financial Supervisory received. Authority, since this is a condition for tax deductibility. Intangible fixed assets Untaxed reserves All development costs are recognised in profit or loss. The amounts allocated to untaxed reserves constitute taxable temporary differences. Due to the connection between reporting and taxation, the deferred tax liability Tangible fixed assets is recognised in the Parent Company as part of untaxed reserves. Tangible fixed assets are recognised after revaluation, if necessary. Group contributions and shareholders’ contributions Borrowing costs Shareholders’ contributions are recognised directly in the equity of the recipient The Parent Company recognises borrowing costs as an expense in the period in and capitalised in the shares and participating interests of the contributor, to the which they arise. extent write-down is not required. Group contributions received are recognised through profit or loss in financial Investment properties income and expenses. Investment properties are recognised according to acquisition cost method. Group contributions paid are recognised directly in the equity of the recipient and capitalised in the shares and participating interests of the parent, to the extent Financial assets and liabilities and other financial instruments write-down is not required. The Parent Company carries financial fixed assets at cost less write-down and financial current assets according to the lowest value principle. If the reason for write-down has ceased, it is reversed. The Parent Company does not apply the rules for setting off financial assets and liabilities. 84 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES NOTE 2 ASSUMPTIONS IN THE APPLICATION NOTE 3 REVENUE DISTRIBUTION OF THE ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The Board of Directors and Group Management together have identified the folloRevenue by significant source wing areas where estimates and assumptions in the application of the accounting Group Parent Company principles may have a significant impact on the accounting of the Group’s results of operations and financial position and may result in significant adjustments in subMSEK 2014 2013 2014 2013 sequent financial reports. Developments in these areas are monitored continuously Sale of goods 3,569 3,964 2,422 2,221 by Group Management and the Board of Directors’ audit committee. Long-term customer ­contracts 14,137 13,891 10,259 10,231 UNCERTAINTIES IN ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Service assignments 5,796 5,891 3,492 4,068 Long-term customer contracts Royalties 25 4 2 1 A majority of all long-term customer contracts contain significant development aspects, which are associated with risks. Before a contract is signed with a custoTotal 23,527 23,750 16,175 16,521 mer on delivery of a product, solution or service, a thorough analysis is always made of the prerequisites and risks of the delivery through a project management Sale of goods process established within Saab. In the execution stage, continuous reviews are The sale of goods includes sales of goods manufactured by Saab and goods made of the work in the project according to the same process. An important purchased for resale, e.g., spare parts and other equipment that are sold aspect is to identify risks and assess them and the measures that are taken to ­separately. mitigate the risks with the help of a risk assessment method. The Group applies the percentage of completion method to recognise ­revenue Long-term customer contracts from long-term customer contracts. An estimation of total costs is critical in revenue Long-term customer contracts relate to the development and manufacture of recognition and provisions for onerous contracts as well as inventory valuations, and complex systems that stretch across several accounting periods. the outcome of technical and commercial risks may affect income and cash flow. For long-term customer contracts on development and hardware that can be Payments are made upon achievement of milestones in projects, making delivery calculated reliably, income and expenditures attributable to the assignment are according to project plan and milestones important for the cash flow. recognised as revenue and expenses in the consolidated income statement in relation to the assignment’s stage of completion, i.e., according to the percentage Recovery of value of development costs of completion method. The Group has invested significant amounts in research and development. The reported amounts in the statement of financial position are primarily due to deveService assignments lopment projects relating to radar and sensors, electronic warfare systems and Air Service assignments refer to the performance of a service on behalf of a customer Traffic Management (ATM). Capitalised development costs amount to MSEK 952 during a contractual period, e.g., consulting and support services. (1,338). The recognition of development expenditures as an asset on the statement of financial position requires an assumption that the product is expected to Royalties be technically and commercially usable in the future and that future economic Royalties include revenue from outside parties for the use of Saab’s assets such benefits are likely. Capitalised development costs are amortised over the estimated as patents, trademarks and software. production volume or period of use, up to a maximum of 5 years, with the exception of acquired development costs, where the maximum period of use is 10 years. Projected production volumes and periods of use may later be reassessed, which could necessitate impairment. Impairment testing of goodwill In the calculation of cash-generating units to determine whether there is a need or impairment of goodwill, assumptions have been made with regard to the calculation of value in use, based on discounted cash flow projections. A significant deviation in the conditions could necessitate impairment of goodwill. The carrying amount for goodwill amounts to MSEK 5,015 (4,605), see note 16. Pensions Saab has two types of pension plans: defined-benefit and defined-contribution. In defined-benefit plans, post-employment compensation is based on a percentage of the recipient’s salary. The present value of defined-benefit obligations amounts to MSEK 8,153 (6 413). The value of the pension obligation is determined through a number of actuarial assumptions, because of which the obligation can significantly increase or decrease if the actuarial assumptions change. Changes in actuarial gains and losses directly affect the pension obligation and hence the Group’s financial position. See note 37 for further information. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 85 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES NOTE 4 SEGMENT REPORTING Saab is a leading high-technology company, with its main operations in defence, Support and Services aviation and civil security. Operations are primarily focused on well-defined areas Support and Services offers reliable and cost-efficient service and support for all in defence electronics and missile systems as well as military and commercial aviaof Saab’s markets. This primarily includes integrated support solutions, technical tion. Saab is also active in technical services and maintenance. Saab has a strong maintenance and logistics, and products, solutions and services for military and position in Sweden and the main part of sales is generated in Europe. In addition civil missions in locations with limited infrastructure. Saab has a local presence in South Africa, Australia, the US and other selected countries globally. Saab’s operating and management structure is divided into six Combitech business areas which also represent operating segments; Aeronautics, Dynamics, Combitech, an independent company in the Saab Group, is one of Sweden’s larElectronic Defence Systems, Security and Defence Solutions, Support and Servigest technology consulting firms. Combitech combines technological excellence ces, and Combitech. The business areas are described below. Complementing with deep industry knowledge, comprehensive understanding and a particular them is Corporate, which comprises Group staff and departments as well as other focus on environment and security. non-core operations. Comparative numbers for 2013 have been adjusted due to a new structure, see note 49 for more information. Comparative numbers for 2014, Significant non-recurring items not affecting cash flow adjusted for the new organisational structure implemented as of 1 January 2015, Significant non-recurring items not affecting cash flow in 2013 is a non-recurring can be found in note 50. item of MSEK -133, related to the write-down of the value of shareholding in Pipavav. Aeronautics Aeronautics engages in advanced development of military and civil aviation techInformation on major customers nology. The product portfolio includes the Gripen combat aircraft system and Saab has one customer, the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration (FMV), Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS). Aeronautics also manufactures aircraft compowhich accounts for 10 per cent or more of the Group’s sales. FMV is a customer nents for Saab’s own aircraft as well as for passenger aircraft produced by others. of all business areas, generating total sales of MSEK 8,086 (7,814) in 2014. Dynamics Information on geographical areas Dynamics offers a highly competitive product range comprising ground combat External sales are distributed to the market where the customer is domiciled, while weapons, missile systems, torpedoes, unmanned underwater vehicles and signafixed assets are distributed to the market where the asset is geographically located. ture management systems for armed forces as well as remotely operated vehicles for the offshore industry. Seasonal variation A major part of Saab’s business is related to large projects where the revenue is Electronic Defence Systems recognised by using the percentage of completion method. The costs incurred in These operations are based on Saab’s close interaction with customers requiring these projects are normally lower during the third quarter compared with the other efficient solutions for surveillance and for threat detection, location and protection. quarters. The fourth quarter is also usually affected by a higher number of deliveries, This has created a unique competence in the area of radar and electronic warfare, mainly within Dynamics. and a product portfolio covering airborne, land-based and naval radar, electronic support measures and self-protection systems. For increased flight mission efficiency and flight safety we supply avionics for both civil and military customers. Security and Defence Solutions Operations comprise combat management systems for Navy, Airforce, and Army as well as the design and maintenance of submarines and surface vessels. The portfolio also includes training and simulation systems, security systems and secure communication solutions, and maritime and air traffic management systems. 86 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note 4, cont. Electronic Security and Defence Defence Support and Group Aeronautics Dynamics ­Systems Solutions Services Combitech Corporate Eliminations Group MSEK 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 External sales 6,508 6,703 2,840 3,430 4,205 4,050 5,635 4,991 3,371 3,571 982 925 -14 80 23,527 23,750 Internal sales 212 166 134 136 424 510 127 104 199 201 667 759 1 -1,763 -1,877 Total sales 6,720 6,869 2,974 3,566 4,629 4,560 5,762 5,095 3,570 3,772 1,649 1,684 -14 81 -1,763 -1,877 23,527 23,750 Operating income before share in i­ncome of associated companies and joint ventures 481 457 143 355 205 -115 342 213 376 498 92 148 2 -236 1,641 1,320 Share in income of associated companies and joint ventures -1 -1 22 11 14 -17 15 18 25 Operating income 480 456 165 366 205 -115 356 213 376 498 92 148 -15 -221 1,659 1,345 Financial income 11 15 16 7 11 10 12 1 2 2 1 177 130 -114 -116 103 62 Financial expenses -130 -81 -44 -31 -59 -43 -59 -50 -44 -31 -8 -5 -9 -303 114 116 -239 -428 Income before taxes 361 390 137 342 146 -147 307 175 333 469 86 144 153 -394 1,523 979 Taxes1) -17 -29 -78 10 80 -68 -50 -3 -52 -17 -37 -231 -100 -355 -237 Net income for the year 344 390 108 264 156 -67 239 125 330 417 69 107 -78 -494 1,168 742 Assets 5,285 5,133 3,441 3,604 7,907 7,811 7,092 6,059 3,583 3,885 795 800 13,319 14,375 -11,866 -13,878 29,556 27,789 Of which shares in associated companies and joint ventures 32 31 89 69 4 4 79 193 263 397 367 Liabilities 4,924 4,727 1,749 1,994 4,303 4,255 4,231 3,798 2,755 3,102 451 458 6,249 5,746 -6,479 -8,518 18,183 15,562 Operational cash flow -656 -227 -69 503 -677 116 157 122 -32 -149 76 162 4 -1,166 -1,197 -639 Capital employed 2,689 2,447 2,186 2,007 4,743 4,294 4,257 3,994 2,214 2,479 496 505 -256 -261 16,329 15,465 Investments 141 88 68 55 314 92 53 47 20 17 3 3 372 309 971 611 Depreciation and amortisation 59 147 61 62 417 475 112 115 18 19 8 9 197 207 872 1,034 Write-downs 13 13 1) Current taxes in the Parent Company are reported in Corporate Geographical areas Group Sweden EU excluding Sweden Rest of Europe North America Latin America MSEK 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 External sales 1) 10,512 9,814 3,770 3,933 592 621 2,387 2,611 508 376 as % of sales 45 41 16 17 3 3 10 11 2 2 Fixed assets 8,959 8,340 581 571 55 40 1,650 1,597 4 5 Group Asia Africa Australia, etc. Total MSEK 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 External sales 1) 4,007 4,311 573 930 1,178 1,154 23,527 23,750 as % of sales 17 18 2 4 5 5 100 100 Fixed assets 87 41 426 320 110 212 11,872 11,126 1) External sales are distributed to the market where the customer is domiciled. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 87 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note 4, cont. Sales by operating segment Parent Company NOTE 6 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES MSEK 2014 2013 Group Parent Company Aeronautics 6,532 6,708 MSEK 2014 2013 2014 2013 Electronic Defence Systems 3,526 3,084 Change in fair value of Security and Defence Solutions 2,985 3,412 biological assets -7 -10 Support and Services 3,132 3,317 Exchange rate losses on Total 16,175 16,521 o­perating receivables/ l­iabilities and change in value of derivatives -3 -8 -9 -10 Sales by geographical market Parent Company Loss from other operating ­activities -2 -1 MSEK 2014 2013 Loss on sale of tangible Sweden 8,842 8,732 fixed assets -2 -1 -2 -1 EU excluding Sweden 2,325 2,501 Cost related to lost Rest of Europe 305 249 legal dispute -231 -231 North America 1,411 1,288 Change in value of Latin America 313 198 investment properties -2 Asia 2,507 3,002 Other -7 -4 -12 Africa 307 356 Subtotal -21 -257 -11 -254 Australia, etc. 165 195 Change in fair value of derivatives -1 -9 Total 16,175 16,521 Change in value of contracted flows 1 9 NOTE 5 OTHER OPERATING INCOME Subtotal Total -21 -257 -11 -254 Group Parent Company MSEK 2014 2013 2014 2013 Other operating activities consist of results from subsidiaries that fall outside core operations. Gain on sale of intellectual property rights and tangible fixed assets 111 37 110 37 NOTE 7 GOVERNMENT GRANTS Gain on sale of associated companies 93 Saab receives government grants, mainly various grants from EU related to Gain on sale of Group research and development projects. For 2014, MSEK 72 (74) has been received. ­companies 57 MSEK 82 (83) has been recognised through profit or loss by reducing research and Gain from revaluation of earn development expenditures and as other operating income. In the statement of out liability 24 106 financial position at year-end, MSEK 24 (34) is recognised as prepaid income. Gain from other operating Saab and the Ministry of Enterprise, Energy and Communications have reached activities 24 4 16 an agreement with the National Debt Office to co-finance Saab’s participation in Exchange rate gains the Airbus A380 project. The co-financing is in the form of a royalty loan maximised on operating ­receivables/ at MSEK 350. Repayment will take the form of a royalty on each delivery to Airbus. liabilities and change in value Through 2014, the National Debt Office has paid out a net amount of MSEK 263 of ­derivatives 21 1 7 2 (263). The debt as of 31 December 2014 amounts to MSEK 162 (177), which reduRealised accumulated ces inventory in the financial statements. translation differences 18 No contingent liabilities or contingent assets are reported. Trading results 17 21 17 21 Government grants 7 12 6 9 Change in value of investment properties 2 Other 56 23 30 2 Total 430 204 170 87 Trading result refers to the result in Saab Treasury from trading in interest rate and currency instruments according to the risk mandate approved by the Board of Directors; see note 41. Other operating activities consist of results from subsidiaries that fall outside core operations and net rental income from property rentals. 88 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES NOTE 8 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS On 29 June 2014, Saab announced an agreement to acquire 100 per cent of ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems AB (now Saab Kockums), which designs, builds and maintains military naval systems such as submarines and surface vessels. Saab Kockums had approximately 850 employees at the time of the acquisition. The acquisition was completed on 22 July 2014 for a purchase price of MSEK 340. The acquisition is in line with Saab’s ambition to increase its capabilities in the naval domain, and further strengthens Saab’s status as a comprehensive supplier of military systems. Saab Kockums has a unique offering and strong presence in Sweden concerning submarines and warships. Saab also sees potential to expand Saab Kockums’ current market position through opportunities in the export market. Purchase Analysis MSEK Purchase price Purchase price paid 22 July 2014 340 Total consideration 340 Effect on liquid assets Purchase price paid 22 July 2014 340 Less: Liquid assets in the acquired company -540 Effect on liquid assets (positive (-) / negative (+)) -200 Fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of the acquisition was: Intangible fixed assets 41 Tangible fixed assets 157 Financial fixed assets 12 Deferred tax assets 281 Current assets 407 Liquid assets 540 Total assets 1,438 Provisions for pensions 186 Other provisions 601 Other liabilities 529 Total liabilities 1,316 Total identifiable net assets at fair value 112 Goodwill 218 Purchase consideration 340 Goodwill related to the acquisition amounts to MSEK 218, and comprises the value of the assembled workforce and expected synergy effects achieved by merging Saab Group’s and Saab Kockums’ operations. No part of acquired goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. As of the acquisition date, Saab Kockums has contributed MSEK 612 to Group sales and MSEK 138 to income before tax. Saab Kockums’ total sales in 2014 amounts to MSEK 1,248 and income before tax to MSEK 88. Transaction costs of MSEK 5 have been expensed and are included in administrative expenses. These costs are included in cash flow from operating activities in the statement of cash flows. No other significant acquisitions were made or announced during 2014. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 89 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES NOTE 9 EMPLOYEES AND STAFF COSTS Average number of employees1) of whom of whom 2014 men 2013 men of whom of whom Group companies 2014 men 2013 men Sweden 2,931 78% 2,576 76% Parent Company South Africa 614 72% 820 74% Sweden 8,471 80% 8,568 80% USA 603 73% 690 74% Saudi Arabia 26 92% 4 100% Australia 297 80% 300 80% Somalia 14 100% 6 100% UK 226 79% 211 81% United Arab Emirates 11 91% 14 100% Czech Republic 130 77% 136 79% Indonesia 10 70% 2 100% The Netherlands 123 89% 129 91% Norway 8 100% 10 100% Norway 100 68% 89 75% South Korea 5 100% 7 71% Germany 97 85% 89 87% Thailand 5 80% 6 83% Denmark 67 88% 58 86% Kenya 4 100% 8 63% Switzerland 61 84% 54 94% Canada 4 100% 3 100% Finland 58 79% 52 77% Switzerland 3 100% 3 67% Canada 49 90% 54 87% UK 3 67% 2 100% India 47 74% 39 69% USA 3 100% Kenya 42 88% 37 95% Belgium 2 50% 4 50% Thailand 17 76% 11 73% India 2 100% 1 100% Hong Kong 13 69% 15 73% Hong Kong 2 50% Pakistan 10 100% Brazil 1 100% 2 100% Brazil 8 38% 7 43% Japan 1 100% 1 100% United Arab Emirates 7 86% 4 75% Italy 1 100% South Korea 6 67% 1 100% Pakistan 12 100% Poland 5 60% 4 75% France 3 100% Malaysia 5 80% 3 67% Turkey 3 67% Turkey 4 75% Croatia 2 50% Chile 3 67% 2 100% Czech Republic 2 50% Greece 2 50% 1 100% Finland 2 50% Singapore 2 50% 1 Malaysia 1 100% Belgium 1 100% Denmark 1 100% France 1 100% Parent Company, total 8,576 80% 8,667 80% Croatia 1 9 78% 1) The average number of employees has been calculated as an average of the number of Full Bulgaria 1 Time Equivalents (FTE). The term Full-Time Equivalents excludes long-term absentees and consultants. Fixed term employees and probationers are however included in the calculation. Group companies, total 5,530 78% 5,393 77% Group, total 14,106 79% 14,060 79% Gender distribution of corporate management Salaries, other remuneration and social security expenses Parent Company 2014 2013 Share of women, per cent 2014 2013 Salaries and Social Salaries and Social other remusecurity other remusecurity Board of Directors 33 33 MSEK neration expenses neration expenses Other senior executives 33 30 Parent Company 4,660 1,900 4,534 2,027 of which pension costs1) 474 628 Group companies 3,003 1,038 2,767 828 of which pension costs2) 537 402 Group, total 7,663 2,938 7,301 2,855 of which pension costs3) 1,011 1,030 1) Of the Parent Company’s pension costs, MSEK 10 (10) refers to the Parent Company’s Board and President, i­ncluding deputies and Executive Vice President. The company’s outstanding pension obligations for these individuals, amount to MSEK 23 (24), of which MSEK 23 (24) refers to former Board members and Presidents, including deputies and Executive Vice Presidents. 2) Adjustment according to different accounting principles regarding defined-benefit plans between Parent Company and Group. See also note 1. 3) Of the Group’s pension costs, MSEK 17 (19) refers to the Group’s boards and Presidents, including Group companies. The Group’s outstanding pension obligations for these individuals amount to MSEK 29 (28), of which MSEK 23 (24) refers to former board members and Presidents. 90 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note 9, cont. Salaries and other remuneration distributed between Board members, President and Executive Vice Presidents and other employees NOTE 11 OPERATING EXPENSES 2014 2013 Group Board, Board, MSEK 2014 2013 President President and Execuand ExecuMaterials and components 5,450 5,274 tive Vice Other tive Vice Other Purchased services 1,956 1,976 MSEK Presidents employees Presidents employees Personnel costs 10,601 10,156 Parent Company 25 4,635 24 4,510 Depreciation/amortisation and write-downs 857 1,059 of which variable Other expenses 3,431 3,912 remuneration Total 22,295 22,377 Group companies 75 2,928 74 2,693 of which variable Operating expenses refer to cost of goods sold, marketing expenses, administraremuneration 1 3 tive expenses and research and development costs. Depreciation/amortisation Group, total 100 7,563 98 7,203 and write-downs includes reversal of write-downs on inventory. Depreciation and of which variable amortisation in the leasing operations (Saab Aircraft Leasing) are not included in remuneration 1 3 depreciation and amortisation above. Of the salaries and remuneration paid to other employees in the Group, MSEK 30 (36) refers to senior executives other than Board members and the President. NOTE 12 D EPRECIATION/AMORTISATION For information on post-employment compensation and share-related compenAND WRITE-DOWNS sation, see note 37. Group NOTE 10 A  UDITORS’ FEES AND MSEK 2014 2013 COMPENSATION Depreciation/amortisation Capitalised development costs -320 -454 Group Parent Company Other intangible fixed assets -146 -170 MSEK 2014 2013 2014 2013 Operating properties -90 -96 Plant and machinery -163 -175 PwC Equipment, tools and installations -145 -114 Audit assignments 18 16 10 9 Leasing aircraft -8 -25 Audit work in excess of the audit assignment 1 1 1 1 Total -872 -1,034 Tax advice 1 2 Write-downs Other services 1 1 Plant and machinery -13 Other audit firms Total -13 Audit assignments 2 2 Total 23 22 11 10 No write-downs have been recognised during 2014. In 2013, write-downs of MSEK 13 were recognised on plant and machinery with regard to radar operations in the US. Audit assignments refer to expenses for the statutory audit, i.e. the work that was necessary to issue the audit report as well as advice in connection with the audit Parent Company assignment. Audit work in excess of the audit assignment relates to expenses for opinions MSEK 2014 2013 and other assignments associated to a fairly high degree with audits and which are Depreciation/amortisation normally performed by the external auditor, including consultations on advisory and Capitalised development costs -202 -200 reporting requirements, internal control and the review of interim reports. Goodwill -40 -39 Other services relate to expenses that are not classified as audit assignments, audit work in excess of the audit assignment and tax advice. Other intangible fixed assets -96 -100 Buildings -56 -64 Plant and machinery -97 -103 Equipment, tools and installations -91 -66 Total -582 -572 SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 91 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES NOTE 13 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES NOTE 14 APPROPRIATIONS Group Parent Company MSEK 2014 2013 MSEK 2014 2013 Interest income on loans receivable 53 65 Buildings and land 12 14 Less project interest applied to gross income -1 -3 Plant and machinery as well as equipment, tools Financial income from revaluation and disposal of and installations 1 24 financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value Total difference between tax depreciation and through profit or loss 49 depreciation according to plan 13 38 Other financial income 2 Tax allocation reserve -432 -322 Financial income 103 62 Total -419 -284 Interest expenses on loans and financial liabilities -46 -42 Interest expense, lost legal dispute -83 NOTE 15 TAXES Financial expense from revaluation of financial assets available-for-sale -19 -133 Tax recognised through profit or loss Financial expenses from revaluation and disposal of Net tax is comprised of current tax and deferred tax. Current tax is calculated financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value based on applicable tax laws in the countries in which parent company and through profit or loss -72 -51 subsidiaries are active and generate taxable income. Financial expenses related to pensions -57 -74 Deferred tax is recognised on all temporary differences; i.e., differences between, on the one hand, the value of assets and liabilities for tax purposes and, on the Other financial expenses -45 -45 other, their carrying amounts in the consolidated accounts and tax loss carry Financial expenses -239 -428 forwards. The company recognises deferred tax assets in those cases in which Net financial income and expenses -136 -366 the company deems it likely that the amounts may be offset against future taxable surpluses. Result from shares in Group Result from shares in associated compaMSEK 2014 2013 Parent Company Group companies nies/joint ventures MSEK 2014 2013 2014 2013 Current tax expense (-)/tax income (+) Taxes for the year -403 -324 Dividends 104 654 430 Adjustment for taxes related to previous years 18 134 Group contributions ­received 255 310 Total -385 -190 Capital gain on sale Deferred tax expense (-)/tax income (+) of shares 62 194 Deferred tax related to temporary differences -32 13 Write-downs -1 -69 -430 Deferred tax related to value of tax loss carry forwards Other 134 -20 8 capitalised during the year 55 33 Total 554 875 194 8 Deferred tax expense due to utilisation of previously capitalised tax value in tax loss carry forwards -4 -7 Result from other ­securities and Other interest ­ Deferred tax related to previous years 11 -86 ­receivables held income and similar Total 30 -47 Parent Company as fixed assets profit/loss items Total recognised tax in the Group -355 -237 MSEK 2014 2013 2014 2013 Interest income, The Group’s overall deferred tax amounts to MSEK 30 (-47) and current tax Group companies 155 124 expense for the year amounts to MSEK -385 (-190), producing a total recognised Other interest income 51 74 tax of MSEK -355 (-237) in the consolidated income statement. The table “Change Write-down -133 in deferred tax in temporary differences and tax loss carry forwards” for the Group, Translation differences 5 -14 on page 95, specifies how deferred tax affects income. Net change in value from Parent Company revaluation of financial assets/liabilities -53 -12 MSEK 2014 2013 Less project interest Current tax expense (-)/tax income (+) applied to gross income -1 -3 Taxes for the year -287 -216 Other -19 -21 Adjustment for taxes related to previous years 21 2 Total -67 -180 205 195 Total -266 -214 Interest expenses Deferred tax expense (-)/tax income (+) and similar profit/loss Parent Company items Deferred tax related to temporary differences -34 14 MSEK 2014 2013 Deferred tax related to previous years -17 Interest expenses, Group companies -23 -51 Total -51 14 Other interest expenses -157 -140 Total recognised tax in the Parent Company -317 -200 Total -180 -191 92 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note 15, cont. Reconciliation of effective tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities Group MSEK 2014 (%) 2014 2013 (%) 2013 Group Deferred Deferred tax Income before taxes 1,523 979 tax assets ­liabilities Tax according to current tax MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2014 Net rate for the Parent Company -22.0 -335 -22.0 -215 Intangible fixed assets 8 -293 -285 Effect of other tax rates for Tangible fixed assets 9 -389 -380 foreign operations 0.7 11 -0.5 -5 Lease assets Non-deductible expenses -9.7 -147 -16.1 -158 Biological assets -40 -40 Tax-exempt income 4.6 70 7.4 72 Long-term receivables 8 -23 -15 Tax on additional, noncapitalised tax loss carry Inventories 220 -1 219 forwards -0.4 -4 Accounts receivable 12 -1 11 Tax on utilisation of prePrepaid expenses and accrued income 26 26 viously non-capitalised tax Long-term liabilities 44 44 loss carry forwards 0.3 4 0.7 7 Provisions for pensions 770 -11 759 Capitalisation of tax loss carry forwards attributable to Other provisions 342 -2 340 previous years 0.9 13 1.9 19 Tax allocation reserves -358 -358 Tax related to previous years 1.9 29 4.9 48 Contingency reserve attributable Other -0.1 -1 to Lansen Försäkrings AB -299 -299 Reported effective tax -23,3 -355 -24.2 -237 Accrued expenses and deferred income 83 -1 82 Other 152 -50 102 Non-deductible expenses are mainly related to leasing operations in the US. Tax loss carry forwards 402 402 Capital gains/losses from sale of Group companies, associated companies and Tax assets/liabilities, total 2,076 -1,468 608 other shares and reduction of liability for conditional consideration have affected Set-off -1,420 1,420 tax-exempt income by MSEK 182 (146). Tax assets /liabilities, net 656 -48 608 Parent Company Group Deferred MSEK 2014 (%) 2014 2013 (%) 2013 Deferred tax tax assets ­liabilities Income before taxes 1,487 1,085 MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2013 Net Tax according to current tax Intangible fixed assets 6 -398 -392 rate for the Parent Company -22.0 -327 -22.0 -239 Tangible fixed assets 10 -371 -361 Tax allocated to foreign operations 0.1 2 -0.1 -1 Lease assets -40 -40 Tax related to previous years 0.1 2 0.2 2 Biological assets -42 -42 Non-deductible expenses -5.5 -82 -20.2 -219 Long-term receivables 8 -25 -17 Tax-exempt income 5.9 88 23.7 257 Inventories 195 -8 187 Accounts receivable 7 7 Reported effective tax -21.3 -317 -18.4 -200 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 21 21 Long-term liabilities 48 -1 47 Provisions for pensions 404 -13 391 Other provisions 306 -22 284 Tax allocation reserves -264 -264 Contingency reserve attributable to Lansen Försäkrings AB -299 -299 Accrued expenses and deferred income 108 108 Other 25 -105 -80 Tax loss carry forwards 188 188 Tax assets/liabilities, total 1,326 -1,588 -262 Set-off -1,087 1,087 Tax assets /liabilities, net 239 -501 -262 SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 93 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note 15, cont. Expiration of recognised and unrecognised Deferred Deferred tax tax loss carry forwards Parent Company tax assets ­liabilities Recognised Unrecognised MSEK 31-12-2013 31-12-2013 Net MSEK tax loss carry tax loss carry Expiration forwards forwards Tangible fixed assets -196 -196 Unlimited expiration 956 44 Inventories 93 93 2021 27 Accounts receivable 2 2 2024 27 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 1 1 2029 7 Provisions for pensions 93 93 2030 82 Other provisions 152 152 2031 199 Accrued expenses and deferred 2032 8 income 37 37 2034 106 Tax assets/liabilities, total 378 -196 182 Total tax loss carry forwards 1,412 44 Set-off -196 196 Recognised deferred tax asset 402 Tax assets/liabilities, net 182 182 At the close of 2014 Saab’s unrecognised tax loss carry forwards totalled MSEK 44 The change in deferred tax assets and liabilities in the Parent Company, Saab AB, (103). Tax loss carry forwards attributable to the US operations can be utilised has been recognised in profit or loss. through 2034, but expire in part as of 2021. Estimated utilisation dates of recognised Deferred Deferred tax deferred tax assets Parent Company tax assets ­liabilities MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2014 Net MSEK Group Parent Company Tangible fixed assets -210 -210 Deferred tax assets expected to be recovered within one year 69 11 Inventories 88 88 Deferred tax assets expected to be Accounts receivable 2 2 recovered after one year 2,007 330 Provisions for pensions 95 95 Other provisions 115 115 Estimated utilisation dates of recognised Accrued expenses and deferred deferred tax liabilities income 41 41 MSEK Group Parent Company Tax assets/liabilities, total 341 -210 131 Deferred tax liabilities due for payment Set-off -210 210 within one year 14 9 Tax assets/liabilities, net 131 0 131 Deferred tax liabilities due for payment after one year 1,454 201 94 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note 15, cont. Change in deferred tax in temporary differences and tax loss carry forwards Recognised in the Group Opening balance Recognised comprehensive Acquisition/divestTranslation Closing balance MSEK 1 Jan 2014 in profit or loss income ment of operations difference 31 Dec 2014 Intangible fixed assets -392 120 -13 -285 Tangible fixed assets -361 -10 -1 -8 -380 Lease assets -40 36 4 Biological assets -42 2 -40 Long-term receivables -17 2 -15 Inventories 187 23 9 219 Accounts receivable 7 4 -1 1 11 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 21 4 -1 2 26 Long-term liabilities 47 -7 4 44 Provisions for pensions­ 391 99 266 5 -2 759 Other provisions 284 -88 132 12 340 Tax allocation reserves -264 -94 -358 Contingency reserve attributable to Lansen Försäkrings AB -299 -299 Accrued expenses and deferred income 108 -29 3 82 Other -80 -83 253 13 -1 102 Tax loss carry forwards 188 51 135 28 402 Total -262 30 519 282 39 608 The Group’s total deferred tax income in the 2014 income statement amounted to of deferred tax on capitalised tax value in tax loss carry forwards, MSEK 55, and MSEK 30. The Group’s total deferred tax income in the statement of comprehensive deferred tax expense due to utilisation of previously capitalised tax value in tax loss income amounted to MSEK 519. The closing balance on 31 December 2014, carry forwards, MSEK -4. MSEK 608, consisted of deferred tax assets of MSEK 656 and tax liabilities of Other numbers in the ”Recognised in profit or loss” column in the table above total MSEK -48, see table on page 93. MSEK -21, which is the amount of deferred tax related to temporary differences and The net change in the year’s tax loss carry forwards, excluding acquisition/divestdeferred tax attributable to previous years. ment of operations and translation differences, totals MSEK 51, which is the amount Recognised in the Group Opening balance Recognised comprehensive Acquisition/divestTranslation Closing balance MSEK 1 Jan 2014 in profit or loss income ment of operations difference 31 Dec 2013 Intangible fixed assets -521 133 -4 -392 Tangible fixed assets -371 10 -361 Lease assets -62 23 -1 -40 Biological assets -44 2 -42 Long-term receivables -14 -3 -17 Inventories 203 -11 -5 187 Accounts receivable 6 1 7 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 24 -3 21 Long-term liabilities 53 -6 47 Provisions for pensions­ 639 37 -285 391 Other provisions 426 -142 284 Tax allocation reserves -193 -71 -264 Contingency reserve attributable to Lansen Försäkrings AB -299 -299 Accrued expenses and deferred income 122 -14 108 Other -102 -29 59 -8 -80 Tax loss carry forwards 162 26 188 Total 29 -47 -226 -4 -14 -262 The Group’s total deferred tax expense in the 2013 income statement amounted to Tax items recognised directly against other MSEK -47. The Group’s total deferred tax expense in the statement of comprehencomprehensive income sive income amounted to MSEK -226. The closing balance on 31 December 2013, Group MSEK -262, consisted of deferred tax assets of MSEK 239 and tax liabilities of MSEK 2014 2013 MSEK -501, see table on page 93. Provisions for pensions 266 -285 Cash flow hedges 253 59 Total 519 -226 SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 95 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES NOTE 16 INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Group Parent Company Other intangible assets Group Parent Company MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 MSEK 2014 2013 2014 2013 Goodwill 5,015 4,605 453 493 Capitalised development Acquisition value costs 952 1,338 461 662 Opening balance, 1 January 1,651 1,879 1,261 1,473 Other intangible assets 384 397 203 237 Business combinations 88 5 Total 6,351 6 ,340 1,117 1,392 Investments 68 44 63 64 Disposals and reclassifications­ -4 -275 0 -276 Goodwill Translation differences 44 -2 -1 Group Parent Company Closing balance, 31 December­ 1,847 1,651 1,323 1,261 MSEK 2014 2013 2014 2013 Amortisation and write-downs Acquisition value Opening balance, 1 January -1,254 -1,362 -1,024 -1,200 Opening balance, 1 January 5,302 5,278 784 784 Amortisation for the year -146 -170 -96 -100 Business combinations 218 37 Business combinations -47 Translation differences 192 -13 Disposals and reclassifications­ 4 276 276 Closing balance, Translation differences -20 2 31 December­ 5,712 5,302 784 784 Closing balance, 31 December­ -1,463 -1,254 -1,120 -1,024 Amortisation and write-downs Carrying amount, Opening balance, 1 January -697 -697 -291 -252 31 December­ 384 397 203 237 Amortisation for the year -40 -39 Closing balance, Business combinations 2014 relates to ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems AB. Busi31 December­ -697 -697 -331 -291 ness combinations 2013 relates to Teknikinformation i Krokom AB (TIKAB). Carrying amount, Amortisation is included in the following lines in the income statement 31 December­ 5,015 4,605 453 493 Group Parent Company Business combinations 2014 relates to ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems AB. MSEK 2014 2013 2014 2013 Business combinations 2013 relate to Hydro-Lek Limited and Teknikinformation i Krokom AB (TIKAB) as well as an adjustment related to the acquisition of MEDAV Cost of goods sold 144 168 136 139 GmbH. Marketing expenses 2 2 Research and development­ Capitalised development costs costs 320 454 202 200 Group Parent Company MSEK 2014 2013 2014 2013 Development costs Acquisition value The significant items in total capitalisation are development costs for radar and sensors, electronic warfare systems and Air Traffic Management (ATM). Opening balance, 1 January 5,898 5,895 2,010 2,000 Development costs are capitalised only in the consolidated accounts. In legal Business combinations 17 10 units, all costs for development work are expensed. Capitalised development costs Internally developed assets 171 24 in the Parent Company relate to acquired development costs. Disposals and reclassifications­ -257 -14 Other intangible fixed assets Translation differences 50 -24 Significant items in the carrying amount are attributable to the acquisitions of EricsClosing balance, son Microwave Systems, Sensis, MEDAV and ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems AB 31 December­ 5,862 5,898 2,010 2,010 and relate to expenses incurred for customer relations, trademarks, patents and Amortisation and ­write-downs values in the order backlog. Of the carrying amount, MSEK 384, MSEK 266 is attributable to acquired values and MSEK 118 to licenses for operating systems etc. Opening balance, 1 January -4,560 -4,144 -1,348 -1,144 Amortisation for the year -320 -454 -202 -200 Impairment tests for goodwill Business combinations -4 In connection with business combinations, goodwill is allocated to the cash-geneDisposals and reclassifications­ 14 rating units, or groups thereof, that are expected to obtain future economic beneTranslation differences -30 24 1 fits in the form of, for example, synergies from the acquisition. Acquired operations normally have access to knowledge, technology and solutions that will benefit large Closing balance, parts of the Group, and the acquired operations are usually integrated with other 31 December­ -4,910 -4,560 -1,549 -1,348 operations shortly after acquisition. Consequently, goodwill is allocated to and Carrying amount, tested for impairment at the business area level, which also corresponds to the 31 December­ 952 1,338 461 662 lowest level at which goodwill is monitored in internal governance. Goodwill in the Parent Company relates to goodwill arising from the purchase of the net assets of Saab Microwave Systems. Business combinations in the Group 2013 relates primarily to Hydro-Lek Limited. 96 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note16, cont. Goodwill is distributed by business area as follows: NOTE 17 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Group Parent Company Dynamics 596 585 MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Electronic Defence Systems 2,407 2,337 Security and Defence Solutions 1,458 1,177 Operating properties/ buildings and land 1) 2,066 1,888 1,463 1,340 Support and Services 246 246 Plant and machinery 803 651 514 445 Combitech 308 260 Equipment, tools and Total goodwill 5,015 4,605 ­installations 459 349 283 197 Construction in progress 374 351 314 297 Impairment testing for cash-generating units is based on the calculation of value in Total 3,702 3,239 2,574 2,279 use. This value is based on discounted cash flow forecasts according to the units’ business plans. For Electronic Defence Systems and Support and Services, fore1) In the Group, the reported amount refers to operating properties. In the Parent Company, the reported amount refers to buildings and land. cast cash flows have exceeded the outcome of the last two years. Saab’s assessment is that this does not cause any impairment. Operating properties/buildings and land 1) VARIABLES USED TO CALCULATE VALUE IN USE Group Parent Company Volume/growth Growth in the cash-generating units’ business plans is based on Saab’s expectaMSEK 2014 2013 2014 2013 tions with regard to development in each market area and previous experience. It is Acquisition value also based on estimates of cash flows that are distributed over what are often long Opening balance, projects and are dependent on the timing and size of advances and milestone pay1 January 4,881 4,917 1,928 1,881 ments. The first five years are based on the five-year business plan formulated by Business combinations 243 Group Management and approved by the Board. For cash flows after five years, the annual growth rate has been assumed to be 0 (0) per cent. Investments 91 43 84 41 Reclassifications 131 -13 95 6 Operating margin Divestments -535 -36 -20 The operating margin is comprised of the units’ operating income after depreciaTranslation differences 47 -30 tion and amortisation. The units’ operating margin is calculated against the back­ Closing balance, drop of historical results and Saab’s expectations with regard to the future develop31 December­ 4,858 4,881 2,087 1,928 ment of markets where the units are active. All business areas except for Combitech have a substantial order backlog of projects that stretches over a number of Depreciation and writeyears. The risks and opportunities affecting the operating margin are managed downs through continuous cost forecasts for all significant projects. Opening balance, 1 January -2,993 -2,936 -1,485 -1,421 Capitalised development costs Depreciation for the year -90 -96 -56 -64 In the five-year business plans, consideration is given to additional investments in Business combinations -164 development considered necessary for certain units to reach the growth targets in their respective markets. Reclassifications 24 Divestments 467 13 20 Discount rate Translation differences -12 2 Discount rates are based on the weighted average cost of capital (WACC). The Closing balance, WACC rate that is used is based on a risk-free rate of interest in ten years adjusted 31 December­ -2,792 -2,993 -1,521 -1,485 for, among other things, market risks. The discount rate is in line with the external requirements placed on Saab and similar companies in the market. Revaluations All units have sales of defence materiel, unique systems, products and support Opening balance, solutions in the international market as their primary activity, and their business risk 1 January 897 897 in this respect is considered equivalent. Closing balance, During the year a review was made of the cost of capital and new risk assess31 D­ecember 897 897 ments were conducted within each business area. Recent years’ order bookings have increased the share of projects across business areas and changed the comCarrying amount, position of the order backlog for certain units, which complicates a differentiation of 31 D­ecember 2,066 1,888 1,463 1,340 discount rates between business areas. As a result, Saab has decided to apply a 1) In the Group, the reported amount refers to operating properties. In the Parent Company, uniform discount rate in the impairment tests. the reported amount refers to buildings and land. The following discount rates have been used (pre-tax): Operating properties include a property leased by Saab Sensis in the US through a Pre-tax discount rate (WACC) financial lease. The financial lease extends through 2025. The carrying amount is MSEK 98. The property is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its period of use Per cent 2014 2013 through 2025. Dynamics 10 11 Total future minimum lease fees amount to MSEK 125, of which MSEK 11 is due Electronic Defence Systems 10 11 within one year, MSEK 45 after one year but within five years, and MSEK 69 after Security and Defence Solutions 10 11 five years. The present value of future minimum lease fees is MSEK 104. Support and Services 10 13 Combitech 10 13 Sensitivity analysis Group Management believes that reasonable possible changes in the above variables would not have such a large impact that any individually would reduce the recoverable amount to less than the carrying amount SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 97 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note 17, cont. Plant and machinery Equipment, tools and installations Group Parent Company Group Parent Company MSEK 2014 2013 2014 2013 MSEK 2014 2013 2014 2013 Acquisition value Acquisition value Opening balance, Opening balance, 1 January 3,310 3,264 2,330 2,308 1 January 1,838 1,794 1,127 1,093 Business combinations 368 8 Business combinations 134 2 Investments 238 98 176 59 Investments 233 146 178 82 Reclassifications 15 26 1 10 Reclassifications 11 15 -1 8 Divestments -110 -60 -91 -47 Divestments -162 -95 -57 -56 Translation differences 115 -26 Translation differences 25 -24 Closing balance, Closing balance, 31 December 3,936 3,310 2,416 2,330 31 December­ 2,079 1,838 1,247 1,127 Depreciation and Depreciation and writewrite-downs downs Opening balance, Opening balance, 1 January -2,659 -2,534 -1,885 -1,827 1 January -1,489 -1,482 -930 -920 Depreciation for the year -163 -175 -97 -103 Depreciation for the year -145 -114 -91 -66 Write-downs for the year -13 Business combinations -122 -2 Reclassifications 1 -2 Business combinations -312 -4 Divestments 155 90 57 56 Reclassifications -1 -10 -1 Translation differences -20 21 Divestments 96 57 80 46 Closing balance, Translation differences -94 20 31 December­ -1,620 -1,489 -964 -930 Closing balance, Carrying amount, 31 December­ -3,133 -2,659 -1,902 -1,885 31 December­ 459 349 283 197 Carrying amount, 31 December 803 651 514 445 Business combinations relates to ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems AB for 2014 and Teknikinformation i Krokom AB (TIKAB) for 2013. In 2014, no write-downs were recognised. In 2013, write-downs of MSEK 13 were recognised on plant and machinery with regard to radar operations in the US. BusiConstruction in progress ness combinations 2014 relates to ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems AB and 2013 to Group Parent Company Teknikinformation i Krokom AB (TIKAB) as well as Hydro-Lek Limited. MSEK 2014 2013 2014 2013 Acquisition value Opening balance, 1 January 351 139 297 115 Business combinations 10 Investments 170 256 113 205 Reclassifications -159 -40 -96 -23 Divestments 1 -2 Translation differences 1 -2 Carrying amount, 31 December­ 374 351 314 297 Business combinations 2014 relates to ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems AB. Collateral On 31 December 2014 property with a carrying amount of MSEK 0 (0) was pledged as collateral for bank loans. 98 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES NOTE 18 LEASE ASSETS AND LEASE AGREEMENTS Some of the over 500 Saab 340 and Saab 2000 regional aircraft that have been Leasing fees for other assets obtained via operating leases1) delivered have been part of Saab’s leasing portfolio, which has consisted of owned Other leasing fees refer to premises, computers and cars. Saab has an option to aircraft as well as aircraft obtained through operating leases. In 2014 the owned purchase one of the Group’s facilities. share of the portfolio was divested and on 31 December 2014 comprised 0 (14) Group aircraft. The leases on the 6 (35) leased aircraft still remaining at year-end expired in Premises­ and Machinery­ and January 2015. As a result, Saab has terminated its regional aircraft leasing operaMSEK buildings equipment ­ tions. A provision has been allocated in an amount corresponding to the anticipaOutcome ted outflow for the remaining obligations. 2013 240 155 2014 298 149 Leasing aircraft obtained for leasing purposes MSEK 2014 2013 Contracted 2015 321 128 Acquisition value 2016 249 85 Opening balance, 1 January 618 942 2017 206 44 Divestments -653 -323 2018 176 8 Translation differences 35 -1 2019 162 4 Closing balance, 31 December 618 2020 and forward 154 4 Depreciation Total contracted 1,268 273 Opening balance, 1 January -373 -543 Divestments 403 195 Parent Company Depreciation for the year -8 -25 Premises­ and Machinery­ and Translation differences -22 MSEK buildings­ equipment Closing balance, 31 December -373 Outcome 2013 173 126 Write-downs 2014 197 113 Opening balance, 1 January -48 -97 Divestments and revaluations 48 49 Contracted Closing balance, 31 December -48 2015 221 103 2016 197 70 Total 197 2017 170 36 2018 156 2 Other lease assets 2019 147 Opening balance, 1 January 2 2020 and forward 136 Translation differences -2 Total contracted 1,027 211 Closing balance, 31 December 1) The Group has a finance lease on a building; see note 17. Carrying amount, 31 December 197 Leasing fees for aircraft obtained/leased via operating leases Payments Payments Payments MSEK to lessors from ­air­lines1) from ­air­lines2) Outcome 2013 235 79 16 2014 99 36 4 1)  eceipts from airlines for aircraft held via operating leases and leased out via operating leases. R 2) Receipts from airlines for owned aircraft leased out via operating leases. There are no future contracted leasing fees for aircraft obtained/leased via operating leases. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 99 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES NOTE 19 BIOLOGICAL ASSETS Parent Company MSEK 2014 2013 Group Fair value MSEK 2014 2013 Opening fair value, 1 January 164 164 Living forest Revaluation Carrying amount, 1 January 296 306 Closing fair value, 31 December 164 164 Change in fair value 5 4 Parent Company Less fair value logging -12 -14 MSEK 2014 2013 Carrying amount, 31 December 289 296 Of which fixed assets 289 296 Effect on net income/net rental income Rental income 26 25 On 31 December 2014, biological assets consisted of approximately 397,000 m³ Direct costs for investment properties that of spruce, 659,000 m³ of pine and 75,000 m³ of hardwood. Forest growth is estigenerated rental income during the year -9 -8 mated at 40,000 m³ timber per year. During the year, approximately 25,300 m³ of Effect on net income /net rental income 17 17 timber was felled, which had a fair value in the Group, after deducting selling expenses, of MSEK 12 on the felling date. Information on carrying amount of investment properties The valuation of forests has been done with the help of independent appraisers. in the P­arent Company­ The forestry property has been valued according to the market comparison metParent Company hod. In the valuation according to the market comparison method, the environmeMSEK 2014 2013 ntal impact on the firing range has not been taken into account. An adjustment for the environmental impact has therefore been made by reducing fair value by an Accumulated acquisition value amount corresponding to the market value of the size of the firing range Opening balance, 1 January 128 128 (4,457 hectares) less the value of the timber. Acquisitions Closing balance, 31 December 128 128 NOTE 20 INVESTMENT PROPERTIES Accumulated depreciation according to plan Opening balance, 1 January -98 -94 Depreciation according to plan for the year -3 -4 Information on fair value of investment properties in the Group In the Group, investment properties are reported according to the fair value method. Closing balance, 31 December -101 -98 Accumulated revaluations Group Opening balance, 1 January 66 66 MSEK 2014 2013 Closing balance, 31 December 66 66 Carrying amount, 1 January 31 33 Revaluation 2 -2 Carrying amount, 31 December 93 96 Carrying amount, 31 December 33 31 Investment properties are recognised in the statement of financial position at fair value, while changes in the value of these properties are recognised in the income NOTE 21  HARES IN ASSOCIATED S statement; see also note 1. COMPANIES AND JOINT VENTURES Investment properties comprise a number of rental properties leased to outside CONSOLIDATED ACCORDING TO tenants. Leases on offices and production space are normally signed for an initial THE EQUITY METHOD period of 2–6 years. Prior to expiration, renegotiations are held with the tenant on the rent level and other terms of the agreement, provided the lease has not been Group terminated. MSEK 2014 2013 Fair values have been determined by analysing rental income and expenses for Carrying amount, 1 January 367 300 each property, thereby producing a net rental income figure. Net rental income has Acquisition of associated companies and joint ventures 34 3 then served as the basis for a valuation of fair value with a yield of 8 per cent. The Sale of associated companies -123 yield requirements correspond to the risk in net rental income. Fair value is not Share in associated companies’ and joint ventures’ based on the valuation of an independent appraiser. income 1) 18 25 Group New share issues 9 20 MSEK 2014 2013 Reclassifications 47 39 Effect on net income/net rental income Translation differences and internal gains 47 -10 Rental income 4 4 Dividends -2 -10 Direct costs for investment properties that Carrying amount, 31 December 397 367 generated rental income during the year -2 -2 1) Share in associated companies and joint ventures’ net income and non-controlling interests. Effect on net income/net rental income 2 2 The Group’s associated companies and joint ventures are held for operating purposes, i.e., they are related to operations of the business areas or in the venture Information on fair value of investment properties in the Parent Company portfolio and are therefore recognised in operating income. In the Parent Company, investment properties are recognised as buildings accorDuring 2014, Saab acquired Fortis Marine Solutions Pte Ltd, a joint venture, and ding to the acquisition cost method. Investment properties in the ­Parent Company KedTech Holding AB, an associated company, and made investments in the venare mainly leased out to other companies in the Group and are therefore classified ture portfolio. The associated company Hawker Pacific Airservices Ltd was sold in as operating properties in the Group. 2014. As contractually stipulated, control over the subsidiary Saab Grintek Techno100 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note 21, cont. logies (Pty) Ltd ceased in March 2014, after which it was reclassified as an associCarrying amount, ated company. The gain associated with the loss of control amounts to MSEK 12 shares in associated and is recognised as other operating income. 31-12-2014 companies and Ownership Aggregate net income for Saab’s associated companies amounts to MSEK 27 MSEK Assets Liabilities joint ventures interest, % (63) and other comprehensive income to MSEK 119 (-29), producing net compreAssociated companies hensive income of MSEK 146 (34). For Saab’s joint ventures, net income amounts to MSEK 29 (0) and other comprehensive income to MSEK 4 (0), producing net Wah Nobel (Pvt) Ltd 52 11 41 27.2 comprehensive income of MSEK 33 (0). Saab’s share of income in associated Taurus Systems GmbH 339 336 3 33.0 companies and joint ventures amounts to MSEK 18 (25). Shares in associated S.N. Technologies SA 18 6 12 50.0 companies and joint ventures as of 31 December 2014 include goodwill of Industrikompetens MSEK 79 (60). i ­Östergötland AB 20 11 9 33.0 The Group’s share of sales, income, assets, liabilities and the carrying amount of Omnigo (Pty) Ltd 12 7 5 40.0 shares in associated companies and joint ventures is as follows. Kontorsbolaget i Share in income of Karlskoga AB 122 115 7 50.0 2014 associated companies FFV Services Private MSEK Country Sales and joint ventures Limited 30 3 27 49.0 Associated companies AVIA SATCOM Co., Ltd 170 40 130 36.6 Wah Nobel (Pvt) Ltd. Pakistan 33 15 Saab Grintek TechnoloTaurus Systems GmbH Germany 50 -2 gies Ltd. 106 55 51 70.0 S.N. Technologies SA Switzerland 23 2 Other associated companies, mainly in the venIndustrikompetens ture portfolio 66 11 55 i Östergötland AB Sweden 46 -1 Total associated Omnigo (Pty) Ltd. South Africa 24 -1 companies 935 595 340 Kontorsbolaget i Karlskoga AB Sweden 20 1 FFV Services Private Limited India 19 7 Joint ventures AVIA SATCOM Co., Ltd. Thailand 101 Gripen International KB 216 187 29 50.0 Saab Grintek Technologies Ltd. South Africa 139 Fortis Marine Solutions Other associated companies, Pte Ltd 53 25 28 49.0 mainly in the venture portfolio 12 -17 Total joint ventures 269 212 57 Total associated Total 1,204 807 397 companies 467 4 Carrying amount, Joint ventures shares in associated Sweden 31-12-2013 companies and joint Ownership Gripen International KB MSEK Assets Liabilities ventures interest, % Fortis Marine Solutions Pte Ltd Singapore 117 14 Associated companies Total joint ventures 117 14 Hawker Pacific Total 584 18 Airservices Ltd 332 227 105 32.3 Wah Nobel (Pvt) Ltd 34 7 27 27.2 Share in income of 2013 associated companies Taurus Systems GmbH 126 120 6 33.0 MSEK Country Sales and joint ventures S.N. Technologies SA 15 5 10 50.0 Associated companies Industrikompetens i ­Östergötland AB 19 9 10 33.0 Hawker Pacific Airservices Ltd Hong Kong 510 -2 Omnigo (Pty) Ltd 13 7 6 40.0 Wah Nobel (Pvt) Ltd Pakistan 22 4 Kontorsbolaget i Taurus Systems GmbH Germany 28 Karlskoga AB 121 115 6 50.0 S.N. Technologies SA Switzerland 24 1 FFV Services Private Industrikompetens Limited 25 6 19 49.0 i Östergötland AB Sweden 35 AVIA SATCOM Co., Ltd 142 34 108 36.6 Omnigo (Pty) Ltd South Africa 22 1 Other associated comKontorsbolaget i Karlskoga AB Sweden 20 panies, mainly in the venFFV Services Private Limited India 16 7 ture portfolio 42 1 41 AVIA SATCOM Co., Ltd Thailand 102 23 Total associated companies 869 531 338 Other associated companies, mainly in the venture portfolio 11 -9 Total associated Joint ventures companies 790 25 Gripen International KB 256 227 29 50.0 Total joint ventures 256 227 29 Joint ventures Total 1,125 758 367 Gripen International KB Sweden Total joint ventures Total 790 25 SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 101 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES NOTE 22 SHARES IN JOINT VENTURES Specification of Parent Company’s (co-owner’s) directly owned holdings of shares in associated companies and joint ventures CONSOLIDATED ACCORDING TO THE PROPORTIONAL METHOD 2014 % of votes Carrying MSEK and capital amount Associated companies The Group has a 50 per cent holding in the joint venture Gripen International KB. Group holdings were reported using the proportional method through 2013; howeKedtech Holding AB, 556945-3748, Stockholm 23.0 23 ver, application of IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements, requires that holdings be reported Industrikompetens i Östergötland AB, 556060-5478, using the equity method as of 2014. The Group’s remaining holdings in joint ventuLinköping 33.0 2 res in 2013 are of an insignificant amount. AVIA SATCOM Co Ltd, Thailand 36.6 78 Effects of application of IFRS 11 on the financial position at the end and the Aerostructures Assemblies India Pvt Ltd 50.0/26.0 3 beginning of 2013 are reported in accordance with the equity method as shown below. The change has not had a significant effect on the Group’s income stateJoint ventures ment. Gripen International KB, 969679-8231, Linköping 50.0 29 Industrigruppen JAS AB, 556147-5921, Stockholm 80.0 Year End 2013 31-12-2013 Adjustment 31-12-2013 Total 135 Financial position MSEK actual IFRS 11 restated Fixed assets 11,104 -7 11,097 2013 % of votes Carrying MSEK and capital amount Shares in joint ventures 29 29 Current assets 16,801 -138 16,663 Associated companies Total assets 27,905 -116 27,789 Hawker Pacific Airservices Ltd, Hong Kong 32.3 22 Total equity 12,227 12,227 Industrikompetens i Östergötland AB, 556060-5478, Linköping 33.0 2 Long term liabilities 4,498 4,498 AVIA SATCOM Co Ltd, Thailand 36.6 78 Current liabilities 11,180 -116 11,064 Aerostructures Assemblies India Pvt Ltd 50.0/26.0 2 Total liabilities 15 ,678 -116 15,562 Total equity and liabilities 27,905 -116 27,789 Joint ventures Gripen International KB, 969679-8231, Linköping 50.0 29 Opening balance 2013 Industrigruppen JAS AB, 556147-5921, Stockholm 80.0 4 01-01-2013 Adjustment 01-01-2013 Total 137 Financial position MSEK actual IFRS 11 restated Fixed assets 11,498 -2 11,496 Shares in joint ventures 459 459 Current assets 17,440 -344 17,096 NOTE 24 RECEIVABLES FROM GROUP COMPANIES Total assets 28,938 113 29,051 Total equity 11,280 11,280 Long-term receivables Long term liabilities 4,764 4,764 Parent Company from Group companies Current liabilities 12,894 113 13,007 MSEK 2014 2013 Total liabilities 17,658 113 17,771 Accumulated acquisition value Total equity and liabilities 28,938 113 29,051 Opening balance, 1 January 747 861 Divestments -114 Exchange rate differences 118 NOTE 23 P  ARENT COMPANY’S SHARES Closing balance, 31 December 865 747 IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES AND JOINT VENTURES Parent Company MSEK 2014 2013 Accumulated acquisition value Opening balance, 1 January 137 565 Acquisitions 24 2 Divestments -26 Write-downs -430 Closing balance, 31 December 135 137 Carrying amount, 31 December 135 137 102 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES NOTE 25 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS Group MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Group Other receivables held as current assets MSEK 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Receivables from associated companies, interest-bearing 3 3 Financial investments held as fixed assets Receivables from associated companies, Financial assets available-for-sale measured non interest-bearing 71 41 at fair value: Receivables from joint ventures, non interest-bearing 9 10 Shares and participations 121 114 Advance payments to suppliers 22 140 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss: Other interest-bearing receivables 2 30 Shares and participations 29 40 Other non interest-bearing receivables 643 429 Investments held to maturity: Subtotal 750 653 Interest-bearing securities 142 141 Receivables from customers Total 292 295 Assignment revenue 6,433 4,258 Short-term investments classified as current assets Less utilised advance payments -2,928 -1,184 Financial assets measured at fair value through Subtotal 3,505 3,074 profit or loss: Interest-bearing securities 1,270 2,002 Total 4,255 3,727 Total 1,270 2,002 Assignment revenue refers to assignment costs incurred and reported gross income less any losses attributable to the work performed. Unutilised advance Investments in interest-bearing securities consist of mortgage, bank and municipal payments amount to MSEK 856 (818). bonds as well as commercial paper. The fair value of interest-bearing securities Costs attributable to assignment revenue amounted to MSEK 5,438 (3,507). held to maturity amounts to MSEK 144 (139). Reported gross income amounted to MSEK 996 (751). Parent Company NOTE 26 OTHER LONG-TERM SECURITIES MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 HOLDINGS Other long-term receivables Interest-bearing receivables 20 16 Parent Company Non interest-bearing receivables 5 6 MSEK 2014 2013 Total 25 22 Accumulated acquisition value Opening balance, 1 January 286 38 Parent Company Acquisitions 1 248 MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Closing balance, 31 December 287 286 Other receivables held as current assets Interest-bearing receivables 25 Accumulated write-downs Non interest-bearing receivables 428 308 Opening balance, 1 January -150 -17 Subtotal 428 333 Write-downs for the year -133 Closing balance, 31 December -150 -150 Receivables from customers Assignment revenue 5,204 3,165 Carrying amount, 31 December 137 136 Less utilised advance payments -2,848 -1,183 Subtotal 2,356 1,982 Acquisitions in 2014 relate to further investments in Biogeneration Ventures B.V. Acquisitions 2013 relate to Pipavav Defence and Offshore Engineering Co Ltd and Total 2,784 2,315 Biogeneration Ventures B.V. Write-downs for 2013 relate to Pipavav Defence and Offshore Engineering Co Ltd. Assignment revenue refers to assignment costs incurred and reported gross income less any losses attributable to the work performed. Unutilised advance payments amount to MSEK 439 (394). NOTE 27 LONG-TERM RECEIVABLES AND Costs attributable to assignment revenue amounted to MSEK 4,420 (2,672). OTHER RECEIVABLES Reported gross income amounted to MSEK 784 (493). Parent Company Group MSEK 2014 2013 MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Long-term receivables Long-term receivables held as fixed assets Accumulated acquisition value Receivables from associated companies, interest-beaOpening balance, 1 January 22 49 ring 59 59 Incremental receivables 3 Receivables from associated companies, non interest-bearing 2 2 Deductible receivables -27 Receivables attributable to pension, interest-bearing 59 36 Closing balance, 31 December 25 22 Other interest-bearing receivables 24 16 Other non interest-bearing receivables 8 9 Total 152 122 SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 103 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES NOTE 28 INVENTORIES NOTE 31 LIQUID ASSETS Group Group MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Raw materials and consumables 2,004 2,048 Cash and bank balances 1,284 651 Work in progress 2,916 1,722 Bank deposits 1,113 Finished goods and goods for resale 899 793 Total according to statement of financial position 1,284 1,764 Total 5,819 4,563 Total according to statement of cash flows 1,284 1,764 Saab and the Swedish Ministry of Enterprise, Energy and Communications have Bank deposits relate to short-term investments, the large part of which has a reached agreement with the National Debt Office to co-finance Saab’s participation maturity of less than one month. The Group’s unutilised account overdraft facility in the Airbus A380 project. The co-financing is in the form of a royalty loan maximiamounted to MSEK 94 (87) at year-end. With regard to the Group’s other loan facised at MSEK 350. Repayment will take the form of a royalty on each delivery to Airlities, refer to notes 36 and 41. bus. Through 2014, the National Debt Office has paid out MSEK 263 (263). The debt as of 31 December 2014 amounts to MSEK 162 (177), which reduces inventory in the financial statements. NOTE 32 ASSETS HELD FOR SALE The Group’s cost of goods sold includes inventory write-downs of MSEK 78 (130). The reversal of previous write-downs amounts to MSEK 85 (93). The value of inventories measured at fair value less selling expenses amounts to MSEK 161 The Group holds no significant assets or liabilities for sale. (128). Of inventories, MSEK 193 is expected to be realised more than twelve months after the closing day. The change in work in progress is mainly related to higher activity levels in larger NOTE 33 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY projects. The shares in the Parent Company are divided into two series, A and B. Both Parent Company classes of shares carry equal rights, with the exception that each Series A share is MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 entitled to ten votes and each Series B share one vote. The shares have a quota Raw materials and consumables 1,524 1,574 value of SEK 16. Work in progress 2,214 1,267 Outstanding shares at Number of Per cent of Per cent of Finished goods and goods for resale 715 671 31 December 2014 shares shares votes Advance payments to suppliers 37 141 Series A 1,907,123 1.8 15.5 Total 4,490 3,653 Series B 103,592,857 98.2 84.5 Total 105,499,980 100.0 100.0 Cost of goods sold for the Parent Company includes inventory write-downs of MSEK 71 (128) after the reversal of previous write-downs of MSEK 84 (92). Outstanding shares at Number of Per cent of Per cent of The value of inventories measured at fair value less selling expenses amounts to 31 December 2013 shares shares votes MSEK 161 (128). Of the Parent Company’s inventories, MSEK 43 is expected to be Series A 1,907,123 1.8 15.4 realised more than twelve months after the closing day. Series B 104,507,021 98.2 84.6 Total 106,414,144 100.0 100.0 NOTE 29 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE Change in number of Accounts receivable in the Group amount to MSEK 3,414 (3,295). As part of the outstanding shares 2014 Series A Series B Total sales programme arranged in 2009, Saab sold receivables in 2014 in order to Number of outstanding shares at strengthen its financial position and increase financial flexibility. 1 January 1,907,123 104,507,021 106 414 144 The receivables were sold in their entirety which reduced the receivables by Repurchase of shares -1,340,000 -1,340,000 MSEK 1,071 (555), at year-end and also had a positive impact on cash flow of MSEK 516 (-297). Early share matching 27,212 27,212 During the year, accounts receivable were written down by MSEK 6 (15). Share matching plan 398,624 398,624 Reversals of previous write-downs amounted to MSEK 13 (3). Number of outstanding Accounts receivable in the Parent Company amount to MSEK 1,826 (1,489). shares at 31 December 1,907,123 103,592,857 105,499,980 During the year, receivables were written down by MSEK 2 (12). Reversals of previous write-downs amounted to MSEK 7 (2). See also note 41. In 2014, 1,340,000 Series B shares were repurchased on the market to secure Saab’s Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan. During the year, NOTE 30 PREPAID EXPENSES AND 425,836 shares were matched in Saab’s Share Matching Plan. Transferred shares ACCRUED INCOME correspond to 0.4 per cent of the share capital. A total of 3,650,364 shares are held in treasury. Shares held in treasury have no voting rights. The dividend to shareholders amounted to MSEK 479 (477), or SEK 4.50 (4.50) Group Parent Company per share. MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Prepaid expenses 608 466 499 507 Management of the Group’s capital The Group’s capital under management consists of equity. The Group’s capital Accrued service income 170 106 2 2 management goal is to facilitate continued operating growth and to remain Other accrued income 335 282 293 227 prepared to capitalise on business opportunities. Saab’s equity/asset goal is at Total 1,113 854 794 736 least 30 per cent. Prepaid expenses primarily relate to pension premiums, rents, licenses and insurance. 104 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Net result of cash flow hedges The net result of cash flow hedges comprises the effective share of the cumulative NOTE 35 INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES net change in fair value of a cash flow hedging instrument attributable to hedge transactions that have not yet taken place. Group MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Translation reserve Long-term liabilities The translation reserve comprises exchange rate differences that arise from the Liabilities to credit institutions 2,001 1,000 translation of financial reports from operations that have prepared their reports in a currency other than the currency of the Group’s financial reports. The Parent ComOther interest-bearing liabilities 104 95 pany and the Group present their financial reports in SEK. The translation reserve Total 2,105 1,095 at year-end amounts to MSEK 161 (-353). Of the translation reserve MSEK 18 (0) has been reclassified to gains. Current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 1 Revaluation reserve Liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures 244 244 The revaluation reserve comprises the difference between the fair value and carryOther interest-bearing liabilities 20 473 ing amount of operating properties reclassified as investment properties. Of the revaluation reserve, MSEK 0 (0) has been transferred to retained earnings upon the Total 264 718 sale of investment properties. Total interest-bearing liabilities 2,369 1,813 Reserve for available-for-sale financial assets The reserve comprises changes in the value of available-for-sale financial assets Terms and repayment schedules recognised directly against other comprehensive income. For more information, Collateral for bank loans amounts to MSEK 0 (0). Of the long-term liabilities, see note 1. These revaluations amounted to MSEK 27 (0) in 2014. When the assets MSEK 2,036 (1,036) falls due between one and five years of the closing day and are sold, the cumulative changes in value are reversed to profit or loss. No reversals MSEK 69 (59) later than five years of the closing day. were made in 2014. Liabilities to credit institutions mainly consist of Medium Term Notes (MTN). For more information on financial risk management, see note 41. PARENT COMPANY The fair value of MTNs exceeds book value by MSEK 37 (5). Saab otherwise Restricted reserves does not consider there to be a significant difference between book and fair value. Restricted reserves may not be reduced through profit distributions. Revaluation reserve When a tangible or financial fixed asset is revaluated, the revaluation amount is alloNOTE 36 LIABILITIES TO CREDIT INSTITUTIONS cated to a revaluation reserve. Parent company Statutory reserve MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Provisions to the statutory reserve have previously amounted to at least 10 per Current liabilities cent of net income for the year, until the statutory reserve corresponded to at least 20 per cent of the Parent Company’s capital stock. As of 2006 provisions are Overdraft facilities: Available credit/limit 94 87 voluntary and the Parent Company makes no provisions to the s­tatutory reserve. Short-term portion of bank loans: Unutilised portion -94 -87 Utilised credit amount Unrestricted equity Short-term borrowing from credit institutions Retained earnings Consists of previous year’s unrestricted equity after profit distribution and Group Total contributions paid. Retained earnings together with net income for the year Long-term liabilities comprise unrestricted equity, i.e., the amount available for distribution to the shareholders. Overdraft facilities: Available credit/limit 4,000 4,000 Long-term portion of bank loans: Unutilised portion -4,000 -4,000 NOTE 34 EARNINGS PER SHARE Utilised credit amount Long-term borrowing from credit institutions 2,000 1,000 Total 2,000 1,000 2014 2013 Net income for the year attributable to Total liabilities to credit institutions 2,000 1,000 Parent Company’s shareholders (MSEK) 1,153 741 Weighted average number of common shares In 2009, Saab established a Medium Term Note (MTN) programme with a limit of outstanding­: MSEK 3,000 or an equivalent value in EUR. The MTN programme provides access before dilution (thousands) 106,126 106,125 to financing for up to 15 years, which is an element in diversifying loan maturities. During 2014, a MTN of MSEK 1,000 was issued. after dilution (thousands) 106,916 109,150 Earnings per share, before dilution (SEK) 10.86 6.98 Earnings per share, after dilution (SEK) 10.78 6.79 The weighted average number of shares outstanding before dilution refers to the total number of shares in issue less the average number of repurchased treasury shares. The weighted average number of shares outstanding after dilution is calculated as of 2014 based on the effects of all potential shares (Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan) that give rise to a dilution effect. A simplified method had previously been used where the dilution effect was based on all treasury shares. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 105 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES NOTE 37 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Disclosures regarding defined-benefit plans 2014-12-31 Group Saab has two types of pension plans: defined-benefit and defined-contribution. In MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total defined-benefit plans, post-employment compensation is based on a percentage Wholly or partially funded obligations of the recipient’s salary. In defined-contribution plans, pensions are based on the premiums paid and return on assets. Present value of defined-benefit obligations 7,730 291 132 8,153 Sweden Fair value of assets under management -5,154 -350 -121 -5,625 The predominant plan in Sweden is the ITP plan under collective agreements Present value of net obligation 2,576 -59 11 2,528 adopted by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Negotiation Cartel for Salaried Employees in the Private Business Sector (PTK). Saab in Sweden has Share funded 67% 120% 92% 69% three different ways of securing the defined-benefit plans. They are secured as liaAverage duration of pension obligation 19 11 17 bilities in the balance sheet, in pension funds or funded through insurance with mainly Alecta. The Saab Pension Fund, that secured part of the ITP plan, had The net amount as well as special assets of MSEK 5,091 (4,595) as of 31 December 2014, compared to an obligaemployer’s contribution is reported in tion of MSEK 7,428 (5,793) according to IAS 19, or a solvency margin of 69 ­per the following items in the statement of cent (79). financial position The following applies to the portion of the defined-benefit plans secured through Provisions for pensions 2,576 11 2,587 insurance with Alecta. According to a pronouncement by the Swedish Financial Provisions for pensions related to Reporting Board, UFR 3 Classification of ITP plans financed by insurance in Alecta, special employer’s contribution 562 562 this is a defined-benefit plan that comprises multiple employers. Alecta is unable to Long-term receivables 59 59 make a precise distribution of assets and liabilities for each employer. As a result, Saab cannot report its proportionate share of the plan’s obligations, assets under management and costs, which it why it has not been possible to report this plan as 2013-12-31 Group a defined-benefit plan. The ITP 2 pension plan, which is secured through insurance MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total with Alecta, is therefore reported as a defined-contribution plan. No premiums for Wholly or partially funded obligations defined-benefit plans are paid to Alecta. The collective funding ratio is of the market value of Alecta’s assets as a percenPresent value of defined-benefit obligations 6,080 233 100 6,413 tage of the insurance obligations calculated according to Alecta’s actuarial methods and assumptions, which do not conform to IAS 19. The collective funding Fair value of assets under management -4,658 -269 -97 -5,024 ratio should normally be allowed to vary between 125 and 155 per cent. At yearPresent value of net obligation 1,422 -36 3 1,389 end 2014, Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective funding ratio amounted to 143 per cent (148). Share funded 77% 115% 97% 78% Average duration of pension obligation 17 10 15 USA The US has a defined-benefit plan which includes some employees as well as a The net amount as well as special supplementary plan for certain senior executives. The plans are company-specific employer’s contribution is reported in according to an agreement in 1986 between the employees and the company, the following items in the statement of and the plans include retirement and survivor’s pension. The pension is not vested financial position during the first five years of employment, and the retirement age is 65. Payments Provisions for pensions 1,422 3 1,425 corresponding to accrued pensions are made yearly to an external trustee in order Provisions for pensions related to to secure the pension commitment. special employer’s contribution 255 255 Long-term receivables 36 36 Switzerland Switzerland has a defined-benefit plan that includes all employees and where minimum benefits are prescribed by law. The company is affiliated with a collective Cost reported in the income statement foundation for the purpose of insuring its employees’ old age and survivor’s pension, and payments are made annually. Provisions for pensions are made by both 2014 Group employer and employees. The employee may elect to receive the full pension as a MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total lump sum at retirement. Costs for employment during the current year 173 13 6 192 Other countries Net interest expense 60 -3 57 The pension plans in other countries are not of significant amounts and are therefore reported together with Sweden below. Cost of defined-benefit plans in the i­ncome statement 233 10 6 249 Cost of defined-contribution plans 565 Payroll tax 197 Total cost of post-employment compensation 1,011 2013 Group MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total Costs for employment during the current year 147 14 5 166 Net interest expense 74 74 Cost of defined-benefit plans in the i­ncome statement 221 14 5 240 Cost of defined-contribution plans 580 Payroll tax 210 Total cost of post-employment compensation 1,030 106 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note 37, cont. Items included in the statement of cash flow Change in assets under management Group 2014 Group MSEK 2014 2013 MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total Fair value, 1 January 5,024 4,744 Deposit to pension fund and Financial income 202 143 other funding -199 -21 -7 -227 Withdrawals -207 -17 Payments -236 -13 -249 Settlement -11 -47 Withdrawals 194 13 207 Contributions 227 35 Total impact on cash flow -241 -21 -7 -269 Actuarial gain 324 158 Translation differences 66 8 2013 Group MSEK Sweden USA Switzerland Total Fair value, 31 December 5,625 5,024 Deposit to pension fund and other funding -4 -26 -5 -35 The cost is reported on the following lines in the income statement Payments -216 -12 -3 -231 Group Withdrawals 2 12 3 17 MSEK 2014 2013 Total impact on cash flow -218 -26 -5 -249 Cost of goods sold 755 757 Marketing expenses 82 85 Estimated payments during 2015 amount to approximately MSEK 260. Administrative expenses 66 62 Actuarial gains and losses are reported in other comprehensive income. Research and development costs 51 52 Actuarial losses related to pensions amounted to MSEK 983 in 2014 primarily Financial expenses 57 74 due to the following. The return on assets under management was higher than Total cost of post-employment compensation 1,011 1,030 expected at 10.5 per cent, compared to an anticipated 4.0 per cent, which produced an actuarial gain of MSEK 324. The actuarial loss on pension obligations Interest expense on the pension obligation less financial income on assets under amounted to MSEK 1,307, which was due to a 150 basis point lower discount rate management is classified as financial expense. Other pension costs are divided by and to experience adjustments. The 50 basis point lower inflation assumption was function in the income statement in relation to how payroll expenses are charged to partly offset by the interest rate cut and has reduced the actuarial loss. Changes in the various functions. demographic assumptions have not had a significant effect. The actuarial loss related to special employer’s benefits amounted to MSEK 232 Sensitivity analysis (excluding special employer’s contribution) during 2014. The actuarial loss related to other long-term service awards amounGroup ted to MSEK 5. Change in Changes in net obligation for defined-benefit plans reported MSEK Change obligation in the statement of financial position Discount rate 0.25% -357 Group -0.25% 383 MSEK 2014 2013 Inflation 0.25% 384 Net obligation for defined-benefit plans, 1 January 1,389 2,420 -0.25% -360 Compensation paid -249 -231 Salaries 0.25% 83 Deposits to pension fund and other funding -227 -35 -0.25% -77 Cost reported in the income statement 249 240 Life span +1 year 311 Income (-) /cost (+) reported in comprehensive income 983 -1,017 Return on assets under management Settlement/Translation difference -6 -5 Group Withdrawals from pension funds 207 17 MSEK 2014 2013 Transferred operations 182 Actual return on assets under management 526 301 Net obligation for defined-benefit plans, Financial income on assets under management -202 -143 31 December 2,528 1,389 Actuarial result from assets under management during the year 324 158 Change in pension obligation Group Governance MSEK 2014 2013 Defined-benefit pensions and pension plan assets are governed by the Pension Fair value, 1 January 6,413 7,164 Board, which resumes 4-5 times per year and has the following responsibilities: Benefits vested during the year 192 166 • Appoint the members of and authorise the Investment Committee • Appoint and authorise the Fund Manger Interest expense 257 215 • Annually establish and approve the Investment Policy Pension disbursements -249 -231 • Decide on strategic (long-term) and tactical (short-term) asset allocation and Settlement -9 -45 allow deviations in accordance with the terms of the SAA and TAA m­andate Transferred operations 182 • Annually approve the benchmark indices for follow up of the pension fund assets Actuarial gain (-) /loss (+) 1,307 -859 • Annually approve the stop loss limit Translation differences 60 3 Fair value, 31 December 8,153 6,413 SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 107 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note 37, cont. Investment strategy and risk management MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 The Pension fund manages the allocation and investment of assets with the aim to increase the consolidation level over time, assets versus pension liabilities. This Pension obligations ITP 3,982 3,818 means that certain risks are accepted in order to increase the return. The investLess funds secured in pension fund -3,982 -3,737 ment horizon is long-term and the allocation ensures that the investment portfolio Total ITP and the book reserve method 81 is well diversified. Other pensions 65 63 The Fund is subject to a number of restrictions and limitations followed up by Group Treasury, Middle Office. Middle Office reports directly to the Board of DirecOther provisions for pensions 75 75 tors and to the Head of the Investment Committee. On an over-all level, stop loss Total 140 219 limit and alarm levels aim at assuring a maximum loss of the assets of the Fund. Of which credit guarantees in PRI Pensionsgaranti 63 141 Assets under management divided by asset class MSEK 2014 2013 Group Amount related to pension obligations ITP ­expected to of which of which be settled within 12 months 165 162 listed on listed on an active an active Long-term incentive programme Per cent 2014 market 2013 market In April 2007, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to offer permanent employees Interest-bearing assets 48 100 48 100 the opportunity to participate in a Share Matching Plan. The Board considers it Share-related assets 35 100 36 100 important that Saab’s employees share a long-term interest in the value development of the company’s shares. Employees who participate in the plan can have up to 5 per Hedge funds 14 14 cent of their gross base salary withheld to purchase Series B shares on Nasdaq Property 1 1 Stockholm during a twelve-month period. If the employee retains the purchased shaLiquid assets 2 1 res for three years after the investment date and is still employed by the Saab Group, Total assets 100 83 100 84 the employee will be allotted a corresponding number of Series B shares free of charge. In April 2008, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to introduce a perforAssumptions for defined-benefit obligations mance-based plan for senior Executives and key employees entitling them to 2–5 Group matching shares, depending on the employee category to which they belong. Up to 286 key employees, including the President and CEO, may allocate a maximum Per cent 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 of 7.5 per cent of their gross fixed salary for the purchase of Saab Series B shares. Significant actuarial assumptions In addition to the requirement that the employee remain employed by Saab after as of closing day (expressed as three years, an additional requirement calls for earnings per share to grow in the weighted averages)1) range of 5 to 15 per cent on average per year during the three-year period for alloDiscount rate, 31 December 2.50 4.00 3.00 3.50 4.80 cation of matching shares under the Performance Share Plan. Future salary increase 2.50 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 In April 2011, Saab’s Annual General Meeting amended the terms of the Performance Share Plan, as compared to previous years’ programmes, to allow those Future increase in pensions 1.50 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 eligible for the programme to also participate in Saab’s Share Matching Plan and Employee turnover 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 entitling Performance Share Plan 2011 participants to 1–4 matching shares, 1) Refers to Sweden since essentially all defined-benefit plans are in Sweden depending on employee category. The Board may reduce the number of shares to be matched if the Board considers it reasonable in relation to the company’s finanThe following assumptions serve as the basis of the valuation of Saab’s pension cial results and position, conditions on the stock market and other circumstances. liability: In April 2014, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to modify the Performance Share Plan 2014 to increase interest of the program among the target group. The Discount rate: The valuation is based on covered Swedish mortgage bonds purpose of the amendments is to attract and retain competence on competitive (AAA). The same discount rate has been used for all future payments. The rate is terms as well as to better reflect Saab’s business strategy and financial targets. The based on the duration of all cash flows. Performance Share Plan is designed for a maximum of 175 key employees, including Long-term salary increase assumption: Assumed to be as high as the increase the President and CEO. Participants can save up to 7.5 percent of their base salary in the basic income amount. This means that Saab expects the same salary to purchase series B shares during a twelve-month period. Investments made under increases as the national average. this programme also count as a basis for participation in the Share Matching Plan Long-term increase in basic income: Data from Statistics Sweden on current 2014, though only up to a maximum 5 per cent of base salary. If the purchased wage increases in the private sector provide an historical average during the period shares are retained by the employee for three years and employment within the Saab 1974–2000 of approximately 1 per cent above inflation. Group continues, the employee will be entitled to matching performance shares at Long-term inflation assumption: The long-term inflation assumption is based no cost, provided that the performance targets are met. The programme gives the on market pricing of inflation on maturities corresponding to the pension liability’s employee the right to 2–7 performance shares for each purchased share. duration. For 2014, the assumption is 1.5 per cent. The number of performance shares is linked to the performance targets establisMortality: Mortality is the same assumption recommended by the Financial hed by the Board of Directors. The conditions for the performance matching are Supervisory Authority (FFFS 2007:31), based on Makeham formulas for men and based on three independent targets: organic sales growth1), EBIT margin2) and opewomen. rating cash flow3-4) during the financial year 2015. The relative apportionment betMarriage: Marriage is the same assumption recommended by the Financial ween the targets is that 30 per cent of the allotment is attributable to organic sales Supervisory Authority (FFFS 2001:13). growth, 40 per cent to EBIT margin and 30 per cent to operating cash flow. The perEmployee turnover: The likelihood that an individual ends his/her employment is formance targets are established by the Board of Directors with a minimum level and assumed to be 3 per cent per year. a maximum level for each target. The Board of Directors will determine the performance matching after the conclusion of the one-year performance measuring Parent Company’s pension obligations period, i.e. the fiscal year 2015. If the maximum levels for the performance targets are Funds allocated for pensions according to the balance sheet correspond to the net reached or exceeded, the performance matching will amount to (and not exceed) the present value of existing pension obligations less funds that are secured by Saab’s maximum of 440,000 shares. If the performance outcome falls short of the maximum pension fund. level but exceeds the minimum level, a proportionate performance matching will occur. No performance matching will occur if the performance outcome amounts to or falls short of the minimum level. Performance shares are allotted three years after the investment, i.e. normally during 2018 and in January 2019. Before the performance matching is ultimately determined, the Board of Directors will assess whether the performance matching is reasonable in relation to the company’s financial results 108 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note 37, cont. and position, conditions in the stock market and other circumstances. If the Board of In April 2014, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved in the same way as in preDirectors determines that this is not the case, the Board of Directors will reduce the vious years to offer employees a Share Matching Plan and a modified Performance number of performance shares that will be matched to the lower number of shares Share Plan. The Performance Share Plan, which covers senior executives and key that the Board of Directors considers appropriate. employees, entitles participants to 2-7 matching shares, depending on the employee category. The plans commenced in January 2015 and continue through 1) Adjusted for acquisitions and divestments as well as exchange rate differences. the calendar year 2015. The two plans comprise a maximum of 1,340,000 shares. 2) Adjusted for acquisitions and divestments as well as non-recurring items. 3) As of 1 January 2014, free cash flow is reported for the Group. It was previously named operaShare Matching Plan 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total ting cash flow. The performance target related to cash flow in the Performance Share Plan Number of matching shares 2014 is named ”operating cash flow” according to the decision by the Annual General Meeting. at ­beginning of the year 278,869 463,804 411,988 1,154,661 In the Board’s proposal to the Performance Share Plan 2015 it suggests that the performance target related to cash flow that in the 2014 programme is named ”operating cash flow” will be Allotted during the year named ”free cash flow” in the 2015 programme. (purchased shares) 68,311 323,937 392,248 4) Adjusted for acquisitions and divestments as well as non-recurring items. Early share matching -7,326 -10,805 -7,683 -1,398 -27,212 Ordinary share 2010 Share Matching Plan matching -224,665 -224,665 In April 2010, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to adopt a fourth Share Forfeited matching Matching Plan with terms comparable to previous years’ plans. Matching took place shares -3,674 -5,155 -3,660 -4,763 -17,252 on three occasions in 2014 and once in January 2015, at which point the plan had Number of matching concluded. shares eligible at year-end 43,204 447,844 468,956 317,776 1,277,780 2011– 2013 Share Matching Plan Number of participants, 31 December 2014 1,935 2,651 3,191 3,678 For the 2011–2013 period, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to renew the Share Matching Plan with terms comparable to previous years’ plans. % of total number of employees 14 19 23 26 Number of Series B shares purchased and number of participants, Average remaining maturity, Share Matching Plan, 2010-2013 years 0.0 0.7 1.7 2.7 Number of Number of Share Matching Plan shares p­articipants Performance share Plan 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total 2010 303,033 2,315 Number of matching shares 2011 495,874 2,970 at ­beginning of the year 43,844 79,370 62,525 185,739 2012 491,142 3,475 Allotted during the year 2013 323,937 3,781 (purchased shares) 9,688 44,989 54,677 Early share matching -2,068 -861 -560 -3,489 2010 Performance Share Plan Ordinary share For 2010, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to adopt a renewed, third Permatching -36,696 -36,696 formance Share Plan with terms comparable to previous years’ plans. Following Forfeited matching the close of the measurement period on 31 December 2013 it was determined that shares -4,166 -2,450 -486 -7,102 the requirement of annual average earnings per share growth of 5 to 15 per cent Number of matching during the three-year period had been achieved and totalled approximately 77 per shares eligible at year-end 7,148 73,136 68,902 43,943 193,129 cent. Accordingly, participants have received a maximum matching award. MatchNumber of participants, ing has taken place on three occasions in 2014 and once in January 2015 with a 31 December 2014 95 156 168 161 total of 119,907 shares. Average remaining maturity, years 0.0 0.7 1.7 2.7 2011 Performance Share Plan For 2011 Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to adopt a renewed, fourth Total number of shares Performance Share Plan with revised terms as described above. After the measueligible at year-end 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total rement period, on 31 December 2014, it was determined that the requirement of annual average earnings per share growth of 5-15 per cent had not been achieved Share Matching Plan 43,204 447,844 468,956 317,776 1,277,780 during the three-year period, due to which no performance shares will be allocated Performance Share Plan 7,148 73,136 68,902 43,943 193,129 in 2015. Less: Shares included in both plans -73,136 -68,902 -43,943 -185,981 2012 Performance Share Plan Total 50,352 447,844 468,956 317,776 1,284,928 For 2012, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to adopt a renewed, fifth Performance Share Plan with terms comparable to the 2011 Share Plan. At year-end 2014, it was determined that the annual target of 5-15 per cent average earnings Recognised expense for above-mentioned plan, per share growth is unlikely to be achieved during the three-year period. ­including social security expenses 2014 2013 Share Matching Plan 2009 17 2013 Performance Share Plan Share Matching Plan 2010 17 16 In 2013, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to adopt a renewed, sixth Share Matching Plan 2011 23 20 Performance Share Plan with terms comparable to the 2011 Share Plan. Share Matching Plan 2012 28 10 Number of Series B shares purchased and number of participants, Share Matching Plan 2013 11 Performance Share Plan, 2010–2013 Performance Share Plan 2009 5 Number of Number of Performance Share Plan 2010 5 5 Share Matching Plan shares p­articipants Performance Share Plan 2011 -3 2010 46,972 115 Performance Share Plan 2012 -3 3 2011 85,474 176 Performance Share Plan 2013 2 2012 72,213 177 Total 83 73 2013 44,989 164 2014 Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan The expense for the share plans is included in operating income and is recognised in SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 109 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note 37, cont. the balance sheet as equity and accrued expenses (social security expenses). Admiseverance pay. The salary during the period of notice and severance will be deducnistrative expenses for the share matching plans amounted to MSEK 7 (6) in 2014. ted from income received from other employment during the same period. If the The expense is calculated as the fair value of the services rendered is based on President resigns voluntarily, there is a six-month period of notice with salary and the share price of the matching shares that are expected to be allotted. The share pension benefits, but no severance pay. The President’s agreement includes a price is determined at the time of the participants’ investment adjusted by the divinon-compete clause. dend that does not accrue to the employee during the vesting period. Remuneration to other senior executives SENIOR EXECUTIVES’ BENEFITS The group of other senior executives included 9 (9) individuals at 31 December Remuneration to Board members 2014; specifically, Executive Vice Presidents, Heads of the Business Areas and In accordance with the resolution of the Annual General Meeting, the fees paid to Heads of Group staffs. At 31 December 2014 Group Management was comprised members of the Board, for the term April 2014 – April 2015, amount to of Håkan Buskhe (President), Lennart Sindahl, Magnus Örnberg, Görgen JohansSEK 4,635,000 (4,435,000), consisting of SEK 1,230,000 (1,185,000) to the Chairson, Micael Johansson, Gunilla Fransson, Lars-Erik Wige, Annika Bäremo, Dan man, SEK 525,000 (490,000) to the Deputy Chairman and SEK 480,000 (460,000) Jangblad, and Lena Eliasson. to each of the other members elected by the Annual General Meeting, with the The salaries paid to other senior executives consist of a fixed salary. The preexception of the President. vious short-term variable portion was discontinued as of 2011 in accordance with For audit committee work during the term April 2014 – April 2015, committee the resolution of the Annual General Meeting. Compensation issues regarding the chairman Per-Arne Sandström also received a fee of SEK 180,000 (150,000) and other senior executives are prepared by the Head of Group Human Resources and committee members Johan Forssell and Joakim Westh each received a fee of presented to the President, who makes a decision pending the approval of the SEK 120,000 (100,000). Compensation Committee and the Board. For remuneration committee work, during the term April 2014 – April 2015, Of the other senior executives, two individuals received cash settlements of a committee chairman Lena Treschow Torell also received a fee of SEK 135,000 non-recurring nature upon recruitment according to a resolution 2012. An amount (135,000) and committee members Marcus Wallenberg and Sten Jakobsson each totalling SEK 1,990,000 will be paid during a period of 36 months from the start of received a fee of SEK 80,000 (80,000). employment. The payments are made monthly in the form of pension premiums Remuneration to Board members and committee members recognised as cost and are conditional upon the recipients not giving notice of termination of employfor fiscal year 2014 is shown in the table below. ment. SEK 663,336 has been paid during 2014. In her capacity as a consultant, Director Cecilia Stegö Chilò has also received Since November 2008, all eligible executives have participated in the compensation from Saab AB of SEK 170,000 (212,500 including VAT) to assist P­erformance Share Plans approved by the Annual General Meetings in 2009, the company on Public Affairs and communication issues in connection with the 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013 and in the Share Matching Plans 2011, 2012, and Gripen campaign in Switzerland during the period February – May 2014. The 2013. The Performance Share Plan 2010 was concluded in January 2015. Outconsulting assignment has been completed. standing matching rights in the Performance Share Plan 2010 amount to SEK 368,313 (1,637,726) as of 31 December 2014 at estimated outcomes and in Remuneration to the President the Performance Share Plan and the Share Matching Plan 2011 to SEK 637,833 The salary paid to the President and CEO consists of a fixed salary. The previous (357,831) as of 31 December 2014 at estimated outcomes. Corresponding figures short-term variable portion was discontinued as of 2011 in accordance with the for the Performance Share Plans and the Share Matching Plans 2012 and 2013 resolution of the Annual General Meeting. The preparation process for compensaamount to SEK 476,532 (548,191) and SEK 624,927, respectively, at estimated tion issues regarding the President is handled by the Board’s Remuneration Comoutcomes. mittee according to the principles laid down by the Annual General Meeting and In 2014, the other senior executives received salaries and other benefits totalling then voted on by the Board. SEK 34,550,213 (41,886,223), of which other benefits, including share related Håkan Buskhe has participated since 1 September 2010 in the Performance plans, amounted to SEK 3,616,076 (3,975,317). Share Plans approved by the 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013 Annual G­eneral Meetings and in the Share Matching Plans 2011, 2012, and 2013. Pension terms Outstanding matching rights in the Performance Share Plan 2010 amount to As of 1 January 2005, a pension age of 62 years applies to new executives. Among SEK 495,045 (2,114,977) as of 31 December 2014 at estimated outcomes and in other senior executives, one individual has a retirement age of 60 years. the Performance Share Plan and the Share Matching Plan 2011 to SEK 331,897 In addition to ITP, 9 members of the group (9) are affiliated with the Saab plan, (188,588) at estimated outcomes. Corresponding figures for the Performance which is defined-contribution and vested. The Saab plan provides pension benefits Share Plans and the Share Matching Plans 2012 and 2013 are SEK 196,889 in addition to ITP or its equivalent on salary levels between 20 and 30 basic (334,391) and 362,585 respectively, at estimated outcomes. amounts as well as on salary segments over 30 basic amounts. The individuals During the period 1 January through 31 December 2014, Håkan Buskhe receithemselves can decide on the payment term, though this must fall within the provived salary and other benefits totalling SEK 12,003,325 (11,584,583), of which sions of Swedish income tax law. Moreover, an insurance policy finances the period other benefits, including share related plans, amounted to SEK 1,407,998 between the ages of 60 or 62 years and 65 years. (1,701,415). The pension cost for Saab consists of pension premiums, which are based on a percentage of qualifying salaries. The percentage rate is determined by each Pension terms executive’s time remaining until the pension age, 60 or 62 years, when joining the The retirement age for the President is 62 years. The President has a defined-conplan. The aggregate insurance balance should cover a targeted pension from tribution pension plan. He may decide himself on the payment term, though this 65 years of approximately 32.5 per cent of salary levels between 20 and 30 basic must fall within the provisions of Swedish income tax law. The pension cost for amounts and approximately 50 per cent of segments over 30 basic amounts of Saab consists of pension premiums amounting to 35 per cent of the fixed salary. qualifying salaries. Premium payments continue as long as the individuals remain in Pension premiums are paid as long as the President remains an employee of the their positions or as employees of the company. company, but not beyond the age of 62. During his first five years of employment, Pension obligations are vested. In 2014, pension costs for other senior executithe President also receives an extra pension contribution of SEK 440,000 per year, ves, including ITP and its equivalent, amounted to SEK 12,063,664 (13,533,737). payment of which is made annually and is conditional on Håkan Buskhe remaining Other senior executives are entitled, or obliged if the company so requests, to retire an employee. on pension as of the age of 60 or 62 years. To this is added the cost of pension premiums according to the ITP plan. The pension commitment is vested. Severance terms For 2014, the cost of Håkan Buskhe’s pension, including ITP, was If terminated by the company, the group of other senior executives will receive a SEK 4,222,203 (3,594,269). salary and pension benefits for six months (period of notice). Thereafter they will receive severance pay equivalent to 18 months of salary, based on their fixed Severance terms salary. Severance is paid monthly with the first payment in the month after employIf terminated by the company, the President will receive a salary and pension benement has ended. Severance is not paid for the period that falls after the contractual fits for a period of six months (period of notice). Thereafter he will receive severance pension age. Employees hired before 1 January 2005 who have reached the age of pay equivalent to one year of salary, based on his current fixed salary. If the Presi55 are entitled to another six months of severance. dent does not obtain new employment, he will receive an additional six months of The salary during the period of notice and severance will be deducted from 110 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note 37, cont. income received from other employment during the same period. If they resign Other benefits voluntarily, there is a six-month period of notice with salary and pension benefits, All senior executives have a company car and medical insurance. Several senior but no severance pay. executives also have benefits in the form of overnight housing and travel. Summary of compensation and other benefits during 2014 Outstanding matching Base salary/ Share rights in share Board and Variable related Other Pension related plans at SEK committee fee compen­sation plans 2) ­benefits3) cost Total estimated outcomes 2) Chairman of the Board Marcus Wallenberg 1,298,750 1,298,750 Deputy Chairman Sten Jakobsson 596,250 596,250 Other Board members Sara Mazur 475,000 475,000 Johan Forssell 590,000 590,000 Per-Arne Sandström 647,500 647,5004) Cecilia Stegö Chilò 475,000 475,000 Lena Treschow Torell 610,000 610,0004) Joakim Westh 590,000 590,000 President and CEO Håkan Buskhe 10,595,327 1,366,099 41,899 4,222,203 16,225,528 1,386,416 Other senior executives 30,270,801 663,3361) 1,804,352 1,811,724 12,063,664 46,613,877 2,107,656 Total 46,148,628 663,336 3,170,451 1,853,623 16,285,867 68,121,905 3,494,072 1) Including remuneration to two senior executives, which, according to a resolution, was paid in the form of pension premiums, see information for 2013 below. 2) Share related plans relate to both Share Matching Plans and Performance Share Plans. 3) Including compensation for the additional costs the benefits lead to. 4) Social security costs must be added since parts of the fees are invoiced through a limited company. Board members who invoice the amount for board and committee fees through a limited company may on their invoices add an amount for social security contributions. The social security contributions included in the invoiced amount do not exceed the employer’s contribution the company otherwise would have paid. Guidelines for remuneration and other benefits for senior executives are described in the administration report. Summary of compensation and other benefits during 2013 Outstanding matching Base salary/ rights in share Board and Variable Share related Other Pension related plans at SEK committee fee compen­sation plans 3) ­benefits 4) cost Total estimated outcomes 3) Chairman of the Board Marcus Wallenberg 1,260,000 1,260,000 Deputy Chairman Sten Jakobsson 567,500 567,500 Other Board members Sara Mazur 345,000 345,0005) Åke Svensson 112,500 112,5006) Johan Forssell 557,500 557,500 Per-Arne Sandström 607,500 607,500 Cecilia Stegö Chilò 457,500 457,500 Lena Treschow Torell 592,500 592,5007) Joakim Westh 557,500 557,500 President and CEO Håkan Buskhe 9,883,168 1,644,736 56,679 3,594,269 15,178,852 3,010,124 Other senior executives 36,103,0011) 1,807,9052) 2,018,173 1,957,144 13,533,737 55,419,960 2,850,239 Total 51,043,669 1,807,905 3,662,909 2,013,823 17,128,006 75,656,312 5,860,363 1) Including estimated remuneration allocated for senior executives who left Group Management in 2013. 2) Including remuneration to two senior executives, which, according to a resolution in 2012, is paid in the form of pension premiums during a period of 36 months from the start of employment and cash settlements to one senior executive, according to a resolution in 2013. 3) Share related plans relate to both Share Matching Plans and Performance Share Plans. 4) Including compensation for the additional costs the benefits lead to. 5) Was elected to the Board in April 2013 and has received remuneration for the period April-December. 6) Left the Board of Directors in April 2013, after informing that he had declined re-election, and has received remuneration for the period January-March. 7) Social security costs must be added since parts of the fees are invoiced through a limited company. Board members who invoice the amount for board and committee fees through a limited company may on their invoices add an amount for social security contributions. The social security contributions included in the invoiced amount do not exceed the employer’s contribution the company otherwise would have paid. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 111 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES NOTE 38 PROVISIONS Other provisions Parent MSEK Group Company Group Opening balance, 1 January 2014 583 235 MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Provisions allocated during the year 212 135 Provisions that are long-term liabilities Business combinations 522 Obligations related to regional aircraft 207 515 Amount utilised during the year -151 -87 Expenditures for restructuring measures 58 84 Reversal of unutilised amount -138 -22 Onerous contracts 223 161 Translation differences and other 15 Other 746 283 Closing balance, 31 December 2014 1,043 261 Total 1,234 1,043 Provisions that are current liabilities Total provisions Parent Obligations related to regional aircraft 59 100 MSEK Group Company Expenditures for restructuring measures 53 137 Opening balance, 1 January 2014 1,702 832 Onerous contracts 103 122 Provisions allocated during the year 409 243 Other 297 300 Business combinations 601 Total 512 659 Amount utilised during the year -835 -367 Reversal of unutilised amount -227 -70 Parent Company Reclassification 11 MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Translation differences and other 85 Obligations related to regional aircraft 217 270 Closing balance, 31 December 2014 1,746 638 Expenditures for restructuring measures 48 164 Onerous contracts 112 163 Regional aircraft Other 261 235 Commitments regarding regional aircraft refer to obligations remaining after the terTotal 638 832 mination of the leasing portfolio, that will be terminated during 2015. Obligations related to regional aircraft Restructuring Parent Structural costs primarily relate to the costs to adapt resources and change­over MSEK Group Company costs. The expenditure is expected to fall in 2015–2016. Opening balance, 1 January 2014 615 270 Onerous contracts Amount utilised during the year -414 -53 Provisions for onerous contracts on the closing day relate to command and control Translation differences and other 65 projects, Helicopter 14 and certain other military projects. The provisions are utiliClosing balance, 31 December 2014 266 217 sed in pace with the project’s completion. Other provisions Expenditures for restructuring measures Parent Other provisions primarily relate to provisions for guarantees and remaining costs in MSEK Group Company projects as well as for environmental commitments. Opening balance, 1 January 2014 221 164 No provision has been made for liability risks associated with the production of civil Provisions allocated during the year 70 46 aircraft or the production of sub-components for civil aircraft. Business combinations 2 Business combinations 2014 relate to ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems AB. Amount utilised during the year -170 -149 Reversal of unutilised amount -14 -13 Reclassification 2 NOTE 39 OTHER LIABILITIES Closing balance, 31 December 2014 111 48 Group Onerous contracts MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Parent Other long-term liabilities MSEK Group Company Liabilities to previous owners and minority owners 76 113 Opening balance, 1 January 2014 283 163 Liabilities related to employees 46 43 Provisions allocated during the year 127 62 Other 19 23 Business combinations 77 Total 141 179 Amount utilised during the year -100 -78 Of which liabilities due for payment more than five years Reversal of unutilised amount -75 -35 after closing day 32 72 Reclassification 9 Other current liabilities Translation differences and other 5 Value-added tax 328 165 Closing balance, 31 December 2014 326 112 Employee withholding taxes 226 205 Liabilities to associated companies 21 6 Other 403 463 Total 978 839 112 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note 39, cont. Parent Company NOTE 41 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Value-added tax 222 81 Employee withholding taxes 141 148 Saab’s financial assets and liabilities and contractual obligations give rise to Other 458 704 financial risks. These risks are managed to a large extent with various financial instruments. Total 821 933 Of which liabilities due for payment more than five years Financial risk management after closing day 43 The Board of Directors of Saab has approved a Group Treasury Policy, which provides an overall description of the management of financial risks and treasury opeOther liabilities in the Parent Company include both interest-bearing and nonrations. The goal is to identify and actively manage financial risks in order to reduce interest-bearing liabilities. For a comparison with the Group, see also note 35. the negative impact on the Group’s results, competitive strength and financial flexiSaab does not consider there to be a significant difference between book bility. and fair value. The financial risks are defined as follows: NOTE 40 ACCRUED EXPENSES AND • Foreign currency risk • Interest rate risk DEFERRED INCOME • Liquidity and financing risk • Commodity risk Group Parent Company • Credit and counterparty risk MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Saab uses derivatives primarily to: Accrued expenses • convert anticipated commercial cash flows in foreign currency to SEK Vacation pay liability 995 914 719 698 • convert the fixed interest periods for assets and liabilities Accrued project costs 944 852 508 563 Social security expenses 613 435 473 324 Responsibility for managing the Group’s financial risks and developing methods and principles to manage financial risks is centralised in Group Treasury. The opeExpected invoices 306 266 144 192 rating business areas have directives and processes that describe how financial Personnel liabilities 263 237 165 178 risks shall be managed. Furthermore, Group Management has issued detailed Claims reserve 80 101 11 2 directives and guidelines for Group Treasury’s operations. Royalties and Management of insurance is centralised in the Group’s insurance company, Lancommissions 60 134 39 114 sen Försäkrings AB, where external transactions are handled as well. Customer Other 285 316 365 232 finance, guaranty and finance issues are also managed by Group Treasury. The Group’s internal bank, Saab Treasury, is responsible for the Group’s cash Total accrued management, financing, management of interest rate and currency risks and also expenses 3,546 3,255 2,424 2,303 electricity price risks. Saab has an agreement with an external party to manage the Group’s electricity price risks through discretionary management. Other commoDeferred income dity risk is managed primarily through contractual clauses. Liabilities to customers 2,038 2,456 1,528 2,162 To a limited extent, the Group Treasury Policy allows proprietary trading in inteCapitalised changes in rest rate and currency instruments. The main purpose of this trading is to gain value related to forward access to qualitative market information and maintain a high level of market expercontract rollovers 194 330 tise. Saab Treasury has a risk mandate expressed as VaR (Value at Risk) of Other 25 24 21 24 MSEK 50 (50), which is divided between management of economic risks in the Tender to Contract portfolio, trading and electricity derivatives. During the year, Total deferred income 2,063 2,480 1,743 2,516 approximately MSEK 15 was allocated to the trading portfolio, approximately Total 5,609 5,735 4,167 4,819 MSEK 1 to electricity derivatives and approximately MSEK 34 to the Tender to Contract portfolio. VaR is a probability-based method based on historical price fluctuations and correlations and is considered a standard in the financial industry. Saab does not consider there to be a significant difference between book The method provides an estimation of the maximum loss over a specific number of and fair value. days, with a certain probability. Saab uses three days and a 99-per cent probability. The Treasury Risk Analysis unit reports each portfolio’s risk defined according to established risk measures to Saab’s CFO on a daily basis. Financial instruments Financial assets in the Group mainly comprise accounts receivable, accrued income, interest-bearing receivables, liquid assets, fixed income investments and derivatives with positive market values. Saab’s financial liabilities mainly comprise interest-bearing liabilities, accounts payable, accrued expenses and derivatives with negative market values. The following tables show a subdivided statement of financial position categorised and classified according to IAS 39. A more detailed description of the categories can be found in note 1, Accounting principles. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 113 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note 41, cont. Fair value Designated through other as at fair Loans Total Classification and Fair value comprehenvalue receivable Derivatives Derivatives financial categorisation of through prosive income through Held-toand identified as identified assets financial assets and fit and loss as availableprofit maturity accounts Financial cash flow as fair value and Measured liabilities for trading for-sale and loss investments receivable ­liabilities hedges hedges ­liabilities at fair value 31-12-2014 Financial assets Financial investments 121 29 142 292 294 Long-term receivables 152 152 152 Derivatives1) Forward exchange contracts 14 401 7 422 422 Currency options 45 45 45 Interest rate swaps Electricity derivatives 2 2 2 Total derivatives 61 401 7 469 469 Accounts receivable and other receivables 8,152 8,152 8,152 Short-term investments 1,270 1,270 1,270 Liquid assets 1,284 1,284 1,284 Total financial assets 61 121 1,299 142 9,588 401 7 11,619 11,621 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 2,369 2,369 2,406 Derivatives1) Forward exchange contracts 61 1,192 5 1,258 1,258 Currency options 48 48 48 Interest rate swaps 9 78 87 87 Electricity derivatives 2 5 7 7 Total derivatives 120 1,275 5 1,400 1,400 Other liabilities 5,243 5,243 5,243 Total financial liabilities 120 7,612 1,275 5 9,012 9,049 1) Refers to reported values, market value excluding premiums and accrued interest. Otherwise no significant differences between reported and fair value. 114 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note 41, cont. Fair value Designated through other as at fair Loans Total Classification and Fair value comprehenvalue receivable Derivatives Derivatives financial categorisation of through prosive income through Held-toand identified as identified assets financial assets and fit and loss as availableprofit maturity accounts Financial cash flow as fair value and Measured liabilities for trading for-sale and loss investments receivable ­liabilities hedges hedges ­liabilities at fair value 31-12-2013 Financial assets Financial investments 114 40 141 295 293 Long-term receivables 129 129 129 Derivatives1) Forward exchange contracts 24 347 5 376 376 Currency options 8 8 8 Interest rate swaps 6 6 6 Electricity derivatives 6 6 6 Total derivatives 38 353 5 396 396 Accounts receivable and other receivables 7,378 7,378 7,378 Short-term investments 2,002 2,002 2,002 Liquid assets 1,764 1,764 1,764 Total financial assets 38 114 2,042 141 9,271 353 5 11,964 11,962 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 1,709 1,709 1,714 Derivatives1) Forward exchange contracts 11 269 1 281 281 Currency options 12 12 12 Interest rate swaps 5 5 5 Electricity derivatives 7 11 18 18 Total derivatives 35 280 1 316 316 Other liabilities 5,300 5,300 5,300 Total financial liabilities 35 7,009 280 1 7,325 7,330 1) Refers to reported values, market value excluding premiums and accrued interest. Otherwise no significant differences between reported and fair value. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 115 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note 41, cont. The Group’s outstanding derivatives Currency derivatives Fair value 2014 Fair value 2013 Local Local Million Currency currency Asset SEK Liability SEK Net currency Asset SEK Liability SEK Net Maturity up to 1 year EUR -298 45 96 -51 -287 57 74 -17 USD -161 187 463 -276 -531 88 39 49 Other 46 100 -54 41 49 -8 Subtotal 278 659 -381 186 162 24 Maturity 1 to 3 years EUR -112 28 71 -43 -125 51 69 -18 USD -421 39 413 -374 -394 94 35 59 Other 20 24 -4 11 13 -2 Subtotal 87 508 -421 156 117 39 Maturity 3 to 5 years EUR -8 7 11 -4 -17 9 6 3 USD 74 73 125 -52 -242 26 2 24 Other 14 3 11 1 -1 Subtotal 94 139 -45 35 9 26 Maturity over 5 years EUR 41 2 4 -2 -15 5 3 2 USD 96 29 29 -14 2 2 Other 17 17 Subtotal 48 4 44 7 3 4 Currency derivatives, total1) 507 1,310 -803 384 291 93 1) Retained premiums on open currency option contracts amount to MSEK 36 (3). Interest derivatives Fair value 2014 Fair value 2013 Local Local Million Currency currency Asset SEK Liability SEK Net currency Asset SEK Liability SEK Net Maturity up to 1 year SEK 303 8 -8 USD 1 Subtotal 8 -8 Maturity 1 to 3 years SEK 217 12 -12 USD 5 2 -2 Subtotal 12 -12 2 -2 Maturity 3 to 5 years SEK 1,650 79 -79 967 5 4 1 Subtotal 79 -79 5 4 1 Interest derivatives, total2) 91 -91 5 14 -9 2) Market value includes accrued interest of MSEK -4 (-9). Electricity derivatives Fair value 2014 Fair value 2013 Million Megawatt Asset SEK Liability SEK Net Megawatt Asset SEK Liability SEK Net Maturity up to 1 year 20 2 6 -4 19 6 16 -10 Subtotal 2 6 -4 6 16 -10 Maturity 1 to 3 years 11 1 -1 14 2 -2 Subtotal 1 -1 2 -2 Electricity derivatives, total 2 7 -5 6 18 -12 Total derivatives Fair value 2014 Fair value 2013 Million Asset SEK Liability SEK Net Asset SEK Liability SEK Net DERIVATIVES, TOTAL 509 1,408 -899 395 323 72 (of which derivatives used for cash flow hedges) -897 74 Accrued interest and retained premiums, see footnotes 1 and 2 above -32 -32 -6 6 Netting accrued interest and premiums -8 -8 1 -1 2 DERIVATIVES ACCORDING TO GROUP’S FINANCIAL POSITION 469 1,400 -931 396 316 80 116 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note 41, cont. Foreign currency risk Transaction exposure The Group hedges the entire order backlog with the help of currency derivatives. Future cash flows in foreign currency from the order backlog and framework agreeAs a result, changes in exchange rates do not affect the Group’s future results with ments are hedged to safeguard gross margins. In 2014, countries outside Sweden respect to the current order backlog. Future order bookings are exposed to fluctuaccounted for 55 per cent (59) of Saab’s sales. Since a large part of production ations in exchange rates in terms of competitive strength. This is managed partly takes place in Sweden with expenses denominated in SEK, Saab has large net by Group Treasury, which hedges the economic exposure in fixed price tenders. flows in foreign currency. The order backlog contains contracted flows and therefore constitutes a transDefinitions action exposure. The predominant contract currencies in the order backlog of Foreign currency risk refers to the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates will SEK 60.1 billion (59.9) are SEK, USD, EUR and GBP. Of the total order backlog, negatively affect income. Exchange rate fluctuations affect Saab’s income and 47 per cent (46) is in fixed prices with or without indexing, while the remaining equity in various ways: 53 per cent (54) contains variable prices with index and/or currency clauses. • Income is affected when sales and the cost of goods and services sold are in Netting is applied at the Group level to minimise the transaction exposure in currencies other than the functional currency (economic and transaction expoforeign currencies, which means incoming currency is utilised to pay for purchases sure) in the same currency. Currency clauses or transactions in the currency market with • Income is affected when the income of foreign Group companies is translated to forward exchange contracts as hedging instruments are used as well. Hedges are SEK (translation exposure) normally arranged for each specific contract. The average forward rate is then used • Income or equity is affected when the assets and liabilities of foreign Group as the contract’s rate for revenue recognition. companies are translated to SEK (translation exposure) The currency sensitivity of the market value of outstanding external hedges for • Income can be affected by impairment tests of non-hedged future cash flows in the order backlog and framework agreements; i.e., the effect of a change in foreign currency in unprofitable contracts (impairment testing) exchange rates in the net result of cash flow hedges in equity (pre-tax) where the SEK depreciates (making foreign currency more expensive) or appreciates, is Saab separates the above-mentioned types of exposure in risk management. shown in the following table. Policy descriptions are provided under each exposure. Framework agreements, which contain both transaction and economic Market SEK SEK exposures, are in place mainly for the various civil aeronautics programmes. value­ depreciation appreciation 31-12-2014 of 10% of 10% Economic exposure Market value in MSEK -792 -1,332 -252 Fixed-price tenders in foreign currency entail a foreign currency risk that constitutes Change -540 540 an economic exposure. This risk is limited primarily through contract formulations (foreign currency clauses). The currency sensitivity in the order backlog; i.e. the effect of a change in exchange In cases where fixed-price tenders are issued in foreign currency, the net exporates where the SEK depreciates or appreciates, is shown in the following table. In sure is usually hedged with financial instruments. The foreign currency risk that arithe table the order backlog for foreign subsidiaries is translated into MSEK. ses for tenders is managed by Saab Treasury within the framework of the Tender to Contract portfolio. The purpose of the portfolio is to minimise the Group’s foreign Market SEK SEK currency risk during the tender period and reduce hedging costs. The following value­ depreciation appreciation table shows outstanding nominal net hedges by currency as of year-end. 31-12-2014 of 10% of 10% Order backlog, MSEK 60,128 60,639 59,617 Forward Change 511 -511 contracts1) Options2) Total hedge Net hedges (million) 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Hedge accounting according to IAS 39 is applied to derivatives intended to hedge USD -242 -119 389 -138 147 -257 the transaction exposure. The inefficiency in the cash flow hedges that affected net income for the year amount to MSEK 0 (2). EUR -52 -40 -63 -68 -115 -108 In the event the cash flow is far in the future, an extension strategy can be appGBP -18 -6 -3 -4 -21 -10 lied, the currency hedge can be shifted to an earlier date than when the cash flow is HKD -96 -96 expected and hedge accounting for that time period is then applied to changes in CZK 50 50 the spot price. 1) Also contains sold call and put options. 2) Refers to the net of purchased call and put options. The tender insurance portfolio is governed by a risk measure based on a probability-weighted VaR measure consisting of two parts. One part is the cumulative VaR measure of the external hedge for each tender hedge. The other part is the cumulative VaR measure of the benchmark hedge for each tender hedge. The benchmark hedge is the hedge to be used externally based on Group Treasury policy. If the external hedges for the portfolio’s tender hedges correspond with the portfolio’s pre-defined benchmark hedges, the tender insurance portfolio will by definition be risk-neutral – i.e., its VaR measure will be zero. The VaR for tender hedge portfolio amounted to MSEK 7 (15) at year-end. Hedge accounting is not applied to the portfolio’s hedges, due to which the Group’s results are affected by the outcome of the tenders and the exchange rate for the underlying currency pair. The portfolio’s effect on the Group’s result in 2014 was MSEK -5 (-26). SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 117 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note 41, cont. The table below shows the cash flows for the derivatives recognised as cash flow hedges, expressed in millions in local currency. Cash flow hedges by currency AUD CZK EUR GBP THB USD ZAR OutOutOutOutOutOutOutMillion flow Inflow Net flow Inflow Net flow Inflow Net flow Inflow Net flow Inflow Net flow Inflow Net flow Inflow Net < 90 days -13 2 -11 -58 6 -52 -44 127 83 -5 16 11 -462 894 432 -106 159 53 -20 -20 91-180 days -4 1 -3 -23 10 -13 -13 38 25 -5 6 1 -110 562 452 -49 90 41 -5 -5 181-210 days -10 1 -9 -15 6 -9 -8 30 22 -3 4 1 -64 118 54 -31 60 29 -1 -1 211-360 days -4 -4 -23 6 -17 -6 32 26 -5 3 -2 -88 290 202 -112 118 6 -1 -1 2016 -10 1 -9 -1 24 23 -27 88 61 -13 16 3 -20 182 162 -206 340 134 -16 -16 2017 -7 -7 6 6 -9 39 30 -12 11 -1 -178 224 46 2018 -3 -3 -6 14 8 -12 3 -9 -189 221 32 2019 -10 8 -2 -19 1 -18 -118 92 -26 2020 and forward -55 14 -41 -47 -47 -98 150 52 Total flows 2014 -51 5 -46 -120 58 -62 -178 390 212 -121 60 -61 -744 2,046 1,302 -1,087 1,454 367 -43 -43 Total flows 2013 -35 6 -29 -111 83 -28 -119 401 282 -38 101 63 -369 2,589 2,220 -249 1,068 819 -40 -40 Translation exposure Impairment tests The translation exposure in the Group relates to the operations of foreign subsidiaLong-term contracts, primarily in USD, in commercial aircraft programmes consist ries. Saab Aircraft Leasing’s operations in Sweden have their economic environmeof a hedged order backlog and estimated future orders (business case) with cash nts in USD (functional currency) and are translated from the functional currency to flows. Cash flows from the latter are normally hedged when they become confirSEK. The translation exposure comprises net assets in foreign currency and arises med orders. In connection with impairment tests of onerous contracts, income is in connection with acquisitions and divestments. The value of equity subject to affected by the revaluation of future cash flows at spot rates. Larger changes in translation exposure amounted to MSEK 4,072 (3,460) at year-end; see the table exchange rates, primarily in USD against SEK, have a significant impact on income. below. This exposure is not hedged. Net assets translated to SEK Interest rate risks Interest rate risk refers to the risk that Saab will be negatively affected by changes MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 in interest rate levels. USD 1,826 1,552 Interest rate risk has been identified in the following areas: EUR 650 601 • Saab is exposed to interest rate risk when the market value of certain items in the AUD 472 442 statement of financial position is affected by changes in underlying interest rates. ZAR 361 289 Large items of this type refer to pension obligations and leasing operations. Other currencies 763 576 • Saab’s net financial items are affected by changes in market rates. Interest rate effects on advance financing affect gross income. Total 4,072 3,460 Interest rate risks in the Group’s financial investments are managed based on high The effect on net assets of a change in exchange rates where the SEK depreciates liquidity and a duration of 12 months, with the option of deviating by +/– 12 or appreciates is shown in the table below. months. As of year-end, the duration for investments was 10 months (7). Interest rate risks in the Group’s funding must not exceed 60 months duration. As of yearSensitivity analysis of net assets end, the duration for financing was 49 months (55). Currency swaps that are used to hedge commercial currency flows contain an interest component. For currency Net assets SEK appreciation SEK depreciation flows far in the future, pricing of currency swaps may be ineffective. As a result, only MSEK 31-12-2014 of 10% of 10% part of the interest rate risk in future currency flows was hedged during the year USD 1,826 1,643 2,009 (the hedges have been made for shorter periods than the expected flows). The EUR 650 585 715 underlying flows that are exposed to extensions through currency swaps amount to MUSD 248. AUD 472 425 519 Interest rate futures and swaps are used for interest risk management to achieve ZAR 361 325 397 the desired duration in the financing. For a sensitivity analysis, see also the section Other currencies 763 687 839 on liquidity and financing risks. Lending to subsidiaries in foreign currency is norTotal 4,072 3,665 4,479 mally financed in SEK, which is converted to the subsidiary’s currency through swaps. Interest rate swaps in USD are used mainly for interest risk management in Change -407 407 the leasing portfolio, where the interest rate risk is fully matched. The pension liability, the present value of future pension obligations, is the largest The foreign currency risk to the Group’s income and equity from translation effects interest rate risk due to the liability’s long duration; see also the Pension Fund section. (the translation exposure) is not hedged, pursuant to the Group Treasury Policy. 118 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note 41, cont. Liquidity and financing risks MSEK Note 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Liquidity and financing risk refers to the risk that the company will not be able to meet its payment obligations due to insufficient liquidity or difficulty raising external Liabilities loans on acceptable terms. According to the Group Treasury Policy, Saab must Liabilities to credit institutions 35 2,001 1,001 always maintain unutilised credit facilities or liquid assets corresponding to Liabilities to associated companies and MSEK 3,000, adjusted for loans with maturity date within 12 months (“Free Cash”). joint ventures 35 244 244 Free Cash shall however never amount to less than the lowest of: Other interest-bearing liabilities 35 124 568 • 10 per cent of sales (total sales) Provisions for pensions1) 37 2,587 1,425 • 50 per cent of outstanding on-demand guarantees for the three largest commitments Total interest-bearing liabilities 4,956 3,238 Net liquidity -2,113 813 Liquidity and financing risks are minimised by diversifying financing sources and 1) Excluding provisions for pensions attributable to special employers’ contribution. maturities. Saab’s policy is to insure on-demand guarantees for major projects against As of 31 December 2014, net liquidity amounted to MSEK -2,113 (813) with an unauthorised use. This applies to contracts where the counterparty is classified as average during the year of MSEK -1,185 (1,126). The sensitivity analysis below a developing country according to the definition of the Export Credits Guarantee shows the effect on income of an increase in market interest rates and in the credit Board (EKN). Insurance can be obtained from state guarantee institutions or the margin of 1 percentage point for Saab’s investments. private insurance market. Investments in interest-bearing securities and bank deposits Saab has access to the following credit facilities: Sensitivity analysis of financial risk Loan facilities MSEK Facility Utilised Available Effect Effect of of market credit Effect on Club loan (matures 2016)1) 4,000 4,000 MSEK Fixed interest Tied-up spread, financial Total confirmed credit facilities 4,000 4,000 Maturities interest1) rate, 1% capital 1% costs Commercial paper 5,000 5,000 1 year 1,035 10.4 818 8.2 18.6 Medium Term Notes (MTN) 3,000 2,000 1,000 2 years Total loan programmes 8,000 2,000 6,000 3 years Total loan facilities 12,000 2,000 10,000 4 years -17 -0.2 200 2.0 1.8 1) The club loan was renegotiated in January 2015 and now matures 2020. 5 years and forward 200 2.0 200 2.0 4.0 The club loan is a credit facility with an equivalent value of MSEK 4,000 evenly divided Total 1,218 12.2 1,218 12.2 24.4 between eight banks. In January 2015, this was renegotiated with an initial term of Adjustment2) 52 five years to 2020 with a possibility to extend the term with one plus one year. No Total 1,270 financial covenants are attached to the club loan or the other credit facilities. A commercial paper programme with a limit of MSEK 5,000 is available as well. 1) Effects of derivative agreements entered are included in the fixed interest. Neither the commercial paper programme nor the club loan was utilised in 2014. 2) Adjustment of nominal value compared to book value due to market valuation In 2009, Saab established a Medium Term Note (MTN) programme with a limit of at a premium or discount. MSEK 3,000 or an equivalent value in EUR. The MTN programme provides access to financing for up to 15 years, which is an element in diversifying loan maturities. Current interest-bearing liabilities amount to MSEK 264 (718). Long-term interestDuring 2014, MTN loans in the amount of MSEK 1,000 were issued. bearing liabilities amount to MSEK 2,105 (1,095) and mainly consist of a MTN proIn addition, Saab has an established programme for the sale of trade receivables gramme of MSEK 2,000. Of the long-term interest-bearing liabilities, MSEK 2,036 with a framework of MSEK 1,475 of which utilised at 31 December 2014, (1,036) matures within 1-5 years and MSEK 69 (59) in more than 5 years. MSEK 1,071 (555). The maturity structure of liabilities to credit institutions is indicated in the tied-up capital column of the “Sensitivity analysis of financial risk” table. The volume of tiedNet liquidity up capital includes interest rate swaps. For the interest rate swaps that refers to Net liquidity excluding interest-bearing receivables and net pension obligations adjustment of the fixed interest for the financing, hedge accounting is applied. No amounted to MSEK 185 (1,953) on 31 December 2014. Liquidity decreased during inefficiency has affected the net income for the year. The sensitivity analysis below the year, and liquidity was invested as per the Group Treasury Policy. At year-end, shows the effect on income of an increase in market interest rates and in the credit investments in interest-bearing securities and bank deposits amounted to margin of 1 percentage point for Saab’s refinancing of credits. MSEK 1,270 (3,115). Financing (refers to utilised credit facilities) Net liquidity Sensitivity analysis of financial risk MSEK Note 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Effect Effect of of market credit Effect on Assets MSEK Fixed interest Tied-up spread, financial Liquid assets 31 1,284 1,764 Maturities interest1) rate, 1% capital 1% costs Short-term investments 25 1,270 2,002 1 year Total liquid investments 2,554 3,766 2 years 3 years Short-term interest-bearing receivables 27 5 33 4 years 1,000 10.0 1,000 10.0 20.0 Long-term interest-bearing receivables 27 83 75 5 years and Long-term receivables attributable to forward 1,000 10.0 1,000 10.0 20.0 pensions 27 59 36 Total 2,000 20.0 2,000 20.0 40.0 Long-term interest-bearing financial investments 25 142 141 1) In the fixed interest effects of derivative agreements entered are included. Total interest-bearing assets 2,843 4,051 Commodity risks Price risks are divided into two parts: • Commodity price risk refers to the risk that purchasing costs for material will rise. • Electricity price risk refers to the risk that Saab could be negatively affected by changes in electricity prices. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 119 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note 41, cont. According to the Group’s policy, commodity risk is minimised and managed primaSince accounts receivable are largely secured via bank or insurance guarantees rily through contract clauses with customers/suppliers. To minimise the risk to or are attributable to states, the commercial credit risk is low despite overdue Saab’s operating margin, future electricity consumption is hedged. This is done by receivables. hedging projected consumption according to a model where 100 per cent of the next quarter’s consumption is hedged. The hedging level then drops on a straightAdvances paid to suppliers line basis to 0 per cent in quarter 13. Swedish units consume around 134 GWH per Advances paid to suppliers constitute a credit risk, since the counterparty’s serviyear (138) with a spot price risk of MSEK 1.3 (1.4) per every time the price of electrices have not been fully rendered. As of 31 December 2014, the Group had paid its city changes by SEK 0.01. Electricity directives are managed through a discretiosuppliers advances of MSEK 35 (145). As the Group’s policy is to maintain banknary management mandate, under which the manager has the mandate to accept guaranteed security for any advances it pays, the commercial supplier credit risk is risks in relation to benchmarks (hedging strategy) at the equivalent of MSEK 1 (1) considered low. expressed in VaR. The market value of electricity derivatives as of year-end was MSEK -5 (-12). Since 1 January 2010, electricity derivatives are used as cash flow Financial credit risks hedges for the Stockholm price area (SE3). Inefficiency affecting net income for the Financial credit risk consists of exposures to banks through deposits, securities year amounted to MSEK 0 (0). investments and/or the market value of outstanding derivatives. Credit and counterparty risks The Group’s policy for managing financial credit risks is to: Credit risk is the risk that the counterparty in a transaction will not be able to fulfil • Ensure that all financial counterparties have a long-term credit rating of no lower the financial obligations of a contract. In the course of its day-to-day operations, than A from Standard and Poor’s or A3 from Moody’s Saab is exposed to credit risks as a result of transactions with counterparties in the • Assign each financial counterparty a credit limit based on its long-term credit form of customers, suppliers and financial players. The Group’s aggregate credit rating risks consist of commercial credit risks and financial credit risks. • Enter into ISDA master agreements with financial counterparties to net the positive and negative market values of outstanding derivatives, see tables below. Commercial credit risks Commercial credit risks consist of outstanding accounts receivable and advances Market value of financial assets and liabilities subject to paid to suppliers. According to the Group’s policy, commercial credit risks are idenn­etting arrangements tified and actively managed on a case-by-case basis. Credit risks that arise in Net Master Collateral customer contracts are managed by utilising available banking, insurance or export amount in netting received/ credit institutions. According to the policy, credit risks that arise through advances Gross balance arrangeassets Net paid to suppliers are managed by always maintaining bank-guaranteed security for 2014 amount Set-off sheet ments pledged amount any advances. Currency derivatives 507 507 -415 92 Accounts receivable Interest rate On 31 December 2014, the Group’s outstanding accounts receivable amounted to derivatives MSEK 3,414 (3,295). The programme for the sale of trade receivables reduced Electricity accounts receivable at year-end by 1,071 (555). Defence-related sales accounted derivatives 2 2 2 for 79 per cent (80) of total sales, where the counterparties in most accounts receiAssets 509 509 -415 94 vable are nations with high creditworthiness. The Group’s receivables are mainly in the EU, which accounted for 58 per cent (50) of the total. Where counterparties’ Currency creditworthiness is deemed unsatisfactory, bank or insurance guarantees or derivatives 1,310 1,310 -415 895 guarantees from EKN are secured. Interest rate In connection with cash transactions, Saab generally requires that a letter of derivatives 91 91 91 credit is opened in its name to ensure that payment is received. Electricity Write-downs of accounts receivable amounted, as of 31 December 2014, to derivatives 7 7 7 MSEK 15 (19), corresponding to 0.4 per cent (0.6) of total accounts receivable. Write-downs of accounts receivable have changed as follows. Liabilities 1,408 1,408 -415 993 MSEK 2014 2013 Net Master Collateral amount in netting received/ Write-downs, 1 January -19 -13 Gross balance arrangeassets Net Write-downs from acquisitions -6 2013 amount Set-off sheet ments pledged amount Write-downs for calculated losses -6 -15 Currency Reversal of previous write-downs 13 3 derivatives 384 384 -158 226 Actual credit losses 3 5 Interest rate Translation differences 1 derivatives 5 5 -5 Electricity Write-downs, 31 December -15 -19 derivatives 6 6 6 Assets 395 395 -163 232 The following table shows an age analysis of the Group’s overdue receivables: Currency MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 derivatives 291 291 -158 133 <30 days 460 329 Interest rate 30 to 90 days 215 443 derivatives 14 14 -5 9 91 to 180 days 81 109 Electricity derivatives 18 18 18 >181 days 356 263 Liabilities 323 323 -163 160 Accounts receivable overdue 1,112 1,144 Accounts receivable not overdue 2,302 2,151 Credit risk is calculated on established and anticipated risks pursuant to the Total accounts receivable 3,414 3,295 recommendations of the Bank of International Settlements (BIS I). On 31 December 2014, counterparty risks amounted to MSEK 2,356 (3,617), of which deposits with banks, mortgage institutions, companies and the Swedish government totalled MSEK 2,842 (3,118). 120 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note 41, cont. Trading Assets at fair value The Board has given Saab Treasury a risk mandate for trading in interest rate and currency instruments. During 2014, MSEK 15 was allocated to trading expressed MSEK 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 as VaR. If the cumulative result for the year is negative, the mandate is reduced corBonds and interest-bearing respondingly. In 2014, trading income was MSEK 17 (21), which is reported as securities 1,270 1,270 other operating income. The average utilised risk mandate (VaR) during the year Forward exchange contracts 422 422 amounted to MSEK 2 (2). Currency options 45 45 Hedge accounting Interest rate swaps Hedge accounting to fair value is applied to foreign exchange contracts and curElectricity derivatives 2 2 rency swaps. The market value of currency derivatives accounted for as fair value Shares and participations 150 121 29 hedges (hedging instruments) amounts to MSEK 3 (4), market value of currency Total 1,889 1,393 467 29 risk in order backlog (hedged items) amounts to MSEK -3 (-4). For information on the impact on net income for the year of gains and losses on derivatives accounted for as fair value hedges, see note 6, Other operating expenses. Liabilities at fair value Certain forward exchange contracts and currency swaps (hedge instruments) entered into to hedge future receipts and disbursements against currency risks are MSEK 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 accounted for according to the rules for cash flow hedging. These cash flow hedForward exchange contracts 1,258 1,258 ges relate primarily to contractual sales volumes. In the event the cash flow is far in Currency options 48 48 the future, an extension strategy can be applied, the currency hedge can be shifted to an earlier date than when the cash flow is expected and hedge accounting for Interest rate swaps 87 87 that time period is then applied to changes in the spot price. Electricity derivatives 7 7 Derivatives that protect future receipts and disbursements are recognised in the Total 1,400 7 1,393 statement of financial position at fair value. Changes in value are recognised in other comprehensive income and separately recognised in the hedge reserve in Pension fund equity until the hedged cash flow meets the operating profit or loss, at which point The Saab Pension Fund was established in 2006 to secure the main part of the the cumulative changes in value of the hedging instrument are transferred to profit Group’s pension obligation and is not consolidated in the Group. or loss to meet and match the effects on earnings of the hedge transaction. The The fund has a long-term real yield requirement of 3 per cent per year. The hedge reserve before tax amounted to MSEK -720 (440), of which the unrealised investment policy requires an asset distribution of a maximum of 50.5 per cent value of derivatives was MSEK -897 (91) and the realised effects arising from rolloequities/alternative investments (hedge funds) and 49.5-100 per cent interest-beavers of derivatives was MSEK 177 (349). ring instruments. Investments are made in interest-bearing securities from issuers The change in the hedge reserve in 2014 of MSEK -1,160 consists of a reversal with a credit rating of no lower than BBB according to Standard & Poor’s and Baa to profit or loss of MSEK -23, the change in the value of existing derivatives of according to Moody’s. Of the fund’s capital at year-end, 50 per cent (50) was MSEK -804, the market value of hedges obtained during the year of MSEK -167, invested in interest-bearing assets and the remaining 50 per cent (50) in equities and the change that arose due to the rollovers of derivatives of MSEK -166. For and alternative investments. The market value of the fund’s assets as of 31 Deceminformation on the amount recognised in other comprehensive income, see consober 2014 was MSEK 5,091 (4,595) and the annual return was 11 per cent (6). In lidated net comprehensive income. 2014, the fund was capitalised by MSEK 194 (0) and MSEK 193 (0) in refunds were The inefficiency in cash flow hedges that affected net income for the year paid. The table below shows the solvency margin for the pension fund. amounted to MSEK 0 (2). MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 Valuation methods for financial assets and liabilities The fair value of listed financial assets is determined using market prices. Saab also Fair value of assets under applies various valuation methods to determine the fair value of financial assets that management 5,091 4,595 4,346 4,050 are traded on an inactive market or are unlisted holdings. These valuation methods Present value of definedare based on the valuation of similar instruments, discounted cash flows or custobenefit ­obligations1) 7,416 5,785 6,485 5,866 mary valuation methods such as Black-Scholes. Solvency margin 69% 79% 67% 69% The following instruments were valued at fair value according to listed (unadjusted) Pension obligation prices on an active market on the closing date (Level 1): according to PRI 5,106 4,736 4,615 4,489 • Bonds Solvency margin 100% 97% 94% 90% • Electricity derivatives • Interest derivatives 1) Refers to the pension obligation that the assets under management are designed to cover. The following instruments were valued at fair value according to accepted valuation models based on observable market data (Level 2): • Forward exchange contracts: Future payment flows in each currency are discounted by current market rates to the valuation day and valued to SEK at yearend exchange rates • Options: The Black-Scholes option pricing model is used in the market valuation of all options • Interest swaps: Future variable interest rates are calculated with the help of current forward rates. These implicit interest payments are discounted on the valuation date using current market rates. The market value of interest rate swaps is obtained by contrasting the discounted variable interest payments with the discounted present value of fixed interest payments Unlisted shares and participations: Valued according to accepted principles; e.g., for venture capital firms (Level 3). As of 31 December 2014, the Group had the following financial assets and liabilities at fair value: SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 121 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES NOTE 42 A  SSETS PLEDGED AND NOTE 43 TRANSACTIONS WITH CONTINGENT LIABILITIES RELATED PARTIES Group Parent Company The Group’s financial agreements conform to market principles. In 2014 Saab sigMSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 ned an agreement about the sale of Saab Grintek Technologies Ltd. The transaction involves related parties. Saab has not had any significant transactions with Assets pledged for Investor, Board members or members of Group Management. For information on own liabilities and remuneration, see note 37. provisions Of the Parent Company’s sales, 5 per cent referred to sales to Group companies, Bonds and other securities 10 10 while 15 per cent of the Parent Company’s purchases were from Group companies. Other assets 1 29 Sales to and purchases from the Group’s associated companies and joint ventures Total 1 39 10 amounted to approximately MSEK 121 (52) and MSEK 149 (132), respectively. For information on receivables from and liabilities to associated companies and joint Contingent liabilities ventures, see notes 27 and 39. Guarantees to insurance company, PRI Pensionsgaranti 102 95 102 95 Guarantees for Group NOTE 44 GROUP COMPANIES ­companies’ commitments to customers 4,398 3,825 Significant Group company holdings Sureties for joint ventures 7 6 Ownership share, ­per cent Sureties for associated Group company’s companies 6 6 51 72 Group company ­registered office, country 2014 2013 Total 115 107 4,551 3,992 Combitech AB Växjö, Sweden 100 100 Combitech Oy Finland 100 100 In the ordinary course of business, Saab is occasionally involved in disputes and legal HITT N.V. The Netherlands 100 100 proceedings arising as a result of the company’s operations worldwide. These dispuMEDAV GmbH Germany 100 100 tes and legal proceedings are not expected, either individually or collectively, to have Saab Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100 100 any significant negative effect on Saab’s financial result or position. Saab Barracuda AB Västervik, Sweden 100 100 Saab currently has a legal dispute concerning interpretation of an agreement, Saab Barracuda LLC USA 100 100 where a negative outcome is not probable and consequently no provision has been Saab Czech s.r.o. Czech Republic 100 100 recognised. Should however, against expectations, the dispute result in a negative Saab Defense and Security outcome for Saab, it cannot be ruled out that the financial effect would not be nonUSA LLC USA 100 100 material. Saab Dynamics AB Karlskoga, Sweden 100 100 Saab Danmark A/S Denmark 100 100 The table below shows the total sum of guarantees that do not represent contingent liabilities and a distribution by category and issuer. Saab Grintek Defence (Pty) Ltd South Africa 71 71 Saab Kockums AB Malmö, Sweden 100 per cent per cent Saab Seaeye Ltd UK 100 100 MSEK 31-12-2014 of total 31-12-2013 of total Saab Sensis Corporation USA 100 100 Parent Company guarantees 1,425 16 1,562 22 Total ownership of non-controlling interests amounts to MSEK 82 (91), mainly Bank guarantees 7,302 84 5,437 78 attributable to Saab Grintek Defence (Pty) Ltd. No non-controlling interests are Total guarantees 8,727 100 6,999 100 considered material. Bank guarantees: Parent Company On demand 6,544 90 4,769 88 MSEK 2014 2013 Proprietary 758 10 668 12 Accumulated acquisition value Total bank guarantees 7,302 100 5,437 100 Opening balance, 1 January 17,266 17,208 New issues/shareholders’ contributions 31 26 Type of guarantee: Acquisitions 320 32 Advances 4,872 56 3,298 47 Sales and liquidations -57 Completion 3,538 40 3,079 44 Reclassifications Tenders, credits and other 317 4 622 9 Closing balance, 31 December 17,560 17,266 Total guarantees 8,727 100 6,999 100 Accumulated write-downs With regard to the Group’s so-called fulfilment guarantees for commitments to Opening balance, 1 January -10,795 -10,726 customers, the likelihood of an outflow of resources is extremely small and, as a result, no value is recognised in the table of contingent liabilities. Write-downs for the year -1 -69 Closing balance, 31 December -10,796 -10,795 Carrying amount, 31 December 6,764 6,471 Write-down reversals and write-downs for the year are reported in the income statement on the line “Result from shares in Group companies”. 122 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Note 44, cont. Specification of Parent Company’s holdings of shares in Group companies 31-12-2014 Share, Carrying amount, Group company/Corp. ID no./Registered office No. of shares per cent MSEK Celsius AB, 556194-4652, Linköping, Sweden 5,000 100.0% 144 Celsius Invest AB, 556164-6588, Stockholm, Sweden 1,720,000 100.0% 518 Cloud Automation Services Sweden AB, 556985-1560, Järfälla, Sweden 1,000 100.0% Combitech AB, 556218-6790, Växjö, Sweden 100,000 100.0% 1,064 EMC Services Elmiljöteknik AB, 556315-6636, Mölndal, Sweden 2,000 100.0% 3 Fastighets AB Karlskrona-Varvet, 556976-6941, Karlskrona, Sweden 500 100,0% Fastighets AB Linköping Malmen 27, 556354-6349, Linköping, Sweden 20,000 100.0% 4 Fastighets AB Stensholm-Huskvarna, 556030-2746, Jönköping, Sweden 150,000 100.0% 42 FFV Ordnance AB, 556414-8194, Karlskoga, Sweden 100,000 100.0% 10 HITT N.V., The Netherlands 100.0% 290 Kockums Holdings AB, 556036-4100, Linköping, Sweden 48,000 100.0% 5 Lansen Försäkrings AB, 516401-8656, ­Linköping, Sweden 500,000 100.0% 51 MEDAV GmbH, Germany 100.0% 217 Saab d.o.o., Slovenia 100.0% Saab Aircraft Leasing Holdings AB, 556124-3170, Linköping, Sweden 30,000 100.0% 1,500 Saab Airport AB, 556366-8333, Linköping, Sweden 5,000 100.0% 3 Saab Asia Pacific Co. Ltd, Thailand 100.0% 12 Saab Barracuda AB, 556045-7391, Västervik, S­weden 200,000 100.0% 93 Saab Czech s.r.o., Czech Republic 100.0% 25 Saab Danmark A/S, Denmark 100.0% 103 Saab Dynamics AB, 556264-6074, Karlskoga, S­weden 500,000 100.0% 357 Saab France SAS, France 100.0% Saab India Technologies Private Limited, India 100.0% Saab International AB, 556267-8994, Stockholm, Sweden 50,000 100.0% 14 Saab Kenya Ltd, Kenya 100.0% Saab Kockums AB, 556205-5623, Malmö, Sweden 500,000 100.0% 340 Saab Microwave Systems AB, 556028-1627, Mölndal, Sweden 300,000 100.0% 49 Saab Naval Systems AB, 556757-5104, Malmö, Sweden 1,000 100.0% Saab North America, Inc., USA 100.0% 1,141 Saab Precision Components AB, 556627-5003, Jönköping, Sweden 2,000 100.0% 8 Saab Seaeye Holdings Ltd, UK 100.0% 194 Saab South Africa (Pty) Ltd, South Africa 95.0% 443 Saab Surveillance Systems AB, 556577-4600, Järfälla, Sweden 1,000 100.0% Saab Technologies Canada Inc., Canada 100.0% Saab Technologies Norway AS, Norway 100.0% 3 Saab Technologies UK Limited, UK 100.0% Saab Training Systems B.V., The Netherlands 100.0% 6 Saab Training Systems GmbH, Germany 100.0% 3 Saab Transpondertech AB, 556535-9790, Linköping, Sweden 1,000 100.0% Saab Ventures AB, 556757-5211, Linköping, Sweden 1,000 100.0% Saab Vricon Systems AB, 556757-5450, Linköping, Sweden 1,000 100.0% Teknikinformation i Krokom AB, 556317-4043, Krokom, Sweden 1,600 100.0% 15 Vricon Inc., USA 100.0% Dormant companies etc. 107 Carrying amount at year-end 6,764 SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 123 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES NOTE 45 UNTAXED RESERVES FREE CASH FLOW VERSUS CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR IN STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Parent Company MSEK 2014 2013 MSEK 2014 2013 Operating cash flow -1,094 -1,460 Tax allocation reserve: Investing activities – interest-bearing: Opening balance, 1 January 1,186 864 Short-term investments 720 1,936 Provision for the year 432 322 Other financial investments and receivables 21 8 Closing balance, 31 December 1,618 1,186 Dividend from joint ventures 430 Accumulated accelerated depreciation Financing activities: Buildings and land: Repayment of loans -468 -1,100 Opening balance, 1 January 18 32 Raising of loans 1,000 845 Under depreciation for the year -12 -14 Repurchase of shares -252 Closing balance, 31 December 6 18 Dividend paid to the Parent Company’s shareholders -479 -477 Dividend paid to non-controlling interest -5 -1 Machinery and equipment: Cash flow for the year -557 181 Opening balance, 1 January 356 380 Under depreciation for the year -1 -24 SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON STATEMENT Closing balance, 31 December 355 356 OF CASH FLOWS Liquid assets Total untaxed reserves, 31 December 1,979 1,560 Group MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 The following components are included NOTE 46 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS, in liquid assets: SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION Cash and bank balances 1,284 651 Bank deposits 1,113 Total according to the statement of The Group’s free cash flow, and a reconciliation between free cash flow and cash financial position 1,284 1,764 flow for the year from the statement of cash flows, are stated below. Total according to statement of cash flows 1,284 1,764 FREE CASH FLOW Group MSEK 2014 2013 Parent Company Cash flow from operating activities before MSEK 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 changes in working capital 1) 2,221 2,342 The following components are included in liquid assets: Working capital Cash and bank balances 377 155 Inventories -856 -147 Bank deposits 1,113 Current receivables -282 -1,346 Total according to balance sheet 377 1,268 Advance payments from customers 21 278 Other current liabilities -914 -1,005 Total according to statement of cash flows 377 1,268 Provisions -536 -277 Change in working capital -2,567 -2,497 Interest paid and dividends received Group Parent Company Cash flow from operating activities 2) -346 -155 MSEK 2014 2013 2014 2013 Investing activities Dividends received 2 10 102 652 Investments in intangible fixed assets -239 -68 Interest received 72 98 186 181 Investments in tangible fixed assets -732 -543 Interest paid -51 -183 -190 -200 Sale of tangible fixed assets 15 46 Total 23 -75 98 633 Sale of lease assets 105 81 Cash flow from investing activities 3) -851 -484 Operational cash flow -1,197 -639 Taxes and other financial items -367 -506 Sale of and investments in shares etc. 19 -247 Acquisitions of subsidiaries and associated companies 152 -68 Sale of subsidiaries and associated companies 299 Free cash flow -1,094 -1,460 1) Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital excluding taxes and other financial items. 2) Cash flow from operating activities excluding taxes and other financial items. 3) Cash flow from investing activities excluding change in short-term investments and other interest-bearing financial assets and excluding sale of and investment in financial assets, investments in operations and associated companies and sale of subsidiaries and associated companies. 124 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Adjustments for items not affecting cash flow Acquisition of associated companies Group Parent Company Group MSEK 2014 2013 2014 2013 MSEK 2014 2013 Depreciation and Acquired assets and liabilities amortisation­ 872 1,034 582 572 Financial fixed assets 32 21 Write-downs 13 Total assets 32 21 Changes in the value of biological assets 7 10 Purchase price paid 32 21 Changes in the value of Effect on Group’s liquid assets (positive (-) / negainvestment properties -2 2 tive (+)) 32 21 Share of profits in associated companies -18 -25 Acquisitions in 2014 relate to KedTech AB and acquisitions in the venture portfolio. Dividends from associaAcquisitions in 2013 relate to acquisitions in the venture portfolio ted companies 2 10 Sale of subsidiaries and associated companies Dividends and Group ­contributions from/to Group Group companies -104 -653 MSEK 2014 2013 Capital gains/losses from Divested assets and liabilities sales of Group compaTangible fixed assets 75 nies, associated companies and other shares -161 -256 Financial fixed assets 123 Capital gains/losses on Deferred tax assets 3 sales of tangible fixed Inventories 35 assets 1 -12 2 -36 Current receivables 41 Write-down of shares Liquid assets 19 and receivables 19 133 1 632 Total assets 296 Provisions -15 124 -15 190 Provisions for pensions 45 29 -79 -115 Provisions 1 Other -25 -94 51 24 Deferred tax liability 4 Total 725 1,224 182 614 Current liabilities 58 Total liabilities 63 Investments in operations and subsidiaries Sales price 318 Group Purchase price received 318 MSEK 2014 2013 Less: Liquid assets in divested operations -19 Acquired assets and liabilities Effect on the Group’s net liquidity 299 Intangible fixed assets 259 40 Of which liquid assets 299 Tangible fixed assets 157 4 Financial fixed assets 12 Divestments in 2014 relate to the shares in Hawker Pacific Airservices Ltd, a proDeferred tax assets 281 perty company and the deconsolidation of Saab Grintek Technologies (Pty) Ltd. Inventories 35 9 Current receivables 372 17 Liquid assets 540 NOTE 47 INFORMATION ON PARENT Total assets 1,656 70 COMPANY Provisions for pensions 186 Other provisions 601 Saab AB (publ) is a limited company registered in Sweden, with its registered office Deferred tax liability 4 in Linköping. The Parent Company’s shares are registered on the ­Nasdaq Stockholm. The address of the head office is Saab AB, Box 12062, SE-102 22 StockInterest-bearing liabilities 3 holm, Sweden. Current liabilities 529 13 The consolidated accounts for 2014 comprise the Parent Company and its Total liabilities 1,316 20 Group companies, together referred to as the Group. The Group also includes the Purchase price paid 356 51 holdings in associated companies and joint ventures. Saab AB also operates a small business in a South Korean branch. Less: Liquid assets in acquired operations -540 -4 Effect on the Group’s liquid assets (positive (-) / negative (+)) -184 47 Effect on the Group’s net liquidity (positive (-) / negative (+)) -184 44 Acquisitions in 2014 relate to ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems AB. Purchase price paid includes payment to minority stakeholders in Bayes Risk Management AS. Acquisitions in 2013 mainly relate to Teknikinformation i Krokom AB (TIKAB) and the British company Hydro-Lek Limited. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 125 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES NOTE 48 ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT Order bookings 2013 Jan–Dec Adjustment structuJan–Dec MSEK actual ral change ­restated Operations subject to licensing in the Parent Company Aeronautics 29,677 29,677 Production of aircraft and aircraft components by the Parent Company, Saab AB, Dynamics 3,350 -5 3,345 in the Tannefors industrial zone in the municipality of Linköping is subject to licensing pursuant to the Swedish Environment Code due to aeronautics operations, EDS 7,620 -33 7,587 surface treatment processes, manufacturing of composite materials, handling of SDS 5,429 -693 4,736 chemical substances, the firing of large calibre weapons and the size of the manuS&S 3,942 660 4,602 facturing facilities. The environmental impact of these operations primarily arises Combitech 1,634 106 1,740 from emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCS) and aircraft emissions into Internal -1,843 -35 -1,878 the atmosphere and of metals into waterways, the generation of industrial wastes and noise disturbing local surroundings. The manufacturing operations predomiTotal 49,809 49,809 nantly entail operations subject to licensing. The National Licensing Board for Environmental Protection granted the licence for aircraft manufacture in 1990. The Sales 2013 supervisory authorities and the Land and Environment Court imposed additional Jan–Dec Adjustment structuJan–Dec terms for these operations in 2006 and 2007, respectively, against the backdrop of MSEK actual ral change ­restated the EU’s IPPC directive. Aeronautics 6,869 6,869 In Järfälla, Saab AB has operations involving the manufacture of advanced command and control systems, among other things, which are also subject to licensing Dynamics 3,572 -6 3,566 under to the Environment Code. The licensing requirement is due to surface treatEDS 4,161 399 4,560 ment processes and the size of the manufacturing facilities. The environmental SDS 5,891 -796 5,095 impact of these operations primarily arises from VOC emissions into the S&S 3,419 353 3,772 atmosphere and of metals into waterways. The National Licensing Board for Environmental Protection granted the licence in 1990. Combitech 1,598 86 1,684 With the exception of a few exceeded recommended values, Saab AB did not Corporate/internal -1,760 -36 -1,796 exceed any conditions in its permits or violate any injunctions in 2014. Total 23,750 23,750 Operations subject to licensing in subsidiaries Operating income/loss (EBIT) 2013 The operations carried on by Saab Airport AB are subject to licensing under the Jan–Dec Adjustment structuJan–Dec Environment Code and are covered by the permit issued by the National Licensing MSEK actual ral change ­restated Board for Environmental Protection in 1990 for Saab’s collective operations in the Tannefors industrial zone in the municipality of Linköping. This permit also covers Aeronautics 456 456 the operations of Saab Dynamics AB in the area, despite the fact that they are not Dynamics 324 42 366 subject to licensing and notification requirements under the Environment Code. EDS -201 86 -115 Saab Dynamics AB and Saab Bofors Test Center AB run operations in Karlskoga SDS 428 -215 213 that are subject to licensing under the Environment Code and Saab Barracuda AB S&S 364 134 498 runs operations subject to licensing in Gamleby. In addition, Saab Kockums AB runs operations subject to licensing in Karlskrona and on Muskö island, south of Combitech 140 8 148 Stockholm. Corporate -166 -55 -221 The environmental impact from subsidiaries subject to licensing primarily consists Total 1,345 1,345 of emissions of VOCs and emissions from aircraft into the atmosphere, emissions of metals and de-icing solvents into waterways, generation of industrial wastes and noise disturbing local surroundings. Order backlog 2013 In 2014, none of Saab’s subsidiaries exceeded any conditions of their permits or Jan–Dec Adjustment structuJan–Dec MSEK actual ral change ­restated injunctions. Aeronautics 34,113 34,113 Operations subject to notification requirements Dynamics 4,549 -1 4,548 Saab AB has operations in Arboga, Huskvarna, Ljungbyhed, Malmslätt, Nyköping EDS 8,764 407 9,171 and Östersund which are subject to notification requirements pursuant to the EnviSDS 6,529 -958 5,571 ronment Code. Permits in Arboga and Malmslätt still apply. These were granted by the county boards in 1993 and 1994, respectively. The Group also has operations S&S 6,186 497 6,683 subject to notification requirements in the subsidiaries Saab Dynamics AB in Combitech 483 57 540 Motala and Saab Precision Components AB in Jönköping. Permit in Motala still Internal -754 -2 -756 applies. The environmental impact of these operations is extremely limited. Total 59,870 59,870 EBITDA 2013 NOTE 49 RESTATED ACCOUNTING 2013 Jan–Dec Adjustment structuJan–Dec REGARDING NEW STRUCTURE MSEK actual ral change restated Aeronautics 603 603 Saab has implemented a new structure where the operations within Security and Dynamics 386 42 428 Defence Solutions which were related to Airborne Surveillance have been moved EDS 287 86 373 to corresponding operations within either Electronic Defence Systems or Support SDS 556 -228 328 and Services. The reorganisation was carried through as of 1 January 2014. Additionally, a development project in Dynamics was moved to Corporate and a part of S&S 383 134 517 Security Defence Solutions’ operations in Finland was moved to Combitech as of Combitech 148 9 157 1 January 2014. Corporate 4 -43 -39 Total 2,367 2,367 126 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES NOTE 50 RESTATED ACCOUNTING 2014 Order bookings 2014 Adjustment structural REGARDING NEW STRUCTURE MSEK Q1 actual change Q1 restated Aeronautics 631 -374 257 Saab has implemented changes to the business area structure as of 1 January Dynamics 449 449 2015. In order to create a stronger and more coherent platform for business-toEDS 938 -70 868 business focused business units the new business area Industrial Products and Services was formed. Industrial Products and Services will include the business SDS 1,321 1,321 units Aerostructures (previously in business area Aeronautics), Avionics Systems S&S 737 737 (previously in business area Electronic Defence Systems), the independent technoCombitech 392 -392 logy consulting firm Combitech, Saab ventures’ product portfolio (previously in IPS 833 833 Saab Corporate) and a development project, which up until year-end 2014 was a part of Saab Corporate. Internal -390 3 -387 Total 4,078 4,078 Order backlog 2014 31 Mar Adjustment structural 31 Mar Adjustment structural MSEK actual change restated MSEK Q2 actual change Q2 restated Aeronautics 33,167 -8,609 24,558 Aeronautics 360 -50 310 Dynamics 4,278 4,278 Dynamics 400 400 EDS 9,129 -1,311 7,818 EDS 649 -202 447 SDS 5,666 5,666 SDS 1,752 1,752 S&S 6,590 6,590 S&S 1,009 1,009 Combitech 512 -512 Combitech 403 -403 IPS 10,432 10,432 IPS 645 645 Internal -734 -734 Internal -525 10 -515 Total 58,608 58,608 Total 4,048 4,048 30 Jun Adjustment structural 30 Jun Adjustment structural MSEK actual change restated MSEK Q3 actual change Q3 restated Aeronautics 31,896 -8,322 23,574 Aeronautics 50 -116 -66 Dynamics 3,978 3,978 Dynamics 408 408 EDS 8,582 -1,377 7,205 EDS 369 -47 322 SDS 6,307 6,307 SDS 827 827 S&S 6,725 6,725 S&S 339 339 Combitech 497 -497 Combitech 296 -296 IPS 10,195 10,195 IPS 453 453 Internal -805 1 -804 Internal -216 6 -210 Total 57,180 57,180 Total 2,073 2,073 30 Sep Adjustment structural 30 Sep Adjustment structural MSEK actual change restated MSEK Q4 actual change Q4 restated Aeronautics 30,624 -8,115 22,509 Aeronautics 5,849 -137 5,712 Dynamics 3,769 3,769 Dynamics 1,068 1,068 EDS 7,907 -1,316 6,591 EDS 987 -140 847 SDS 6,494 6,494 SDS 2,210 2,210 S&S 6,338 6,338 S&S 2,635 2,635 Combitech 446 -446 Combitech 403 -403 IPS 9,876 9,876 IPS 673 673 Internal -668 1 -667 Internal -749 7 -742 Total 54,910 54,910 Total 12,403 12,403 31 Dec Adjustment structural 31 Dec Adjustment structural MSEK actual change restated MSEK 2014 actual change 2014 restated Aeronautics 34,283 -7,895 26,388 Aeronautics 6,890 -677 6,213 Dynamics 3,915 3,915 Dynamics 2,325 2,325 EDS 7,619 -1,254 6,365 EDS 2,943 -459 2,484 SDS 6,823 6,823 SDS 6,110 6,110 S&S 7,976 7,976 S&S 4,720 4,720 Combitech 387 -387 Combitech 1,494 -1,494 IPS 9,537 9,537 IPS 2,604 2,604 Internal -875 -1 -876 Internal -1,880 26 -1,854 Total 60,128 60,128 Total 22,602 22,602 SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 127 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Sales 2014 EBITDA 2014 Adjustment structural Adjustment structural MSEK Q1 actual change Q1 restated MSEK Q1actual change Q1 restated Aeronautics 1,577 -249 1,328 Aeronautics 133 -16 117 Dynamics 716 716 Dynamics 43 43 EDS 974 -122 852 EDS 68 10 78 SDS 1,156 1,156 SDS 11 11 S&S 839 839 S&S 91 91 Combitech 421 -421 Combitech 27 -27 IPS 787 787 IPS 20 20 Corporate/Internal -403 5 -398 Corporate 103 13 116 Total 5,280 5,280 Total 476 476 Adjustment structural Adjustment structural MSEK Q2 actual change Q2 restated MSEK Q2 actual change Q2 restated Aeronautics 1,631 -336 1,295 Aeronautics 133 -14 119 Dynamics 730 730 Dynamics 52 52 EDS 1,232 -139 1,093 EDS 156 -2 154 SDS 1,240 1,240 SDS 98 98 S&S 898 898 S&S 127 127 Combitech 419 -419 Combitech 26 -26 IPS 888 888 IPS 27 27 Corporate/Internal -458 6 -452 Corporate -9 15 6 Total 5,692 5,692 Total 583 583 Adjustment structural Adjustment structural MSEK Q3 actual change Q3 restated MSEK Q3 actual change Q3 restated Aeronautics 1,323 -325 998 Aeronautics 60 -27 33 Dynamics 599 599 Dynamics -11 -11 EDS 1,062 -109 953 EDS 196 5 201 SDS 1,367 1,367 SDS 101 101 S&S 794 794 S&S 48 48 Combitech 347 -347 Combitech 11 -11 IPS 773 773 IPS 9 9 Corporate/Internal -362 8 -354 Corporate 72 24 96 Total 5,130 5,130 Total 477 477 Adjustment structural Adjustment structural MSEK Q4 actual change Q4 restated MSEK Q4 actual change Q4 restated Aeronautics 2,189 -356 1,833 Aeronautics 213 -43 170 Dynamics 929 929 Dynamics 142 142 EDS 1,361 -207 1,154 EDS 202 -10 192 SDS 1,999 1,999 SDS 258 258 S&S 1,039 1,039 S&S 128 128 Combitech 462 -462 Combitech 36 -36 IPS 1,017 1,017 IPS 87 87 Corporate/Internal -554 8 -546 Corporate 8 2 10 Total 7,425 7,425 Total 987 987 Adjustment structural Adjustment structural MSEK 2014 actual change 2014 restated MSEK 2014 actual change 2014 restated Aeronautics 6,720 -1,266 5,454 Aeronautics 539 -100 439 Dynamics 2,974 2,974 Dynamics 226 226 EDS 4,629 -577 4,052 EDS 622 3 625 SDS 5,762 5,762 SDS 468 468 S&S 3,570 3,570 S&S 394 394 Combitech 1,649 -1,649 Combitech 100 -100 IPS 3,465 3,465 IPS 143 143 Corporate/Internal -1,777 27 -1,750 Corporate 174 54 228 Total 23,527 23,527 Total 2,523 2,523 128 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – NOTES Operating income/loss (EBIT) 2014 Adjustment structural NOTE 51 EXCHANGE RATES USED IN MSEK Q1 actual change Q1 restated FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Aeronautics 118 -11 107 Year-end rate Average rate Dynamics 28 28 Land 2014 2013 2014 2013 EDS -36 11 -25 Australia AUD 1 6.37 5.76 6.19 6.30 SDS -12 -12 Denmark DKK 100 127.81 119.86 122.03 115.99 S&S 87 87 Euro EUR 1 9.52 8.94 9.10 8.65 Combitech 25 -25 India INR 100 12.30 10.49 11.25 11.17 IPS 12 12 Canada CAD 1 6.72 6.07 6.21 6.33 Corporate 60 13 73 Norway NOK 100 105.16 105.80 108.94 110.95 Total 270 270 Switzerland CHF 1 7.91 7.29 7.49 7.03 Adjustment structural UK GBP 1 12.14 10.73 11.29 10.19 MSEK Q2 actual change Q2 restated South Africa ZAR 100 67.22 62.13 63.19 67.73 Aeronautics 118 -10 108 Czech Dynamics 36 36 Republic CZK 100 34.35 32.60 33.04 33.33 EDS 51 -1 50 USA USD 1 7.81 6.51 6.86 6.51 SDS 75 75 S&S 122 122 Combitech 24 -24 NOTE 52 DEFINITIONS OF KEY RATIOS IPS 20 20 Corporate -53 15 -38 Capital employed Total assets less non-interest-bearing liabilities. Total 373 373 Capital turnover Sales divided by average capital employed. Cash flow from operating activities per share Cash flow from operating Adjustment structural activities divided by the average number of shares after dilution. MSEK Q3 actual change Q3 restated Earnings per share Net income for the year attributable to Parent Company Aeronautics 46 -23 23 shareholders’ interest­, divided by the average number of shares before and after Dynamics -26 -26 full dilution. There is no dilution impact if the result is negative. EDS 95 5 100 EBITDA margin Operating income before depreciation, amortisation and SDS 71 71 write-downs less depreciation and write-downs of lease aircrafts as a percentage S&S 43 43 of sales. Combitech 9 -9 Equity/assets ratio Equity in relation to total assets. IPS 1 1 Equity per share Equity attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders divided by the number of shares, excluding treasury shares, at the end of the year. Corporate 20 26 46 Total 258 258 Gross margin Gross income as a percentage of sales. Interest coverage ratio Operating income plus financial income divided by Adjustment structural financial expenses. MSEK Q4 actual change Q4 restated Net liquidity/net debt Liquid assets, short-term investments and interest-bearing Aeronautics 198 -38 160 receivables less interest-bearing liabilities and provisions for pensions, excluding special employer’s contribution. Dynamics 127 127 Operating cash flow per share Operating cash flow divided by the average EDS 95 -9 86 number of shares after dilution. SDS 222 222 Operating margin Operating income as a percentage of sales. S&S 124 124 Profit margin Operating income plus financial income as a percentage of sales. Combitech 34 -34 IPS 79 79 Return on capital employed Operating income plus financial income as a percentage of average capital employed. Corporate -42 2 -40 Return on equity Net income for the year as a percentage of average equity. Total 758 758 Adjustment structural MSEK 2014 actual change 2014 restated Aeronautics 480 -82 398 Dynamics 165 165 EDS 205 6 211 SDS 356 356 S&S 376 376 Combitech 92 -92 IPS 112 112 Corporate -15 56 41 Total 1,659 1,659 SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 129 REPORTS DIVIDEND MOTIVATION The Board of Directors’ statement according to chapter 18, § 4 of the Companies Act with regard to the proposed dividend – Saab AB Saab is one of the world’s leading high-technology tion of annual future investments in tangible fixed companies, because of which its operations are distinassets. Investments are also made in research and guished by complex development assignments on the development, which in 2014 amounted to cutting edge of technology. Over the years, Saab has MSEK 1,338, of which MSEK 171was capitalised in conducted significant development projects and the balance sheet. managed the associated risks with great success. See At year-end, Saab had a net debt, which includes also risks and uncertainties in the annual report. liquid assets, short-term investments and interestThe Board of Directors’ proposed dividend bearing receivables less interest-bearing liabilities, amounts to SEK 4.75 per share, corresponding to a including provisions for pensions, amounting to total dividend of MSEK 501. Unrestricted equity MSEK 2,113. Saab’s ability to carry out its commitamounts to MSEK 5,486 in Saab AB and profit carried ments is not expected to be affected by the proposed forward in the Group before the dividend is paid dividend either on a short or a long-term basis. amounts to MSEK 9,365. Net income for the year attributable to the Parent The proposed dividend is considered justifiable with Company’s shareholders amounted to MSEK 1,153 regard to what is stated in chapter 17, § 3, paragraphs for the Group and MSEK 1,170 for the Parent Comtwo and three of the Companies Act (2005:551): pany. 1. The demands that the company’s nature, scope and After paying the dividend to the shareholders, the risks place on the size of its equity, and Group’s equity/assets ratio amounts to 37.4 per cent, 2. The company’s consolidation needs, liquidity or compared to the objective of 30 per cent. Since the financial position in other respects. IPO in 1998, the equity/assets ratio has risen from 22 per cent to 38.5 per cent in 2014. The Board of Directors Saab AB Saab’s gross capital expenditure in 2014 amounted to MSEK 732, which is considered a good estima130 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 REPORTS PROPOSED DISPOSITION OF EARNINGS 2014 The Board of Directors and the President propose that the unappropriated After the proposed disposition, equity in the Parent Company will be earnings in the Parent Company at disposal of the Annual General as follows: Meeting, amounting to: SEK SEK Capital stock 1,746,405,504 Retained earnings 4,316,051,025 Statutory reserve 542,471,135 Net income for the year 1,170,368,245 Revaluation reserve 694,160,012 Total 5 486 419 270 Retained earnings 4,985,294,365 Total 7,968,331,016 To be disposed as follows: To the shareholders, a dividend of SEK 4.75 per share 501,124,905 The company’s policy is to issue a dividend of 20–40 per cent of net Funds to be carried forward 4,985,294,365 income over a business cycle. The Board of Directors and the President Total 5 486 419 270 propose that MSEK 501 (479), or SEK 4.75 per share (4.50) be issued as a dividend. This has been calculated based on the amount of outstanding shares on 31 December 2014, of 105,499,980. Saab’s equity/assets ratio is currently 38.5 per cent (44.0) and after the proposed disposition of earnings will be 37.4 per cent (43.0) The undersigned certify that the consolidated accounts and the annual report have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted for use in the European Union, and generally accepted accounting principles, and give a true and fair view of the financial positions and results of the Group and the Parent Company, and that the management report gives a fair review of the development of the operations, financial positions and results of the Group and the Parent Company and describes substantial risks and uncertainties that the Group companies faces. Linköping 16 February 2015 Marcus Wallenberg Chairman Johan Forssell Sten Jakobsson Sara Mazur Board member Deputy Chairman Board member Per-Arne Sandström Cecilia Stegö Chilò Lena Treschow Torell Joakim Westh Board member Board member Board member Board member Stefan Andersson Catarina Carlqvist Conny Holm Board member Board member Board member Håkan Buskhe President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and board member Our audit report was submitted on 20 February 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Håkan Malmström Anna-Clara af Ekenstam Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant Auditor in charge SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 131 AUDITOR’S REPORT To the annual meeting of the shareholders of Saab AB (publ), corporate identity number 556036-0793 REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated considers internal control relevant to the company’s accounts of Saab AB (publ) for the year 2014, except preparation and fair presentation of the annual for the corporate governance statement on pages accounts and consolidated accounts in order to 54–62. The annual accounts and consolidated design audit procedures that are appropriate in the accounts of the company are included in the printed circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing version of this document on pages 40–131. an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the Managing Director for the annual accounts and reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the consolidated accounts Board of Directors and the Managing Director, as The Board of Directors and the Managing Director well as evaluating the overall presentation of the are responsible for the preparation and fair presentaannual accounts and consolidated accounts. tion of these annual accounts in accordance with the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtaiAnnual Accounts Act, and of the consolidated ned is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for accounts in accordance with International Financial our audit opinion. Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act, and for such internal control as Opinions the Board of Directors and the Managing Director In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepadetermine is necessary to enable the preparation of red in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are present fairly, in all material respects, the financial free from material misstatement, whether due to position of the parent company as of 31 December fraud or error. 2014 and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Auditor’s responsibility Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these have been prepared in accordance with the Annual annual accounts and consolidated accounts based on Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with respects, the financial position of the group as of International Standards on Auditing and generally 31 December 2014 and of their financial performance accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Those stanand cash flows for the year then ended in accordance dards require that we comply with ethical requirewith International Financial Reporting Standards, as ments and plan and perform the audit to obtain adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. reasonable assurance about whether the annual Our opinion do not cover the corporate governance accounts and consolidated accounts are free from statement on pages 54–62. The statutory administramaterial misstatement. tion report is consistent with the other parts of the An audit involves performing procedures to annual accounts and consolidated accounts. obtain audit evidence about the amounts and discloWe therefore recommend that the annual meesures in the annual accounts and consolidated ting of shareholders adopt the income statement and accounts. The procedures selected depend on the balance sheet for the parent company and the income auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the statement and statement of the financial position for risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts the group. 132 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and We believe that the audit evidence we have obtaiconsolidated accounts, we have also audited the proned is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for posed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss our opinions. and the administration of the Board of Directors and Furthermore, we have read the corporate goverthe Managing Director of Saab AB (publ) for the year nace statement and based on that reading and our 2014. We have also conducted a statutory examinaknowledge of the company and the group we believe tion of the corporate governance statement. that we have a sufficient basis for our opinions. This means that our statutory examination of the corpoResponsibilities of the Board of Directors and rate governance statement is different and substantithe Managing Director ally less in scope than an audit conducted in accoorThe Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal dance with International Standards on Auditing and for appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for administration under the Companies Opinions Act and that the corporate governance statement has We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholbeen prepared in accordance with the Annual ders that the profit be appropriated in accordance Accounts Act. with the proposal in the statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors Auditor’s responsibility and the Managing Director be discharged from liability Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasofor the financial year. nable assurance on the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and on the administration based on our audit. We conducted the audit in accorStockholm 20 February 2015 dance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. PricewaterhouseCooopers AB As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned Håkan Malmström statement and a selection of supporting evidence in Authorised Public Accountant order to be able to assess whether the proposal is in Auditor in charge accordance with the Companies Act. As a basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, in addition to our audit of the annual Anna-Clara af Ekenstam accounts and consolidated accounts, we examined Authorised Public Accountant significant decisions, actions taken and circumstances of the company in order to determine whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director is liable to the company. We also examined whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director has, in any other way, acted in SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 133 INFORMATION TO SHAREHOLDERS ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE The Annual General Meeting will be held at Only shareholders recorded in the share register 3:00 pm (CET) on Wednesday, 15 April 2015 at maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB on Thursday, Annexet, Stockholm Globe Arenas, Entrance 2, 9 April 2015 are entitled to participate in the Globentorget 10, Stockholm, Sweden. ­meeting. Shareholders registered in the names of nominees through the trust department of a bank NOTIFICATION or a brokerage firm must temporarily reregister Shareholders must notify the company of their their shares in their own names to participate in intention to participate in the meeting not later the meeting. To ensure that this re-registration is than Thursday, 9 April 2015. recorded in the share register by Thursday, 9 April 2014, they must request re-registration with their • by telephone +46 13 18 20 55 nominees several business days in advance. • by mail with reply card in separate invitation or to: Saab Annual General Meeting, Box 7839, DIVIDEND 103 98 Stockholm, Sweden The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of • online: www.saabgroup.com/arsstamma SEK 4.75 per share and 17 April 2015 as the record day for the dividend. With this record day, EuroPlease indicate your name, personal ID number clear Sweden AB is expected to distribute the divi(Swedish citizens), address and telephone number. dend on 22 April 2015. If you are attending by power of proxy, registration certificate or other authorisation, please submit DISTRIBUTION OF THE ANNUAL REPORT your documentation well in advance of the meeThe annual report will be available on Saab’s ting. The information you provide will be used ­website, www.saabgroup.com, approximately only for the Annual General Meeting. four weeks prior to the Annual General Meeting Shareholders or their proxies may be accomon 15 April. It can also be ordered from Saab’s head panied at the Annual General Meeting by a maxioffice, Investor Relations. A printed version of the mum of two people. They may only attend, howeannual report will be distributed to those who ver, if the shareholder has notified Saab AB as indibecame shareholders in December 2014, January cated above. and February 2015, as well as other shareholders who request a printed version. 134 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 MULTI-YEAR OVERVIEW MSEK. unless otherwise indicated 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Order bookings 22,602 49,809 20,683 18,907 26,278 18,428 23,212 20,846 27,575 17,512 Order backlog 31 December 60,128 59,870 34,151 37,172 41,459 39,389 45,324 47,316 50,445 42,198 Sales 23,527 23,750 24,010 23,498 24,434 24,647 23,796 23,021 21,063 19,314 Foreign market sales, % 55 59 64 63 62 69 68 65 65 56 Defence sales, % 79 81 82 84 83 83 83 81 79 82 Operating income (EBIT) 1,659 1,345 2,050 2,941 975 1,374 166 2,607 1,745 1,652 Operating margin, % 7.1 5.7 8.5 12.5 4.0 5.6 0.7 11.3 8.3 8.6 Operating income before depreciation/ amortisation and write-downs (EBITDA) 2,523 2,367 3,168 4,088 2,187 2,598 1,515 3,685 2,519 2,182 EBITDA margin, % 10.7 10.0 13.3 17.4 9.0 10.5 6.4 16.0 12.0 11.3 Income after financial items 1,523 979 2,003 2,783 776 976 -406 2,449 1,693 1,551 Net income for the year 1,168 742 1,560 2,217 454 699 -242 1,941 1,347 1,199 Net income attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 1,153 741 1,585 2,225 433 686 -248 1,921 1,300 1,189 Total assets 29,556 27,789 28,938 31,799 29,278 30,430 32,890 33,801 32,771 30,594 -of which advance payments, net 856 818 553 1,022 643 442 897 2,558 3,642 3,528 -of which total equity 11,373 12,227 11,280 13,069 11,444 10,682 9,330 11,008 10,025 9,493 -of which equity attributable to Parent Company's shareholders 11,291 12,136 11,168 12,950 11,274 10,542 9,240 10,981 9,802 9,179 Equity per share, SEK1) 107.02 114.04 105.43 122.94 107.66 99.91 86.49 101.53 89.80 84.10 Net liquidity/debt excluding interest-bearing receivables and net provisions for pensions 185 1,953 3,837 4,735 2,382 -1,631 -3,061 -2,802 -261 5,144 Net liquidity/debt -2,113 813 1,996 5,333 3,291 -634 -1,693 -1,627 605 2,856 Cash flow from operating activities -713 -662 350 2,392 4,487 1,696 954 -1,304 969 2,541 Free cash flow -1,094 -1,460 -396 2,477 4,349 1,447 659 -1,603 -1,900 2,645 Average capital employed 15,897 15,454 15,131 13,987 13,743 13,775 13,994 13,430 12,789 12,925 Return on capital employed, % 11.1 9.1 14.6 22.2 7.9 10.3 1.4 19.4 14.5 14.6 Return on equity, % 9.9 6.3 12.8 18.1 4.1 7.0 -2.4 18.5 13.8 13.5 Profit margin, % 7.49 5.92 9.18 13.21 4.47 5.78 0.82 11.40 8.83 9.73 Capital turnover rate, multiple 1.48 1.54 1.59 1.68 1.78 1.79 1.70 1.71 1.65 1.49 Equity/assets ratio, % 38.5 44.0 39.0 41.1 39.1 35.1 28.4 32.6 30.6 31.0 Interest coverage ratio, multiple 7.37 3.29 10.91 9.58 3.20 3.16 0.35 21.40 13.47 6.08 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK2) 5) 10.86 6.98 15.00 21.19 4.12 6.45 -2.31 17.68 11.91 10.89 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK3) 5) 10.78 6.79 14.52 20.38 3.97 6.28 -2.31 17.60 11.91 10.89 Dividend, SEK 4.754) 4.50 4.50 4.50 3.50 2.25 1.75 4.50 4.25 4.00 Gross capital expenditures for tangible fixed a­ssets 732 543 328 325 262 197 386 395 433 296 Research and development costs 5,970 6,543 5,946 5,116 5,008 4,820 4,141 4,523 3,537 3,546 Number of employees at year-end 14,716 14,140 13,968 13,068 12,536 13,159 13,294 13,757 13,577 12,830 1) Number of shares, excluding treasury shares, as of 31 December 2014: 105,499,980; 2013: 106,414,144, 2012: 105,930,829, 2011: 105,331,958, 2010: 104,717,729, 2009: 105,511,124, 2008: 106,829,893, 2007: 108,150,344, and 2006/2005: 109,150,344. 2) Average number of shares 2014: 106 125 666, 2013: 106 125 107, 2012: 105,632,911, 2011: 104,982,315, 2010: 105,217,786, 2009: 106,335,553, 2008: 107,515,049, 2007: 108,668,700 and 2006/2005: 109,150,344. 3) Average number of shares 2014: 106,916,255; 2009–2013: 109,150,344, 2008: 107,515,049; 2005–2007: 109,150,344. 4) 2014 Board of Directors’ proposal. 5) Net income less non-controlling interest divided by average number of shares. Financials for 2013 are restated according to the changed accounting principles for joint arrangements (IFRS 11). Financials for 2012 are restated according to the changed accounting principles for pensions (IAS 19). Financials for 2011 and earlier are not restated. SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 – 135 GLOSSARY 9LV Combat Management System ISP Inspektionen för Strategiska AESA Active Electronically Scanned Produkter (Swedish Agency Array for Non-Proliferation and Export Controls) AEW&C Airborne Early Warning & ­Control ISR Intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance AMB Agile Multi-Beam LFV Luftfartsverket (The Air AMV Armoured Modular Vehicle ­Navigation Service Provider Arthur Artillery Hunting Radar for Sweden) A-SMGCS Advanced Surface MoveMSA Maritime Surveillance Aircraft ment Guidance & Control NATO North Atlantic Treaty Systems ­Organization AT4 Anti-Tank weapon ROV Remotely operated vehicle AUV Autonomous Underwater RT Remote tower Vehicle SOTACS Special Operations Tactical BNP Bruttonationalprodukt, GNP Suit C4I Command, Control, SRSAM Short Range Surface to Communications, Computers Air Missile and Intelligence T-X The United States procureCarl-Gustaf Man-portable multi-role Programme ment programme for fighter weapons system trainers CBRN Chemical, Biological, Radio­ UAV Unmanned Aerial Vehicle logical, Nuclear agents U.S. SOCOM U.S. Special Operations CISB Swedish-Brazilian Centre for Comand Research and Innovation VSHORAD Very Short Range Air Defence Erieye Radar system (AEW&C) FTE Full time equivalent ETPS Empire Test Pilots' School FMV Försvarets Materielverk (­Swedish Defence and ­Materiel Administration) FN United Nations, UN FOI Totalförsvarets Forsknings­ institut (Swedish Defence Research Agency) Giraffe Surveillance radar system GRI Global Reporting Initiative Gripen Fighter system ICT Information and Communi­ cations Technology 136 – SA AB ANNUAL REPORT 2014 CONTACT INFORMATION Headquarters Saab AB P.O. Box 12062 SE-102 22 Stockholm, Sweden Visiting address: Gustavslundsvägen 42 Telephone: +46 8 463 00 00 Linköping Saab AB P.O. Box 14085 SE-581 88 Linköping Visiting address: Bröderna Ugglas gata Telephone: +46 13 18 00 00 Concept, text and production Hallvarsson & Halvarsson in co-operation with Saab Investor Relations. Corp. id no. 556036-0793 Photo: Sandra Birgersdotter, Kristofer Hedlund and Saab’s Picture Bank. Print: Larsson Offset 2015. www.saabgroup.com
