Sustainability report 2014 CEO's foreword Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 1 CEO’s Contents CEO’s foreword 1 Highlights 2014 2 A world that lasts forever 4 foreword Sustainable Stainless 7 Product perspective 8 The stainless steel circle 8 Product and application development 10 Our impact on the environment 13 Environmental goals and results 14 Materials efficiency 19 Material balance 21 Energy efficiency 22 Climate change 25 I Emissions, effluents and waste 28 Water 32 n 2014, we made progress on many fronts the groundbreaking work by Dr. Markku Huvinen, to strengthen our financial position and our company doctor who has tirelessly researched Biodiversity 33 performance. This gave us an opportunity for the past three decades the health impacts of Sustainable Supply Chain 35 to reinforce our customer focus: we signed stainless steel production. Environmental investments some groundbreaking deals, revamped our and expenditures 36 organization and worked across the company to Safety remained at the top of our agenda in 2014 further improve our delivery performance and as well: we launched a number of engagement Our people 39 quality. efforts to further increase the awareness and safety Personnel in numbers 40 orientation. The statistics continued to show how Goals and results 43 Customers are also at the heart of our sustainability our relentless focus on safety is pushing us forward: Performance management 43 approach. We create materials that are long our lost time injuries per million working hours lasting, durable and fully recyclable. In other words, decreased from 4.5 to 2.7. Compensation and benefits 44 sustainable materials that help realize our vision Training and development 44 of a world that lasts forever. We strive to be the To reinforce the importance of responsible business Diversity and equal rights 45 best experts in the industry so that we can help practices we renewed our Code of Conduct, and our customers find the best and most sustainable launched a comprehensive training program to Compliance 45 material for their application. In 2014, we further reinforce the importance of responsible business Communication and cooperation 46 developed the sustainability knowledge of our sales practices as well as compliance law training for all Safe working environment 46 teams and technical support through training. key audiences. We also conducted a company-wide Outokumpu and society 49 employee survey to encourage dialog and feedback Earning and keeping a reputation as an expert in the company, and seek further areas where we Risks and stakeholders 50 requires credibility, so we continuously challenge can improve leadership, employee engagement and Customers 51 ourselves to improve our sustainability performance communication. Suppliers 52 in our own operations. In 2014, we achieved many Current and future employees 53 of our ambitious targets: we met our target to Since the acquisition of Outokumpu and Inoxum further increase the use of recycled content in two years ago, we have been going through a Investors and analysts 53 our products and reduce climate impact. We also massive transformation. The changes that have Local communities 54 made progress in environmental management, been necessary to reverse the trend of continuous Associations and federations 56 where an important milestone was reached with losses have been fundamental, and many of them Public sector, sponsoring and NGOs 58 the ISO 14 001 certification for Outokumpu Nirosta very painful. In 2014 we reached an agreement with in Germany which is at the heart of our operations the labor unions in Germany regarding the closure Reporting on sustainable development 61 in Europe. With this achievement, almost 90% of of Bochum melt shop, and made the decision to Focus on material issues 62 all our facilities and mills have been certified. Our close our Kloster mill in Sweden. The commitment GRI and UN Global Compact 63 efforts gained us inclusion in the Climate Disclosure and perseverance of our employees across the Reporting principles 68 This Sustainability report Leadership Index again, as well as a rating as one of company under these turbulent times speaks for includes reporting of our the leaders in RobecoSam Sustainability yearbook their professionalism, and is a source of pride for Independent Assurance Report 70 economic, environmental 2015. our company. and social responsibility. Please check our Annual We were particularly proud that our commitment report 2014 for Financial to the health and safety of our employees was Mika Seitovirta statements and Corporate recognized. The International Stainless Steel Forum CEO governance statement. award in the field of Health and Safety recognized Cover image: Pellet of recycled steel. 2 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 HIGHLIGHTS 2014 HIGHLIGHTS 2014 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 3 Highlights 2014 We signed some groundbreaking deals, revamped our organization and worked across the company to further improve our delivery performance and quality. Mika Seitovirta, CEO Our year was a clear 1. Improved performance demonstration of the power During 2014, our stainless steel recycled content rose 4. Building Outokumpu Spirit and listening of joint efforts. Outokumpu above 85%. Emission efficiency was improved 3.5% against the baseline and our overall carbon profile was feedback through O’people survey truly made progress towards reduced in line with our long-term target – 20% by 2020. Outokumpu continued quarterly to follow Sustainability Outokumpu spirit workshops aiming to pave the way for new Outokumpu culture were carried one company with a common Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to secure the continual out in the units throughout the year. Cornerstones of the spirit are four Winning Behaviors, our culture. Our results in the field improvement and more frequent systematic monitoring of the progress. The KPIs are recycled content, energy common understanding on what will bring us to success. Winning Behaviors are putting the customer first, turning volumes into profit, acting with speed and working together. Outokumpu of sustainability show what efficiency and carbon efficiency. In addition, the KPIs also indicate financial savings against a target baseline, Spirit workshops rolled out in all major locations and some 2,000 Outokumpu employees took part. For example in Mexico, each employee was invited to participate and some 90% of the can be achieved by dedicated making the economic benefits of sustainability more concrete. All this comes down to the fact that – again workforce took part in workshops. Each employee made a promise at the end of the workshop on what they can immediately do to improve their work. work towards common goals. after year 2014 – we can offer stainless steel products to our customers with even lower environmental impact and At the end of the year, we also completed the first global employee engagement survey (O’People) in the new Outokumpu after the Inoxum energy demands. integration. The results will show and determine the critical development areas for the next years. 2. Sustainability trainings for sales 5. Environmental management systems At Outokumpu we wish to put the customer at the center of everything we do – including Sustainability is one of our company’s fundamental principles, we want to minimize EN ISO 14 001 sustainability work. The great sustainability prospects of our products are only realized the environmental risks and impact of our production processes. Outokumpu has a through our customers’ solutions. The unique value proposition that we can offer in the firm policy that all production units have environmental management systems. The certification for field of sustainability needs to be efficiently communicated to customers. During 2014, objective is also that the Environmental Management Systems are certified according Outokumpu Nirosta the Sustainability Training project for Sales was started. This exercise included training of to ISO 14 001. This is a new requirement for former Inoxum units. Outokumpu Nirosta our technical support professionals and sales teams, enabling them to better reveal the started work for certification right after the integration. As a result of fast determined business line for sustainability benefits of our material. Customers face growing demands for sustainability work, the Outokumpu Nirosta business line received certification for its environmental facts and supporting documents such as: Life cycle analysis data, product declarations, green management system according to EN ISO 14 001 during summer of 2014. the Environmental building rating factsheets and, carbon footprint data. Therefore, our customer interface has to Management System be fully informed and capable to serve also on demanding sustainability requirements. 3. Code of Conduct and compliance training Code of 6. Sustainability awards and recognition Conduct Outokumpu is strongly committed to responsible business practices. Outokumpu’s Code of Conduct, which sets the Group’s ethical standard and guidelines for a common way of working, During the year 2014, Outokumpu received many prestigious awards. First in May Outokumpu was revised and updated in 2014. The revised Code of Conduct is available in all nine major received International Stainless Steel Forum (ISSF) Sustainability award; for the groundbreaking languages of the Group. It was implemented with a strong involvement and message from the tireless work in the health and safety, based on the past three decades’ long research of top management and through a wide internal communication campaign and e-learning training. the health impacts of stainless steel production. During November International Chromium As part of the training, Outokumpu launched an e-learning in its Code of Conduct, compulsory Development Association (ICDA) awarded Outokumpu’s Tornio operations in Finland on long-term for all white collar employees. The first stage in 2014 covered some 3,000 people out of successful work in waste water treatment and protection of the sea environment. During 2014 which 99% completed the training. Other compliance training carried out during 2014 included Outokumpu was rated by the RobecoSam as one of the top-scoring companies in our industry, e-learning in competition law compliance for the relevant personnel in the Group. The training Outokumpu qualified for inclusion in the 2014 Sustainability Yearbook and received the Silver has been successfully completed by some 1,400 employees in 2014. Class distinction for its excellent sustainability performance. 1 4 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 5 A world that lasts forever MEGATRENDS DRIVING THE DEMAND FOR STAINLESS STEEL POPULATION GROWTH AND URBANIZATION, INCREASING MOBILITY, CLIMATE CHANGE, SCARCITY OF RESOURCES AND ENERGY. 85% OUR AIM IS TO MAKE STEEL WITH The global growth Building and ZERO rate (CAGR) is construction (ABC) Transportation 5% RECYCLED CONTENT 50+ years ~23 years RAW MATERIALS WASTE Up to 50 years Ferrochrome (Kemi mine) Con Nickel tinu ou Molybdenum s ca Other alloys such sti Food and drink, Melting of ng kitchenware as titanium stainless steel ~23 years Ho g year s h strength | hygienic oll in hig |a tr Еv | es en nt th ov er ta e g 1, corro sing lin 00 rol sio lea ld 0 Co n-r SUSTAINABLE yp kumpu recycling processes SUSTAINABLE es all Our top priority Landfill wastes is tic is a safe PROCESSES reduced by 80% STAINLESS STEEL Up to 20 years Outo and healthy workplace Over 100,000 tonnes of metals recovered Outokumpu’s stainless steel enables efficient Sustainability is key to Outokumpu’s from waste solutions benefiting both customer and society long-term prosperity and growth. and utilized as raw material as a whole. Stainless steels superior We develop our operations every day, life cycle properties give customer step by step. This takes us closer to ry advance in sustainability. our target – a sustainable society. ve eli Steel is the most recycled dd an material in the world. ing m ag RECYCLED STEEL Pa ck ain ten lable USE ANNUALLY OVER anc recyc 2,000,000 e-fre y e | durable | full Cu sto me l tee TONNES r s Metal industry y es s deliver f stainl and machinery and eo Recycling End us 6:1 ~18 years STAINLESS STEEL IS CUSTOMER SUSTAINABLE 100% EFFICIENT LIFE BENEFITS SUPPLY CHAIN CYCLE AVOIDS Clean tech material Responsible sourcing according Our aim is Low environmental footprint White goods and to ethical principles and strict to maximize 6 x EMISSIONS Uniquely sustainable production other appliances best practise policies. recycling RECYCLABLE USED TO MAKE IT Life Cycle Inventory (LCI) available for all main products ~13 years 6 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Sustainable Stainless Sustainable Stainless Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 7 Sustainable Stainless As a material, stainless steel is strong, corrosion-resistant, durable and hygienic: in many ways, it is the perfect answer to global challenges such as resource scarcity, urbanization, and global climate and water challenges. Stainless steel offers properties The most important raw materials used by Outokumpu in producing stainless steel are recycled stainless for superior life cycle and carbon steels. Together with metals recovered Global megatrends such as addressing humanity’s from waste products and by-products of the production growing demand for clean energy and pure water put process, they enable the recycled content of stainless higher expectations on material properties. Search for steel produced by the Group to be raised significantly more efficient solutions is constant ongoing trend in higher than the global industry average of 50%. In all of our customer segments. Stainless steel is often addition to recycled steel, alloying elements, including the optimal choice, for example in applications such iron-containing alloys and other metals such as as solar power, biofuels and wind power. These require chromium, nickel and molybdenum, are also required. sustainably sourced materials that enable low life cycle costs. Stainless steel is fully recyclable and suffers no The average recycled content for degradation during reprocessing. Its constituents (including iron, nickel and chromium) can therefore be all stainless steel produced by the We build the future from the past reused indefinitely in producing new stainless steel. These excellent recycling characteristics mean that Group in 2014 was over 85%. Steel is the world’s most recycled material. Estimates stainless steel is well positioned to meet the demands indicate that the current end-of-life recycling rate of a future sustainable society. Outokumpu recognizes for stainless steel is some 82%. In global terms, that recycling and the life cycle approach are important approximately 50% of the raw material used in making elements in achieving sustainable operations. new stainless steel is recycled steel. In Outokumpu’s manufacturing operations, the average recycled content StalaWind turbine towers for onshore applications from company Stalatube for all stainless steel products produced by the Group in 2014 was over 85%. 8 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Sustainable Stainless Sustainable Stainless Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 9 Product perspective Outokumpu stainless steel is used in a wide range of different products, Council of Europe’s new guidelines from 2013. The stainless steel Recycling and durability saves resources Low life cycle costs for stainless steel from industrial machinery and tanks to kitchen utensils and mobile industry has examined how different stainless steels meet these phones. Both service life and other expectations on the products show new guidelines by testing different steels, including some supplied by It goes without saying that the possibility to recycle a product saves The durability of stainless steel has a positive impact also on the large variations over this large span of end-applications. However, there Outokumpu. The results have confirmed the suitability of stainless steel resources by not having to extract new minerals and ores from the economics in a life cycle perspective. The fact that only minimal are some characteristics of Outokumpu stainless steel that benefit as a material in contact with food. ground. However, also durability is important. Manufacturing something maintenance is required is good for both the environment and the humankind and the environment regardless of where in society the only once instead of twice or even three times due to break-down and society. The combination of corrosion resistance and durability material ends up. repair during a certain time period is of course less resource consuming. increases product life-time. A case study on life cycle costs for a Stainless steel is practically inert when the appropriate steel is chosen, Safe use of Outokumpu stainless steel Examples of applications where stainless steel can help to prolong the life-time of an application are for example when using stainless steel bridge over a period of 60 years showed that substantial savings can be achieved by using stainless steel instead of carbon steel beam which means that only extremely low levels of metal ions are released Stainless steel in its manufactured forms – as delivered to Outokumpu in bridges susceptible to corrosion, or components like exhaust pipe elements. These cost savings can be in the range of 30 to 40%, and from exposed stainless products, resulting in no harmful impact on customers – is inert and non-toxic. On the other hand, industrial systems in automobiles. arise from less repair and maintenance costs. the environment. In addition to its corrosion resistance, stainless steel processes involving the material, such as welding or pickling, can also has good mechanical properties, and these can be exploited by release substances or fumes that could be hazardous if inhaled for manufacturing lighter components and products without compromising substantial periods of time. The Safety Information Sheets published safety requirements. by Outokumpu help customers handle our stainless steel products in a safe manner. Life cycle of steel products The safe choice in food processing Since stainless steel is inert and non-reactive when employed correctly, the potential impact on people’s health and safety is extremely limited. The fact that no emissions arise from stainless steel when in use is one This is one of the reasons why stainless steel is so widely used in Alloys & Virgin materials of the success factors for its use in the food processing industry, where medical appliances and in manufacturing the equipment and tools stainless steel has proven that it is an ideal material as it is easy to employed in the food processing industry. New metal to Recycled Content >80% clean and hygienic. The requirements on food contact materials keep stainless stock getting tougher to ensure that our food does not get contaminated. There are, for example, new conservative limit values proposed in the ction Intergrated FeCr Production rodu Fabric 1. Exploration u’s p steel atio p ss n 2. Mining & Concentration um inle ok sta 3. Production of ferrochrome of The stainless steel circle t Ou u ct od Pr Recycled steel White goods and 13 Stainless steel fits perfectly into a circular economy. It is fully recyclable steel products can be quite long, there is not enough secondary other appliances years and suffers no degradation during reprocessing, which means it can stainless steel on the market to satisfy the demand. Thus Outokumpu be recycled again and again without becoming inferior in quality. Its recycles both stainless and carbon steels in our processes. In addition Metal industry 18 and machinery years constituents (including iron, nickel and chromium) can therefore be to recycled steel, alloying elements, including iron-containing alloys reused indefinitely in producing new stainless steel. and other metals such as chromium, nickel and molybdenum, are also End of life 23 recycling rate 82% Transport e required. Us years Steel is already the world’s most recycled material. Estimates indicate Rec yc Food processing 23 that the end-of-life recycling rate for stainless steel is some 82%, In global terms, approximately 50% of the raw material used in making li ng &r and kitchenware years meaning that four out of any five stainless objects are collected and new stainless steel is recycled steel. In Outokumpu’s manufacturing e c ov er y made into new steel. However, since the demand for stainless steel operations, the average recycled content for all stainless steel products Building and construction 50 has been growing over the decades, and the service life of stainless produced by the Group in 2014 was over 85%. years 10 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Sustainable Stainless Sustainable Stainless Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 11 Product and application development The direction of Outokumpu’s product development is given by global Stainless steel is an important enabler in clean technologies. Starting trends like economic and population growth, mobility, urbanization, from 2015, new and stricter regulations will come into effect for soclimate change and limited resources. We work closely together with our called ECAs (Emissions Control Areas) limiting the amount of sulphur customers in order to align our product development with customers’ in exhaust gases. To comply with these new regulations, ship-owners current and future needs. The development of long-lasting, sustainable are left with three alternatives: change to low sulphur fuel, change material solutions providing advantages over the whole product life to LNG fuel, or to install exhaust gas cleaning system (scrubber). cycle is the key focus. The product development involves development The harsh environment inside the scrubber calls for highly corrosionof new steel grades, new surface finishes and improvement of existing resistant materials where Outokumpu high performance steels, such steel grades. as 254SMO™, is an excellent selection. We collaborate with our customers, provide advice on material selection and carry out customer Outokumpu has recently launched several new steel grades, including specific laboratory tests for simulating scrubber conditions and material ferritic 21% Cr stainless steel 4622, austenitic 4420 and formable duplex stainless steels FDX 25™ and FDX 27™. All these grades provide behavior. Outokumpu’s material combined life cycle efficient alternatives for conventional nickel-containing austenitic steel grades. During 2014, commercialization activities Another example is the tank calculation tool we have developed and are continuously improving. The tool is utilized to demonstrate the with know how leads to sustainable related to these new products were continued. These activities include, for instance, testing of the new materials in customers’ applications and benefits of using our duplex stainless steels in storage tanks. The use of duplex steels instead of coated carbon steel can offer the customer innovation and public recognition ramping up and fine tuning of the production processes. a more cost efficient solution. By using the calculation tool, we can together with the customer go through their case and show them the PVI Industries LLC, an American heater tanks was five to fifteen Outokumpu’s R&D teams work closely together with our customers advantages of using duplex grades, not only in terms of the whole life water heaters manufacturer has years, depending on application. and sales organization. Our R&D experts provide our customers with cycle cost, but also already in the initial stages when the storage tank is PVI now warranties standard duplex chosen Outokumpu’s proprietary technical support and advice related to material selection, fabrication built. Furthermore, by using duplex stainless steel there is no need for lean duplex grade LDX 2101® water heater tanks for up to 25 and material performance in customers’ applications. Furthermore, maintenance of the storage tank and no need to use environmentally our R&D teams have a strong business development focus. We actively dangerous paint or coatings. to replace carbon steel in its years. The additional cost of the search and develop new application areas and markets for Outokumpu’s water heaters. Using lean duplex stainless steel is offset by the products together with our customers and potential new users of has significantly reduced PVI savings from no longer coating and stainless steel. In the following, two examples of our recent activities Industries’ waste stream and plating the carbon steel material. are given. increased the useful life of its water heaters. Sustainability achieved Outokumpus’ stainless steel Moving to duplex stainless steel has enabled PVI to reduce also reduced PVI’s waste stream Stainless steel is an nearly 600,000 kg of waste a year, because stainless steel to nearly zero. The efforts were recognized on May 7, 2014 by does not require any coating or the State of Texas at the 2014 important enabler in plating. Previously, PVI was using electroless nickel plating to reduce Environmental Excellence Awards where PVI received the honor for clean technologies. corrosion in the carbon steel water heater tanks. The process Pollution Prevention. “We are thrilled to be recognized generated significant waste stream in the largest industrial state in which is now completely avoided. America as the number one green Clear savings are achieved since company in this area, and it is a no maintenance is required. sustainable footprint we expect to In 2009, PVI Industries built a carry forward for years to come. water heater prototype, test Unit Our experience started with a PVI to reduce #1, using Outokumpu LDX 2101®. desire to have a more sustainable nearly The prototype went through an accelerated life testing equivalent production operation. But this quickly expanded to a broader 600,000 kg of 30 years of normal life use at highly elevated temperatures mission. There is a huge movement in the marketplace for materials of waste a year of about nearly 90 degrees Celsius (190°F). Five years after that follow a longer life principle. And this parallels with PVI’s belief. development, the prototype is In Outokumpu, I know we have a still operational. The useful life business partner who shares that expectancy of carbon steel water core value,” Chris Bollas reports. 12 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Our Impact on the Environment Our Impact on the Environment Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 13 Our impact on the environment Stainless steel is 100% recyclable, hygienic and corrosion resistant and the environmental impacts resulting from its use are almost non-existent. On the other hand, its production – both the manufacturing and reprocessing stages – does have an impact on the environment. The most substantial environmental impacts which result by creating efficiency in for example transport, from the stainless steel production process include construction, industries and energy production. Due emissions of dust and particles into the air, discharges to these facts, steel products are solutions in climate of water from production plants, and the high levels of combat and the protection of the environment. direct and indirect energy consumption during production. Landfill waste is also created during the production Environmental data and reporting for 2014 covers process. Outokumpu’s stainless steel, ferrochrome and mining The life cycle of stainless steel operations in the continuing operations. The life cycle of stainless steel products is very long products is very long and the and the recycling rate among the highest. Therefore, the Unless otherwise stated, the environmental data for 2013 environmental impacts have to be analyzed always per and 2012 has been restated to reflect Outokumpu’s recycling rate among the highest. life span, not only related to the production phase. The continuing operations at the end of the reporting period. use of steel in the modern society minimizes emissions 14 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Our Impact on the Environment Our Impact on the Environment Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 15 Environmental goals and results Group-wide goals for 2015 • No significant environmental incidents. Site-specific goals for 2015 • Outokumpu UK units: • Climate change: Reduction of emissions in line with Outokumpu’s ––Increase energy efficiency from 2.05 to 2.028 MWh/t per liquid long-term target of achieving a 20% reduction in direct and indirect steel. Goals and target-setting are part of our continual improvement ideology Outokumpu is committed to the long-term target of reducing the Group’s CO2 emissions by 2020, against the program baseline 2007–2009. ––Decrease waste to landfill from 36.5 kg/t to 32 kg/t. and are included in environmental and energy management systems. carbon emissions profile (indirect and direct emissions) by 20% per ––Annual progress of this target is followed as an internal quarterly • Avesta, Sweden: Outokumpu sets Group-wide and site-level environmental targets. tonne produced by 2020. The setting of this challenging target is a clear KPI; the target for 2015 is split into separate energy efficiency and ––Reduction of direct process-related CO2-emissions by 4% per tonne. Group-wide targets are common targets that affect most Outokumpu demonstration of Outokumpu’s desire to improve the Group’s energy CO2 emission target. • Tornio, Finland: sites. Targets at production sites are more specific. efficiency, to contribute to reducing global emissions of carbon dioxide, ––Energy efficiency: A further reduction of 1% in energy consumption ––Energy efficiency: Reuse rate of carbon monoxide gas from and to participate in the transformation towards a low-carbon society. per tonne of stainless steel processed, cumulating to 10% with ferrochrome production > 95%. Annual routines at all Outokumpu production locations include the 2007–2009 as the base period. ––Emission control and decreasing: Improvement of gas cleaning setting, monitoring and reporting of independent environmental targets. All environmental target setting and associated long-term goals cover all ––Direct CO2 emissions from production operations reduced by 1% per treatment equipment at ferrochrome sintering plant according to These processes are built into the Group’s environmental management Outokumpu units globally. The baseline for long-term targets was kept tonne of stainless steel processed, cumulating to 4.5% with 2007– the detailed program. systems and key targets are also set at Group level. Having concrete, the same: the 2007–2009 period. Progress and reported 2014 results 2009 as the baseline period. ––Increase of environmental awareness: New environmental safety measurable targets for our operations is a way of focusing attention on include all current production units and programs. • Recycling: training for own employees. specific environmental and energy aspects throughout Outokumpu. ––Further 1% increase in the use of recycled metal through higher • SKS, China: input of recycled materials per tonne of stainless steel. Target ––A new target: Maintain the plant site and landscaping in excellent aiming 89% (= 890 kg recycled input per 1 tonne of crude steel condition. produced). The Group’s mid term ambition is to achieve a level of over 90% (900 kg of recycled metals per tonne of crude steel produced) by 2018. Group-wide results 2014 Site-specific results 2014 • Materials efficiency: Further reduction in the amount of waste landfilled per tonne produced. Based on the outcome of Group-wide targets for 2014, environmental • Kemi mine: Reuse over 250,000 tonnes of lumpy rock and barren work once again yielded great results. Below you can find the results on rock from the Kemi concentrating plant to the underground mine. the targets and short comments: This target was not achieved, since Kemi mine underground mining practices were changed during the year and instead of these above Efficient management systems save that could be harmful to humans or to the environment. All these • No significant environmental incidents: The target was achieved; ground materials, other barren rock from underground was used environment, costs and time systems operate in accordance with the Group EHSQ policy. All our there were no significant environmental incidents involving directly. production units and service centers have certified ISO 9001 quality Outokumpu operations during 2014. This demonstrates the excellent • Avesta: Increase energy efficiency by 2% per processed tonne. This Outokumpu’s firm objective is to minimize the environmental burden management system and almost all production sites have certified their standards maintained in our operations. target was achieved, resulting in an increase in energy efficiency of of the Group’s operations as much as is economically and technically Environmental Management Systems (EMS) according to ISO 14 001. • Climate change: Reduction of emissions was in line with Outokumpu’s 3.5% per tonne. feasible. The basis of this work is the Environment, Health, Safety and Typically, energy efficiency is integrated into the environmental long-term target of achieving a 20% reduction in direct and indirect • Sheffield melt shop: Increase material efficiency by reducing waste Quality (EHSQ) Policy. This policy was renewed in March 2014 by the management system, although many of the Group’s sites also have CO2 emissions by 2020, against the program baseline 2007– landfilled 2% per produced tonne. This target was achieved – CEO according to feedback from internal units and customers. ISO 50 001 certification standards for energy efficiency. 2009. The Group’s total carbon profile per tonne of steel produced amount of waste to landfill was decreased from 45 kg/t to 44 kg/t. was reduced by some 9% compared to baseline figures. The main • San Luis Potosí: Reduce fresh water consumption to 1.50 m3/tonne Outokumpu has coordinated internal Environment, Health and Safety, In 2013, the Group decided that all our production chains should be contributors to this achievement were higher capacity utilization rates processed and reduce waste to landfill below 74 kg/tonne processed. Quality and Energy Efficiency (EHSQ&En) management systems since covered by the ISO 14 001 certification system by the end of 2015. This at processes, improved energy efficiency and lower specific emissions. These targets were also achieved. Fresh water consumption was 2009. These systems, policy, instructions, targets and audit findings are meant that the work started towards certification in our German and • Energy efficiency: The target of achieving a further improvement reduced to 1.17 m3/t and waste to landfill to 69.4 kg/t. systematically reviewed. The aim is to simplify and integrate all these Mexico units and in Calvert, which were still uncertified. of 1%, from the 10% achieved in 2013 to a very ambitious 11% in • Calvert: Develop solution for on-site melt shop dusts recovery systems and instructions when and where possible. energy consumption per tonne of stainless steel processed (with process. This target is ongoing, there are several solutions developed. In 2014, the main progress in this area took place in the EMEA 2007–2009 as the base period) was not achieved. Energy efficiency These are being analyzed, final decision on the implementation has The EHSQ&En Group perspective is aligned with the Group’s Coil Service Centers and in Nirosta units in Germany. The Nirosta improvement was affected by changes in the production and some not yet been done. management process and annual planning. Outokumpu’s aim is also environmental management system achieved certification in June production interruptions. Total cumulative improvement achieved to harmonize and integrate internal management systems as much according to ISO 14 001 and Group’s principles. The Calvert site in during Group’s low carbon program in energy efficiency against the as is possible and reasonable. For example, Coil EMEA operations in Alabama, USA and the Mexinox cold rolling plant in San Luis Potosí, program baseline was 9% after 2014. Savings equaled some 751 Finland and in the Netherlands operate under integrated environmental Mexico have started projects to certify their environmental management GWh annually in terms of energy. and quality certifications, and environment and energy efficiency systems similarly. The Outokumpu Leadership Team also agreed that • Materials efficiency: Further reduction in the amount of waste management systems are integrated in Outokumpu Nirosta covering the all major plants and production units should certify their existing Health landfilled per produced tonne of stainless steel produced. Material production sites in Germany. and Safety systems by the end of 2016. efficiency was improved against the baseline, and we especially succeeded in utilization of steel making slag. Operational efficiency of Outokumpu’s systems and certification is In EMEA Coil Service Centers, a common and integrated management monitored using both internal and external audits and ensured by cosystem set-up was established during the year. With the new integrated operating with certification bodies. The number of non-conformities and system successfully in place, the Coil EMEA Service Center network now corrective actions in EHSQ&En systems found by external auditors in has a common way of working and joint KPIs. our units are regularly monitored. In 2014, these non-conformities were typically minor and corrective actions were made as soon as possible. After the acquisition of Inoxum Outokumpu had Service Centers from The Group also provides the relevant authorities with reports on several separate companies including different business models Outokumpu’s operations in all the countries in which we operate. and ways of working. Now the new integrated multisite system and registration saves both money and efforts. All management All Outokumpu’s production sites have employed risk-based systems (Health and Safety, Quality and Environment) are audited management systems, which help in avoiding spills and accidents simultaneously. 16 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Our Impact on the Environment Our Impact on the Environment Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 17 / international like UN processes (for example the climate targets investments. Similar unexpected changes took place in Finland during After necessary preparation an integrated multisite registration was 2014, Outokumpu focused increased attention on life cycle oriented and negotiations in the coming COP process in 2015), regional like last year related to energy taxation in the mining industry. These types successfully realized during the fall, and official certificates were issued environmental management. The importance of life cycle data, both the EU-wide emission trading legislation, based on different other of changes are difficult to see and expect beforehand and it makes the in November. The multisite registration covers the EMEA Coil Service for internal use in highlighting areas where improvements are required organizations’ decisions with very local effects for example on the Baltic future and investment planning difficult. Centers in France, Hungary, Italy, Poland, Sweden and UK as well as in and for external purposes in communications with customers and other Sea (like International Maritime Organisation, IMO) or national (like extra Krefeld as the central function. The work continues in 2015 with the stakeholders, has already been recognized. border tax for steel products or industry tax policy). In Germany the so called EEG tax for renewable energy created integration of the two remaining Coil Service Centers in Germany. also significant cost implications to Outokumpu’s energy intensive As a sector leader, Outokumpu continued to update life cycle All these identified areas are followed up by a certain Group function processes. This additional tax was levied for all electricity intensive At the Group level, Outokumpu also has a long tradition of internally inventory data in its own Environmental Product Declarations (EPD) or country based Outokumpu organization and managed according to enterprises during 2013. However, late in the 2013 it was decided steering environmental performance: the first Group-wide internal for Outokumpu’s main stainless steel products. These are public internal instructions. For example, in the environmental area the new to grant significant tax refund which Outokumpu received during Environmental Committee was established in 1969. The activity now documents which describe the main environmental effects and energy political initiatives and legislation are dealt with in internal Outokumpu 2014. After a long period of negotiations between industry and the continues with the name of Outokumpu Environmental Network, which needs of the Group’s stainless steel grades throughout their supply Environmental Network quarterly. The information flow in these issues governmentit is now likely that EEG costs will be reduced to some EUR 2 meets regularly each quarter to manage and steer environmental chain. In 2014, the Environmental Product Declaration (EPD) for hot comes mainly through industrial associations or through our local million in coming years for Outokumpu operations in Germany. operations and share best practices. It also has clear responsibilities rolled and cold rolled stainless steel were updated in order to include units which are obligated to report the relevant and possible risks and mandates according to the internal EHSQ&En manual (covering the Outokumpu Nirosta production. coming from changing legislation. In practice, our company co-operates Many challenges in environmental initiatives and legislation were Environment, Health and Safety, Quality and Energy efficiency significantly in these matters with industrial organizations (see chapter followed. In chemical and environmental area similar or new challenges management and requirements). In environmental matters, a similar The availability of robust and verified data is the starting point for Associations and federations). in 2014 were for example: network was established to coordinate European CO2 Emission Trading. managing sustainability throughout a product’s life cycle. Outokumpu’s The Group perspective is aligned with the Group’s management process environmental and energy reporting, data management and analysis The main new or upcoming items of legislation which have been • European legislation related to chemicals (REACH) and product safety and annual planning. All Outokumpu units report today their activities in are supported by an Energy & Environment Reporting (EER) system identified as possible business risks are mainly coming from the area (CLP) including the REACH authorization processes; common Outokumpu’s internal Energy & Environmental system (EER). which provides internal reporting and analysis tools for all the Group’s of energy and climate, environmental, chemical or tax policies. During • Implementation of the Industrial Emissions Directive in the European production sites. last year, these included for example renewed EU Climate and Energy Union together with binding Best Available Techniques (BAT) package 2030 and EU Emissions Trading rules and similar initiatives in requirements; Information on life cycles and Regulative environment, policy and legislation the US and China and some unexpected changes in national energy or other tax regulation. • the EU’s initiatives on air quality policy and national emissions ceilings (the EU Air Policy Review Package); footprints demands reliable data development affects competitiveness • the International Maritime Organization’s decision on the sulphur Emerging environmental, energy and other legislation is reviewed in From our perspective, energy and climate policies are widespread content of marine fuels and the EU Sulphur Directive, effective as Stainless steel’s very low environmental impact during its use, its accordance with the Group risk management policy and integrated and different on each continent. The global climate negotiations in of 2015, some water and air quality targets in our main production durability and minimal maintenance requirements are widely recognized. together with other risks. Outokumpu has identified changes in the Lima, Peru in December 2014 did not reach any new common view countries; In addition, at the end of their life cycle, stainless steel products legislation as one of the most significant issues in the materiality or decisions. For our company this means that we have to constantly • EU resource efficiency initiatives which may have impacts on are also fully recyclable. Outokumpu’s aim is to improve levels of analysis. These changes are in the form of emerging and planned assess and predict the changes in materials and energy prices in our legislation and many other areas. sustainability at each phase of a stainless steel product’s life cycle, legislation stemming from current policies. Whether policy related production regions and countries. from production through to reuse, and to secure a sustainable supply changes are local, national, regional or global, the changes are always In Finland a new Environmental Protection Act entered into force in chain all the way from suppliers of recycled steel to the production of potential risks. Policy and authority involvement in the business September. It has been reviewed in Kemi-Tornio units to be sure that we stainless steel products. environment always has a direct impact since our operations are always conducted according to laws and regulations. Our way of identifying and Emerging legislation are working according to new legislation. Many applications that employ stainless steel already have a beneficial mitigating these policy risks is similar to risk management in general In Europe, the EU Commission came forward with comprehensive For our type of industry some non-fact based or non-comprehensive impact by reducing the total environmental burden exerted by and these are integrated into the Group-wide risk management process. “Energy and climate framework 2030” in early 2014. This policy definitions in legislation are causing unexpected impacts. For human society. On a global scale, current trends towards achieving instrument has significant direct and indirect effects on the Group’s instance the EU listing of nickel as “a suspect potential carcinogen” sustainability and reducing the extent of climate change are strong. According to Outokumpu’s risk management instructions; we assess operations. The framework has direct impact through binding EU level automatically leads to similar classification of austenitic stainless regularly our risks related to different external developments outside emission targets. These targets have – in addition to direct effects steel, as it fails to recognize that stainless steel is a material with its Environmental management has to be able to answer both these our company. One relevant area is so called political risks coming – more significant indirect effects through energy and material input own inherent properties, which are not the same as those of the raw challenges and needs for sustainable products and solutions. During from new legislative initiatives and regulations. These might be global prices. The framework also affects competitive advantages both material constituents. This non-scientific classification as a criterion to within the EU and in relation to third countries. The European Council exclude substances from use is included in the EU Ecolabel Regulation has concluded on the framework during their October summit. There and in some other initiatives. A derogation in EU Ecolabel is possible are nevertheless a lot of uncertainty and unpredictable issues which and already approved for certain product groups (mobile phones, depend on the implementation in the form of related directives and laptops/computers) but needs intensive communication. However, this decisions. is causing unnecessary doubt among our customers. The impact of all Fast actions for ISO 14 001 certifications The EU has many other partially overlapping energy policies in place these initiatives on Outokumpu’s operations is analyzed as part of the Group’s annual environmental risk rating process. This political and and emerging with huge impact on EU energy markets as a whole and non-fact based situation has required intensive communication from In 2013 Outokumpu made an internal decision that all production sites on steel industry competitiveness. These policies have an effect on the Outokumpu and Eurofer during the last few years. should have Environmental Management System (EHS) ISO 14 001 business environment and from Outokumpu’s point of view the most important identified policies were: the EU Emissions Trading Directive, The implementation of EU chemical REACH regulation is a business risk certification in use to ensure the progress and compliance in environmental State Aid Guidelines for ETS compensation, Energy Taxation Directive, for many industries, also for Outokumpu. One tool in REACH is to ban areas. After the decision, former Inoxum production chains without Energy Efficiency Directive, Renewable Energy Sources targets and and substitute dangerous substances through an authorization process. ISO 14 001 certification started to build systems. Already in late 2013, the long term EU 2030/2050 climate and energy targets and 2050 Energy Among the 22 new chemicals proposed for authorization in 2014 are Dahlerbrück site in Germany attained the certification and in June 2014 Roadmap. two substances that are important to Outokumpu; Coal Tar Pitch high our German Nirosta production units (Krefeld, Dillenburg, Bochum, Benrath) temperature (CTPht) and disodium tetraborate (product name “Borax”). passed successfully the external ISO audits and achieved the certification. As an energy intensive industry, Outokumpu faces difficulties from time Both chemicals are used in Outokumpu’s production processes, to time from national and rapid changes in energy policy. The latest of although not present in the products. CTP is an essential substance The new Calvert site in Alabama, US and Mexinox cold rolling plant in San this kind of changes took place in Germany due to the new extra fees in the ferrochrome (FeCr) melt process. Borax is used globally for the Luis Potosí, Mexico have projects ongoing to certify their environmental in electricity prices for renewable energy sources. This was costly for all production of aggregate material from stainless steel slag and to avoid management systems similarly during 2015. After these, the coverage of electricity intensive industries and caused uncertainty for the future and serious dusting problems at the production sites. certified ISO 14 001 systems will be 100% in Outokumpu production chains. 18 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Our Impact on the Environment Our Impact on the Environment Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 19 The coming International Maritime Organization’s and the EU’s sulphur plant, Krefeld, Germany the permit for its revised NIFO project (NIFO Radioactive material detected before radiation monitoring equipment. During 2012 and 2013 the internal restrictions of the sea transport will increase our Tornio plant’s transport costs. This will be realized during 2015 and afterwards. flex), the Calvert plant in the US the new air emission permit for NOx and SO2 at the melt shop and stormwater permit and the Kemi mine in it entered the production process guidelines for radioactivity control were updated. However, Outokumpu has cooperated with our line ship operator Langh Finland the permit for landscaping the barren rock heaps. In Dillenburg, As recycled steel is used in Outokumpu’s manufacturing process, In 2014, two incidents which involved radioactive material entering an Ship Company to avoid the cost increase. Langh Ship has developed Germany permit application on direct discharge of rain water was sent radioactive material can enter the stainless steel production chain. electric arc furnace despite the presence of alarm systems occurred and installed their own sulphur filter installations to all Tornio route to the authorities. While such radiation usually derives from naturally-occurring sources, at Outokumpu’s melting shops in Sweden and Finland. The radioactive ships already during the summer and autumn 2014. the source of radiation in some cases consists of components from material concerned was identified as americium-241, an isotope The environmental permit of the Tornio site, granted in 2012, was items of measuring equipment extensively used by heavy industry. employed in measurement instruments. All radioactive materials Our active communication together with some industry associations appealed by the Swedish authorities despite the fact that permit The amounts of radioactive isotopes involved are small, with maximum were stored separately in accordance with guidelines provided by the and Members of the European Parliament on proposed restrictions to conditions related to emissions of mercury, sulphur dioxide and nitrogen quantities measured in grams, and sources of this type are normally appropriate national authorities. The dose rate associated with the truck transport in the EU was a success. This means that existing larger oxides were strict. detected before they enter the Outokumpu production process. Major radioactive material encountered in these cases was not at a level trucks can be used in the Nordic countries for our products as so far. Outokumpu sites prescreen recycled steel for radioactivity using special harmful to humans. The appellate court dismissed the complaints in December 2014 and During 2014 also some other regulations or political initiatives required the permit is now final. This process did not affect daily processes or our communication towards regulators, for instance: the ramp-up of ferrochrome production. • Update of the EU Best Available Technique Reference document (BAT BREF) related to ferrochrome production • Updates of some building material standards under the EU At some European sites, risk assessment updates were done regarding the EU Seveso Directive. Materials efficiency Construction Product Directive In 2014, emissions and discharges were generally at normal levels • Review of the US and EU waste lists and in compliance with environmental permits, but some spills and • National Green Building standards instances of non-compliances did occur. Environmental compliance Outokumpu’s aim is the production of steel where all the materials users. Outokumpu’s recycled material input is very high aiding the • Some national Environmental Quality Standards (EQS) data for 2014 shows that there were a total of 21 environmental nonresulting from the production are fully utilized either in their primary general transformation towards more circular economy. The second compliances or breaches of permitted limits (2013: 20). None of them form for example steel or in the case of swarf recycled back in to the aim is reduction of the quantities of waste sent to landfill after Outokumpu continuously monitors and evaluates legislative initiatives were significant environmental incidents and on all these occasions, the steel production process. Our ultimate aim is zero-waste to landfill. the manufacturing process. By paying special attention to waste and evaluates their impact on the Group’s operations. The initiatives environmental authorities were informed and no environmental damage management and segregation techniques, many waste fractions and environmental legal compliance are discussed regularly in internal was reported. These were for example: Outokumpu’s manufacturing processes are developed in such a way resulting from production operations are now recycled or recovered. Environmental Network meetings. Outokumpu also participates in as to facilitate the recovery of valuable elements from the material For example the specific amount of steel slags sent to landfill have communicating the effects of emerging legislation and aims to supply • Kloster, SWE: leakage of neolyte fluid (high Cr6+) into soil. streams. Outokumpu’s strategy is to improve production processes consequently been reduced by 30% over the last 3 years. decision makers with both industry-specific and expert information. • Wildwood, FL US: nickel in wastewater. through R&D projects, continuous improvement tools like business Emerging legislation has also been identified as a sustainability issue • Calvert, AL US: the permit deviation for SO2 from EAF. excellence projects or by research programs which are often carried of material importance to the Group. During 2014, we identified the main legislative initiatives and their probable financial impact; both • LP SMACC, UK: dust emission from DC Arc Furnace and leachates in landfill but without the pollution risk outside. out together with external partners like universities or technology companies. Recycling and recovery of waste these activities and impacts have been integrated into the Group’s • Avesta, SWE: chromium, molybdenum and suspended solids in waste materials is a priority risk management processes and Group EHS experts continue to water, a temporary dust emission. communicate and gather data in legislative issues together with industrial organizations. • New Castle, IN, US: pH of waste water and a delayed stack emission test. Twin approach Slag, dust, scales and other production-related material streams are unavoidable in steel production. As a result of the manufacturing • Tornio, FIN: chromium in waste waters, NOx emissions from hot rolling Outokumpu has two aims when improving the Group’s material process these material streams contain valuable metals. Recovery of and a dust emission from FeCr sintering. efficiency. Firstly we minimize the initial use of virgin materials in our these metals reduces landfilling of waste and helps Outokumpu meet its Environmental legal compliance During 2014 Outokumpu paid twice fines related to environmental primary production of stainless steel. We use Electric Arc Furnaces (EAF’s) to recycle steel from post-consumer and post-industrial sustainability objectives. The follow-up of site environmental permit status and legal compliance incidents: is a routine in the quarterly internal Environmental Network meetings. In 2014, the Environmental Network made a prioritization for internal • Outokumpu Nirosta, Germany: Delayed emission measurements environmental audits for the future based on identified risks and the some year ago at Krefeld cold rolling mill caused EUR 5,357 and EUR site audits that were carried out in 2013. Site audits will continue in 2015 according to revised internal risk list. During 2014, many of the 1,582 fines. • New Castle, IN, US: transport of filter cakes to external landfill without Success in materials efficiency production sites got new environmental permits or updates or had a permit process ongoing. appropriate measures relating to hazardous waste caused penalty of USD 5,625. – All slags utilized instead of landfilling For example in Dillenburg, Germany, exception permit for oil for the In 2014, the cold rolling sites Mexinox in San Luis Potosí and SKS in In the Tornio site located in north Finland 1,100,000 tonnes of slag is cold rolling mills was issued. As an action to reduce impacts of the Shanghai did not have any environmental non-compliances. From the produced from stainless steel and ferrochromium production. These are upcoming sulphur emission regulation, Outokumpu is participating in year 2014 we can summarize that emissions into the air and discharges manufactured to meet CE-marked aggregate product standards. As a result of the liquid natural gas (LNG) terminal project in Tornio harbor, Finland, for into water remained within permitted limits and the breaches that extensive research and development and optimized slag treatment processes which Environmental Impact Assessment was done in 2013. The permit occurred were temporary, were identified and had only a minimal impact was granted in 2014. Krefeld, Germany, started the first steps in legal on the environment. Outokumpu is not a party into any significant the site has achieved zero slag to landfill. Major process modifications were environmental procedures to close the melt shop. juridical or administrative proceeding concerning environmental issues, done to the slag treatment facilities in order to increase the metal recovery nor is it aware of any realized environmental risks that could have a further increasing material efficiency at the site. New processing innovations Permit process was still ongoing on several sites. For instance, the material adverse effect on the corporation’s financial position. have led to dramatically improved metal circulation from the slag back to a melt shop in Sheffield, the UK is waiting for a new IED-permit, Avesta, raw material input of stainless steel production. Improvements in 2014 also Sweden for example final permit conditions for the acid regeneration include filtering systems for both slag treatment plants in order to reduce dust generation from these processes. 20 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Our Impact on the Environment Our Impact on the Environment Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 21 Material flow in the Kemi-Tornio area Emissions Emissions Material balance Other Recycled steel + Steel products raw material other raw material Materials used, tonnes 2014 2013 2012 Ferrochrome Steel Recycled steel 2 430 388 2 111 093 2 328 984 Mine plant mill Chrome Mineral-based Recovered metals 149 143 148 329 130 780 Ferrochrome concentrate products Ferrochrome 482 459 434 191 456 683 Nickel alloys 207 225 202 118 210 041 MineralRecyclable based Other alloys 129 071 122 836 126 212 Tailings sand Waste materials Waste products Additives, tonnes Slag formers 405 131 384 028 376 967 Meltshop process gases 414 071 313 804 308 578 Pickling acids bought 40 151 37 702 31 249 Recovery of alloying elements dependence on virgin material has decreased. With this material Pollution prevention materials 54 314 46 107 45 363 being reused in the steel making process as a slag conditioner and Packaging materials used for final products 20 682 20 498 20 237 Dust and scales collected from stainless steel manufacturing effectively ending up in the slag it is effectively used three times; once operations are considered by Outokumpu to be significant waste as refractory brick, secondly as a substitute for dolomite and thirdly as streams. Wherever practical, these waste materials are collected and a substitute for road stone in asphalt production. In this way we can say Energy, GWh 8 349 8 131 7 481 recycled to recover the valuable alloying elements they contain – these that the refractory undergoes a double reused, eliminating two virgin Electricity 4 771 4 715 3 940 include nickel, chromium and molybdenum. In order to fully recover finite resources (dolomite and road stone). Propane 1 193 1 015 1 151 the valuable elements in the dust secondary metallurgical processes Carbon monoxide gas 631 541 342 are used. Outokumpu operates one such unit in Sheffield, UK, while Natural Gas 1 578 1 705 1 844 other Outokumpu sites use external partners to perform this recovery operation. Through these processes nickel, chromium and molybdenum Continuous development to Diesel, Light and heavy fuel oil, other 176 155 204 are returnable to Outokumpu’s EAF sites and other elements such as increase material efficiency zinc can be sent for use as a secondary raw material. Outokumpu’s Output, tonnes downstream units are also recovering all metallic particles as far as Waste materials are generated during the downstream operations Steel 2 919 413 2 598 006 2 686 262 feasible from waste streams, such as dust and scales. at Outokumpu. These are treated in various ways to minimize environmental impact and increase utilization of the material. Group’s Emissions to air, tonnes* guiding principle is to utilize wastes according to waste hierarchy by first Carbon dioxide 1 400 754 1 274 515 1 083 978 Steel slag transformed into products recycling, recovering or as an energy source. Nitrogen oxides 2245 2 634 2 362 and the reused of refractory materials Outokumpu continues to invest in new material recovery and reuse Sulphur oxides 383 348 446 techniques. Often this is carried out in conjunction with a local Dust 441 447 524 In stainless steel making slag forms a critical part of the production contractor, like in Calvert, AL US: during 2014 new slag treatment Ozone-depleting substances 0 0 0 process. Slag prevents the loss of crucial alloying elements during facilities were completed (USD 5.4 million). Other Green House Gas, t. CO2 eqv. 81 89 34 melting and aids the refining stages. They can also play a critical role Carbon dioxide per tonne of steel 0.48 0.49 0.40 in energy efficient steel making. It is also by far the biggest material side stream. Outokumpu has invested more than EUR 10 million in the last decade developing slag based products and has fostered long term Hazardous waste facts Emissions to water, tonnes relationships with key third parties to facilitate the preparation of slag Wastes from Outokumpu production units are sent to appropriate Metals 53 44 50 as a product. treatment facilities or to landfill sites licensed to accept such materials. Nitrates 2 408 1 809 1 662 Hazardous wastes generated by the Group’s operations in 2014 totaled The resulting slag products are employed in construction projects, 164,341 tonnes, this number includes also some materials used to Hazardous waste, tonnes used for neutralization purposes in industrial applications and as a neutralization. Of this amount, some 49‚000 tonnes were exported Oily sludge to treatment 23 002 16 582 18 901 soil conditioner in agriculture. In road construction slag products can from the country of origin to be treated and its metal content to be Hydroxide sludge landfilled 47 964 73 639 66 280 replace virgin materials such as crushed stone aggregate. These slag recovered. Steel making dust to recovery 69 784 57 274 48 597 containing roads also offer higher grip levels and are helping to prevent road traffic accidents where they are used. During 2014 over 80% of the Hazardous waste consisting of oily wastes, acid regeneration and steel slag was reused for these purposes. hydroxide sludge generated by the Group’s operations in 2014 totaled Wastes and by-products, tonnes 70,967 tonnes. Steel slag, total 899 451 906 143 821 086 Used refractory materials are a significant side stream material after Steel slag utilized 720 091 735 087 586 321 slag. Outokumpu has pioneered the crushing and re-melting of dolomite All such materials are treated, reused or disposed of in accordance with Steel slags utilization rate (recovery, reuse, recycling) 80.1% 81.1% 71.4% bricks within our manufacturing units. The recovery and reuse of current legislation and best practices. refractory material as a dolomite substitute means that Outokumpu’s * All emissions to air are scope 1 emissions, including all direct emissions from our operations. Scope 2 and 3 emissions are reported under section Climate change. 22 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Our Impact on the Environment Our Impact on the Environment Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 23 Energy efficiency Origin of electricity 2014 % Outokumpu participates in lowcarbon electricity production Renewable sources 25 Outokumpu’s aim is to have access to additional low-carbon power Nuclear 33 production sources in the future. To achieve this, the Group participates The steel industry is energy intensive and Outokumpu’s steelmaking batch furnaces were taken into full use. At the melt shop in Sheffield, Fossiles and turf 42 in new power plant projects and enters into agreements with parties and rolling processes are no exception. Achieving the highest possible the UK, the new EAF transformer regulator and control system (EUR in the power market. By participating in new power plant projects, level of energy efficiency is very important for the Group. Outokumpu’s 2 million) was similarly taken into use. All these investments gained Outokumpu can also promote competition in Nordic power markets and aim is to minimize total energy usage and the related environmental already significant energy and cost savings. For example the Degerfors contribute to adequate power production capacity being constructed in impact. Even though significant amounts of energy are used in its production, stainless steel is an enabler for more energy-efficient new two batch furnaces on the heat treatment line result up to 50% savings in energy consumption to heat treat the plate compared to Sustainable power solutions the future. solutions that save energy during the use phase. Steel grades whose the previous equipment. This reduces also CO2 and nitrogen oxide Outokumpu’s Energy function is responsible for the Group’s energy production consumes more energy than others can sometimes be the most efficient solution when viewed from a life cycle perspective. emissions. strategy and procurement of the electrical energy employed in Outokumpu’s operations. The primary objective is to secure predictable, Nuclear power Improvements in energy efficiency are, in many cases, based on the Large, energy-specific investments are, however, not the only way of competitive and stable prices for the Group’s future power supply. Outokumpu has a 12.5% share in the Fennovoima nuclear project. In use of stainless steel. In the energy industry, in transportation, and in improving energy efficiency within the Group. The systematic monitoring Other important tasks carried out by the Energy function include the 2014, Finnish Parliament approved Fennovoima’s supplement to the building and architecture, the use of stainless steel is essential as its and analysis of energy consumption plays a very important role, as does management and optimization of Outokumpu’s physical energy portfolio decision-in-principle regarding the construction of a new 1,200 MW energy efficiency offers a way of satisfying new stricter standards and life cycle analysis when purchases of new electrical equipment are being and energy-production assets, participating in new low-carbon energy nuclear power plant in Finland. According to the plans, infrastructure achieving society’s targets. Some biofuel applications which require considered. Outokumpu provides its production personnel with training projects, promoting low-carbon fuel energy sources, and providing work at the site begins in 2015 and is expected to last approximately specific levels of corrosion resistance, for example, would not be in energy efficiency. support for Outokumpu companies in their energy-related activities. two to three years. The construction of the plant would begin after possible in practice without the use of stainless steel. the infrastructure work and the power plant would start commercial For instance in the SMACC melting shop located in Sheffield, United operations in 2024. Outokumpu manufacturing sites use a range of fuels including direct energy sources such as natural gas, propane, heavy fuel oil and Kingdom, energy efficiency has been a top priority for many years. In order to continuously lower the demand for electricity new and Price of electricity Outokumpu has a minor 0.3% share in the Olkiluoto 3 nuclear power electricity. Energy use by the Group totaled 30.1 million GJ (8.3 million innovative projects must be developed often using cross functional In 2014 the average system price of electricity in Nord Pool, the Nordic plant project by Teollisuuden Voima Oyj (TVO). Construction of the power megawatt hours) in 2014 of which electricity consumption totaled 17.2 teams. One example where this has succeeded is on the fume Power Exchange, was 29.61 euros per MWh. The average of the Finnish plant in Finland is currently ongoing. In addition, Outokumpu has a minor million GJ (4.8 million megawatt hours). Total energy consumption extraction and cleaning plant serving the melting shop. Often these area price was 36.02 euros per MWh, considerably higher than the 0.7% share in the TVO’s Olkiluoto 4 project. increased by 2.7%, compared to the previous year of Outokumpu, plants use a large proportion of site electricity and provide a critical system price. The quite strong hydrological situation, mild weather and due to the ferrochrome expansion. Total annual energy consumption role in protecting the environment. Conversely, these plant’s can be low consumption kept power prices at relatively low levels. by Outokumpu is approximately equivalent to the amount of energy optimized to reduce the energy they use without lowering the standard consumed by 245,000 Scandinavian households. The electricity of environmental protection. The Sheffield site has, since 2009, Outokumpu’s power procurement is executed using a long-term consumption compares to about 45% of the annual output of a modern progressively worked through numerous improvements in both the procurement strategy, in which the Group’s aim is to achieve 1,200 MW nuclear power plant. plant’s operation and the installation of best available technology to predictable, competitive and stable prices for electricity. Outokumpu’s reduce energy demand. As a result of installation of variable speed electrical power portfolio is managed by engaging in trading activities in Energy used 2014 drives, using furnace pressure to set extraction rates, replacing old the Nordic power market, through bilateral long-term supply agreements generation fans, developing the control philosophy and establishing with power utilities, and by making investments in low-carbon powerMWh Electricity Fuel energy Total preventative maintenance measures, the energy consumption has been generation capacity. Finland 2 787 576 1 455 731 4 243 307 reduced by 38%. Sweden 480 722 534 245 1 014 967 Germany 479 344 689 149 1 168 493 To meet long-term targets for improvements in energy efficiency, The United Kingdom 174 476 98 714 273 190 Outokumpu maps energy efficiency initiatives and investment proposals in order to quantify their improvement potential and any associated Nordic daily spot prices 2014 Energy sources in 2014 North America (incl. Mexico) 756 854 574 986 1 331 839 costs. This mapping process supports the optimization of energy €/MWh efficiency investments at Group level; the original aim was a 5% 60 ROW 92 094 225 004 317 098 improvement in Outokumpu’s energy efficiency by 2020. This target was Total 4 771 066 3 577 828 8 348 894 50 Electricity 57.1% achieved already during 2013. The process of mapping and identifying highest energy savings potentials continued in 2014. Late 2014 it Natural Gas 18.9% 40 Propane 14.3% was also decided to start an internal mapping of further heat recovery Outokumpu’s approach to energy efficiency is long-term and the target possibilities at the Group’s European melt shops. Our aim is to start to 30 Carbon monoxide gas 7.6% is continuous improvement. Energy efficiency is a component in the combine business-level programs during 2015 and proceed with the Light and heavy fuel oil, environmental management systems at Group mills. Major Outokumpu Group-level program sharing best practices and implementing projects 20 others 2.1% production sites also have long-term, prioritized energy efficiency harvesting the most feasible identified potentials. investment plans. In overall terms, the largest energy-saving potential 10 lies in the recovery of waste heat, improved process integration and Improvements in energy efficiency achieved by Outokumpu during 0 improved efficiency in using raw materials. 2010–2014 totaled 9%, equivalent to annual savings of some 751 GWh. 1/1 2/1 3/1 4/1 5/1 6/1 7/1 8/1 9/1 10/1 11/1 12/1 The proportion of low-carbon electricity obtained from renewables and In all new investments or replacement investments energy saving is a nuclear power was 58%. Read more about Outokumpu’s investments on Source: Nord Pool Spot AS, www.nordpoolspot.com. target. Last year’s replacement investments of new oxygen plant and p. 37. new cooling water capacity (EUR 6.5 million, Degerfors, Sweden) for new 24 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Our Impact on the Environment Our Impact on the Environment Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 25 Hydropower Since 2005, Outokumpu has had a 104 MW share of Norwegian Outokumpu’s industrial site in Röyttä, Tornio. For gas deliveries, a pipeline will be built to the Röyttä industrial site. In addition, a truck loading facility for LNG trucks will be built. From the Tornio terminal, the Climate change hydropower capacity in Rana, Norway through a long-term leasing LNG will be delivered by trucks or railroad to customer terminals and agreement which is valid until 2020. Outokumpu receives approximately consumption destinations in Northern Finland and Sweden. The building 440 GWh of electricity from this renewable hydropower source on an phase of the terminal is 2014–2017, and LNG deliveries will commence Outokumpu’s energy and CO2 emissions resulting from business travel by Outokumpu personnel average year. in 2018. In October 2014 the project received the preliminary state financing decision from government of Finland. low-carbon program in 2014 totaled 5,809 tonnes (includes business air travel and company cars). To compensate for emissions resulting from business air travel The local water is used as own renewable energy source in Dahlerbrück, In the past ten years, Outokumpu has reduced significantly the Group’s in accordance with guidelines in the energy and low-carbon program Germany. The Outokumpu Dahlerbrück site owns a small hydroelectric direct carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions per tonne of stainless steel that reflect such activity, an investment will be made in environmental power plant which was built in 1920 and is protected due to its cultural and historical value. It has two turbines with a capacity of 200 kW and Voluntary energy efficiency programs produced. Outokumpu targets to further reduce the Group’s specific carbon emission profile in stainless steel production by 2020, as projects that lead to emissions reductions. The level of such investments will depend on the price of emission allowances, the total 110 kW. The power generation is dependent on the water level of the In 2014 at Outokumpu Germany sites the energy management system announced in the Group’s energy and low-carbon program in 2010. number of kilometers travelled and specific emissions by air carriers. River Volme. The site gets 10% of its electricity from the plant. The ISO 50 001 was combined with the environmental management system When assessing and measuring the Group’s carbon profile, we utilize During 2014, a project in order to improve production of pressurized power plant was renewed four years ago. ISO 14 001 into one and Nirosta production sites covering efficient and a method of calculation which focuses on factors that Outokumpu can air and optimize air conditioning and cooling at Tornio was completed, certified leading system. In relation to voluntary certifications all these manage and control. saving 3,312 MWh. These energy efficiency investments are part of sites have good routines for annual energy efficiency work, including a long-term energy efficiency program in Tornio. Annual cumulative Wind power monitoring progress, implementing and identifying improvement possibilities. The targets set in Outokumpu’s energy and low-carbon program highlight not only specific reductions but also the Group’s production savings were 1,408 GWh of energy and reduction in CO2 amounts to 451,572 tonnes annualized at the end of 2014. Outokumpu is a minority shareholder in Rajakiiri Oy, a wind power efficiency, as emissions are calculated per tonne of stainless steel company. Rajakiiri installed eight shoreline wind turbines with a total Outokumpu has participated in voluntary national energy efficiency produced. These targets connect our materials and energy efficiency capacity of 28.8 MW in Tornio in 2010, and commercial production of electricity started at the end of that year. The technical availability agreements in Finland, Sweden and the UK for many years. In connection with energy issues, Outokumpu usually works closely with and supply chain management to the Group’s business targets. The figure for monitoring progress is a three-year moving average that is Emissions trading of the wind turbines has been excellent during their first years of national organizations – with Motiva in Finland and Jernkontoret forum compared to baseline figures from the 2007–2009 period. The targets Outokumpu’s main production operations in terms of energy operation. in Sweden. of the energy and low-carbon program represent optimal Group-wide consumption and carbon emissions are located in Europe. Some 80% of environmental objectives for both Outokumpu and combating climate the Group’s direct emissions fall under the CO2 Cap and Trade system. Outokumpu has participated in voluntary national energy efficiency change. They also support the Group’s strategic goals and their The European Union Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) places a Combined Heat and Power agreements in Finland, Sweden and the UK for many years. The Tornio site joined the Finnish program at the beginning of the 1990s. Energy achievement is supported by different energy and quality programs. As the targets are both quantitative and a clear demonstration of our longdirect financial cost on production emissions and the indirect costs of emissions trading are reflected through higher electricity prices. Indirect Outokumpu has a minority stake in a Combined Heat and Power (CHP) savings in electricity, heat and fuel achieved during 2014 totaled 1,408 term commitment in this area, they encourage continuous improvement. extra electricity costs for Outokumpu were during the previous EU plant in Tornio. This plant delivers heat to the production facilities GWh. To ensure that systematic improvements in energy efficiency Emission Trading period 2005–2014 some EUR 45 million per annum. in Tornio, and a proportion of the fuel used is carbon monoxide gas continue to be achieved, Outokumpu sites in Finland signed new energyIn terms of current capacity and production after the Inoxum These two elements raise Outokumpu’s marginal production costs in created as a by-product of the ferrochrome production process. efficiency agreements in December 2007 covering the 2008–2016 acquisition, the annual reduction in CO2 emissions being targeted is relation to our global competitors. Outokumpu emphasizes the need for The CHP plant has also acquired a local heating business in Tornio. period. For example, the Group’s Tornio operations decided in 2011 to approximately 450,000 tonnes by 2020, a total reduction of 3,000,000 global regulation in efforts to transfer to low-carbon forms of society. This acquisition will lead to better optimization of the CHP plant, align their internal targets and action programs in an agreement aimed tonnes over the 2010–2020 program period. Combining with Inoxum EU Commission’s decision to “set-a-side” and postpone auctioning of improvements in energy efficiency and a reduction in the level of CO2 at achieving annual savings of 150 GWh by 2016. makes our long-term climate target very challenging; nevertheless we emission allowances during this emission trading period 2013–2020 emissions in the Tornio-Haparanda region. Read more about energy and are committed to achieving the overall reductions in time. would increases these costs further and is harmful for whole European emissions trading on p. 25. In Sweden Outokumpu has also participated in the second round of manufacturing and electricity intensive industry. the PFE (Programmet för energieffektivisering i energi intensiv industri) agreement from 2009 to 2014. The target in this second period is to Our actions and the results achieved Tornio Manga LNG project achieve annual savings in electricity consumption of 11 GWh. The final result was excellent, in total 13.5 GWh annual savings were achieved Primary actions included in the program consist of making further Carbon profile In 2014, Outokumpu and SSAB Ruukki Metals Oy, the energy company and this is not including other energy efficiency projects outside of the improvements in energy efficiency, increasing the proportion of lowEPV Energy Ltd and the gas company Skangas Oy decided on a project program. carbon electricity and targeting efficiency improvements through tonnes CO2 / tonne crude steel produced Reduction to utilize liquefied natural gas (LNG) in industrial processes, energy optimal levels of production. An internal air-travel compensation scheme 1.2 -9% production and shipping. The project development company Manga LNG For example, in 2014 energy efficiency projects in Avesta included: has been implemented for business travel and sustainable aspects Oy has signed a contract to construct an LNG terminal, to procure gas electromagnetic stirrer, a new temperature robot, optimization of are gradually being integrated into our logistics and transportation 1.0 for its owners and to ensure optimal logistics. LNG will replace fossil the flue gas cleaning filter at the melt shop, optimization of hydraulic solutions. These actions involve Outokumpu operations in all locations 0.8 fuels in industrial use and energy production and substantially reduces aggregates, investment in new LED-lightning and optimization of the and business areas. Target 2020 particle, NOx, SOx and CO2 emissions compared to current levels. walking beam furnace at the hot rolling mill. The total amounts of 0.6 -20% calculated energy savings from these projects are approximately 20 Outokumpu’s carbon profile consists of direct emissions from According to the decisions made, reception, unloading and bunkering GWh annually which is significantly larger efficiency improvement than production operations, indirect emissions from electricity consumed 0.4 facilities, an LNG vaporizing facility and one 50,000 m3 storage tank the target in national PFE program. and the emissions resulting from the transportation of products and 0.2 will be constructed at the terminal, located in the harbor area in business travel, expressed as a quantity per tonne of stainless steel produced. After 2014, the Group’s carbon profile was 9% lower than 0 the program’s baseline average for 2007–2009. This result is primarily Baseline 12 13 14 2020 due to lower specific emissions in production and improvements in Direct emissions Indirect emissions, Transport & energy efficiency. On the other hand, indirect scope 2 emissions Indirect emissions, electricity business travel from electricity consumption were 1 140 285 tonnes of CO2, which was somewhat higher than previous (2013) year scope 2 emissions 1 070 208 tonnes of CO2. 26 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Our Impact on the Environment Our Impact on the Environment Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 27 Major emissions of greenhouse gases by Group operations are electricity-intensive installations in four different EU countries, this is an implementing determined actions as our response. The issue is a In the future, emissions reduction targets (e.g. the EU Climate and twofold: direct releases of CO2 from the company’s sites as a result important aspect. Outokumpu considers it to be an important correction regular item in the Group’s long-term strategic planning. Energy package) will become more stringent and Outokumpu continues of combusting fossil fuels and process-related emissions from mechanism for the most profound flaw in the ETS system. Direct and preparations for conducting the Group’s operations in a more restrictive Outokumpu’s steelmaking operations. Outokumpu’s CO2 emissions in indirect costs of emissions trading have become an important factor in environment in this connection. To manage related risks and prepare 2014 totaled 1,400,754 tonnes. the competitiveness of European steel manufacturing. Regulatory risks for expected developments connected with emissions trading, Outokumpu has an internal Emission Trading Network, which includes Outokumpu has in total seven active sites operating under ETS. Outokumpu views the possible consequences of climate change as The greatest uncertainty for Outokumpu in connection with emissions representatives from all Outokumpu operations affected by the system. Outokumpu’s emissions trading activities fully comply with the relevant a matter of serious concern and wishes to make a contribution to related regulatory measures stems from the EU Emissions Trading The responsibilities of this network include providing assistance in EU laws and regulations, with agreed procedures and with the Group’s global efforts aimed at mitigating associated effects. Outokumpu has Scheme (EU ETS) and related consequences affecting Outokumpu’s defining Outokumpu’s emissions management strategy and securing its trading and risk policies. Carbon dioxide emissions under the EU ETS successfully reduced impact to climate change in form of direct and business. The current outcome is that the Group’s European production implementation. continued to be at lower than normal levels in 2014 due to reduced indirect emissions. Still there are future commercial challenges that the units are at a competitive disadvantage in relation to stainless steel and levels of production, which totaled approximately 1,100,000 tonnes. Group may face in connection with implementing measures to reduce ferrochrome producers located outside Europe. The allocation for the year 2014 was and allocation for 2015 is estimated to be sufficient for Group operations during that period. emissions of carbon dioxide, new situations which arise as a result of climate change may also present business opportunities. EU ETS is regional so-called “cap and trade” system that sets total cap Cost-related risks for industrial emission. This total cap is levied through market based From a Group perspective, identifying and controlling the cost of Carbon profile 2012–2014 According to a recent study from the European Steel Association trading. As emission allowances that remain unused can be traded on compliance with emissions allowance schemes is crucial. Both forecast (EUROFER), “A Steel Roadmap for a Low carbon Europe 2050”, the financial markets, the system is designed to create a financial incentive and realized emissions as well as the allowances granted are monitored estimated achievable reduction potential in general is 10–20% for the for companies to restrict their emissions of carbon dioxide. Conversely, by Outokumpu on a regular basis. The Group has also taken action to European steel industry. This roadmap also concludes that steel is an if the level of a company’s carbon dioxide emissions exceeds the reduce the costs associated with emissions regulation compliance by Direct emissions 57% answer to the climate challenge and not part of the problem; this is rights it possesses, corresponding allowances must be purchased. entering into financial arrangements such as swapping EU emission Indirect emissions, especially true for stainless steel. By using stainless steel, the life cycle Outokumpu’s production sites in Finland, Germany, Sweden and the UK allowances for Certified Emissions Reductions (CERs) and investing in electricity 37% of final product can be made very efficient and steel’s 100% recyclability fall within the scope of the EU ETS scheme. carbon funds. During 2013 cost related risks were managed through Indirect emissions, reduces the climate burden further during subsequent life cycles. utilizing CERs and emission reduction units (ERUs) for compliance Transport & business travel 6% Even though Outokumpu was granted emission allowances at no cost instead of European emission allowances (EUAs). in the 2008–2012 trading period, the EU ETS will become a more Energy and Climate Framework 2030 restrictive system in the current third emissions trading period (2013– 2020). Both the cap on total annual emissions in Europe and the As production of both stainless steel and ferrochrome is energyintensive, Outokumpu’s operations are sensitive to changes in the cost During January 2014 European Commission published new energy and quantity of emission allowances allocated at no cost will gradually be of electricity. Power companies transfer the costs associated with their emission framework 2030. This EC proposal was debated and decided reduced and auctions will become the main method for obtaining such own emission allowances to the prices they charge for electricity, and on by European Council during October summit. Also the European allowances. To dissuade companies who currently operate inside the marginal cost pricing means that all forms of electrical power production Commission and Parliament will affect the outcome and legislation EU from moving to countries where emissions reduction targets are not are therefore affected by these allowance-related costs. Even though significantly during years 2015 and 2016. On the conclusions Council in place, industry sectors which feature high levels of carbon leakage much of the electricity purchased by Outokumpu is of the low-carbon The EU Emissions Trading reserved option to review all elements of 2030 framework after international climate conference at Paris in 2015 and The European will continue to receive free emission allowances. As the iron and steel industry has been identified as one of the sectors in which the risk variety, costs of this type have a negative impact on the Group’s financial performance and these effects are not mitigated by no-cost Scheme 2013–2020 Council will revert to this issue after the Paris Conference. The European of carbon leakage is high, Outokumpu sites will continue to receive allocations of emission allowances. Risks connected with the future Council will keep all the elements of the framework under review, free emission allowances during the 2013–2020 period, with the cost of emission allowances also add an element of uncertainty to the The EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) continued, with the current notably also with respect to ETS. amount being based on historical activity levels and efficiency-based planning of new investment projects and may affect future investment trading period being 2013–2020 according to the decision made by benchmarks. decisions. the European Commission (EC) and the European Parliament. During This framework sets initial binding CO2 reduction target to 40% (vs. this third emissions trading period, 2013–2020, the ETS will become 1990) by year 2030 and indicative target for renewable energy 27% also Eurofer has calculated costs of different legislative options for steel a more restrictive system. Both the cap on total annual emissions in Europe and the proportion of free allocations of emission allowances by 2030. For the EU ETS sector the target is 43% compared to 2005 levels, non-ETS 30%. In order to bring about the required emissions industry, total indirect costs for steel are EUR 12.6 billion (EUA at EUR 30) or EUR 16.8 billion (EUA at EUR 40). Eurofer has also calculated Weather-related risks will gradually be reduced. Auctions will be the main form of issuing reduction in the ETS sector, the annual factor by which the cap on the that other way around this poses EUR 50 per tonne of steel additional Extreme weather conditions associated with the effects of climate allowances. Outokumpu’s operations under ETS will continue to receive maximum permitted emissions within the ETS will have to be increased costs. With the same assumptions indirect costs to Outokumpu will change could have an indirect impact on Outokumpu’s business free allocations of emission allowances according to efficiency-based from 1.74% currently to 2.2% after 2020. Overall legislation including increase to over EUR 100 million annually after 2020. and operations. Physical risks due to changes in the climate system benchmarks and historical activity. new ETS directive is expected to be in place during 2016. and weather patterns can cause damage to property or the loss of Examples of realized regulatory risks are the two decisions by EU, the production as a consequence of flooding, tornados or hurricanes may As emissions are correlated with production activity and capacity Together with the above package European Commission (EC) introduced so-called “backloading” decision and the “cross sectoral correction be exacerbated in the future. Normal measures designed to mitigate utilization rates our position in the long term is difficult to foresee. also EUA market stability reserve (MSR). This piece on legislation would factor” decision. Backloading alters the allocation and auctioning operational risk related to climate change have however already been Current estimates indicate that the Group will not be short of give EC right to withdraw EUAs from the market (reduce supply) in case timetables and postponed the amount of allowances supplied to the incorporated into the Group’s risk management and related policies. allowances during the initial years of the trading period and that the surplus exceeds certain pre-defined limits. This reserve mechanism markets. The cross sectoral correction factor cuts the amounts of Currently, Outokumpu’s production facilities, a tube mill in Florida, and situation within Group companies will probably vary more than before. is foreseen to increase the price of allowances. MSR is aimed to be emission allowances allocated to operators for free and increases costs melt shop and cold rolling mill in Alabama are located in areas, which One important issue for Outokumpu has been to qualify for a free “toolbox” for EC to control EUA supply and keep prices on wanted level of compliance. are defined as “regional hotspots”. These sites are moderately exposed allocation of emission allowances during 2013–2020 by being part of or in pipeline. It is also an overlapping measure making EUA markets to severe weather and high winds either from the hurricane potential an industry sector in which there is a significant risk of carbon leakage. more complicated and unpredictable. All the Group sites fully comply with authority ETS requirements. or the effects of regular severe thunderstorms and tornados common According to an EC decision, all of Outokumpu ETS operations currently However, delays in agreeing system definitions, international to this geographical area. The Group has general instructions and tools qualify. All seven Outokumpu sites covered by the emissions trading negotiations which remain unresolved and the clear risk of both for implementing plans to ensure business continuity within production system have applied for free allocations for the upcoming trading period and are in full compliance with authority requirements. Climate change risks extensive bureaucracy and emissions related regulations continue to foster increased levels of uncertainty in carbon markets. Also, proposed facilities. The risk of climate change induced by human activity and its possible alterations to the ETS system, such as interfering with the annual The renewed ETS directive states that member states can compensate consequences have attracted increasing attention within Outokumpu supply of allowances and agreed total emission gap, decrease the for CO2-related increases in electricity prices. As Outokumpu has in recent years. Outokumpu has established a long-term program, trustworthiness of emission markets. 28 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Our Impact on the Environment Our Impact on the Environment Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 29 New opportunities Carbon funds high increase in total emissions. Therefore, the lower dust emission Strategic chromite ore – Even though the unpredictable consequences of climate change In order to decrease the cost of compliance to ETS, Outokumpu has levels are also an indication of operational improvement in the Group’s dust emission control efficiency. sustainable mining may be associated with significant future challenges, new business also invested in the Testing Ground Facility (TGF), a Nordic carbon Stainless steel is indispensable for the modern society as it plays an opportunities for Outokumpu may also result. The sustainable nature fund managed by the Nordic Environmental Finance Corporation. important role for infrastructure, energy and food supply as well as of stainless steel assists both the Group’s customers and society at States and companies can invest in the carbon fund, which purchases Particle emissions to air healthcare. The main alloying element in stainless steel, chromium, is large in constructing low-carbon solutions. Stainless steel’s remarkable emission reduction units for its investors from projects that benefit the defined by the European Commission as one of the economically most physical properties make a significant contribution to achieving environment. The fund closed its operations during 2013 according to tonnes important critical metals for Europe. 600 improved levels of efficiency in the transportation, energy, construction the original plan. Outokumpu still expects to receive some ERUs, which and manufacturing sectors, as well as in the household goods segment. Outokumpu uses for compliance instead of EUAs. In 2014, Outokumpu 500 The Outokumpu Kemi mine is the only chromium mine within the Products manufactured by Outokumpu are also important in tackling did not receive emission reduction units from TGF (2013: 12,000 tonnes European Union. As the ore-bearing minerals are very stable and global challenges such as the need for clean water supplies. excluding former Inoxum sites), although some capital was returned The 400 chemicals are not used in the beneficiation process, mining operations TGF emission reduction units received earlier were used to cover the have only a minor effect on local water quality. Metal discharges from actual carbon dioxide emissions in 2013. 300 mining activities are small, and their effect is only observable as slightly elevated concentrations of nitrogen, solids, calcium and iron 200 in watercourses. The largest emissions into the air result from the 100 transportation of ore and barren rock, from operations in the product Emissions, effluents and waste loading area and from piles of concentrate. All mining operations 0 are now carried out underground after the shift from open-pit to 12 13 14 underground operation was completed during 2005. Even though dust emissions into the air have therefore become minimal (totaling approximately less than half a tonne in 2014), the effect of particulate emissions on air quality is still monitored regularly by studying levels One of Outokumpu’s operating principles is to use best available At Outokumpu’s new Calvert facility in Alabama, US some USD 160 Melting shop particle emissions of suspended particulate matter. The results of the monitoring techniques (BAT) to reduce emissions and minimize harmful million was invested for environmental purposes of which EUR 52 million showed that the emissions situation has remained stable and that environmental impacts which could result from the Group’s operations. was invested to minimize airborne emissions, mainly dust. There are grams/tonne concentrations of dust in air at and around the site are low. In this context, BAT means the best available pollution prevention now several new baghouses to capture dust emissions, SCR units to 100 technology from both technical and economic perspectives. reduce NOx emissions and various scrubbers. The Calvert Cold Anneal 90 At the Kemi chrome mine, piles of barren rock, former open-pit mining Pickling (CAPL) and Hot Anneal Pickling lines (HAPL) have the newest 80 activities and the beneficiation and clarification basins all have longEmploying BAT solutions means that the latest technology will be mist eliminators/drop separators for their furnaces sections (scrubs 70 term effects on the landscape. Tailings basins are landscaped when used to keep emissions from Outokumpu’s operations at the lowest particulates), acid scrubbers for their acid bath fumes (scrubs acids 60 they are full. Barren rock is used in backfilling underground workings. achievable level. Outokumpu continuously develops Group processes out of the air and other gases NOx, HF, SO2). Also, the HAPL has a mini 50 As the concentration processes at the mine employed are based on and pollution-prevention techniques to maintain high levels of emissions baghouse to filter dust in the shot blasting section. All these units were 40 gravimetric separation, only water and small amounts of flocculant are control also in the future. Outokumpu is also an active participant in taken in full use during 2014. 30 used. the process of updating the reference documents (BREF) which specify 20 related technologies, helping to set the high standards applicable within At Tornio, more than EUR 60 million was invested in environmental 10 Of the total amount of water used, 95% was recycled rainwater. Noise the European Union. applications during construction of the new ferrochrome sintering and 0 generated by blasting operations is almost inaudible, even within the melting line that was ramped up during 2013 and in 2014 they were in mine area. In April-May the spring flooding in the streams nearby the 11 12 13 14 full use without problems. The largest individual investments were dustmine was normal. Efficient systems help prevent spills filtering units, gas scrubbers and a new unit for handling process water. According to environmental impact assessments carried out, the only and instances of non-compliance Year 2014 proved that these investments were efficient; the emissions significant noise-related effects result from the increased levels of road from the new sintering and ferrochromium plant were lower than what traffic involved in transporting concentrate from the mine to the Tornio All Outokumpu’s production sites employ either Environmental was expected. In 2014 at Tornio site totally EUR 8 million were invested ferrochrome plant. These effects have been further mitigated by a new Management Systems (EMS) or risk-based management systems which together with our contractors to prevent further dust emissions from the help avoid spills and accidents that could be harmful to humans or to slag treatment processes and replace in lime kiln heavy oil as fuel by the environment. All of these Group systems operate in accordance with ISO 14 001, the international standard for environmental management local carbon monoxide gas which is a by-product from our ferrochrome production. Investments in new systems (see page 15, chapter Efficient management systems to prevent negative impacts in section). In Degerfors, Sweden, during the first half of 2014 investments in a Sustainable technology new oxygen gas plant, new water treatment plant (EUR 6.5 million) for new batch furnaces (EUR 11.3 million) and upgrading of a walking New Degerfors investments in Sweden decrease emissions and save energy Investments in technology are beam furnace (EUR 1.5 million) were taken into use. These investments decreased already local CO2 and NOx emissions and water discharges in significantly. Environmental investments were completed in 2014 as a part of larger production investment program. These two heat treatment furnace reducing levels of dust emissions 2014. The Avesta plant in Sweden continued a project with a consultant replacements and upgrade of existing walking beam furnace improved to optimize the production and energy use during hot rolling which will Dust of different types has traditionally formed the most significant also have impact on emission decreases. significantly environmental performance. The old equipment required the emissions resulting from operations by the steel industry. The majority plate to cool down to room temperature before reheating. The result is up of Outokumpu’s particles emissions originate from the Group’s melt Dust emissions by Outokumpu in 2014 totaled 441 tonnes, 1.4% less to 50% savings in energy consumption to heat treat the plate. Similarly it shops in Finland, Sweden, Germany, the UK and USA. Even though total than in 2013. This was an excellent result since the processed volumes reduces CO2 and nitrogen oxide emissions. production of stainless steel has increased since 2000, levels of dust increased. Since the dust-filtering system is extremely efficient, normally emissions from the Group’s operations have declined significantly. catching 99% of dust emissions, even a brief malfunctioning leads to 30 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Our Impact on the Environment Our Impact on the Environment Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 31 road close to Tornio plant that was taken into use in 2010, minimizing Sheffield melt shop, for example, the monitoring of particle levels – improvement measures in 2006–2015 at the SMACC melt shop in Landfills any potential disturbance to residential areas. PM10, PM2 and PM1 – has now been conducted for the last eleven Sheffield, UK, has resulted in energy savings of 6% in specific energy. years. The Air Quality Standards Regulations 2010 specify that a one Outokumpu owns and manages landfill sites at some production sites day average of 50 μg/m3 is not to be exceeded more than 35 times Mexinox cold rolling unit reduced NOx emissions by utilizing scrubbers in Finland, Germany, Sweden and the UK. Operations in these locations Reductions in emissions in a calendar year and that the calendar year average is to be less than 40 μg/m3. The year average was more than 50% lower than the in annealing and pickling lines. The site has also decided to use natural gas in the combustion equipment to reduce NOx emissions into the meet stringent EU and national requirements. In addition to the actively used landfill sites, Outokumpu is taking care of some closed landfills. 40 μg/m3 limit with only two exceedances of the daily average. air. During 2014, specific NOx emissions were reduced by over 9% These sites are carefully monitored in order to be assured that the Air quality is top priority Therefore the Sheffield site was below the required limits. compared to the previous year 2013. environmental impacts, for example on surrounding water, are minimal. Dust emissions from Outokumpu’s operations typically contain small The sites are typically also landscaped. quantities of metals (including iron, chromium and nickel), most of which In Tornio the latest local ambient air quality study (diffuse emissions, are present in harmless forms. Chromium, for example, is usually found in its trivalent form and not in the hazardous hexavalent form. In recent PM10) results showed that European air quality guidelines or limit values were not exceeded. The emissions concentrations measured Waste water For example in Dillenburg, Germany, the cold rolling unit uses an offsite deposit site for neutralization sludge, but also takes care of some years, the Group has supported many studies investigating the effects were well below guideline and limit values. In conclusion, the Finnish All our waste water is treated before discharge, either at our own liabilities of old landfills. At the Nyby site in Torshälla in Sweden, the of metal emissions on both human health and the natural environment. Meteorological Institute stated that “the air quality in Tornio is very facilities or by the local municipal facility. In Calvert, AL, US, the cold rolling plant uses its own landfill and old ones are closed. In similar to any other small or medium-size town in Finland”. During investments to clean and recycle water and to reduce the waste water Sheffield, the partial capping of the operational landfill has helped Outokumpu’s emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) were reduced to 2014 these measurements continued at two measurement points, one load totaled EUR 63 million and were taken into full use. These consist to limit the influx of rainwater and thereby reduced the generation of 2,245 tonnes in 2014. Despite the increased levels of stainless steel located in Sweden and the other in Finland. Both measurement points of water treatment and acid regeneration plants and storm water landfill leachate that requires treatment prior to being removed from the production in 2014 the resulting emissions were lower than during were about five kilometers away from the mill. The results (which were in drainage. The acid regeneration plant (ARP) is based on Pyromars landfill cell. 2013. To minimize NOx emissions, the Group’s production sites in full view to everyone via the internet) have so far been very similar to the technology and used to reclaim the waste nitric acid and hydrofluoric Avesta and Nyby in Sweden and Tornio in Finland have started to use previous ones. Air quality in the area is generally at a good level and the acid for reuse. The Bochum disposal site at Blücherstrasse, Germany was technically the latest burner technology and Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) effect of Outokumpu’s dust emission is hardly visible. closed. The new permit for Marbach disposal site in Bochum Hamme, technologies in processes. Our Shanghai SKS unit in China started In Dillenburg, Germany, the planned expansion of the municipal Germany created public concerns in 2013 and Outokumpu established to use a “CLEANOX” equipment in order to minimize NOx emissions. wastewater treatment plant seems to be a cost-efficient way of a voluntary advisory committee in Marbach to share information Degerfors adjusted also operations to reduce NOx emissions according Energy efficiency goes hand in hand arranging the de-nitrification instead of having our own treatment plant. and views with neighbors and other interest groups. However, after to new production volumes and permit limits. with air emission reductions This is why the cold rolling plant decided to finance the expansion of the the decision to close down the Bochum melt shop the official permit At Avesta, actions to optimize operation of the main walking beam municipal wastewater treatment plant (EUR 1.5 million). Investment with process and local committee activities will be affected. Emissions of sulphur dioxide (SO2) from the FeCr sintering plant at furnace at the hot rolling mill have increased thermal efficiency by the community will be started soon. Tornio, Finland will also be reduced. Utilizing of alkaline water in gas approximately 20%. The recovery of heat from furnace exhaust gases scrubbers continued. The water being used comes either from the slag at the production sites in Tornio and Avesta also reduces Outokumpu’s At Tornio, Finland, a larger sedimentation pool for wastewater was in full handling unit or from lime milk tanks. total energy consumption, and emissions of nitrogen oxides, CO2 use. This arrangement allows almost all suspended solids to be filtered Carbon dioxide to air and sulphur dioxide are correspondingly lower as the amounts of fuel out and reduces metal loadings drastically. 1 000 tonnes Fugitive dusting is one environmental impact associated with steel slag required to generate heat are reduced. 1 500 treatment. In Tornio, Finland, an EUR 1 million investment to reduce this Test fishing campaigns in Tornio (in the post-sedimentation pool) and 1 350 dusting was made by our contractor in 2014. in the Kemi mine tailings ponds showed that in both cases there are Nitrogen oxides to air 1 200 healthy and numerous fish populations (pikes, perches and other typical 1 050 Continuous improvement in the monitoring of Outokumpu’s production tonnes local fishes). The chemical analysis revealed that there is no metal 900 operations reduces risks to the environment. Particle emissions from 3 000 accumulation in the fishes, they are healthy and breed normally. 750 the steel melt shop in Tornio, for example, have been monitored nonstop 600 since the beginning of 2007. The detailed daily emissions data obtained 2 500 During construction of the new ferrochrome sintering and melting 450 from the monitoring system allow potential filter leakages to be rapidly plant in Tornio, the wastewater handling system was renovated and 2 000 300 identified so that immediate remedial action can be taken. The Group’s the circulation of process water is now almost totally closed. Water is 150 new ferrochrome sintering and melting plant is also equipped with 1 500 circulated through cooling towers and solid material is separated in 0 continuous dust measurement units. In a similar manner, the particle settling ponds and by using centrifuges. Only a small fraction of water 10 11 12 13 14 filter system in the Sheffield melt shop stops the melting process if 1 000 used is conducted out of the circulation system, reducing metal loading particle emissions are too high, giving environmental protection the on the environment. 500 highest priority. All these process control measures can be seen to represent industry best practice. 0 12 13 14 Outokumpu does not utilize mercury in our production operations. Nevertheless, our main raw material – recycled steel – may sometimes contain small amounts of mercury. Our products are mercury-free: Increased water recycling – all mercury possibly coming with recycled steels is emitted in our melting process. The steel melt shops in Tornio and Avesta use Successful implementation of a variety of energy efficiency measures has also reduced the Group’s specific CO2 emissions. reduced costs and waste continuous measurement of mercury emission levels. During 2014 the measurements have revealed some potential sources of mercury in the In Dillenburg, Germany, the two completed energy efficiency projects In early 2014 the new water treatment plant was taken into use at Degerfors scrap. The overall emission was lower than in the earlier years, showing (RTL hall and air compressors) created some 4,200 MWh natural gas site, Sweden for all production waters. The recycling rate of waters reached that the European mercury ban in most articles is having an effect, but and 390 MWh of electricity yearly savings plus emission savings. 97% level of all production water in 2014 – a remarkable improvement with a delay on recycled steel. Similarly, as part of internal saving projects at SKS in Shanghai, China, compared to the waste and recycling rate from the old plant. The impact there are several energy saving projects ongoing. The new water Air quality monitoring and controlling conducted at many Outokumpu crystallizer investment at Mexinox in San Luis Potosí, Mexico, was taken of the cost savings is even greater. In addition, sludge from the water production sites enable the Group to correctly assess and determine into full use and significantly decreased energy consumption, and CO2 treatment plant is reused in the Avesta melt shop. the environmental impact of production and other operations. At the emissions even by 95%. In total, spending of EUR 6.5 million on energy 32 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Our Impact on the Environment Our Impact on the Environment Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 33 Metal discharges to water Annual water consumption in Tornio Working hard to prevent leakage Soil contamination was investigated during 2014 in Sweden at the Nyby and soil contamination site. Investigative reports were submitted to the authorities. Also the final report on groundwater monitoring at the former Avesta production tonnes 60 million m3/a 20 million tonnes 2.0 Some of Outokumpu’s production sites have been in use by the metal site in Sweden was submitted to the authorities and results showed that industry for decades or even centuries. This increases the likelihood the metals are bound in the soil and the contamination of nearby waters 50 15 1.5 that some contamination exists at these sites. Typically, soil or is very low. In Krefeld, Germany, risk assessment of soil and groundwater 40 groundwater at old production sites might be contaminated by oil or impact of the closed steel plant is in progress in coordination with the metals. Outokumpu’s principle is that contamination is always treated authorities. In Kloster, Sweden, planning work regarding the closure of 30 10 1.0 and remediated according to current legislation and guidance from the the site was started. In Bochum, Germany, preparations for the closure authorities. These cases do not have significant or material effects on of the melt shop were started. Planned remediation work was ongoing 20 the Group’s finance but remediation may last quite a long time. Often at some Group sites in 2014, for example in Krefeld and Dillenburg, 5 0.5 the main action is the pumping of contaminated groundwater for a local Germany. In Benrath, Germany, groundwater is treated by an air 10 waste water treatment plant. stripper, de-ionized, de-manganized and used as production water. The 0 0 0.0 groundwater remediation in Wildwood, USA, has decreased contaminants 12 13 14 12 13 14 In Dahlerbrück, Germany, the remediation of groundwater and site significantly. Also remediation work at the former warehouse site in Water withdrawal, million m3/a Ferrochrome production, banks of the river Volme has succeeded and has been completed. In Montreal, Canada continued as planned during 2014. million tonnes Stainless steel slab production, Tornio, Finland, the old landfill is closed. The new landfill area is built million tonnes according to stringent EU legislation, for example all seepage waters Biodiversity from the area are carefully treated to remove all harmful elements. Groundwater around the area is monitored regularly. Water Natural surroundings at stainless steel production sites remain unharmed. The production of stainless steel does not employ or reserve large areas of land, or have a significant effect on biodiversity in the Actions to protect the local biodiversity at those sites in which valuable biodiversity or species are recognized, Outokumpu staff have also actively protected the nature, wildlife and animal species. For instance, surrounding natural environment. Outokumpu production facilities are a part of the Calvert production site in Alabama, US, is defined as not located in sensitive areas such as Unesco World Heritage sites, wetland and is home to quite a wide array of wildlife. At the site it Water is an important resource for steel making. Almost all Outokumpu The efficient recycling of water was a principle already inin planning the Ramsar sites or Unesco Biosphere reserves. During recent decades, is possible to see deer, wild turkey, wild boar, fox squirrels, gopher production units are located in areas in which there is a lot of water new Calvert facilityin Alabama, US. The water system there uses closed Group sites have not been found to disturb local biodiversity in any tortoises and various snakes, even Alabama black bear. Since the available. Most of the sites are located by rivers and in areas with a lot loop recirculation for cooling processes. The site reuses the industrial manner which is generally considered unacceptable. gopher tortoise and Alabama black bear are threatened species, the of rain. However, the Mexinox cold rolling unit’s surroundings in San Luis waters for a minimum of three cycles of concentration in systems for environmental team has worked with regulators on a voluntary basis to Potosí, Mexico, is arid and dry. There, the water source for production is maximum efficiency, and of course less water usage. All these are now help trap and move gopher tortoises to safe locations and even a “bear groundwater and its use is restricted by local environmental permits. in use and functioned well in 2014. Environmental impacts are friendly” fence was installed to allow the Alabama black bear to better travel through its natural migratory pathways. The Mexinox cold rolling unit uses water well below the permit limits In the Bochum melt shop in Germany, drinking water is used for all regularly evaluated and recycles almost all the water for production processes. Process process purposes because natural ground or surface water is not An EU nature protection area (Natura 2000) is planned to be wastewater is recycled and treated by proper neutralization, clarification, available in the area due to large-scale underground coal mines. Due to None of the species included in the International Union for the established on part of the company’s property in Dahlerbrück, Germany. filtration, reverse osmosis, evaporation and crystallization procedures. costs in the melt shop, there is a totally closed loop in water use. Conservation of the Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN) Red List (a list According to the conservation program, there is a rare cliff forest Sanitary wastewater receives flotation and disinfection treatment. Oily which identifies and documents species most in need of conservation biotype with some endangered animal and plant species. Environmental water is treated in an ultrafiltration process and recycled. The amount Water withdrawal and discharges attention if global extinction rates are to be reduced) are known to be authorities have investigated the EU Natura areas located near the of wastewater sent to the municipal sewer outlet is only 500 m3 but affected by Outokumpu’s activities. Although the Group does not have Outokumpu site in Tornio. Reports and statements issued in the 2000s 2014 2013 2012 the total use of water is 30‚000 m3 per month. So almost all water is any significant operations in ecologically sensitive areas, impacts on indicate that the Group’s activities do not have a significant negative Water withdrawal by source already recirculated at the site (the recycling rate is some 98%). Some biodiversity at Outokumpu production sites are evaluated on a regular impact or threaten biodiversity in these areas, which include popular of the remaining, treated and neutralized wastewater is conducted for Surface water, million m3 35.4 32.1 29.9 basis as part of the Group’s environmental management processes. bird nesting habitats near the Tornio facilities and two bird watching irrigation of local vegetation, plants and trees. Municipal water, million m3 1.8 1.9 2.2 Groundwater, million m3 1.4 1.5 2.1 Related to water and other resources an Evaluation of Ecosystem Rainwater, million m3 1.0 1.0 1.6 Services (ESR) was done in Avesta, Sweden and the results were Reducing emissions and energy Water discharges by interesting. The method, ESR was developed at World Resources type and destination Institute. As a result the availability of clean water was assessed as the most important ESR resource for our local units and this has an effect on our services, production and local ecosystems in various ways. A Cooling water out, million m3 Waste water out, million m3 31.4 21 29.8 20.2 31.8 18.7 use by new water treatment Metal discharges to water, t 53 44 50 positive impact from our Avesta production site on the local ecosystems Water recycling at Mexinox in San Luis Potosí is very efficient (some 98%) is when by-products are used instead of virgin sand for construction Nitrogen in nitrates, t 2 408 1 810 1 662 and the use of fresh water was under the Mexinox own internal target for purposes since the water cleaning in the Dalarna (Avesta area) depends heavily on local sand ridges. These natural sand resources have been the whole year 2014 and much lower than the permit limit. To improve excavated for a long time and now the local community and ecosystem water recycling further an expansion of the crystallization process of the are facing the risk of having insufficient filtering capacity which will wastewater treatment plant was taken into use. This is recycling more threaten the local water quality. The use of by-products such as our slag water, replacing two old units with a new electrical evaporation unit, decreases this local water supply risk. improving energy efficiency and decreasing C02 emissions by 95%. 34 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Our Impact on the Environment Our Impact on the Environment Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 35 towers. In 2014 this unique nature area Alkunkarinlahti was also Marine ecosystems are in good health in the northern part of the Gulf of Bothnia. Tornionjoki and Kemijoki, employed and the Group will also take action in the future to improve presented and promoted in Outokumpu’s local employee magazine the two major rivers in the locality, carry far greater concentrations of the condition of the Baltic Sea. A new 70-hectare sedimentation pond “Chrome & Steel”. Outokumpu has also financially supported some of The main discharges into recipient water from stainless steel production these metals into the sea than the total amount discharged by Group before filtering waste water into the sea has significantly reduced the activities of the local bird watchers club during the last years. are metals and nitrates. These are monitored according to national facilities. Activity in local fisheries located near the Tornio plants is at suspended solids and metals discharged into the sea. guidance at every production site. For instance, as Outokumpu’s healthy levels and commercial fishing operations are carried out close The Mexinox production site has planted a lot of trees on the site, Tornio site is located on the Tornionjoki river estuary on the coast to Outokumpu’s production plant. Research indicates that the metals The quantities of nitrogen in wastewater released by Outokumpu have principally so that every employee has own tree to take care of. This of the Gulf of Bothnia and close to nature reserves, the Group’s released from Group facilities do not accumulate in marine food chains. also been at lower levels than at previous times. As of the end of last is part of the local voluntary nature conservation and climate program manufacturing operations have, from the beginning, been developed Even in sedimentation ponds of wastewaters there are healthy fish year, all Tornio site sanitary waters have been conducted to the local in this arid and dry area. Nature and landscape conservation, mainly to be environmentally sound. Many studies monitoring the biological, populations. municipality water cleaning unit and this will even further decrease the coming from irrigation costs of vegetation and trees have been every physical and chemical conditions which prevail near the Tornio site load on the sea compared to previous years. year more or less significant. have been carried out since the 1970s. The latest research report At the Outokumpu site in Sheffield in the UK, an area has been concerning the impact of nitrates on recipient water at the Tornio site and the Kemi chrome mine showed that impacts are restricted to the Measures to improve the condition For more information on the Baltic Sea Action program, please visit our Sustainability website. established to provide protection for species of wading birds which nest immediate proximity of the discharge points at Tornio and cause only of the Baltic Sea continue there in springtime. Measures are taken to ensure that these nesting slight eutrophication. At the Kemi mine, the impacts on sea areas are activities are not disturbed. At the Kemi chrome mine, water circulation essentially negligible. Outokumpu is participating in the Baltic Sea Challenge. Practical ponds have increased local biodiversity by creating new nesting sites for measures instituted at the Tornio site in the 2000s continue to be waterfowl. At Avesta in Sweden, Outokumpu owns some 300 hectares of Pollution prevention techniques being employed by Outokumpu mean forest certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), an international that increases in emissions can be avoided. Further reductions from organization established to promote responsible management of the earlier emissions levels will also be achieved in many cases, even at Sustainable Supply Chain world’s forests. higher-than-current production levels. Annual studies carried out by Pöyry, a consulting company, have shown that impacts on sea areas close to the Group’s production plants have diminished over the last Responsible aftercare of ten years and that associated marine ecosystems are in good health. The results of the latest biological and fish population monitoring former production sites study confirmed the positive development. The new monitoring of bottom fauna, the levels of metal in fishes and water quality showed The sustainability of the Outokumpu supply chain is important to the Regular dialog in supply chain Outokumpu ensures that areas formerly used for the Group’s production that fish populations were healthy and the levels of metals (Cr, Ni and Group. We want to secure sustainable sourcing and manufacturing of operations are returned to their natural state, as far as technically Zn) were very low and similar to the non-loaded reference sea area 30 our products and promote sustainability towards our suppliers. During 2014 we evaluated the existing ways of working related to the feasible. At the Kemi chrome mine, barren rock extracted during mining km from the site. Also from bottom fauna even very sensitive species supply chain, especially since we want to be ahead of the increasing operations is now being utilized and intermediate rock-storage locations were found in the vicinity of the site. The quality of the sea water was The aim is threefold: to carry out business operations in a responsible needs for information and statements for our customers. We will follow are being used in underground construction and for gallery-filling good and metal concentrations were below the drinking water limits manner, to develop continuously our performance, and to improve the processes within the new Group operations and evaluate our new operations. at all sampling points during the whole year. Annually some twenty sustainability of Outokumpu’s supply chain together with the Group’s suppliers according to the new supplier requirements, including all professional fishermen are working close to Tornio and catch around 50 business partners and subcontractors. The target is full accountability central sustainability criteria. At the Kemi chrome mine, a new landscaping plan for a 22.5-hectare tonnes of fish. The effluent from the Tornio site has not deteriorated the and sound, as well as stable and fair business relationships with our tailing sand pond will be implemented and more ecologically efficient reproductive capability of the fish either. For instance, the summer of suppliers. In addition, Outokumpu provides customers with continually The latest round of the Group’s sustainability evaluation of current ways of capping is to be investigated. At the Tinsley Park landfill site 2014 was the best salmon fishing season ever according to statistics updated product statements and declarations covering the supply suppliers was finalized in 2012. The frequency is planned to be triin Sheffield in the UK, approximately 50% of the landfill area has been from the Tornionjoki river. chain. annual, the scope of the evaluation is all raw material producers and capped after the completion of waste tipping operations in these strategic suppliers in general procurement. Coverage of completed locations. As part of Outokumpu’s commitment to future follow-up in A number of studies, including the continuous monitoring of discharge answers and evaluated companies was more than 90% of Outokumpu’s this area, restoration work being carried out by the Group will add to natural levels of biodiversity. The plants being introduced are native levels, have shown that discharges of chromium and nickel are now 60–80% below the levels that prevailed over ten years ago. Over the Supplier requirements renewed total spending on materials and supplies to these companies (excluded energy purchases). species and operations being conducted include establishing areas last ten years, they have been at a stable, low level despite the fact An essential element in ensuring Outokumpu’s sustainability is regular of meadow. Species of wildflower are also being sown to provide an that stainless steel and ferrochrome production levels have increased evaluation of our suppliers’ sustainability policies, practices, and related Going forward, in general procurement we are aiming to assess our environment in which invertebrates such as butterflies and bees can in Tornio. Considered to be the most significant metals released performance. suppliers at an ongoing basis. In 2015 evaluation of our current and new thrive. into the sea by Outokumpu’s production activities at Tornio, current suppliers against the common supplier requirements will be integrated discharges of chromium and nickel only represent a fraction of the Internal common supplier requirements were further developed into the general procurement strategy and tracking the coverage total metal loading, which originates in the main from natural sources and approved. These requirements are in line with our policies of supplier assessments will be included in the internal General and statements regarding sustainability. Implementation of these Procurement KPI reporting. requirements was started 2014, and now all new suppliers are to be assessed against the common supplier requirements. To develop their The data collected is used in the Group’s program for developing a performance, Outokumpu provides the Group personnel with regular comprehensive and sustainable sourcing process. The results obtained Tornio watershed protection training. The principles underlying sustainability, responsible business from the evaluations form the basis of both development work and audit practices and good corporate governance are integrated into the planning. Outokumpu monitors the performance of Group suppliers awarded by peers materials used in commercial training, all the way from introductory courses to training courses designed to enhance contracting and and subcontractors through auditing. Regular external audits carried out in accordance with local EHSQ (Environmental Health Safety and All the measures described above will help in further reducing the Tornio procurement skills. Quality) management systems used at Outokumpu’s operational sites were conducted during 2014 as planned. The process is also an plants environmental impact on the sea ecosystems. The above mentioned important element in managing supply chain risks. Awareness of such successful actions in Baltic Sea environment protection were mentioned issues is the only way to provide Outokumpu’s customers with accurate when the International Chromium Development Association awarded Tornio sustainability information, and to guarantee to end-users that the plants in November 2014 with its Sustainability Award in water treatment Group’s stainless steel products are produced in a responsible manner. and water environment protection. 36 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Our Impact on the Environment Our Impact on the Environment Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 37 Sustainability is a precondition Total CO2 emissions resulting from transportation of products to invested directly EUR 15.5 million. The amount was smaller than in the In Tornio Outokumpu and the long term on-site contractor Tapojärvi for new suppliers customers in 2014 totaled 239,672 tonnes. The proportion of products and deliveries transported externally to customers by road, rail, and previous years due to big environmental investments made during past years and the very challenging business environment. decided to invest a total of 3 MEUR for stainless steel slag treatment plant to decrease dust emissions and increase the metal recovery. In addition to evaluating and auditing our current suppliers and sea were 67%, 17%, and 15%, respectively. In total, the internal and These investments will be in full use in 2015. contractors we have integrated sustainability issues into the approval external transports of products amounted to 12,456 million tkm (tonne process for new suppliers. Sustainability requirements need to be acknowledged and signed up to by new suppliers; these issues are also kilometres). Main recent environmental investments Environmental investments of the new Outokumpu during the last decade were some EUR 400 million, including for example new acid part of Outokumpu’s internal qualitative supplier evaluation system. At Calvert, AL US: the environmental investments related to establishing regeneration plants for Avesta and Krefeld, improvement projects for As a leading producer of stainless steel Outokumpu makes public Transportation of Group new production site were in 2014 in full use and amounted to over EUR 100 million. The most significant investments in this area were: energy efficiency and dedusting equipment for several units. product statements such as a conflict minerals statement, a statement products by mode Outokumpu decided to switch over to using liquefied natural gas (LNG) related to product safety and health, radioactivity and chemical safety • Water treatment plant USD 61 million at the Tornio mill instead of propane. Outokumpu invests approximately statements, and environmental product declarations. All of these For internal product flows, the efforts to shift to train and ship are • Acid regeneration plant USD 22 million EUR 30 million, phased over 2015–2018, of which the vast majority is statements require the Group to have knowledge of its suppliers and showing results. Almost 80% of the Group’s internal transportation is by • Electric arc furnace dust filter baghouse USD 22 million used to make the required equipment modifications at the Tornio mill. supplies. ship, followed by 16% by train. • AOD converter dust filter baghouse USD 21 million • AOD material handling dust filter baghouse USD 8 million Although there is an ambition to increase the share of train and ship in • Other dust filter baghouses USD 8 million Process development Outokumpu ensures safety transports, truck is still the main mode of transportation when it comes to transport of finished goods to customers. Especially in Central Europe At our Degerfors site, Sweden, new environmental investments were An essential area of our research and development operations is the of our products there has been some success in using intermodal transportation, which also taken into full use during the early part of 2014: a water treatment continuous development of our production processes and technologies. means combining truck and train. plant (EUR 6.5 million) and two heat treatment furnace replacements Process and technology development activities focus on reduction of Outokumpu product safety information for customers and the Safety and an upgrade of existing walking beam furnace. the environmental impact, improvement of the cost efficiency of our Information Sheets of products were updated for the new company. Transportation of products by mode 2014 production processes and on optimization of product quality. During the Because life cycle and environmental data of products is becoming Other significant environmental or energy efficiency investments were: year 2014 one of the main tasks of our process development teams was % 2014 2013* 2012* more important Outokumpu has expanded Environmental Product to support Outokumpu’s strategic initiatives related to EMEA restructuring By road 50 56 38 Declarations (EPDs) to also cover our long products and rebar. Our EPDs • Tornio, Finland: in order to decrease CO2 emissions and increase and ramp-up of Calvert operations. Operation of Core Technology are verified by an external independent institute. Read more about EPDs By sea 35 31 27 energy efficiency, the new gas pipeline and new equipment to Competence groups, Group-wide expert teams dedicated to development on p. 16. By rail 15 13 35 replace heavy oil being used as fuel in the lime kiln with local carbon of certain production process steps, was kicked off. The Core Technology * 2012 Figures for transportation of products by mode have not been restated monoxide gas, which is a by-product of our ferrochrome production. Competence groups are utilized as an important vehicle to transfer and is the Outokumpu stand alone figure before Inoxum acquisition, The total investment was EUR 7 million; this was joint investment with technical knowledge and best practices between our production units. Work continues to improve therefore not comparable. 2013 figures have been restated. on site contractor SMA Minerals. • Avesta, Sweden: modifications to melt shop EAF for better energy An excellent example of recent results of our process development is efficiency in transport efficiency (EUR 3 million). that at Tornio plants there is no longer need to landfill any slag after Reduction of sulphur emissions • Bochum, Germany: Marbach landfill: (EUR 1.2 million), remediation treatment. Annually 1.1 million tonnes of slag is produced in Tornio by Efforts continued to minimize the environmental burden resulting from activities in Outokumpu’s supply chain logistics and transportation. in the Baltic Sea environment purposes. • SMACC, UK: to reduce energy use and CO2 emissions, new EAF the stainless steel and ferrochrome production, which all are processed into CE-marked aggregate products. Major process development The emissions that result from product transportation are included in The new European Directive restricts the emissions of sulphur from sea transformer regulator and control system (EUR 2 million). in slag treatment facilities has led to substantially improved metal the Group’s carbon profile and integrated into Outokumpu’s long-term transport in the Baltic Sea region further from January 1 2015. This • Tornio, Finland: EUR 0.7 million together with contractors to prevent recovery. New processing innovations have enabled drastically improved climate-change-related targets. impacts transports from Tornio, where a lot of transport goes by ship. To further dust emissions from the slag treatment processes and EUR metal circulation from the slag back to stainless steel production. cope with the new, strict requirements, the ships used by Outokumpu 2.9 million (0.2 MEUR remains for 2015) for material efficiency and Improvements in 2014 include also filtering systems for both slag In 2014, the scope of reported emission data was enlarged to also include to transport coils and other products from Tornio to Terneuzen have had metal recovery from the same process. treatment plants in order to make slag treatment as dustless as our main internal product transfers. Due to this, the numbers are not scrubbers installed to remove sulphur from the off gas. When cleaning • Calvert, AL, US: new slag treatment units totaling USD 5.4 million possible. Also many other developments to material efficiency have directly comparable with those published in the previous years’ reports. the gas, about 50 kg/day of residue (sulphur containing paste) is were completed by our on-site contractor. been made, for example, improved handling and reuse of molybdenumComparable data for previous years’ has been calculated for this report. removed and collected for further processing at a waste disposal plant. containing dusts and slag. These gas cleaning scrubbers were taken in use during 2014, among the first in the Baltic and North sea area. Inter-company integration for energy Environmental investments efficiency and climate protection and expenditures During 2014 Outokumpu and on-site contractor SMA Mineral jointly invested EUR 7 million in SMA Mineral’s calcium oxide plant in Tornio. A 1.1 km long carbon monoxide line was built for the plant from Outokumpu’s ferrochrome ovens. CO gas replaces heavy oil in the SMA Mineral’s processes totaling Costs for environment-related activities within Outokumpu totaled Provisions and guarantees in connection with environmental 370 full oil truck loads per year. The investment increases also significantly EUR 101.4 million in 2014, of which costs associated with operational considerations totaled EUR 68 million including provisions for the energy and cost efficiency of the lime kilns. SMA Mineral provides calcium environmental management totaled EUR 95.5 million. Operational costs aftercare of former mining sites of EUR 1.4 million. Environmental oxide for the steel melting process at Outokumpu’s Tornio plants. This is an include process-related treatment, disposal and remediation costs for investments by Outokumpu and its contractors at the production excellent example of additional benefits of close cooperation and integration waste and emissions into air and water. sites in 2014 of approximately EUR 25 million, from these Outokumpu between industrial plants. 38 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Our People Our People Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 39 Our people The year 2014 was twofold for Outokumpu employees. First, the execution of necessary restructuring measures to turn the company back to profitability continued. Second, the year marked a turning point from just restructuring towards sustainable development of the organization. Necessary restructuring Towards commercial superiority continued As the restructuring progressed, Outokumpu was also Continued restructuring measures at Outokumpu able to look beyond it during 2014 and start the journey meant difficult decisions and execution of plans, for to commercial superiority by means of the continuous example, in outsourcing and headcount reduction to improvement of the organization. keep on track with reducing 3,500 positions worldwide by 2017 as announced earlier. However, it is clear Moving Outokumpu towards commercial superiority, why Outokumpu needs to improve profitability after the new generation of top management from the several years of making losses. Outokumpu negotiated commercial rather than operative side took their with its employees in the affected locations and the positions after summer, when the business areas were most important result of these negotiations was the reorganized to better respond to the needs of the agreement between Outokumpu and German unions on customers. Outokumpu also did a talent review regarding the closure of the Bochum melt shop in 2015, two years key positions and set up a Talent Council across the ahead of the original plan. The agreement meant that business areas to support mobility and exchange of Outokumpu was able to accelerate the restructuring its talent across all businesses. European operations. A new short-term incentive system was built and The first results from the restructuring work showed taken into use for the top management, with the next At the end of the year, Outokumpu already during the year, when the Group posted its first management levels to follow in 2015. At the end of positive operating result excluding non-recurring items the year, Outokumpu completed the first employee completed the first employee (such as one-time costs from restructuring) in the third engagement survey (O’People) for the new organization. quarter since the acquisition of Inoxum at the end of The survey will set the basis for organizational engagement survey (O’People) 2012, showing that Outokumpu is on the right track. development in the coming years. for the new organization. While the first positive harvests were reaped, the fullyear results were still negative – this shows clearly that the restructuring measures, continuing until 2017, need to be executed according to the plans also in 2015–2017. 40 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Our People Our People Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 41 Personnel in numbers In 2014, Outokumpu continued necessary restructuring work to turn the company around and back to sustainable profitability. The reason In 2014, ramping up new facilities raised the hiring rate to 4.7% (2013: 3.4%). Additionally, restructuring work led to an increase in Personnel by years of service, permanent employees Outokumpu did a for the turnaround was clear, since both Outokumpu and Inoxum had been making losses already before the acquisition of Inoxum by the leaving rate which was 8.2% (2013: 7.9%). At the same time, the voluntary leaving rate slightly declined to 3.3% (2013: 3.5%). The 2 500 talent review regarding Outokumpu. In order to achieve this, Outokumpu needed to make difficult but necessary decisions during the year. described shifts within the Group’s structure resulted in an increase of the average turnover rate to 6.5% (2013: 5.7%). 2 000 key positions and set In February, Outokumpu sold its high-performance alloys business The number of people on fixed-term contracts was 549. In all 1 500 up a Talent Council across the business (VDM) and decided to close down the thin-strip production unit restructuring work and lay-offs, Outokumpu complied with local 1 000 Kloster in Sweden by the end of 2014. In March, Outokumpu and legislation, collective bargaining agreements and other applicable German unions completed negotiations regarding the industrial plan regulations. in Europe, which targeted to accelerate the closure of the Bochum melt shop and cut cold-rolling capacity in Europe. After constructive 500 areas to support mobility and exchange negotiations ended, the work to implement the industrial plan started Personnel age profile, permanent employees 0 immediately. The Bochum team is cooperating with the teams in –5 6–10 11–15 16–20 21–25 26–30 31– Avesta, Sweden and Tornio, Finland to ensure that all production will transfer smoothly and safely to these production units in 2015 2 500 of talent across all businesses. maintaining high product and service quality for customers. A social 2 000 plan has been established to help employees over the period after the one-year acceleration in the melt shop closure. 1 500 Educational background, permanent employees* Overall, in 2014 the number of personnel declined in total by 436 1 000 positions or 3.5% and stood at 12,125 at the end of the year. Against Primary and lower secondary the target of reducing 3,500 jobs by 2017, disclosed in the beginning level 21% 500 of 2013, we were about half way through. Upper secondary level and lower university degree 69% 0 In Europe, the number of personnel declined by 506 in total, mainly Higher university degree and –25 26–30 31–35 36–40 41–45 46–50 51–55 56–60 61– following the industrial plan implemented in Germany. With regards postgraduate 10% to the other main location countries in Europe, reductions in Sweden at Nyby and Kloster balanced out with increases at Avesta and The share of blue-collar workers remained stable at 65% (2013: 65%, Degerfors, whereas in Finland the number of employees remained 2012: 61%). Of Outokumpu employees, 14% were women (2013: nearly unchanged. In the Americas, where Outokumpu is ramping 14%, 2012: 17%) and 86% men (2013: 86%, 2012: 83%). By the end up facilities, the Group on balance hired about 100 employees, of 2014, 30% of the employees worked in Germany, 20% in Finland, especially in Calvert and Mexinox, while in Asia the number of 16% in Sweden, 10% in the US and 9% in Mexico. employees slightly declined. * Data covers 95% of permanent employees. Outokumpu’s permanent employees mostly work on a full-time basis and some 745 people work on a part-time basis. This corresponds to 646 positions in full-time equivalents. Hires and Leavers by business area Personnel by region, gender and contract type Voluntary Avg. Total Number of permanent employees Number of Hiring Leaving Leaving Turnover Hires vs number of as per Dec 31, 2014 employees New Hires Leavers rate % rate % rate % rate % Leavers employees Group total 11 576 547 951 4.7% 8.2% 3.3% 6.5% -404 as per Dec thereof thereof Blue thereof thereof White thereof thereof Coil EMEA 7 164 66 511 0.9% 7.1% 1.5% 4.0% -445 31, 2014 Total male female collar male female collar male female Coil Americas 2 125 331 183 15.6% 8.6% 6.9% 12.1% 148 Group total 12 125 10 481 86% 1 644 14% 7 921 65% 7 576 96% 345 4% 4 204 35% 2 905 69% 1 299 31% APAC 597 78 105 13.1% 17.6% 9.7% 15.3% -27 Europe 9 104 7 826 86% 1 278 14% 5 992 66% 5 706 95% 286 5% 3 112 34% 2 120 68% 992 32% Quarto Plate 732 30 50 4.1% 6.8% 2.7% 5.5% -20 America 2 410 2 148 89% 262 11% 1 611 67% 1 562 97% 49 3% 799 33% 586 73% 213 27% Long Products 647 19 39 2.9% 6.0% 2.9% 4.5% -20 Asia 581 485 83% 96 17% 309 53% 299 97% 10 3% 272 47% 186 68% 86 32% Other Operations 311 23 63 7.4% 20.3% 7.7% 13.8% -40 Australia 26 21 81% 5 19% 9 35% 9 100% 0 0% 17 65% 12 71% 5 29% Africa 4 1 25% 3 75% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 4 100% 1 25% 3 75% A minor part of the figures are based on estimations as accurate data is not available. 42 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Our People Our People Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 43 Goals and results Despite restructuring, job rotation was one focus area during the Personnel by countries year. This was mainly due to Outokumpu ramping up new capacity 2014 2013* 2012* in the Americas. Calvert, Alabama offered dozens of stainless steel Headcount FTE Headcount FTE Headcount FTE professionals an opportunity to relocate to another mill and country Europe Results 2014 for a shorter or longer period of time. Also Group-wide programs such Germany 3 586 3 373 5 917 5 643 6 342 6 021 as cost savings initiatives and the Chorus program offered many new For 2014, the overriding objectives were to implement the full-time or part-time challenges and opportunities to develop their Finland 2 408 2 295 2 404 2 320 2 753 2 599 ongoing restructuring measures and to move the company beyond competencies. Sweden 1 969 1 880 1 954 1 873 2 466 2 365 restructuring and into business excellence. The focus areas for 2014 The United Kingdom 541 538 583 578 615 609 were increased focus on job rotation, building up capabilities and During 2014, Outokumpu also began looking into future talents in a Italy 218 211 3 078 3 071 3 115 3 105 looking into fundamental business processes to ensure customer talent review process and established one common body, the Talent The Netherlands 197 192 203 196 227 221 satisfaction and internal efficiency. Council, to support international mobility and exchange of talent France 64 61 104 100 119 119 across business areas and functions. Poland 41 41 45 44 54 52 Restructuring measures continued – for example, synergy savings Hungary 28 28 29 29 33 33 were ahead of schedule and headcount reductions continued. Goals for 2015 The hard work in restructuring and cost-cutting started to show Spain 11 10 49 47 57 55 in financial results, when first EBITDA in the second and then the The year 2014 was in many ways about planning new processes and Russia 9 9 11 11 12 12 operating result excluding non-recurring items in the third quarter ways of working after the Inoxum integration in 2013 – such as a Austria 7 7 14 14 21 19 were positive for the first time since the acquisition of Inoxum. The new short-term incentive scheme for top management, the Chorus Norway 7 7 8 8 11 11 full-year results remained however in the red. This means that the program to review business processes, talent development and Denmark 5 5 6 5 16 16 implementation of restructuring measures, which stretch until 2017, other continuous improvement actions, such as the first employee Belgium 5 4 5 5 5 5 needs to continue according to plan. engagement survey (O’People) in Outokumpu after the integration. Turkey 3 3 83 83 84 84 2015 will be about consequent, disciplined execution of these. For At the same time, when restructuring work progressed, Outokumpu example, the Chorus program needs to help find opportunities for Czech Republic 2 2 2 1 1 1 was able to look also beyond restructuring and to further improve efficiency in order for Outokumpu to finally reach the overall target of Portugal 2 2 2 2 3 3 its customer focus. To this end, business areas were reorganized sustainable profitability. The performance culture leading to business Romania 1 1 1 1 1 1 to become more customer-driven. For example, all European coil excellence will be strengthened with Performance and Development Estonia 0 0 0 0 39 38 operations, whether standard or specialty grades, were moved into Dialogs (PPDs) as well as execution of manager workshops in 9 104 8 669 14 498 14 031 15 974 15 368 one business area and commercial expertise increased both in top all business areas. Through leadership profile implementation, Americas and business area management. Outokumpu also kicked off the work with the Talent Council and succession planning, we set The United States 1 212 1 212 1 356 1 355 1 333 1 332 Chorus program, which is about looking into fundamental business clear expectations for our future leaders and support their career processes and unifying them across Outokumpu to gain efficiencies. development. In 2015 we will start the process of redefining our Mexico 1 104 1 104 1 091 1 091 1 103 1 103 The work started in 2014 and continues in the coming years, but employer value proposition as well as the development frame with Argentina 85 85 88 88 103 103 Outokumpu expects to reap the first benefits from the work as of building relationships with business schools. Brazil 9 9 5 4 6 6 2015 onwards. Canada 0 0 4 4 32 32 2 410 2 410 2 544 2 542 2 577 2 576 Asia China 544 541 582 582 597 597 India 15 15 15 15 16 16 Performance management Japan 6 6 13 13 12 12 Singapore 11 11 12 12 13 13 The United Arab Emirates 5 5 5 5 5 5 South Korea 0 0 4 4 4 4 Hong Kong 0 0 0 0 17 17 Saudi Arabia 0 0 0 0 78 78 A lot of work was put into developing performance management During the second half of 2014, activities were developed to start 581 578 631 631 742 742 in 2014 with changes both to the process and the documentation changing the way performance is managed in the whole company. A system. The results of this development work will come to fruition in workshop was designed for managers to initiate the new approach the coming years, starting in 2015. in performance management in all parts of Outokumpu and a new Australia 26 25 37 37 37 36 short-term incentive plan was communicated to the organization Currently, after the Inoxum acquisition and integration, there are at the end of 2014. One of the implications of these changes for Africa still several performance and development discussion processes 2015 will be that every employee is expected to have a quarterly South Africa 4 4 4 4 4 4 and documentation systems in the Group. Due to this, it is not performance and development discussion with their manager. 4 4 4 4 4 4 possible to give a figure for how many Outokumpu employees have Group total 12 125 11 686 17 714 17 244 19 334 18 726 gone through a performance and development discussion with their Also, the employee engagement survey, O’People, will give guidance manager. In 2014, the target remained the same: the target is that on the areas which need to be developed for Outokumpu to become every employee has a performance and development discussion a high performing organization. This development work will start in * Including discontinued operations. with their manager twice a year as a minimum. The work to include 2015 in all parts of Outokumpu. more employees in the common performance management process (PDD) continued throughout the year and, for example, in Calvert and Mexico the practice of having development discussions was expanded into subsequent organizational levels. 44 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Our People Our People Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 45 Compensation and benefits their skills. In the autumn, Outokumpu started the Chorus program which will take a look at all business processes and harmonize them in the entire Group. The program is run by Outokumpu’s own experts, successors. One of the long term aims of the Talent Council will be to set clear expectations and performance requirements for the career development paths of our future leaders. The Council has been and most full-time and part-time members of the project came from meeting quarterly and follow-up actions have been undertaken by the within Outokumpu. Corporate Human Resources team. The Talent Review Process for In compensation and benefits, Outokumpu has an overall framework When it comes to performance share plans, some of the annual 2015 will commence in March 2015. and principles defined by Corporate Human Resources. Within the criteria were reached, but according to the terms and conditions of During early 2014, Outokumpu undertook a Talent Review Process framework, the business areas can develop solutions which best the plans, the earned reward shares will not be paid until the end to review all of the key position holders in the Business Areas and At the end of the year, Outokumpu completed the first global support the needs of their business and which are competitive of the three-year performance period. The structure of the shortFunctions. A Talent Council made up of Senior Leaders from the employee engagement survey (O’People) in the company after the according to local market practices. In 2014, the overall principles term incentive plan for top management was changed to strengthen Business Areas and Functions was formed to follow up on key actions Inoxum integration. The results will show and determine the critical remained unchanged and due to Outokumpu’s financial challenges, the link between the financial performance of the company and the from the Talent Review Process and encourage greater mobility of key development areas for the next couple of years, and the work will salary increase budgets were very limited and only the most critical payouts, and it was implemented at the beginning of the year. The talents and Group-wide visibility and development of the potential begin in all parts of Outokumpu in the beginning of 2015. cases were addressed. Some changes were made to incentives same short-term incentive structure will be applied to subsequent for field sales employees, for example, in the Coil EMEA and APAC management levels from the beginning of 2015. business areas. In APAC, in addition to the introduction of a separate Diversity and equal rights sales incentive plan, the pay mix was also changed somewhat to put more weight on variable pay in the total compensation. Training and development Outokumpu’s ethical principles build on the equal treatment of all people, and there is zero tolerance for any kind of discrimination, whether it is based on ethnic origin, nationality, religion, political in accordance with local rules and regulations. Altogether 81% of the Group’s permanent employees were covered by collective agreements in 2014. During the year, there were 170 days lost due views, gender, sexual orientation or age. The Group endorses the to strike (2013: 24; 2012: 8). values of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. While restructuring progressed, the building of the new company Code of Conduct for all white-collar employees and the other for A transparent and unified resourcing process is the way to ensure 14% of Outokumpu’s employees are women (2013: 14%, 2012: 17%, culture continued as well. Outokumpu introduced Winning Behavior competition law compliance issues. These programs were completed equal opportunities. Outokumpu complies with international labor 2011: 18%). At the end of the year, two of the eight members of workshops at the end of 2013 to build up common understanding during 2014. A pilot development program for young talent in Europe treaties and condemns the use of forced and child labor. the Board of Directors and one of ten members of the Leadership on the common behaviors that bring us success. Winning Behaviors was initiated in late 2014 and will be expanded in line with the new Team were women, and altogether 24 women held key leadership are about putting the customer first, turning volumes into profit, Training and Development Frame during 2015. Outokumpu maintains a consistent policy of freedom of association. positions. These correspond with the overall percentage of women acting with speed and working together. Workshops continued All employees of the Group’s operations are free to join trade unions working in Outokumpu. nearly throughout the whole of 2014 in the units and almost 2,000 Besides training, one way to develop employees and their Outokumpu employees took part in them. For example in Mexico, the competences is job rotation, which was a focus area in 2014. An management decided that they wanted each employee to participate estimated 30 stainless steel professionals from Outokumpu’s sites Compliance and some 90% of the workforce took part in workshops. Each in Europe and South America took part in the job rotation program employee made a promise at the end of the workshop on what they and relocated – some for shorter, some for longer periods of time – could do immediately to improve their work. The feedback from the to Calvert. Some 10 people assumed an expatriate assignment and workshops was positive and people were enthusiastic about them. took on new challenges within the organization. Also some Groupwide projects gave possibilities for Outokumpu employees to broaden During the year, Winning Behavior workshops evolved into a Champions’ League where employees could nominate colleagues or During the year, Outokumpu’s Code of Conduct, which sets the 1,400 employees in 2014. Outokumpu constantly develops its work teams that were bringing Winning Behaviors to life in everyday Group’s ethical standard and guidelines for a common way of competition law compliance training programs to enforce effectively 2,000 work. All in all, almost 200 employees were nominated across the working, was revised and updated. The revised Code of Conduct is its policy to fully comply with competition laws. globe and their achievements were shared in the global intranet available in all nine major languages of the Group – Chinese, Dutch, over the year. The Outokumpu Leadership Team selected twelve English, Finnish, French, German, Italian, Spanish and Swedish. It Outokumpu has a Helpline, a confidential contact channel through champions who in their opinion had demonstrated the Outokumpu Spirit and Winning Behaviors in an especially good way. At year end, employees voted for the top four Winning Behaviors champions, one Almost was implemented with strong involvement and message from the top management as well as through a wide internal communication campaign and e-learning training. As part of the training, Outokumpu which employees or third parties can report suspected misconduct confidentially and anonymously by e-mail, mail or fax, or they can phone directly to Internal Audit. Investigation of one communicated for Profit, Customer, Speed and Together respectively. Otherwise, due to the savings programs, only business-critical and Outokumpu employees launched an e-learning in its Code of Conduct, compulsory for all white collar employees. The first stage in 2014 covered some 3,000 people out of which 99% completed the training. case in 2014 resulted in proof of violation of Health and Safety standards. From eight further special investigations based on allegations brought forward through other channels, no incidents in necessary training programs, such as safety training, continued in the units. For example in the Americas, where Outokumpu is ramping up the Calvert mill in Alabama, as one of the major profitability participated in the Other compliance training sessions carried out during 2014 included e-learning in competition law compliance for the relevant personnel view of discrimination or human rights violations were noted; however Internal Audit observed theft of material in two instances and potential violations of the Outokumpu Code of Conduct in one case. levers, the training courses are critical to the ramp up and continued throughout the year. Also, in Quarto Plate Business in Degerfors we undertook training for many employees associated with new Winning Behavior in the Group. The training has been successfully completed by some investments in increased capacity and product capability. There were two compliance-related e-learning programs, one for the renewed workshops. 46 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Our People Our People Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 47 Communication and cooperation Management philosophy that all accidents at our sites are avoidable. Health As a responsible company, Outokumpu initiated systematic health studies with world-class independent expert institutes in the 1980s. Safety performance The main targets of these studies have been individual levels of Focus on employee communication supporting the transformation Outokumpu Personnel Forum In 2014, the total injury frequency for the new company was 30.3 exposure to chromium and other compounds in the stainless steel and driving a common culture continued in 2014 after a major (2013: 34.6). A contractor fatality occurred in the Coil Americas production chain and their health effects. Occupational health integration which began one year previously, while at the same time Outokumpu has a Personnel Forum, which is a joint consultative body operation during 2014. This was the first fatal injury in Outokumpu activities focus on improving working environments and employee the company was able to look beyond integration and restructuring that offers a channel for transferring information between management for nine years and was felt deeply throughout the company. health is monitored using a variety of occupational health checks and as well. and employees. The forum was established some ten years ago, when fitness tests. Occupational hygiene measurements are carried out on the European Works Council directive entered into force. The Personnel The Group LTI rate (lost time injuries per million working hours) an ongoing basis at Group production sites to monitor work-related Based on the results from the previous internal communications Forum discusses issues of transnational interest – the Group’s significantly improved to 2.7 (2013: 4.5) and was better than target. exposure to noise and impurities in the ambient air, as well as other surveys in 2013, line manager communication and improving the economic and financial performance, future business prospects, The number of other severe accidents remained at a low level with factors. Issues related to working environments within Outokumpu usability of the company intranet continued to be in focus during product and market situations, strategy, investment decisions, annual many injuries being of a minor nature. are also studied through joint research projects carried out in the year. While intranet and managers are the most important report, manpower and employment issues, business reorganization, collaboration with universities and specialist institutions. day-to-day sources of information, these were supported by the health and safety, environment, technology and research and other The number of non-lost time injuries was 727 (2013: 908). internal magazine, published four times a year, and internal matters which have transnational impact or where there is a common In 2014, an average of 5,428 days per million hours worked by newsletters. The CEO spoke to the top 200 managers in relation interest. The follow-up of proactive safety indicators continued to be a focus Outokumpu employees were lost as a result of sickness or injury to the most important news during the year in altogether six for Outokumpu’s operational management. The total number of (2013: 6 689). The number of cases of occupational disease teleconferences, after which the managers took the message The forum has 33 representatives from European operations and it hazards and near-misses was 17,564 (2013: 19,836) and the diagnosed in the Group in 2014 was 13 (2013: 11). forward in their organizations. As part of the continuous efforts to appoints a working committee (Group Works Council) which is responsible number of safety behavioral observations also increased to 34,999 improve communications at Outokumpu, the first ever Outokumpu for ongoing cooperation between management and employees. The (2013: 19,695). all staff info call was arranged in March. In the all staff info call, works council has eight members representing the personnel and three Epidemiological studies among the employees had a chance of hearing directly from the CEO about representing the management. In 2014, the forum met once in Espoo, A number of plants maintained zero lost time injuries during 2014 Finnish ferrochromium and stainless Group strategy, priorities, achievements and challenges. Due to good Finland and the working committee altogether four times. In addition, and have maintained this for multiple years. These sites are across steel production workers feedback, the second all staff call was arranged in October. Two top there was one workshop to prepare the O’People personnel survey. the production steps, providing evidence of best practice and sharing management meetings were arranged during the year. opportunities. An epidemiological cancer study was completed and the results were published in the article “Cancer incidence among Finnish A major part of employee communication related to the ongoing restructuring programs and their targets and progress, but also to Local cooperation with unions Focus for 2015 and beyond ferrochromium and stainless steel production workers in 1967–2011: a cohort study” in the British Medical Journal in November 2013. The sharing successes and common ways of working, such as Winning Since Outokumpu is still in the middle of restructuring programs, Outokumpu’s safety strategy follows our existing safety principles cohort consists of 8,100 employees who have been employed at the Behaviors and Outokumpu Champions’ League. The Champions’ during the year there were local cooperation and negotiations related and is built on the three themes of having visible safety leadership, Outokumpu mine in Kemi and production site in Tornio since 1967. League page became the most read campaign page ever in the to these. In March 2014, the Group and German unions agreed on employee ownership of safety and sound safety systems and The health data related to this cohort have been analyzed further, Outokumpu intranet with over 16,000 views. Also safety was a the acceleration of the closure of the Bochum melt shop. Changing processes. Improvement action across these three areas will and the results are expected to be published in 2015. Studies on priority during the year. “My safety promise” campaign was launched the existing tariff agreement is very exceptional, and the work to continue in 2015 with increased training particularly in Safety particle characterization in the workplace air and on the acute in the spring with the target of highlighting risk areas, increasing implement EMEA restructuring was begun immediately after the Leadership and Contractor Management and increased focus on respiratory health effects caused by occupational exposures are in commitment to safety and every employee returning safely back agreement was reached. The cooperation continued regarding near miss and hazard reporting by all employees and development of the reporting phase. home after the working day. financial services and IT outsourcing, and negotiations regarding the common safety management systems. closure of Kloster operations and to reduce head office headcount were completed during the year. Local negotiations are done according to local practices and regulations. Total rate of injuries for Safe working environment employees and contractors* 50 40 At Outokumpu, safety remains the number one priority. Outokumpu Outokumpu remains committed to providing a safe and healthy 30 is committed to providing a safe and healthy working environment at working environment at its production sites and facilities for its own its production sites and facilities for its own personnel, contractors personnel, contractors and visitors. The ambition is to continuously 20 and visitors. improve our safety practices to ensure that Outokumpu is an industry leader in safety. 10 Safety First Significant improvements have been made to allow a step change in safety performance however opportunities for further 0 10 11 12 13 14 Safety is the number one priority at Outokumpu. The Group development still exist across the Group. Common safety reporting Management has continued to raise the profile of safety with it being has allowed the opportunity for internal and external benchmarking Non-lost time injury Fatality at the top of every agenda and with visible performance indicators across a range of lagging and leading indicators. The ultimate Lost time injury throughout the company. goal for Outokumpu remains zero accidents with an underlying * Per 1 million working hours. 48 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Outokumpu and Society Outokumpu and Society Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 49 Outokumpu and society Outokumpu’s operations have economic impacts on local, national and global communities in its countries of operation through paying taxes, direct and indirect employment, and other means of community involvement. Outokumpu operates in a competitive industry where Outokumpu makes donations to various charitable demand and supply meet on global markets. On the enterprises and events in line with its ethics. The Group other hand, our production sites are often located may sponsor research and environmental programs, in relatively small cities or towns. This means that sporting activities, culture and a variety of events Outokumpu is significant to the small local community’s at local level, as well as charity work. We also offer economy, and often one of very few private sector scholarships to students. Organizations that arrange employers in the area. Finding balance between global activities for children are also supported. market trends and responsibility towards communities is sometimes difficult, especially in economic downturns. Outokumpu supports research and development related Decisions have a major impact on communities, to its field of industry and maintains close cooperation Outokumpu personnel and their families and local goods with educational institutes in the training of engineers, suppliers and service providers as well. miners and supervisors. Apprenticeships have been offered to local colleges and student placements have Events tailored to creating open and active participation, been made available in the form of one-year programs, such as a variety of “open house” events on production and schoolchildren and local students have been sites, are clear signals for local communities that introduced to the Group’s operations. Outokumpu wants to be part of the community and to encourage an open Outokumpu culture. Outokumpu does not take part in or otherwise support political activities whether they are local or national. Outokumpu does not make donations to any political parties or groups. Value added distributed to Outokumpu’s stakeholders Generation of value added Distribution of value added + Customers Sales Employees Wages and salaries Events tailored to creating open 6 844 € million 765 € million and active participation are clear – Suppliers Cost of goods Public sector Taxes and social dues 106 € million Distributed signals for local communities that and services 5 894 € million Outokumpu Creditors to stakeholders Interest on debt Outokumpu wants to be part of 1 004 € = 950 € million and borrowings 132 € million million the community and to encourage Value added Shareholders Dividends € million an open Outokumpu culture. Retained in business = -54 € million 50 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Outokumpu and Society Outokumpu and Society Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 51 Risks and stakeholders Key risks are evaluated for stakeholder impacts Enterprise-wide risks Evaluation of risks impacts Leadership Team To expand appreciation of key risks within Outokumpu and to help Impacts on stakeholders are reviewed as part of Outokumpu’s risk on stakeholders Regular risk in mitigating the effects of possible impacts on stakeholders, the management process. The evaluation process covers enterpriseIdentification • Customers updates Group also monitors potential risks from a corporate responsibility wide risks at all organizational levels and includes assessments of • Local communities Risk reporting perspective. Sustainability-related issues including stakeholder the impact of key risks on Group stakeholders. The “Stakeholder • NGOs (external/ Evaluation and Business areas and dialog is an integral part of the Group’s risk management process. perspective” diagram specifies key stakeholder groups and provides • Shareholders prioritization Group functions internal) This internal risk review process was conducted twice during 2014. examples of the possible impact of different categories of risk on • Personnel In addition, the Group’s risk management participates in the Outokumpu’s operations. • Future employees Risk monitoring Mitigation corporate responsibility team of Outokumpu. This secures efficient • Associations, federations and control • Suppliers Operations communication to both directions and strong presence of risk management perspective. Stakeholder perspective KEY RISKS STAKEHOLDERS POSSIBLE IMPACTS Customers Competition, emerging legislation or high input prices make less sustainable Customers materials more feasible substitute to stainless steel and Outokumpu loses Putting the customer first was the guiding principle with Outokumpu’s of our performance, both on strategic and operational levels. market share. Melt shop closures and more centralized supply chain lead to Investors and shareholders 2014 focus. It is a promise embedded in our everyday operations. Customer feedback is an active part of a sales person’s daily work, changes to service and deliveries. Strategic Outokumpu serves its customers – distributors, producers of with any drawbacks addressed without delay and improvement and Local communities Impacts on shareholders, personnel and communities if Outokumpu is consumer goods and manufacturers of various industrial applications actions discussed with the customer. The overall aim is to have a business not able to achieve its financial targets, carry out integration and realize alike – globally. Continuous feedback and interaction with customers mutually beneficial process that helps us improve and increase the risks Personnel synergies and is therefore forced into actions such as reductions to the Group help us to improve our understanding of their needs, the challenges satisfaction of our customers. Therefore, customer feedback plays workforce, layoffs and reduced orders to suppliers. they face and the business environment our customers operate in. a central role also in internal communications, and is always a topic Future employees Customer-orientation is a part of target-setting for each employee. in quarterly CEO calls for the top 200 executives. Outokumpu’s Outokumpu’s reputation and attractiveness as employer at risk. customer satisfaction continued at the same level as in 2013, and Outokumpu aims to build long-term relationships with its customers. continues to outperform that of our competitors. Customers Inability to meet the deliveries on time, significant impacts both on customers After all, our vision of a ‘world that lasts forever’ can only be and suppliers dependent on Outokumpu if Outokumpu’s business and achieved through our customers’ applications and solutions. Being Customer newsletters and face-to-face meetings at Outokumpu sites Suppliers demand are deteriorated. a responsible business partner is a precondition for long term or customers’ premises are conducted on a regular basis to ensure partnership. In all communication with its customers, Outokumpu continuous interaction with customers. Outokumpu also publishes Operational Personnel is committed to marketing communications laws, standards and a customer magazine, ‘Forever’ three times a year. The magazine, Major catastrophes and severe interruptions to Outokumpu’s business may risks affect personnel, local communities and environment. voluntary codes, such as commitment to accurate and truthful printed in four languages, is posted to Outokumpu customers Local communities advertising. Outokumpu protects the personal data of its customers worldwide. In May, Outokumpu held a customer event in Degerfors, Trade barriers or other obstacles for free trade would affect negatively on industry’s by ensuring that it is only collected, gathered, processed, used, and Sweden to mark the finalization of the EUR 100 million investment Associations, federations actions within associations on the joint way towards more sustainable stainless. stored to the extent necessary for pre-determined and legitimate project at the quarto plate mill. In September, Outokumpu hosted purposes and in compliance with applicable laws. Training in these two simultaneous events in Germany and China to demonstrate practices are frequently held and their implementation is monitored. why stainless steel is increasingly used in demanding building, Risk of weakened transparency due to limited availability of resources in NGOs promoting environmental and social issues if Outokumpu can’t achieve its During 2014, Outokumpu has trained Group sales and technical infrastructure and interior projects, bringing together customers, financial targets. customer service in the Code of Conduct and competition law. building experts and architects from various organizations to Financial Also, during the fall, Group-wide sales training for sustainability and learn about stainless steel solutions, and to seize opportunities in Customers risks corporate responsibility was started; these trainings continue 2015. networking between businesses. Impacts on shareholders and customers if Outokumpu is not able to achieve Investors and shareholders its financial targets due to decline in share price and inability to meet the customer deliveries. During the year, Outokumpu continued to collect continuous, In 2014, Outokumpu strengthened its capabilities for providing firsthand feedback from our customers. Outokumpu uses a qualified online product information. Outokumpu provides online tools with an feedback system to collect and utilize customer insight in all our optimal viewing experience also via tablet and other mobile devices, countries of operations. Every month, some 100–150 Outokumpu such as the renewed Stainless Steel Finder which help customers customers participate in an ongoing survey to give us feedback on to browse our offering, and to choose the correct grade. After how we have succeeded in meeting their needs. The data obtained introducing a new pricing model for European markets, Outokumpu through the system is analyzed and benchmarked to support us launched the daily and monthly alloy surcharges online service with in various goals. Customers’ feedback helps us to achieve our the option of having custom reports delivered directly by email. This growth targets, and is used to enable continuous improvement allows customers to react even faster to the changes in raw material 52 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Outokumpu and Society Outokumpu and Society Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 53 prices and to choose between different options in avoiding alloy risks and selecting the optimum alloy surcharge. Daily alloy surcharges are published daily at www.outokumpu.com. At the end of October, For further product knowledge targeted for engineers, designers, materials specifiers and students, Outokumpu’s earlier published handbooks, Welding Handbook, Corrosion Handbook and Handbook Current and future employees Outokumpu launched an online news hub that features customer of Stainless Steel, supplement the online services. cases, stories and the latest product information ‘under one roof’. Both current and future employees are very important stakeholders Tornio, and approximately 210 in Sweden. Traineeships were offered for Outokumpu, their energy and commitment being a fundamental particularly within Group services such as marketing and accounting. part of the Group’s business. In Germany, Outokumpu offered internships for 46 students close Suppliers to graduation as engineers, as well as technical and commercial Outokumpu’s employees are the key building block in reaching apprenticeships in all its locations. commercial superiority. The steps taken to build the new culture after the integration with Inoxum in 2013 were driven forward in 2014. Wages and salaries by country Outokumpu introduced Winning Behavior workshops at the end of € Million 2014 2013 2012 2013 to build up common understanding on the behaviors that bring Finland 161 154 165 Outokumpu’s purchasing decisions are made solely based on guidance. The Code of Conduct states that Outokumpu condemns us to success. Workshops continued throughout nearly the whole of Outokumpu Group’s best interests, taking into account its Corporate all forms of corruption and complies with the anti-corruption treaties 2014 in the units and almost 2,000 Outokumpu employees took part Sweden 119 118 141 Responsibility Policy’s environmental, economic and social aspects. and laws of the countries in which it does business. Outokumpu in them. The United Kingdom 28 28 29 Suppliers will win Outokumpu business based on lowest total cost expects its suppliers and contractors to act in accordance with the Germany 305 260 10 of product or service. Total cost means the total amount spent on law and recommends that they perform according to Outokumpu’s Outokumpu’s long-term target is to be an employer of choice. Other Europe 30 31 38 a particular commitment, including, among other things, the initial policies. It is the goal of Outokumpu that its business partners, During 2014, Outokumpu continued its long-term efforts to develop North America 104 97 25 contract price, life cycle cost of investment, effect on Outokumpu’s subcontractors and suppliers become familiar with the Code of the Group’s employer brand. In all countries with bigger plants, Asia and Oceania 15 17 10 production efficiency and quality, commission fees, as well as other Conduct and Outokumpu’s Corporate Responsibility Policy, and Outokumpu has co-operation with schools and universities, or plans Other countries 4 5 1 transaction costs and taxes. that they follow similar standards. Outokumpu is committed to to start strategic relationships. Social media is also an important marketing communications laws, standards and voluntary codes in means for future resourcing. In 2015, Outokumpu will redefine its Total 765 711 419 Raw material purchases are the largest item in Outokumpu’s costs. communication with suppliers. employer value proposition in order to strengthen its employer brand, In 2014, Outokumpu’s delivery volumes were 3,485,000 tonnes, reputation and awareness level on the external candidate market. a comparable increase of 20.4% from the previous year, based Read more about our sustainable supply chain on p. 35. Economic impact on the management estimate for 2013 figures. The cost of goods Outokumpu has a long tradition of offering summer jobs and and services fell by 1.9% from the previous year, mainly due to the traineeships in its major production locations in Finland, Germany Salary payments including pensions and other benefits paid by synergies in procurement, compared to the comparable figure from and Sweden. By this, Outokumpu aims to further build its employer Outokumpu in 2014 increased compared to the previous year by the previous year based on management estimate. brand, and offer an opportunity to students to become acquainted some 8% to EUR 765 million (2013: EUR 711 million). Bonuses Raw material spend by category in 2014 with Outokumpu as an employer and to learn about the job received by Group personnel in 2014 amounted to EUR 18 million Primary raw materials – nickel, ferrochrome, recycled stainless opportunities that Outokumpu offers. During the summer of 2014, (2013: EUR 40 million). The Group’s incentive plans are primarily and carbon steel – are purchased on the open market. Part of the the Group employed some 558 summer workers in Finland, mainly in based on operational or financial targets and vary by country. ferrochrome is sourced internally from the Group’s own chromium Stainless steel scrap 49% mine and ferrochrome operations. The investment to double Nickel primary 23% ferrochrome production capability to 530,000 tonnes was ramped up Chrome primary 11% Investors and analysts in 2014. Molybdenum primary 4% Iron (Fe) in scrap 5% Outokumpu regularly evaluates its suppliers from the sustainability Others 8% point of view, highlighting the responsibility issues within society and local communities. The scope of the study was all raw material producers and strategic suppliers in general procurement. In the last round of evaluation, the coverage of all completed answers Outokumpu’s regular and active dialog with capital markets In addition, the company hosted quarterly results webcasts for and evaluated companies was more than 90% of Outokumpu’s total continued globally in 2014. During the first half of the year, key analysts, investors and the media. Outokumpu’s representatives also spending on materials and supplies to these companies. topics discussed with investors and analysts were the comprehensive attended seminars and conferences and organized 18 roadshows measures to strengthen the company’s capital structure, including in Europe and in the US to meet investors. In addition, Outokumpu The Outokumpu Code of Conduct, renewed in August 2014, is a tool the divestiture of Terni remedy assets and the VDM business to hosted a Capital Markets Day in Düsseldorf in September. Three for Outokumpu employees offering assistance to evaluate suppliers ThyssenKrupp, as well as a financial plan to renew the company’s site visits for analysts and institutional investors were arranged in in different situations by setting examples and giving practical debt portfolio that also included a rights issue. During the year, the 2014, one to the chrome mine in Kemi and the stainless steel plant focus shifted more towards the operational turnaround of Outokumpu in Tornio, Finland, one to the cold rolling mill in Krefeld, Germany, including the Calvert ramp-up in Americas, EMEA restructuring in connection with the Capital Markets Day, and one to the new and measures to improve cash flows and reduce debt levels. stainless steel plant in Calvert, USA. A total of over 300 one-on-one Furthermore, the nickel price development, as well as the reverse meetings, conference calls and video conferences with investors split of Outokumpu shares aroused interest in the capital markets were held during the year. during 2014. Read more about Outokumpu share and shareholders, Outokumpu’s Outokumpu met investors and analysts at various events throughout activities in the capital markets and stock exchange releases the year. The company organized the Annual General Meeting in in 2014 in the Annual report in Shares and shareholders and April and two Extraordinary General Meetings in February and June. Information for the investors on p. 115. 54 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Outokumpu and Society Outokumpu and Society Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 55 Local communities In Sheffield, Outokumpu is located very close to the UK’s M1 motorway, and steps are taken to ensure that our operations have minimal impact on this primary transportation route. As the effects Production employees are represented by their unions in plant management discussions at Outokumpu Nirosta, Avesta and Sheffield. In Avesta, both formal and informal meetings are held associated with the transportation of goods and raw materials can at the plant level and on site on a regular basis. In the UK, trade be major, the Group’s general logistical arrangements are carefully union engagement at Outokumpu sites is active, with work on many Many Outokumpu production sites have a long and interesting In Germany, the permit for Marbach disposal site in Bochum Hamme planned to avoid road congestion and minimize impacts on other issues, including health and safety, salaries, working hours, shift history. For example, Sheffield, Degerfors, Avesta, Nyby (Eskilstuna) created public concerns in 2013 and early 2014. To address road users. In recent years, increased transportation of alloys by rail patterns, and other mutually beneficial issues, being conducted in and Dahlerbrück sites have been an integral part of local society the concerns, Outokumpu established a local voluntary advisory has had a positive impact in connection with road traffic densities. close co-operation. Dialog between the management team and an during many centuries. It is natural that existing company and a committee in Marbach for inhabitants to share information and employee forum, a cross-functional group, takes place monthly. The major employer is involved in local society and activities in many views, including neighbors, NGOs and other interest groups. Plans In Sheffield, representatives of the local police force, fire and issues raised are debated and action plans instituted. Nominated ways. regarding the closure of the Bochum melt shop calmed down emergency services, and national health organizations have attended safety and union representatives are able to engage in direct and the media and local discussion about the Marbach landfill. Now a number of health and safety days organized for Outokumpu’s open dialogue with members of the plant management team. In We are a major employer in for example in Avesta and Degerfors, construction work and the use of the landfill continues as planned for employees. Tornio, individuals heading large departments are members of in Sweden, in Sheffield in the UK, in Calvert and New Castle in the the rest of the operation time of Bochum melt shop. the management team and three personnel representatives are US and in the Kemi-Tornio region in Finland and in Dahlerbrück, Local stakeholders are also taken into account in the Group’s members of the board of Tornio steel plant. Dillenburg and Krefeld in Germany. A continuing dialog is maintained Due to slag yard dusting our new Calvert site in Alabama, US emergency planning. with community officials and representatives, other commercial established meetings with local neighbors. The aim is to decrease Outokumpu’s UK sites arrange open days for employees’ relatives, companies, and with schools and universities. the dusting during the coming months. One reason for dusting helping them to become familiar with the locations where their family Outokumpu has new locations where we aim to implement our in certain weather and wind conditions is that the area and slag treatment operations are not yet ready and in full use. Communication with members work. Quarterly health and safety and well-being sessions are organized for employees and these incorporate the familysustainability program and actively listen to local communities. employees on sites related aspects of their occupations. Close work with a local gym, Outokumpu’s most significant impacts on local communities include As a large employer, decisions regarding the Group’s operations have which visits the Group’s UK sites on a quarterly basis, reinforces direct and indirect employment as well as environmental and energy a major impact on communities; not only on Outokumpu personnel Maintaining employee well-being is Outokumpu’s aim, and productive well-being and fitness programs. At Avesta in Sweden, a recreation issues. These are also key topics in discussions with local community and their families, but also on local goods suppliers and service dialogue is the key element in achieving this. Outokumpu’s largest committee organizes a wide variety of events for both employees representatives. Emissions from the Group’s plants are measured providers. The latest strategic investments in Calvert, US were industrial sites have many similarities. In addition to regular meetings and their families, such as lectures and family days. Participation and strictly monitored, and effective corrective actions are taken if completed and continue to have a positive impact on the surrounding with personnel representatives, employees are met once or twice in sports such as biking, skiing, and swimming is sponsored. At deviations from permitted limits occur. Both vigilance and a responsive districts: during 2014 some 100 new employees were hired. Other every year at special events. Daily operational meetings include Tornio in Finland, sporting events involving employees’ children are attitude to issues that affect local communities and their concerns are recent investments include the EUR 410 million investment in the reporting on health and safety and environmental issues. Actions to organized in both the summer and winter. Personnel clubs, which important. For example, Tornio implemented a publicly available particle expansion of the Group’s ferrochrome production in Tornio, and resolve these are usually taken immediately after completing a risk reduce the costs associated with enjoying cultural and other events, monitoring system in the Tornio-Haparanda area in order to openly the EUR 100 million to increase stainless quarto plate production assessment. Management team members are encouraged to walk are supported. disclose information online. The monitoring sequence was completed in capacity in Degerfors. The ferrochrome expansion resulted in around through Group facilities, including production plants, and to talk with 2014 and discontinued due to very low dust and particle concentrations. 120 permanent jobs in the Kemi-Tornio region. employees engaged in manufacturing operations. In April, Outokumpu arranged a Girls’ Day at the Krefeld and The Group’s Kemi mine collaborates with several educational Dillenburg units. The aim of this yearly event is to give 14–16 year old schools like Lapland University of Applied Sciences in the training girls interested in technical work a first insight to career possibilities of engineers, miners, and supervisors. In Sheffield in the UK, in technical professions and the possibility to collect some practical apprenticeships have been offered to local colleges and student experiences. The local initiative was inspired by the national yearly placements have been made available in the form of one-year Girls’ Day campaign established by the German government. programs. Outokumpu’s employees have given presentations at local schools and universities and we have worked with local employment agencies to find positions for people within the Group. Schoolchildren Cooperation with neighbors and local students have been introduced to the Group’s working environment through tours and discussions with employees. Information exchange with neighbors and local community is very important related to activities. During 2014 especially in Germany, the United States and Finland we organized some meetings or cooperation with neighborhood due to various reasons. At Kemi mine Managing impacts on Investing in mental capital and well-being and also in Tornio plant there was an open-doors event for neighbors. local communities Based on feedback and participation both of these evenings were In Finland a new service provider was chosen to provide occupational health success. The production units received a lot of good and constructive Traffic loads have an impact on local communities, with the Kemicare services for Outokumpu Espoo office. As one of the first steps an feedback, as well as some good ideas how to reduce some Tornio region and Sheffield being good examples. Our Tornio site assessment was carried out with the target to identify resources and risks environmental impacts to the surrounding community. has participated in the new railway connection project in northern related to the working environment. Based on the findings an action plan was Sweden “The North Bothnia Line” (Norrbotniabanan) which would Outokumpu organizes, when needed together with local mean an extension of the Bothnia Line north of Umeå to Luleå (270 prepared including for example info sessions related to work ergonomics. municipalities open forums and discussions with inhabitants and km) and it would provide a new transport route for Tornio plant. The The main principle in the Espoo office was to increase individuals’ knowledge NGOs, in 2014 there were no large open discussion forums. One visit preliminary decision to build it has been made and detailed planning of the ways to manage their own well-being. The topics discussed covered for Haparanda inhabitants was organized to Tornio plant. is ongoing including the choice of a route. different ways to build stress resilience, increase the ability to concentrate and use brains in a productive way. Special support was arranged for teams who had experienced a difficult restructuring and change process. During the ongoing IT outsourcing processes a special attention was put on communications to prevent uncertainty. 56 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Outokumpu and Society Outokumpu and Society Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 57 Well-being at work For these kind of purposes, our cold rolling unit in San Luis Potosí, Eurofer and EuroSlag are collaborative organizations within the External R&D collaboration Mexico, started a voluntary but famous competition for working European iron and steel industry. Outokumpu contributes to Eurofer’s Outokumpu provides its employees with a healthy and safe working teams to reduce their own individual weight of management and commercial and trade issues at the presidency level, in committees Outokumpu has an extensive network of external R&D partners and environment. The health of the personnel and their well-being at team members. Results have been good and helped to promote which handle statistics, research and the environment, and in participates in both national and international research programs. work are important preconditions for Outokumpu’s success in dayhealthy life styles and positive attitudes at the work place. working groups which focus on issues such as climate change, air Outokumpu is a member of the European Steel Technology Platform to-day operations as well as in its long-term competitiveness. quality, water, and waste. Eurofer conveys opinions to EU governing (ESTEP). Examples of research programs in which Outokumpu At Outokumpu, it is the responsibility of the whole workforce to In Tornio the “Good work – Longer career” project continued at bodies (the European Commission, the European Parliament, is participating include the Finnish Mechanical and Engineering foster mental well-being and to increase occupational health and Ferrochrome plants and a new survey was conducted in May. The and the European Council), and promotes measures such as the Competence Cluster (FIMECC), Research Fund for Coal and Steel safety. Company management in particular has to set a good results did not show improvement and the project team will evaluate implementation of the Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control (RFCS) and Jernkontoret (the Swedish Steel Producers’ Association). example by cultivating fairness and conducting open and interactive the future of the project with the local employee representatives. IED Directive, the implementation of REACH (the Registration, In Germany, we are collaborating with various universities and communications. Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals), and continuation of the research institutes, among others with the Fraunhofer Institute and European Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS). EuroSlag performs a the Max-Planck-Institut für Eisenforschung. similar role in issues related to slag and by-products. Launch of two new extensive 5-year research programs coordinated Associations and federations Outokumpu is also active in corporate responsibility networks. To by FIMECC and funded by TEKES (the Finnish Funding Agency for develop our expertise in corporate responsibility and improve Group Innovation) was one of the main actions related to our external performance, Outokumpu belongs to both the Finnish Business & R&D networks in 2014. In FIMECC SIMP (System Integrated Metal Society company network and CSR Europe. To combat corruption and Processes) program, a global unique grouping of leading metal bribery, the Group participates in Transparency Finland, a national industry companies have come together to further increase its global chapter of Transparency International. competitiveness by integrating digitalization and sustainability in Outokumpu is an active and responsible actor in society. As the use hard lobbying on decision-makers. As a member of Eurofer, metallurgical processes in a system integrated manner. FIMECC global stainless steel producer, the Group’s opinion is voiced in Worldsteel and ISSF, Outokumpu participates in different policy BSA (Breakthrough Steels and Applications) program focuses on many forums. As committed to sustainability Outokumpu is a groups whose aim is to provide expertise and help decision-makers in development of new generations of sustainable steels and their signatory to the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) charter, connection with issues such as the global mitigation of greenhouse future applications. follows and supports the United Nations Global Compact, and is gas emissions by the iron and steel industry. In these forums, an active member of the UN Global Compact Nordic Network. To members share best practices and obtain benchmark data relating demonstrate the Group’s support for sustainability, Outokumpu has to, among other things, the environment, R&D, product life cycles, signed the Worldsteel Sustainable Development Charter and the product and chemical safety, and occupational safety. Members ISSF’s Sustainable Stainless Charter. Although countering bribery also contribute their own data for use in official industry or authority and corruption are clearly defined in the Group’s publicly available reports, such as the World Steel Association Sustainability report. Code of Conduct, participation in these networks is a way to promote progress throughout the whole business landscape, also outside the In Europe, Outokumpu is a member of several federations and Group’s own supply chain. associations in Germany, Sweden, Finland, France, Italy, the Netherlands, and the UK. National cooperation organizations In 2014, Outokumpu experts and top management continued advance industry views and contribute to legislation in Europe to maintain effective liaisons with numerous organizations. Top through national representatives in EU governing bodies. Outokumpu management participated in dialog concerning issues such as is also a member of business associations in North America and social well-being, the global financial situation, megatrends and the Australia. future of the stainless steel business. Mika Seitovirta, Outokumpu’s CEO, was an active participant in the discussions, especially those regarding society’s role in creating a competitive environment that In 2014, Outokumpu can enhance development, knowledge, and investments. Within the Group, comprehension of approaches to social responsibility is experts and top expanded through active engagement with a variety of companies and organizations. Outokumpu is a member of international organizations and confederations, including the World Economic Forum, International management Chamber of Commerce (ICC), International Stainless Steel Forum (ISSF), the International Chromium Development Association, Eurofer, continued to maintain EuroAlliage and EuroSlag, effective liaisons Outokumpu is also an associate member of the World Steel Association (Worldsteel). Outokumpu provides relevant information to decision-makers and experts relating to the development of the business environment and legislation. The Group participates in the work of trade organizations. Outokumpu does not pressure or with numerous organizations. 58 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Outokumpu and Society Outokumpu and Society Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 59 Public sector, sponsoring and NGOs Dialogue with environmental NGOs In 2014, Outokumpu operated with a significantly expanded global presence, which required us to operate with new NGO counterparties. Outokumpu had conducted NGO mapping in 2013 in order to identify Outokumpu contributes to the well-being of local, national, and Social sponsorship of units continued also: traditionally Outokumpu new NGOs and to review the existing NGOs. The study concentrated international communities through tax payments, through direct and has been the main sponsor in local football and some other sport into the impactfulness, size and regional presence of NGOs against indirect employment, and by participating in other societal activities. clubs in Avesta and Degerfors (Sweden) and in Tornio (Finland), pre-defined material sustainability issues and regions and countries also in 2014. Outokumpu in Krefeld, Germany supported the of Groups operations. This study served as starting point for In 2014, taxes and social security contributions paid by the Group STUPS children’s centre of the Red Cross and cooperation with a stakeholder dialog in the context of the new Outokumpu 2014 and totaled EUR 106 million (2013: EUR 98 million). In 2014, Outokumpu local school Kurt-Tucholsky-Gesamtschule continued related to is one reference group for the next update of Outokumpu materiality posted a loss and thus also the amount of taxes paid remained low, care system with a local retirement home. In Finland Tornio plant analysis, planned for 2015. some EUR 17 million for the financial year (2013: EUR 4 million). The sponsored the children visits from kindergartens to the local art impact of taxes on societal well-being is both direct and indirect. museum. In Germany Outokumpu donated new communion chalices In addition, Outokumpu continued its dialog with environmental NGOs to the St. Markus Church of Fischeln. In Degerfors, Sweden the as a standard process. Issues that were discussed included the role Taxes and social dues by country company sponsored railings for the new community fire station. of steel recycling and sustainable stainless steel in tackling the major challenges that we face as a mankind; climate change, resource and € Million 2014 2013 2012 In Turku, Finland Outokumpu donated material for the statue made energy scarcity together with urbanization and population growth. As Finland 8 8 8 by famous artist Stefan Lindfors. The statue is made for donations a result, Outokumpu aims to increase further the transparency and Sweden 22 23 31 of the saving of Baltic Sea. In Avesta, Sweden Outokumpu sponsors information related to these issues and our products’ sustainability The United Kingdom 4 3 3 own art club Visentkonst. properties. Germany 40 41 2 Other Europe 9 9 11 Outokumpu is one of the founders of the Technology Industries of North America 18 11 1 Finland Centennial Foundation Fund for the Association of Finnish Asia and Oceania 4 2 1 Steel and Metal Producers, established by five Finnish steel and metal producing companies. The fund was founded to promote Other countries 1 1 0 university-level research and teaching of technology and business Total 106 98 57 opportunities in metals production. In 2014, the fund awarded grants of some EUR 0.3 million. Outokumpu has Public sector support received For example Outokumpu has participated in the research project supported Aalto In 2014, Outokumpu received some EUR 0.8 million (2013: EUR Metric under the FIMECC consortium and one of the project outcomes in 2014 was a thesis studying industrial investments in University from the establishment 0.6 million) from the public sector to support Group research and a sustainability framework. This new approach aimed to quantify development of new technologies, products, and applications. investment and changes to the industrial set up from social, economic and environmental dimensions in one model. This Grants and community support given type of open attitude towards harnessing of new ideas describes Outokumpu’s open innovation management approach very well. of the institution, Traditionally Outokumpu’s units have supported the local community including an initial in many ways even during harsh times. In Germany, Sweden, the Sponsoring fund donation of EUR 1 UK and Finland the local cooperation with schools and universities is typical at every production site. For instance in April 2014 the As defined in Outokumpu’s sponsorship policy, the Group’s certificate awards ceremony for 71 trainees of the Outokumpu sponsorship decisions are based on clearly defined pre-conditions German units were taking place at a local Montessori School. For of strategic, brand image, and sustainability criteria. Outokumpu example the company gave permanent contracts to 30 graduates also makes discretionary donations for the common good as a and all others got a quote for a one year fixed-term employment. responsible corporate citizen. These donations are organized by Outokumpu supports higher education and research by donating funds to universities. In 2013, the co-operation with Aalto University, sustainability management and approved by the Leadership Team or by the Board of Directors. million. Finland a new multidisciplinary science and art community, Total grants and community support in 2014 amounted to some EUR proceeded in the fields of science, economics, art, and design. 0.4 million. Outokumpu has supported Aalto University from the establishment of the institution, including an initial fund donation of EUR 1 million. Outokumpu does not take part in or otherwise support political activities, whether they are local, communal, or national. Outokumpu Co-operation with Aalto University offers Outokumpu the chance to does not make donations to any political parties or groups. harness top-level know-how and a multidisciplinary approach. Aalto’s core research fields – materials research and design – will round out Outokumpu’s in-house R&D, offering new opportunities for innovation and exchanging know-how. 60 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Outokumpu and Society Outokumpu and Society Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 61 Reporting on sustainable development Outokumpu produces stainless steel, a sustainable material, by using a sustainable production chain in a responsible manner. The Group’s corporate responsibility principles cover all separate GRI and UN Global Compact reporting index, aspects of Outokumpu’s operations and strategy and where all the indicators regarding responsibility practices are also integrated into the way that we conduct our are listed together with links to the pages on which they business. Outokumpu aims for open and transparent are addressed. communications. Outokumpu’s reporting reflects the view that all of the Group’s operations – and our dialog Outokumpu’s Annual report also meets other with stakeholders – must be based on ethical and requirements within sustainability reporting. Outokumpu sustainable business practices, since these provide the decided to adopt the ISO 26 000 “Guidance on social basis for our long-term competitiveness. responsibility” standard. This is the second report in which we have the ISO 26 000 core subjects and issues The year 2015 will mark 40 years since the first comparison table together with GRI reporting index. environmental report of Outokumpu was published in 1975. Since 2003 Group has published external The Group is a signatory to the UN Global Compact. sustainability report covering social, economic and Outokumpu also follows International Chamber The year 2015 will mark 40 years environmental dimension annually. These reports are of Commerce policies by utilizing ISO-based available in digital form at Outokumpu Sustainability web management systems in connection with issues since the first environmental pages. relating to Environment, Health and Safety and Quality management. Read more about the Group’s social report of Outokumpu was The report presents the Group’s relevant and responsibility on p. 39. material sustainability issues. Issues on Sustainable published in 1975. development and Corporate responsibility requirements The Group has also signed the Sustainable Development are reported openly and transparently following the Charter published by the World Steel Association and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 guidelines. International Stainless Steel Forum. Together with the Group’s internal policies and practices these frameworks This sustainability reporting has been assured by an have requirements for external reporting, which have external assurance provider. This report includes a been taken into account in this Sustainability report. 62 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Outokumpu and Society Outokumpu and Society Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 63 Focus on material issues GRI and UN Global Compact To ensure that limited resources are allocated in the most efficient all issues identified as having a material significance and related We have self-declared our reporting to be Application Level B+ of the GRI G3 Guidelines. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy has checked our reporting manner, Outokumpu analyzed the most material sustainability developments are detailed in this report. and has confirmed it to be Application Level B+. issues. The results of this analysis, which identified the internal and external issues most relevant to the Group, formed a natural basis The Outokumpu Board of Directors reviewed the sustainability Annual report/Sustainability report Global ISO for sustainability-related actions and developments in 2014. analysis and related actions and reviewed and approved the GRI profile disclosures INCL. section 2014 Compact 26 000 Comment updated ethical statement of the Group at its December 2014 The results of the materiality analysis, issues with high significance meeting. According to the Group policy on sustainable development 1. Strategy and Analysis for both Outokumpu and the Group's stakeholders, were mostly those and corporate responsibility, the Board of Directors monitors 1.1 CEO's statement Yes CEO’s foreword (SR p. 1) 6.2 which have been on Outokumpu's sustainability agenda in previous Outokumpu's corporate responsibility performance at least once 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Our impact on the environment (SR p. 13), Risks years. This confirms that we are working with the correct issues and each year based on a report submitted by the CEO. This arrangement and stakeholders (SR p. 50–51), Climate change that further improvements are still needed. The analysis process has ensures that sustainability issues are an integral element in risks (SR p. 26–28), Focus on material issues (SR p. 62), Environmental goals and results (SR helped the Group to initiate new actions and programs in an optimal Outokumpu operations from the lowest to the highest levels. Yes p. 14–15), Goals and results (SR p. 43) 6.2 manner. During 2014, Outokumpu took action in connection with 2. Organizational Profile 6.2 2.1 Name of the organization Yes SR p. 71 6.2.1– 6.2.3 Focus on material issues 2.2 Primary brands, products and services Yes Corporate information (AR p. 39) 6.2.1 2.3 Operational structure Yes Corporate governance statement (AR p. 102) 6.2.1 High 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters Yes SR p. 71 6.2 Environmental footprint 2.5 Number of countries and location of Yes Market environment (AR p. 4) operations 6.2 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Yes Corporate information (AR p. 39) 6.2 2.7 Markets served Yes Market environment (AR p. 4–5) 6.7.1 Energy efficiency 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Yes Key figures (AR p. 2), Corporate information (AR p. 39) 6.2 2.9 Significant changes regarding size, Yes Review by the Board of Directors (AR p. 16) structure or ownership 6.2 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Yes Highlights 2014 (SR p. 3) 6.2 Material efficiency Ethical business Safety at 3. Report Parameters conduct workplace 3.1 Reporting period Yes Reporting principles (SR p. 68) Significance to stakeholders 3.2 Date of most recent report Yes Reporting principles (SR p. 68) 3.3 Reporting cycle Yes Reporting principles (SR p. 68) 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the Yes Reporting principles (SR p. 68) report 3.5 Process for defining report content Yes Focus on material issues (SR p. 62), Reporting principles (SR p. 68) Sustainable opportunities 3.6 Boundary of the report Yes Reporting principles (SR p. 68) of stainless steel Attracting and retaining 3.7 Limitations on the report's scope or Yes Reporting principles (SR p. 68) talented people boundary 3.8 Basis for reporting subsidiaries and joint Yes Reporting principles (SR p. 68) ventures Sustainable procurement, Supply of including raw material sustainable energy 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases Yes Reporting principles (SR p. 68–69) of calculations 3.10 Explanation of re-statements Yes Reporting principles (SR p. 68) 3.11 Significant changes from previous Yes Reporting principles (SR p. 68–69) reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurem. methods 3.12 GRI content index Yes GRI and UN global compact (SR p. 63–67) 3.13 Assurance policy and practice Yes Reporting principles (SR p. 68), Independent Assurance Report (SR p. 70) 7.5.3 Changes in legislation and taxation 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement Medium Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization Yes Corporate governance statement (AR p. 103–104) 6.2 Medium Significance to Outokumpu High 4.2 Position of the Chairman of the Board Yes Board of Directors on Dec 31, 2014 (AR p. 14) 6.2 4.3 Independence of the Board members Yes Board of Directors on Dec 31, 2014 (AR p. 14–15) 6.2 64 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Outokumpu and Society Outokumpu and Society Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 65 Annual report/Sustainability report Global ISO Annual report/Sustainability report Global ISO GRI profile disclosures INCL. section 2014 Compact 26 000 Comment GRI profile disclosures INCL. section 2014 Compact 26 000 Comment 4.4 Mechanism for shareholder and employee Yes Corporate governance statement (AR p. 102– EC4* Significant subsidies received from Yes Public sector, sponsoring and NGOs (SR p. 58), consultation 104), Communication and cooperation (SR p. government Shares and shareholders (AR p. 27) 6.8 46) 6.2 Market presence 4.5 Executive compensation and linkage to Yes Corporate governance statement (AR p. organization's performance 105–106) 6.2 EC5 Entry level wage compared to minimum No wage 1 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interest Yes Corporate governance statement (AR p. 103) 6.2 EC6* Spending on local suppliers No 4.7 Executive compensation and linkage to Yes Corporate governance statement (AR p. organization's performance 104–105) 6.2 EC7* Local hiring No 6 4.8 Implementation of mission and values Yes CEO's foreword (SR p. 1), Compliance (SR p. 45) Indirect Economic Impacts statements, code of conduct and other EC8* Infrastructure investments provided for No principles 6.2 public benefit 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing Yes Focus on material issues (SR p. 62) EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts Yes Local communities (SR p. 54–55) management of sustainab. perform., incl. risk management 6.2 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board's Yes Corporate governance statement (AR p. 103) Environmental Performance Indicators performance 6.2 Materials Commitments to External Initiatives EN1* Materials used by weight or volume Yes Material balance (SR p. 21) 8 6.5 4.11 Addressing precautionary approach Yes Risk management (AR p. 110), Climate EN2* Recycled materials used Yes Product perspective (SR p. 8), Material balance change risks (SR p. 26–28) 7 6.5 (SR p. 21) 8, 9 6.5 4.12 Voluntary charters and other initiatives Yes Associations and federations (SR p. 56) Energy 4.13 Memberships in associations Yes Associations and federations (SR p. 56–57) EN3* Direct energy consumption Yes Material balance (SR p. 21), Energy efficiency (SR p. 22) 8 6.5 Stakeholder Engagement EN4* Indirect energy consumption Partly Material balance (SR p. 21), Energy efficiency 4.14 List of stakeholder groups Yes Risks and stakeholders (SR p. 50) 6.8 (SR p. 22) 8 6.5 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders Yes Risks and stakeholders (SR p. 50) 6.8 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and Yes Energy efficiency (SR p. 22, 24) 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Yes Outokumpu and society (SR p. 50–59) Approaches to efficiency improvements 8, 9 6.5 stakeholder EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or Partly Energy efficiency (SR p. 22) engagement are renewable energy based products and presented under services 8 6.5 the sections describing various EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Partly Sustainable supply chain (SR p. 36) 6.8 stakeholders. consumption 8 6.6.6 4.17 Key topics raised through stakeholder Yes Communication and cooperation (SR p. 46), Water engagement Investors and analysts (SR p. 53), Local EN8* Total water withdrawal Yes Water (SR p. 32) 8 6.5 communities (SR p. 54) 6.8 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by Yes Water (SR p. 32) withdrawal of water 8 6.5 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Partly Water (SR p. 32) recycled and reused 8, 9 6.5 Management approach to economic responsibility Yes Review by the Board of Directors 2013 (AR p. Biodiversity 16), CEO's review (AR p. 1), Risk management 1, 4, EN11* Location and size of land holdings in areas Yes Biodiversity (SR p. 33) (AR p. 111–114) 6, 7 6.2 of high biodiversity 8 6.5 Management approact to environmental Yes Environmental goals and results (SR p. 14–16), EN12* Description of significant impact of Yes Biodiversity (SR p. 33) responsibility Highlights 2014 (SR p. 3), Focus on material activities, products, and services on issues (SR p. 62), Energy efficiency (SR p. 22), biodiversity 8 6.5 Climate change (SR. P. 26–28) 7, 8, 9 6.5 EN13 Habitats protected or restored Partly Biodiversity (SR p. 33) 8 6.5 Management approach to labor practices and Yes Goals and results (SR p. 43), Highlights 2014 decent work (SR p. 3), Our people (SR p. 39), Operational EN14 Managing impacts on biodiversity Yes Biodiversity (SR p. 33–35) 8 6.5 risks (AR p. 113–114), Training and development EN15 Species with extinction risk with habitats in Yes Biodiversity (SR p. 33) (SR p. 44) 1, 3, 6 6.4 areas affected by operations 8 6.5 Management approach to human rights Yes Goals and results (SR p. 43), Our people (SR p. Emissions, Effluents and Waste 39), Corporate Governance statement (AR p. 109), Highlights 2014 (SR p. 3), Diversity and EN16* Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Yes Material balance (SR p. 21) equal rights (SR p. 45), Risk management (AR p. emissions 8 6.5 113–114) 6.3 EN17* Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas Yes Climate change (SR p. 25) Management approach to society Yes Local communities (SR p. 54–56), Corporate emissions 8 6.5 Governance statement (AR p. 109), Risk EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Yes Climate change (SR p. 25–26), Environmental Management (AR p. 112–114), Highlights 2014 emissions goals and results (SR p. 14–15) 7, 8, 9 6.5 (SR p. 3) 6.8 EN19* Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Yes Material balance (SR p. 21) 8 6.5 Management approach to product responsibility Yes Corporate Governance statement (AR p. 109), Risk Management (AR p. 112–114), Highlights EN20* NOx, SOx, and other significant air Yes Material balance (SR p. 21), Emissions, effluents 2014 (SR p. 3), Customers (SR p. 51–52), emissions and waste (SR p. 29–30) 8 6.5 Product perspective (SR p. 8) 6.7 EN21* Total water discharge Yes Water (SR p. 32) 8 6.5 EN22* Total amount of waste Yes Material balance (SR p. 21) 8 6.5 Economic Performance Indicators EN23* Significant spills Yes No significant spills Economic Performance during the reporting 8 6.5 period. EC1* Direct economic value generated and Partly Outokumpu and society (SR p. 48), Public sector, distributed sponsoring and NGOs (SR p. 56) 6,8 EN24 Transported, imported, exported, or treated Partly Materials efficiency (SR p. 20) hazardous waste 8 6.5 EC2* Risks and opportunities due to climate Yes Climate change risks (SR p. 26–28) change 7 6.8 EN25 Water bodies and habitats affected by Partly Water (SR p. 32) discharges of water 8 6.5 EC3* Coverage of defined benefit plan Partly 25. Employee benefit obligations (AR p. 80–81) obligations 6.4 66 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Outokumpu and Society Outokumpu and Society Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 67 Annual report/Sustainability report Global ISO Annual report/Sustainability report Global ISO GRI profile disclosures INCL. section 2014 Compact 26 000 Comment GRI profile disclosures INCL. section 2014 Compact 26 000 Comment Products and Services HR7* Measures taken to eliminate forced labour Yes Diversity and equal rights (SR p. 40) No major risks were in risk areas identified during the EN26* Mitigating environmental impacts of Yes Environmental goals & results (SR p. 14–15), audits of units or products and services Materials efficiency (SR p. 19–20) 7, 8, 9 6.5 1, 2, 4 6.4 systems. EN27* Reclaimable products and reuse No 8, 9 6.5 HR8 Human rights related training for security No Compliance personnel 1, 2 EN28* Significant fines and sanctions for nonYes Our impact on the environment (SR p. 18) HR9 Incidents involving rights of indigenous No compliance with environmental regulations 8 6.5 people and actions taken 1, 2 Transport EN29 Environmental impacts of transportation Yes Sustainable supply chain (SR p. 36) 8 6.5 Society Overall Community EN30 Total environmental protection Yes Environmental investments and expenditures SO1* Managing impacts of operations on Partly Local communities (SR p. 54–55) expenditures and investments (SR p. 36–37) 7, 8, 9 6.5 communities also issues of Mining and Metals supplement notes 6.8 Corruption Social Performance Indicators SO2* Business units analyzed for corruption risks Partly Internal Audit (AR p. 109) 10 6.6, 6.2 Labor Practices and Decent Work SO3* Anti-corruption training No 10 Employment SO4* Actions taken in response to incidents of No LA1* Total workforce by employment type, Yes Our people (SR p. 40–41) employment contract and region 6.4 corruption 10 LA2* Total number and rate of employee turnover Partly Our people (SR p. 40) 6 6.4 Public Policy SO5* Public policy positions and participation in Yes Associations and federations (SR p. 56–57) LA3 Employee benefits No public policy development and lobbying 10 6.6, 6.8 Labor/Management Relations SO6 Contributions to political parties and Yes Public sector, sponsoring and NGOs (SR p. 58) LA4* Coverage of collective bargaining Yes Diversity and equal rights (SR p. 45) related institutions 10 6.8 agreements SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive Yes Review by the board of directors (AR p. 26) LA5* Minimum notice period regarding No behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly 10 6.8 operational changes 1, 3 6.3, 6.4 Compliance Occupational Health and Safety 3 6.4 SO8* Fines and sanctions for non-compliance No LA6 Representation in joint health and safety Partly Local communities (SR p. 55) with laws and regulations 6.6 committees LA7* Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Yes Safe working environment (SR p. 46–47) Product Responsibility days, fatalities and absenteeism 1 6.4 Customer Health and Safety LA8* Education and prevention programmes Partly Local communities (SR p. 55–56) regarding serious diseases 1 6.4 PR1* Assessment of health and safety impacts No of products 1 6.7 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal No agreements with trade unions 1 6.4 PR2 Non-compliance with regulations No concerning health and safety impacts of Training and Education 1 products 1 LA10* Average training hours per year No 6.4 Product and Service Labeling LA11 Programmes for skills management and Yes Training and development (SR p. 44–45) PR3* Product information required by procedures Partly Product Perspective (SR p. 8) 8 6.7 lifelong learning 6.4 PR4 Non-compliance with regulations No LA12 Employees receiving regular performance No Performance management (SR p. 43) concerning product information and and career development reviews 6.4 labelling 8 6.7 Diversity and Equal Opportunity PR5 Customer satisfaction Yes Customers (SR p. 51) 6.7 LA13* Composition of governance bodies and Yes Personnel in numbers (SR p. 40–41), Marketing Communications breakdown of employees Diversity and equal rights (SR p. 45) 1, 6 6.4 PR6* Adherence to marketing communications No LA14* Ratio of basic salary of men to women by No laws, standards and voluntary codes employee category 1, 6 PR7 Non-compliance with marketing No communications regulations and voluntary codes Human Rights Customer Privacy HR1* Investment agreements with human rights No clauses or that have undergone human PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer No rights screening 1–2, 4–6 privacy 1 HR2* Suppliers and contractors that have Partly Sustainable supply chain (SR p. 35) Compliance undergone human rights screening 1–2, 4–6 6.6 PR9* Fines for non-compliance concerning the No HR3 Human rights related training for No provision and use of products and services employees 4, 5 Mining and Metals supplement HR4* Incidents of discrimination and actions Yes Internal Audit (AR p. 109) taken 1, 2, 6 6.4 MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding Partly Diversity and equal rights (SR p. 45) HR5* Supporting right to freedom of association Yes Diversity and equal rights (SR p. 45) No major risks were one week's duration, by country. 6.3 and collective bargaining in risk areas identified during the audits of units or MM11 Programs and progress relating to Yes A world that lasts forever (SR p. 4–5), Product 1, 2, 3 6.4 systems. materials stewardship Perspective (SR p. 8), Local communities (SR p. 54–55 6.7 HR6* Measures taken to eliminate child labour Yes Diversity and equal rights (SR p. 40) No major risks were in risk areas identified during the audits of units or * GRI Core indicator 1, 2, 5 6.4 systems. 68 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Outokumpu and Society Outokumpu and Society Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 69 Near miss incidents and hazards To determine creditors’ share of value added, interest costs on debt booked during the financial year are presented. Capitalized interest Near miss incidents and hazards refer to events that could have is deducted from this figure. led to an accident but no injury occurred. The number of near miss incidents occurring in all Group companies is collected via Reporting principles The distribution of value added to shareholders is the total dividend which Outokumpu’s Board of Directors proposes for distribution to shareholders from the parent company’s distributable funds. Outokumpu’s financial consolidation system. Related information is provided by the Group’s safety reporting system. Sick leave hours Environmental responsibility Sick leave hours reported are total sick leave days during a reporting In Outokumpu’s reporting, the goal is to support open dialogue Comparability of statistics Financial information related to environmental investments is period. Reporting units provide data on absence due to illness, injury between the Group and its stakeholders. Our aim is to address the collected in accordance with Group-wide unified guidance following and occupational diseases on a monthly basis in connection with needs of current and future personnel, shareholders, customers, and Corrections made to figures reported in previous years are indicated principles outlined by the GRI and the World Steel Association. financial reporting. With effect from January 1, 2010, sick leave hours other parties who have an interest in Outokumpu and its business in conjunction with the corrected figures. Since 2007, Outokumpu’s have been reported per million hours worked, not as a percentage operations. annual Sustainability reports have included an assurance report Environmental data concerning Outokumpu operations is aggregated figure. submitted by independent assurance providers. This independent using the Group’s Energy and Environment Reporting System, into We use reporting as an opportunity to illustrate what Outokumpu has assurance report is available on p. 70. Figures in the financial which Group guidance has been integrated. Health and safety figures from 2014 include Outokumpu Group done to ensure that the Group’s business operations are sustainable, statements under the section Financials in the Annual report 2014 continuing operations. Safety is a priority at Outokumpu Group and Environmental data is including and reporting covers Outokumpu therefore health and safety figures reflect the scope of Outokumpu and to indicate actions we expect to take in the future to enhance have been audited. stainless steel, ferrochrome and mining operations of the continuing operations as they were in 2014. Some of the 2013 OHS comparison individual well-being and the natural environment. Outokumpu has operations of the combined Group. The environmental data from figures have minor adjustments due to updated working hour figures. a long history of responsible business practices and we are working operating year 2012 and before has been adjusted to include to make our operations more sustainable. As well as reporting on matters we consider important and relevant to our business Measurement techniques combined operations, unless otherwise stated. The baseline data Personnel figures from 2007–2009, used as basis for long-term targets, has also been operations, we also cover current global themes, which affect the restated to include the combined data. The target set in Outokumpu Group’s operations and our stakeholders. Economic responsibility energy and low-carbon program, the carbon profile, calculated per From 2012, the Group has been reporting actual headcounts. This Most figures relating to economic responsibility presented in this tonne of stainless steel produced. The figure for monitoring progress has also been applied in calculating some of the personnel figures. If you have questions regarding the content of this report, please contact report are based on consolidated financial statements issued is a three-year moving average that is compared to baseline figures Outokumpu communications (corporate.comms@outokumpu.com). by the Outokumpu Group and collected through Outokumpu’s TOTAL PERSONNEL COSTS from the period 2007–2009. Since the production level changes due internal consolidation system. Financial data has been prepared in to cyclical nature of our industry, has Outokumpu decided to follow This figure includes wages, salaries, bonuses, social costs or other accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). long term target against three year average as baseline, versus one personnel expenses, as well as fringe benefits paid and/or accrued Scope of the report Outokumpu’s accounting principles for the Group’s consolidated accounts are available in Note 2 to the consolidated financial historical year. And similarly also follow the progress as a moving three during the reporting period. year average. Major acquisition of the Inoxum took place on December 28, 2012. statements. TRAINING COSTS Outokumpu as a combined entity started its operation in December The transportation emissions calculation method has been changed Training costs include external training-related expenses such 29, 2012. On November 30, 2013, Outokumpu announced the The economic responsibility measures presented in the report for 2014 and historical data and share of transport modes for 2013 has as participation fees. Wages, salaries, and daily allowances for divestment of Terni assets, VDM business and certain service centers 2014 are comparable to those of 2013 but not to those of 2012 been restated, however 2012 data or the shares of transport modes participants in training activities are not included, but the salaries of which have been classified as discontinued operations in the financial due to Outokumpu’s acquisition of Inoxum, the stainless steel has not been restated and is therefore not comparable. internal trainers are included. statements for 2013. Outokumpu has completed the divestment business of ThyssenKrupp in December 2012. As all measures are Outokumpu made extra effort in order to form fully comparable TRAINING DAYS PER EMPLOYEE of the Terni remedy assets, certain service centers and the VDMbased on Group’s consolidated financial information, only 2013 and environmental and energy figures. The aim was to report as openly, business at the end of February 2014. Sustainability reporting for 2014 include the effect of Inoxum, whereas 2012 is presented as The number of days spent by an employee in training when each comparable and complete manner as possible follow GRI principle 2014 is based on the continuing operations of Outokumpu, these Outokumpu stand-alone. training day is counted as lasting eight hours. (2013 and 2014: to publish reporting from the two previous years, in addition to the before mentioned divested assets are not included into 2014 figures. employee figures = FTE) reporting year. All financial figures presented have been rounded, and consequently Outokumpu’s Sustainability report is published annually, and the the sum of individual figures may deviate from the presented BONUSES reporting period is the same as the Group’s financial reporting period aggregate figure. Key figures have been calculated using exact A bonus is an additional payment for good performance. These (one calendar year). This report for 2014 was published on March 4, figures. Social responsibility figures are reported without social costs or fringe benefits. 2015 together with the 2014 Outokumpu Annual report. The previous report for 2013 was published on March 6, 2014. Using the GRI guidelines as a basis, economic responsibility figures Health and safety figures PERSONNEL TURNOVER have been calculated as follows: ((newly hired + leavers)/2)/year end headcount Lost time injuries (LTI) per million hours worked For 2014, the Group’s Sustainability report has been published as a (the World Steel Association principle) The divider has since 2011 been changed from twice the average stand-alone report. Generation of value added headcount to twice the year-end headcount. Compared to 2012, A lost time injury is an injury or accident that has taken place during Sales invoiced to customers during the financial year are used when the formula has been specified in order to unify it with the formula working hours at the workplace and caused at least one sick leave Since 2004, Outokumpu’s reporting has been based on guidelines calculating the generation of value added. Discounts or indirect taxes day (excluding the day of the injury or accident). Sick leave of one recommended by KILA (Kirjanpitolautakunta). provided in the widely-recognized and applied Global Reporting are deducted from sales figures. day means that an Outokumpu employee or a person employed Initiative (GRI) G3 guidelines from 2007, but the reporting format Days lost due to strikes by a third party has not been able to return to work on their next now used by Outokumpu does not follow the tripartite division into The cost of goods and services purchased by Outokumpu during the scheduled working day. Returning to work with activity restrictions The number of days lost due to strikes is calculated by multiplying economic, social, and environmental responsibility suggested by GRI. financial year is deducted from sales when calculating the generation does not constitute lost-time injury status, regardless of how severe the number of Outokumpu employees who have been on strike by the of value added by the Group. or minimal the associated restrictions. number of scheduled working days lost. The day on which a strike A comparison of Outokumpu’s reporting against the GRI G3 starts is included. Guidelines and the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact together Distribution of value added EU average LTI All personnel figures of 2013 and 2014 include Outokumpu with ISO 26 000 core issues can be found on the GRI and UN Global Value added which is distributed to employees consists of wages From statistics supplied by the World Steel Association. Member personnel in the continuing operations and do not therefore include Compact section. and salaries paid to Outokumpu employees during the financial companies follow the World Steel Association definition of lost time Terni/other remedy assets or VDM business that Outokumpu year. Pension payments and related accruals are included in this injury (LTI) in related reporting. announced to divest in November 2013 – except for the personnel figure. The distribution of value added to the public sector includes by countries of 2013, which is counted including the discontinued taxes, social charges, and other payments which resemble taxes. No operations. All figures from 2013 and 2014 include both former deferred taxes are included in this figure. Outokumpu and Inoxum employees, unless otherwise stated. Headcount from 2012 has been restated to include Inoxum figures. 70 Outokumpu Sustainability report 2014 Outokumpu and Society Independent Assurance Report To the Management of Outokumpu Oyj In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance We have been engaged by the Management of Outokumpu Oyj engagement, and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a (hereinafter also the Company) to perform a limited assurance reasonable assurance engagement. An assurance engagement engagement on the quantitative information on economic, social and involves performing procedures to obtain evidence about the environmental responsibility for the reporting period 1 January to 31 amounts and other disclosures in the Sustainability Reporting. December 2014, disclosed in Outokumpu Oyj’s Sustainability Report The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement, 2014 (hereinafter Sustainability Reporting). including an assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Sustainability Reporting. Our work consisted of, amongst others, the following procedures: Management’s Responsibility • Interviewing senior management of the Company. The Management of Outokumpu Oyj is responsible for preparing the • Visiting one site in Finland. Sustainability Reporting in accordance with the Reporting criteria • Conducting two video interviews with sites in Sweden and the as set out in the Company’s reporting instructions and the G3 United States. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. • Interviewing employees responsible for collecting and reporting the information presented in the Sustainability Reporting at the Group level and at the site level where our site visit and video Practitioner’s Responsibility interviews were conducted. • Assessing how Group employees apply the Company’s reporting Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability instructions and procedures. Reporting based on our work performed. Our assurance report has • Testing the accuracy and completeness of the information from been prepared in accordance with the terms of our engagement. We original documents and systems on a sample basis. do not accept, or assume responsibility to anyone else, except to • Testing the consolidation of information and performing Outokumpu Oyj for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions recalculations on a sample basis. that we have reached. We conducted our work in accordance with the International Conclusion Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 “Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Based on our work described in this report, nothing has come Information”. This Standard requires that we comply with ethical to our attention that causes us to believe that Outokumpu Oyj’s requirements and plan and perform the assurance engagement to Sustainability Reporting has not been prepared, in all material obtain limited assurance whether any matters come to our attention respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria. When reading that cause us to believe that the Sustainability Reporting has not our assurance report, the inherent limitations to the accuracy and been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the completeness of sustainability information should be taken into Reporting criteria. consideration. Helsinki, 3 March 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Sirpa Juutinen Maj-Lis Steiner Partner Director, Sustainability & Climate Change Authorised Public Accountant Assurance Services Outokumpu Oyj Corporate Management Riihitontuntie 7 B, P.O. Box 140 FI-02201 Espoo, Finland Tel. +358 9 4211 Fax +358 9 421 3888 www.outokumpu.com www.outokumpu.com
