COP REPORT 2014 CSR at Axcel and its companies Axcel and its portfolio companies have signed up to the UN Global Compact and have also adopted the UN’s Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). Axcel was the first private equity firm in Denmark to have all portfothe Global Compact. Axcel maintains an ongoing dialogue with its lio companies sign up to the Global Compact, which enlists busiportfolio companies on their CSR work. nesses and organisations in tackling key social and environmental challenges stemming from economic growth, technological develNew companies added to the portfolio have a year to adapt their opment and the increasingly international division of labour. procedures and sign up to the Global Compact. Axcel has gradually developed CSR policies based on its view of corporate governance, Axcel’s support for the Global Compact ties in well with investors’ which includes dialogue with stakeholders and transparent commugrowing calls for transparency, accessibility nications and reporting. Axcel regularly upand sustainability at privately held companies, dates its policies in the corporate governance just as it has long been the norm for large pubarea, and CSR is now an explicit element that licly held companies to work on these issues. the boards of portfolio companies must acAxcel considers very caretively address. Axcel joined the Global Compact back in 2010, fully the acquisition of with its portfolio companies following suit Axcel aims to invest in companies which from 2011. This means that Axcel considers companies that could put behave responsibly, as this will ensure the very carefully the acquisition of companies best possible risk profile in relation to our comthat could put it in a social, ethical or environit in a social, ethical or panies. However, we also wish to promote mental dilemma. We therefore perform a social environmental dilemma. socioeconomic development in general and due diligence ahead of new investments. therefore encourage portfolio companies to Axcel also ensures that its companies comply contribute to their local communities and their with the requirements of the Global Compact, development where this makes commercial partly through ongoing dialogue and partly sense. through Axcel’s CSR network, consisting of the CSR officers at its portfolio companies. Axcel expects its companies to: • comply with relevant laws, rules and internationally recognised Furthermore, Axcel has adopted the UN’s Principles of Responsible principles Investment (PRI), a set of guidelines on environmental, social and • consider risks relating to CSR issues and address them proactively governance (ESG) issues for professional investors. This again • be in a position to meet the requirements and expectations of cusmeans that Axcel performs a social due diligence before making an tomers and business partners concerning supply chain manageinvestment. In addition, we have formulated a Responsible Investment and codes of conduct ment Policy, which is available on request. ESG issues are also an in• consider future business opportunities and positioning in relation tegral part of Axcel’s active ownership work, with each portfolio to CSR company publishing an annual Communication on Progress (COP) for • comply with the DVCA’s guidelines on openness and transparency Axcel is keen for its companies to recognise that CSR work can create Global compact status of Axcel-owned companies value. In this context, the implementation of a CSR programme must as at 19 March 2015 be based on an individual assessment of critical focus areas, and these must then be placed in relation to the resources available to Joined Global Compact First COP the company. Ball Group x 2012 Axcel’s CSR network held one meeting in 2014, where the theme BB Electronics x 2012 was anti-corruption. Delete x Driconeq x 2013 Axcel's companies and the Global Compact EG x Axcel closely monitors portfolio companies' work and makes suggesEXHAUSTO x tions for improvements. There are also regular network meetings where companies have an opportunity to exchange experience. All Mita-Teknik x 2015 portfolio companies have joined the Global Compact, and many have Netel x published a first COP. Nordic Waterproofing x 2013 Silkeborg Data x TCM Group x 2012 Axcel’s approach to CSR Investment Axcel has signed up to both the PRI and the Global Compact decision at fund level. At company level, all portfolio companies have signed up to the Global Compact, which ensures real improvements in ESG performance and risk management. Axcel’s active ownership Reporting to investors and public Due diligence COP Monitoring Global of companies Compact 11 companies
