Global Compact 2014 Communication on Progress 1 CONTENTS Statement of support 3 Altavia group 4 Our 10 values 5 Our CSR policy 7 Learn more about our commitments, actions, the progress made over 2013 and 2014, and our projects for 2015 in the following chapters: Human rights 10 Working conditions 16 Environment 22 fight against corruption 27 2 Statement of Support i am delighted to renew Altavia’s commitment to the 10 principles of the Global Compact on human rights, working conditions, the environment and the fight against corruption. Our support for the Global Compact, going back to 2008, is a sign of our commitment to ever-more responsible communication. Based on a continuous improvement approach, we constantly endeavour to take our “Active” company status forward. This Communication on Progress report covers our action for the years 2013 and 2014. We have undertaken to share this Communication on Progress report with our staff, our client base and our entire business ecosystem. Raphaël Palti Founder, Chairman and CEO 3 altavia group a ltavia was formed in Paris in 1983 by Raphaël Palti, its current Chairman and CEO, and over the last 32 years, has become the leading independent international group specialising in commercial communication for the retail sector. In 2014, Altavia recorded a turnover of €621 million. Our network extends across 26 countries worldwide, with premises in 34 locations and 1,300 employees developing synergies within this mesh. This glocal, domestic and international presence gives us a unique capability to support retailers in a way that is closer to their requirements and their sales territories. Altavia is organised as a federation of businesses from the outset and have a strong entrepreneurial culture in its DNA. As a service business, we pay special attention to preserving and maintaining the aspects that make us distinctive and unique. We know that it is in our best interests to preserve our excellence and our style, without which our success would not be sustainable. 4 our10 values t o share these values with our 1,300 employees across Europe and Asia, we have set them out clearly and simply in two documents: “The 10 Founding Values of Altavia” and our charter “The Art and Style of Altavia”, which express both our uniqueness and our value system. PROGRESS ENERGY Maintain a pioneering spirit. Accept change. Use all our positive energy to improve Encourage innovation. Inspire the desire our service to our clients. Encourage to exceed our own limitations. Challenge an energetic approach. Refuse to settle preconceived notions and ready-made solutions. for the status quo. Fight lethargy. 5 Our 10 Values ENTHUSIASM HUMANITY Impart our enthusiasm to light the way Respect human values. Put other people in our working relationships. Give our hearts at the heart of our actions. Preserve and soul to our work. Act with reason and passion. the future of Humankind by encouraging Maintain a sense of curiosity. sustainable development in our actions. SHARING INTEGRITY Share our know-how, our culture, our best Base our behaviour practices, our experience with each on a strict sense of integrity. other, with our clients and with our partners. Share the fruit of our efforts. TRANSPARENCY PROXIMITY Ensure transparency in our actions Be close to our clients, our people, (to make them clear and understandable). our partners and our markets. Refuse to leave things unsaid. Inform and explain. Practise active listening. Speak the truth, always and everywhere. SIMPLICITY FLUIDITY Act to make our clients’ work easier. Make good use of technologies that can help Always aim for simplicity in our methods processes flow more smoothly. Make working and our structures. Avoid overcomplicated relationships more interactive. Create environments relationships with others. that encourage dialogue and communication. 6 our CSR policy E n 2013, we decided to change the name of our Sustainable Development policy to CSR policy (Corporate Social Responsibility). We thus reaffirmed our commitment to a positive economy approach, where environmental, economic, social and community aspects are all given equal importance. “At Altavia, we are full of positive energy. Environmental, economic and social responsibility is at the heart of our DNA and embodied by every one of our people. This commitment is not a new one it has always driven us, since the very first days of the group’s history. By contributing to the development of a positive economy, we firmly believe that we are creating relationships of trust between each other and with our clients.” Raphaël Palti, Founder, Chairman and CEO Extract from Altavia’s CSR Declaration 7 our CSR policy Strong commitments for progress We are convinced that we can only make progress with our CSR actions if we measure and rate them regularly. This is why, in 2013, we formed or strengthened partnerships with various assessment bodies, alongside our commitment to the Global Compact. In 2014, CSR was included as the sixth component of our strategic plan up to 2020, known as MOVE2020*. From now on, all the quarterly operational business reviews from our business units will include a section on CSR. OUR PROGRESS IN 2013 & 2014 Ecovadis Several of Altavia’s French and European business units were assessed by Ecovadis for the first time in 2013. Ecovadis is the leading collaborative platform giving companies the chance to assess the environmental and social performance of their suppliers across the world. The scores obtained by Altavia testify to its leadership in the area of responsible commitment to clients. Achieving “Silver” and “Gold” ratings, Altavia’s business units sit proudly in the Top 15% and Top 10% in their Advertising and Market Research categories. The Génération Responsable Club 2013 and 2014 were also busy years for the Responsible Communication workshop, open to members of Génération Responsable, a club that brings together Sustainable Development Directors from the biggest retail networks in France. *MOVE: Make Our Vision Effective 8 our CSR policy CSR self-assessment matrix for each business unit In addition to these partnerships, all of the group’s business units started using a CSR self-assessment matrix. Promoting our commitments at CSR round tables Launch of the Altavia YouTube channel and creation of an Altavia CSR section in 2014. Projects for 2015  ur goal is for all Altavia business units assessed O by Ecovadis to obtain the “Gold” standard. 2016  ltavia is working to obtain “Advanced” status A for the Global Compact. 9 human rights principles Companies should: support and respect the protection 1 of internationally proclaimed human rights make sure they are not complicit 2 in human rights abuses 10 Human Rights Our commitments for Human Rights The Art and Style of Altavia Anti-harassment Everyone is entitled to respect for their human dignity and a peaceful working environment. No form of moral or sexual harassment will be accepted. People should treat one another as they would hope to be treated themselves, and put an end to any behaviour they are told is unacceptable. Recruitment Our recruitment practices are open and honest. Their sole purpose is to assess the people we meet to find out whether they share Altavia’s values, are suitable for the job on offer and demonstrate potential for development. Under no circumstances do we use recruitment interviews to obtain information that is not strictly necessary to this purpose. Conflicts of interest Conflicts between personal interests and those of Altavia should always remain an exception and, on joining Altavia, employees will always make sure that there is no conflict of interest involving themselves or their family. However, if during their career at Altavia, any form of conflict of interest arises, the rule is to inform their manager or head of business unit to analyse the situation and work together to find the best solution. 11 Human Rights Our Policy of Social Commitment While we are a fully-integrated international group, Altavia actually acts as a federation of companies. All our business units are firmly involved in and committed to their local community. Altavia’s Social Commitment is inspired by the 10 values embedded in the group’s genes, and is based on a voluntary approach that motivates all the group’s staff at all levels, in all countries and in every one of our business units. Our sponsorship activities are aimed at benefiting local communities in those areas where we have a presence. Our policy of Social Commitment focuses on three main areas: Solidarity We support responsible projects that establish links between people, combating poverty and exclusion. Entrepreneurship We commit by helping, advising and facilitating business projects that create local dynamics and jobs. Access to Education and Culture We encourage and support projects that aim to share and spread education and culture to a wide range of populations. Altavia is currently engaged in a number of projects benefiting communities in the areas in which we have presence. Through our staff’s direct involvement, we actively share our expertise and our energy. 12 Human Rights Here are four specific examples: Partner to Cité de la Réussite Cité de la Réussite is a forum for cultural, economic, scientific and political debate, partnered by Altavia for more than 10 years. Tackling poverty with Positive Planet Positive Planet is an international NGO that tackles poverty by developing micro-credit worldwide. Altavia supports its action by donating funds and expertise throughout the year. Agence du Don en Nature Altavia supports the Agence du Don en Nature (an agency encouraging donations in kind), which collects new unsold products from manufacturers and redistributes them to charities. Backing entrepreneurship via Réseau Entreprendre Altavia is a member of the “Entreprendre” network in Seine-Saint-Denis and the Western region of France; this network helps to develop the local economic infrastructure. 1 2 3 4 5 The 2014 Cité de la Réussite event made “Boldness” its central theme and brought together more than 150 speakers, including Raphaël Palti, Altavia’s founder, alongside Jean Beunardeau, Jean-Pierre Clamadieu, Marwan Lahoud and Denis Mercier. 1 2 The annual International Microentrepreneurship Awards evening held by Positive Planet at Palais Brongniart in 2014 and attended by Emmanuel Macron, Ministry of the Economy, Industry and Digital Sector. 3 4 After six years of strong growth, the Agency obtained the “la France s’engage” label, an initiative started by the French President, in 2014. A long-standing partner of the Agency since it was formed; in recent months, Altavia has extended its support to digital communication. 5 13 Human Rights Our actions, PROGRESS IN 2013 & 2014 Changes to the group’s founding texts Working groups have been set up to update our founding texts as and when required: The Art and Style Charter This charter is the very basis of our ethical values: it has been reviewed and widely distributed. Sustainable Development Charter This charter has been given a more quantitative aspect. 65% of print suppliers had signed the charter by September 2013. There was a 10% increase by the end of 2014. Henceforth, the Sustainable Development charter is systematically appended to printers’ specifications. Universal Declaration of Human Rights All of our business units undertake to comply with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Supplier commitment charters Together with our clients, we sign supplier commitment charters to reaffirm our undertaking for human rights. Commitment from business units Launch of the socially-responsible purchasing policy All of the group’s business units apply the socially-responsible purchasing policy with regard to disability-friendly companies and sheltered-employment organisations (EA or Entreprises Adaptées, and ESAT Etablissements et Services d’Aide par le Travail in French), and social integration businesses (EI or Entreprises d’Insertion). All staff have received training in these values and the principles of socially-responsible purchasing. Every year, during Sustainable Development week, all staff are urged to go out and visit these suppliers. 14 Human Rights Partnering charities, on a daily basis Since 2013, Altavia Paris has enjoyed a partnership with Secours Populaire in Saint-Ouen. Every year, a toy collection is organised before Christmas, to the benefit of this charity. Altavia Italia has been a partner of “Fare per Bene”, a charity that tackles violence against women, for the past two years. Our British business unit, Altavia HTT, organises an annual hike for its staff and clients, with the money raised going to various charities. Disability Policy Since 2014, our French business units have been involved in various training, information and communication initiatives aimed at clients, as part of the national Disabled Employment Week each November. Digital technology also helps with our action in favour of human rights. With the takeover of Agence Cosmic in 2013, Altavia strengthened its know-how in the field of Web accessibility. Projects for 2015 Socially-responsible procurement As a minimum, double turnover earned via socially-responsible suppliers. Communication on human rights Broader dissemination of our commitments to the Global Compact and Ecovadis in this respect, at group and individual business unit level. R  enewal of our FSC® et PEFC™ certification for another 5 years This renewal confirms our commitment to promoting sustainable development of the world’s forests and helping to respect the rights of workers, communities and indigenous populations. 15 Working conditions principLes Companies should: uphold the freedom of association and the effective 3 recognition of the right to collective bargaining eliminate all forms of forced 4 or obligatory labour contribute to the effective abolition 5 of child labour eliminate discrimination in terms 6 of employment and profession 16 Wo r k i n g C o n d i t i o n s “At Altavia we have always considered that the group’s strength and development draws on two fundamental elements: its Human Capital and its Client Asset. The excellence and diversity of our expertise would count for nothing without the unique quality of our relationships. I am convinced that Altavia’s true wealth lies in its people and I see that our difference stems from the art and the style with which we do our job. Our staff’s professionalism and expertise are certainly major assets but, beyond that, it is the way we work together that really sets us apart. That is what makes our clients say: “Yes, I want to work with Altavia and no one else”. We therefore have to come up with new ways of motivating our Human Capital, day after day, and keep this company culture alive to help our staff grow professionally.” Raphaël Palti, Founder, Chairman and CEO Extract from Altavia’s Human Capital Policy Our commitments: The Art and Style of Altavia Staff member and Ambassador We all need to bear in mind that, in all our professional relationships, we represent Altavia: we are ambassadors. As such, we comply with the values and rules set out in this document. Listening and dialogue Listening and dialogue means regular interviews between managers and their staff. In some countries, staff are represented by specific bodies required by law. Within these bodies, all debate requires mutual attentiveness and trust. Information We reply to our staff’s questions and provide them with the information they need to understand the meaning behind our actions and to carry out their duties. Likewise, any member of staff who has information that could be useful to their team, business unit or to Altavia, will pass it on to their manager and/or business unit managing director. 17 Wo r k i n g C o n d i t i o n s Training and development for staff It is our duty to help our staff grow professionally and to provide them with the training they need to take their careers forward. Individual fulfilment and the building of a personal project within Altavia are two ways of helping make sure our staff remain loyal to the company. Safety at work We comply with health and safety standards to ensure a safe and healthy working environment. It is down to individuals to make sure that their behaviour does not put others in danger and to inform their manager or business unit managing director of any hazard they come across. Everyone will respect their working environment and prevent deterioration. The quality of storage and cleanliness in workspaces is the responsibility of each staff member and contributes to everyone’s well-being. The right to privacy Everyone is entitled to their private life. By private life, we mean anything that is not connected with Altavia’s professional activity and property. When professional relationships become friendships and no longer strictly related to business, we retain a confidentiality requirement for all matters concerning Altavia and the company’s joint interests. Our private life must not affect our working life: activities outside the company and personal commitments may only be included within Altavia after agreement with the company and in compliance with its values and interests. Personal data on staff are confidential and may not be passed on to anyone else without agreement from the person concerned or in the event of a legal requirement. Only data required for the smooth running of the business is shared with qualified persons at Altavia. Non-discrimination and respect for diversity We see diversity as an asset, which we respect and encourage. Likewise, equality is a rule that applies to all. We do not make any discrimination based on: sex, family situation, sexual preferences, age, disability, political, philosophical or religious opinions or commitments, trade union activity, racial, social, cultural or national origine. These factors do not interfere in any way with recruitment, training or staff development choices. 18 Wo r k i n g C o n d i t i o n s Our actions, PROGRESS IN 2013 & 2014 The Human Capital policy A unique document This summarises the founding Human Capital principles applied at Altavia, the role and responsibilities of the manager and managing director, and our rights and duties. Seminars The life of the company and each business unit is marked by a number of seminars and events which are key opportunities for dialogue and team-building for managers, business units as a whole and with clients. The Altavia spirit reigns at these events. Skills development The “Under-30s” programme In 2013, Altavia launched a programme of ‘days for dialogue’ with younger staff members (anyone aged under 30), who account for a significant portion of our workforce in all business units. First developed in France, this programme puts special focus on the place of young people in the company, the conduct we like to promote and the responsibilities that we can take. The goal is to stimulate regular, friendly interaction as a source of creativity and to build on the ideas from these energetic, enthusiastic Altavia employees, and encourage them to go even further! Collaborative blogs, new forms of mobility, special business line conferences, and skills chatrooms are just a few of the ideas that have come up, but there were many more besides! “Apéros Partageons” Altavia Paris launched a series of Apéros Partageons or “Drinks & Dialogue” in 2013. Once a month, all staff come together for a drink and skill-sharing session. The goal is to promote success stories, best practices, put the spotlight on certain staff members, and share skills and know-how to move forward together. These Apéros Partageons sessions enjoyed growing success in 2014. Altavia Nantes has since been inspired by the model and set up its own Apéri-pub. 19 Wo r k i n g C o n d i t i o n s Quality of life at work The Résidence en résonance programme In 2013, Altavia launched an Art Coaching programme as an original way of improving service to its clients. Teams from Altavia and client companies started creating together as a way of getting to know one each other and working better together on a day-to-day basis. At Altavia Saint-Etienne, an artist residency gave staff the chance to learn more about and take part in the creative process of painter Fred Kleinberg. He painted a two-metre square work in the premises, on the subject of one of Altavia’s 10 founding values, namely Fluidity. The artist also held lectures and led staff and clients to explore the area’s museums. The project arose from the deep-rooted belief at Altavia that the human factor and creativity lie at the heart of any value creation. Ultimately, it was an innovative experiment which involved staff in a project entailing cultural commitment, giving them an opportunity to experience a unique and very human aspect to Altavia’s fundamental values. Expertise Days Altavia Nantes pursued its programme of Expertise Days over 2013 and 2014. On these days, each centre of expertise shares “A day in the life of...” with the rest of the staff. Collaborative meals (a healthy, inexpensive meal, prepared together) Altavia’s business units have all adapted the principles of the collaborative meal in their own way: Tuesday market in Paris, Friday market in Saint-Etienne, or Les Toqués cookery workshops in Lille. In-house communication Altavia business units send interactive company newsletters to their staff, featuring business success stories and news about our Human Capital. Blood donation Staff at Altavia Lille launched a quarterly blood donation operation in 2013, which continued in 2014. Gym sessions The Chinese business units introduced a gym session scheme in 2013. 20 Wo r k i n g C o n d i t i o n s Promoting women to key positions in the company Board of directors In 2013 and 2014, 20% of the seats on the Board of Administrators were held by women. Group Executive Committee In 2013 and 2014, 30% of the seats on the Group Executive Committee were held by women. Business Unit Managing Directors In 2013 and 2014, more than a quarter of our business units were run by women. Projects for 2015 The “Under-30s” programme Take this further with collaborative blogs, new forms of mobility, special business line conferences, a skills chatroom, and so on. Training For France, develop a new far-reaching training programme. Induction of new staff members Review the induction programme and related documentation. Role of women in key positions Continue to promote women to key positions and set up a quantitative indicator for this. Diversity Raise awareness and promote diversity at Altavia through projects backed by group staff as part of the partnership with the “Stand as One” project. www.c1sh.fr 21 Environment principles Companies should: apply the precautionary approach in connection 7 with issues concerning the environment undertake initiatives that promote greater 8 responsibility in terms of the environment encourage the development and diffusion 9 of technologies which respect the environment 22 environment Our commitments: The Art and Style of Altavia Environmental policy As a service company, Altavia’s environmental footprint is relatively low compared to other sectors, but as a socially-responsible business, we do our utmost to reduce our direct and indirect impacts. We are well aware that, as a stakeholder in the commercial communication sector, it is our duty to strive towards best practices, especially when it comes to the environmental impacts of the industrial resources that we may be required to use. Our actions, PROGRESS IN 2013 & 2014 Certifications and assessments FSC® and PEFC™ certifications Altavia was the first communications business to gain the dual FSC® & PEFC™ certification for all its business units in Europe. This certification forms the basis for our responsible communication. 10-31-1247 All staff members are trained in chain-of-custody procedures, regardless of their position in the company. Altavia also encourages its suppliers to obtain certification. At the end of 2014, 93% of the paper purchased by Altavia was FSC® or PEFC™ certified, or recycled. 23 environment Certifications and assessments Ecovadis As part of our various Ecovadis assessments, each business unit shares the following environmental indicators: water, gas and electricity consumption and waste management. Sedex Altavia is audited by Sedex every year. This organisation “encourages an ethical responsible supply chain”. Carbon Disclosure Project Altavia Paris was audited by the CDP for the first time in 2014 and attained a score of 57 (compared to an average of 53 for all companies audited). Eco-bodies Ecofolio and Valdelia Altavia France was one of the earliest partners of these two eco-bodies, working respectively in the fields of paper and Point-of-Sale (POS) furniture and advertising, for the introduction of a reporting system and new rating scales. The data related to the new Ecofolio differentiated rating and Valdelia’s expectations have been included in our management system. 24 environment Supplier relationships Monitoring suppliers with ISO 14001, Imprim’vert, FSC® and PEFC™ certifications Since 2013, Altavia has increased the number of certified suppliers in its list and works proactively with its suppliers, encouraging them to obtain certification and join the company’s panel. Developing the responsible communication offering Ecopublishing® “Altavia’s responsible trademark” has changed: its set of standards has been enhanced to include a transport component. Ecopublishing® certified output is now mainly transported by lorries reaching the Euro 4 standard at least, or hybrid or electric vehicles. In this way, we are working to counter climate change and air pollution. Upcycling 2013 and 2014 were marked by more intensive promotion of our Upcycling approach. At Altavia, Upcycling means “nothing goes to waste, everything gets a new life!” It’s a kind of upward recycling. It means transforming an object that has come to the end of its useful life and making it more attractive, instead of throwing it away or destroying it. It means giving these items a new lease of life, while being creative and innovative. By turning our products, printed items, canvases and banners into new communication materials, we are reducing our own waste and that of our clients. It is one way of sharing our CSR commitment through a new service. Daily actions policy Buildings Altavia Nantes has moved into Manny, an innovative green building using an effective blend of the various High Environmental Quality standard targets. 25 environment Sorting Altavia Italia is launching “Ecogesti recycling initiative” to raise staff awareness and get them involved in day-to-day recycling activities. Altavia Paris is continuing to sort its waste and working with the charities Bouchons d’Amour, to collect bottle tops, and AP2R, for computer hardware. Altavia Lille and Altavia Saint-Etienne are continuing their work with Elise, a disability-friendly company that recycles office waste. OF +mÂUFJOTNPO + mÂ PSEJOBUFVS DIBRVFTPJS Transport +mÂUFJOTMB +FOBMMVNFQBT + MVNJÁSFRVBOE MBMVNJÁSFÂMFDUSJRVFTJ KFRVJUUF MBMVNJÁSFEVKPVS VOFQJÁDF TVGGJU¹USBWBJMMFS DPOGPSUBCMFNFOU +FKFUUFMFTQJMFT T QJMF DBSUPVDIFT HPCFMFUT  Soft (or sustainable) mobility is EBOTMFTDPSCFJMMFT N +FKFUUF NPOQBQJFSEBOT QSÂWVFTFOTBMMF EFDPOWJWJBMJUÂ recommended in all business units, MBDPSCFJMMF QSÂWVF +FNFTFST + and cycling is actively encouraged. CPOT EmVOFUBTTFQMVUÍU MFT RVFEFHPCFMFUTFO Altavia Lille has purchased an HFTUFT QMBTUJRVF POUR EN CHANTE LA PLAN ÈTE! R +FSÂVUJMJTFMF F Â WFSTPOPOJNQSJNÂ electric Renault Zoé and is a member +mJNQSJNFFOQSJPSJUÂ +mJNQSJNF EFNPOQBQJFS FOOPJSFUCMBODFU FOSFDUPWFSTP DPNNFCSPVJMMPO of the Lilas car-sharing scheme. @ +FWJFOTEÁTRVF +F QPTTJCMFBVUSBWBJM FOUSBN FOCVT  +FQSJWJMÂHJFMFDPVSSJFS FOWÂMP ÂMFDUSPOJRVFBVQBQJFS FUKÂWJUFEmJNQSJNFSUPVT DFVYRVFKFSFÀPJT +FQSJWJMÂHJFMFT The Right Action tree WJTJPDPOGÂSFODFTFU Â P P +mVUJMJTFMFSÂUSPQSPKFDUFVS SÂVOJPOUÂMÂQIPOJRVF BVYEÂQMBDFNFOUT This illustrates daily action and has been MPSTEFNFTQSÂTFOUBUJPOT QIZTJRVFT QMVUÍURVFEmJNQSJNFSVO FYFNQMBJSF¹DIBRVF shared across France and Europe. QBSUJDJQBOU Projects for 2015 Certifications Renewal of the FSC® and PEFC™ five-year certifications. Study into environmental certification for products other than print. 26 Fight against corruption principLes Companies should: 10 fight against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 27 Fight against corruption Our commitments: The Art and Style of Altavia Shared ethics Altavia does not work with any client whose communication is of a violent nature, sexually oriented, of a religious, racial or political nature or clearly goes against the protection of natural resources and, more generally, is inconsistent with the legislation in force. For example, Altavia categorically refuses to work with the tobacco industry. Commercial practices We undertake to abstain from all irregular commercial practices and especially cash payments. Likewise, we do not offer and refuse to accept, as compensation for commercial activities, side benefits of any kind. Staff members may not make any commitment in the name of Altavia beyond the scope of their job and their responsibility. Honesty and fairness Relations between Altavia and its suppliers are founded on mutual loyalty, honesty in all trade dealings and fairness in business relations. Contractual relations are clear and adhered to. Financial transactions are direct and transparent. There will be no form of discrimination in relations with suppliers. Suppliers are selected on a transparent basis and meet objective, explainable and clear objectives. All suppliers have access to the same information, which should be relevant and reliable, enabling them to produce their responses at every stage of the process of the tender. Suppliers undertake to deliver a service that is consistent with the bid for which they were selected. Gifts and invitations Gifts and invitations are legitimate as long as their purpose is to maintain good commercial relations and that remain within a reasonable limit. We cannot accept gifts of any kind, not wanting to be bound to offer any benefit in return. We shall refuse to receive any compensation, commission or special gain for ourselves or for our family or friends. We shall not accept, in a personal capacity, any special discount or reduction from our suppliers. Should we receive a small-value or customary gift, it will be redistributed to a member of the business unit’s staff through an internal lottery system. Study trips and exchange visits (site visits, conferences, etc.) are only accepted when they have a clear professional purpose. If in doubt, staff should closely examine the supplier or client’s offer with their business unit managing director/area manager and, if necessary, courteously refuse the offer and refer to our company rules. 28 Fight against corruption Our actions, PROGRESS IN 2013 & 2014 Reminder Altavia is a non-listed group that publishes a very comprehensive annual report and a financial report every year. The group’s accounts are published in full transparency. Shared ethics Altavia was not affected by any corruption-related issue in 2013 and 2014. Training Ethical issues have been included in all CSR training courses. Supplier relationships An Ethics appendix was added to supplier specifications in July 2014. Projects for 2015 Training Continue to offer training in all business units and get further training from experts from the various associations. 29 FOLLOW US On Twitter https://twitter.com/altaviagroup On LinkedIn https://fr.linkedin.com/company/altavia On Youtube https://www.youtube.com/user/AltaviaGroup ALTAVIA-GROUP.COM 30
