2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report “What is good for the world and good for business are more closely connected than ever before.” Chuck Robbins CEO 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback Contents INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY GRI INDEX A4 Message from CEO B1 Our Priorities C1 Our Priorities D1 Our Priorities G2 General Standard D13 The Details Disclosures A5 CSR & Our Business B10 The Details C12 The Details D14 Employee Volunteering G6 Economic A7 About This Report B11 Governance and C13 Our People Deal Sustainability Management C15 Inclusion, Diversity, D15 Education G7 Environmental B13 Ethics and Collaboration D18 Economic Empowerment G10 Social B14 Data Security and Privacy C21 Developing Our People D21 Healthcare B16 Human Rights C23 Rewarding Our People D22 Critical Human Needs C24 A Safe and Healthy and Disaster Relief Workplace D23 Supplier Diversity How to Use This Report Cisco’s 2015 CSR report is ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN based on the Global Reporting Initiative G4 Guidelines. E1 Our Priorities F1 Our Priorities Each topic shown to the right has two sections: E11 The Details F11 The Details • Our Priorities: Highlights E12 Environmental F12 Our Supply Chain Cisco’s strategy and Sustainability F13 Embedding Sustainability key CSR issues E18 Materials in Core Business • The Details: Provides more Practices information requested by E21 Energy and GHG our stakeholders Emissions F15 Promoting Transparency Bookmarks E38 Water Use F16 Working with Suppliers This PDF is bookmark-enabled. E40 Biodiversity to Build Capacity Recommended Software and Land Use Adobe Acrobat Version 7.0 E41 Non-GHG Emissions and above. E41 Effluents (Liquid) Further information on Cisco’s CSR activities are available E42 Waste online at csr.cisco.com. E48 Appendix 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback A1 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Message from CEO CSR & Our Business About This Report Introduction Cisco has pioneered the development of networking technologies for more than 30 years. We design and sell a broad range of routing, switching, and other networking-based technologies. Increasingly, we deliver our technology and services to our customers as integrated solutions including cloud, video, mobility, security, collaboration, and analytics. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback A2 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Message from CEO CSR & Our Business About This Report Our products and solutions connect people, processes, data, and things in meaningful ways and are the foundation of the next wave of the Internet— the Internet of Everything (IoE). IoE enables countries, cities, industries, and businesses to develop new models, deliver better customer experiences, and create new revenue streams and operating models to drive efficiency and value. Together with our ecosystem of partners and developers, these new capabilities are creating unprecedented opportunities for our customers—creating jobs, making cities smarter, and enhancing healthcare and education systems—changing the way the world works, lives, plays, and learns. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback A3 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Message from CEO CSR & Our Business About This Report 71,500 2015 Highlights US$49.2 billion net sales in FY15 49.2B More than $ 71,500 employees US$6.2 Operations in billion more than (12.6% of our 165 countries 165 FY15 revenue) 6.2B invested $ in R&D $ 286M 700 suppliers around the world US$286 million in cash and in-kind contributions 25,000 25,000 700 engineers focused to community programs on innovative by Cisco and the research and Cisco Foundation development 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback A4 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Message from CEO CSR & Our Business About This Report A message from Chuck Robbins In today’s world, technology is enabling us to create incredible value None of this would be possible without the dedication of our at a pace faster than we have ever seen. As we connect people, amazing people, who make all of this happen. We’ve challenged and machines, and devices around the world, we create enormous empowered all of our employees to “connect everything, innovate opportunity while changing lives. everywhere, and benefit everyone,” and we are investing in the tools, skills, and resources to support them in that effort. Cisco’s new I am proud to introduce Cisco’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Executive Leadership Team is also more diverse in gender, ethnicity, report, which shows in so many ways how our focus on combining age, and work experience than ever before, and one of the most human and technological innovation is helping people and our planet. diverse in the industry. As an example, over the last 18 years, our Cisco Networking Academy® I truly believe that what is good for the world and good for business program has helped more than 5.5 million students at 9500 learning are more closely connected than ever before. As more and more institutions in 170 countries develop the skills to thrive in the digital people and things come online and become connected, we have economy. Our four-year investment in the Jordan Healthcare Initiative more opportunity than ever to change the world. Our leadership role has benefited 150,000 patients through a series of projects that use as a corporate citizen and steward is core to all that we do, and will collaboration and communication technologies to transform how be a key driver of our long-term success. healthcare is delivered. I look forward to continuing this important work in the years ahead. In FY15, we also made solid progress on our environmental goals. We increased energy efficiency and renewable energy through our EnergyOps Program, and we broadened the scope of our goals to include our supply chain. Chuck Robbins CEO 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback A5 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Message from CEO CSR & Our Business About This Report CSR & Our Business: A message from Tae Yoo In our digitized world, astonishing opportunities emerge when people I am delighted that each section of the CSR report this year is introduced connect. By 2020, there is the potential to connect 50 billion people, by executive leaders from the responsible business functions, reflecting processes, data, and things through the Internet. When you consider the alignment of CSR strategy with core business strategy. We will continue magnitude of that number, you can see how powerful digitization can to drive this integration and further sharpen our focus on the most be as we work to solve some of the world’s most pressing problems. material CSR issues with our new Executive Leadership Team. Our vision is to empower people and societies to thrive in this new In 2015, Cisco was honored to be named to Fortune magazine’s first-eve digitized economy to create exponential social, environmental, and “Change the World” list, which recognizes companies that have made business impact. significant progress in addressing major social problems as a part of their core business strategy. This CSR report shares some of the stories about As our CEO Chuck Robbins noted in his message, CSR is core to how technology has benefitted humanity. Cisco’s long-term success. Our strategy focuses on 4 primary areas: 1. Help advance positive social change through technology-based solutions and In the end, the digitization era is bigger than Cisco—or any company, for multi-stakeholder partnerships that support access to critical human needs, education, that matter. It will require unprecedented cooperation between many healthcare, and economic empowerment. companies, organizations, and governments. Together, I am hopeful we 2. Address the challenges around the growing Information and Communications Technology can make a difference in people’s lives, communities, and the planet. (ICT) skills gap and global unemployment—especially youth unemployment—by empowering a new generation of global problem solvers who “innovate like technologists, think like entrepreneurs, and become social change agents”. 3. Ensure that economic growth does not come at the expense of the environment by addressing energy consumption from our operations, supply chain, and products, while helping our customers address their own environmental sustainability challenges. Tae Yoo 4. Invest in the future to create conditions for sustainable economic growth, earn the Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs ongoing trust of our stakeholders, and promote ethical conduct and human rights in everything we do. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback A6 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Message from CEO CSR & Our Business About This Report CLICK OR TAP ON EACH ISSUE TO GO TO THE RELEVANT SECTION OF THE REPORT. CSR Materiality—Our Priorities HIGH Data Security & Privacy Talent In FY15, we refreshed our CSR materiality IT Enabling Effect Economic Empowerment assessment, bringing our teams across the Inclusion, Diversity, & Collaboration business together to evaluate the key CSR issues Local Community Impacts Supplier Diversity Digital Inclusion—Geographic Access identified with input from external stakeholders in Hazardous Materials in Products Transport Emissions (Logistics) Ethical Conduct FY14. We used this assessment to help prioritize Employee Health, Safety & Wellness Product Energy Efficiency Supply Chain Labor Standards our resources and investments in the context Energy Consumption (Operations) Ethical Sourcing of the changing business environment and to Social Application of ICT inform the scope of the CSR report. Those CSR Digital Rights Concern to Stakeholders issues assessed as being of highest priority to the business and to our stakeholders are highlighted in Our Priorities, and are covered in more depth Waste—Product End of Life in The Details of each of the five CSR pillars in Water Use Sustainable Material Sourcing this report. Operational Waste Liquid Effluents (Water Pollution) Waste—Product Packaging Digital Inclusion—User Accessibility The assessment confirmed that many Supplier Energy Management of our CSR priorities are consistent with previous years, but also that there is growing stakeholder interest and business opportunity in education GOVERNANCE and skills development, inclusion and OUR PEOPLE collaboration, and product end-of-life management. SOCIETY Non-GHG Airborne Emission Biodiversity & Land Use ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN LOW LOW Importance to Cisco’s Business Success HIGH 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback A7 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Message from CEO CSR & Our Business About This Report About This Report Assurance This report covers our 2015 fiscal year (FY15), from July 27, 2014, We engage extensively with stakeholders and CSR experts throughout to July 25, 2015. Data includes all of our operations around the the year. We listen to their feedback to assess and enhance our CSR world, unless otherwise stated. The report sets out our approach, approach, performance, and reporting. objectives, and progress on each of the five core pillars of our CSR strategy: Governance and Ethics, Our People, Society, Environment, The data in the Environment section is subject to internal and external and Supply Chain. audits in line with our Environmental Management System and ISO 14001 requirements. Data which support public commitments, such as In our CSR strategy and reporting, we prioritize the CSR issues that our goals to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, are subject to are most important to our business and our stakeholders. These external assurance. issues are identified through a formal CSR materiality assessment (see page A6). GRI Index We encourage feedback from stakeholders and use this report to respond to what we have heard from a broad set of our stakeholders We align our reporting with the Global Reporting Initiative’s throughout the year. Changing our approach can take time given the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, and this report is our first aligned complexity of our business, but we aim to be open and transparent with their G4 guidance. about our progress and the challenges we face. An overview of our most material CSR issues is given in Our Priorities, with further information, data, and references to GRI indicators provided in The Details. A full index of alignment with the GRI G4 indicators is available on page G1. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback B1 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Governance & Ethics Our Priorities “A commitment to ethical conduct—and to the governance structures that ensure we walk the talk—provides the foundation for us to earn our stakeholders’ trust. We are focused on addressing concerns around high-priority issues such as digital rights, ethical conduct, and data security and privacy.” Mark Chandler Cisco Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, and Chief Compliance Officer 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback B2 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Cisco is committed to creating technology solutions that solve Respect for human rights plays a very important role in maintaining our customers’ challenges and make the world a better place these foundational principles. Looking ahead, we will be increasingly by connecting the unconnected. To bring that value to the world, vocal in advocating and defending a multi-stakeholder approach it is essential that we have the trust of all our stakeholders—our to Internet governance, maintaining open and global product employees, our employees, customers, and suppliers, and the standards, and supporting attempts to reform outdated privacy laws. communities in which we operate. A commitment to ethical Government interference that undermines a free and global Internet conduct—and to the governance structures that ensure we is a threat to human rights. We will continue to advocate for strong walk the talk—provides the foundation for us to earn that trust. freedom of expression and privacy protections, which we believe are fundamental to successful business innovation and a thriving society. Our ongoing commitment to governance and ethics is informed by the results of the CSR assessment we conducted this year. We are We are proud of the strides taken in FY15 to promote governance focused on addressing concerns around high-priority issues such as and ethics and we look forward to further strengthening our approach digital rights, ethical conduct, and data security and privacy. We strive in FY16. to tackle challenging issues head on, make our communications and processes simple, be accountable for fulfilling our commitments, and Mark Chandler empower all our employees to do what is right. Our Code of Business Cisco Senior Vice President, Conduct (COBC) sets out our expectations for employees and helps General Counsel and Secretary, them make ethical decisions. and Chief Compliance Officer 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback B3 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details 2015 Objectives and Progress Objectives Target Date Progress 100 percent of eligible1 employees to complete annual certification to the Cisco End of FY15 Code of Business Conduct. Maintain a quarterly review and update of our Human Rights Roadmap, which aligns to the End of FY15 UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Engage with diverse stakeholder groups to inform our CSR strategy, performance, and reporting. End of FY15 Augment and deepen engagement with key socially responsible investors for more meaningful End of FY15 dialogue on issues of importance to our investors. Maintain an average positive response from at least 83 percent of employees to the End of FY15 CSR statements in our annual employee Pulse Survey. Continue evaluating and refining our CSR materiality assessment. End of FY15 1. Excludes employees in France (which has a separate system), those recently joining Cisco through acquisitions, Achieved Partially Achieved Ongoing those on a leave of absence, and interns; also excludes contractors, who must abide by our Supplier Code of Conduct. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback B4 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details 2015 Highlights 584 Cisco employees raised 584 ethical 8 Years questions or concerns through the Ethics helpline. Nearly half of these Ethisphere were questions seeking Institute has recognized further guidance. Cisco as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies® for eight consecutive years. Digital Privacy Promoted digital privacy rights through our support of the U.S. Nearly 25,000 LEADS Act and our support employees have in Microsoft’s case with the completed our new U.S. government debating “Human Rights in the legality of a search 25,000 the Digital Age” warrant for emails video-based stored on servers training course. in Ireland. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback B5 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details PRIORIT Y Data Security and Privacy Data security and privacy are concerned with how companies use development. Where governments do regulate to address privacy consumer data for the purpose of improving their customers’ online concerns, this should be based on internationally recognized experience, and how that data is protected. To bolster consumer principles, and not to mandate the use of specific technologies confidence, customer trust, and e-commerce, businesses must or business models. be committed to protecting their customers’ privacy. We detail our position on security and customer privacy in our privacy position Our privacy policy is based on respect for our customers and a statement, our security position statement, and our online privacy commitment to protect the information they have shared. In FY15, statement, and it is discussed further in the Data Security and we retained the Privacy Seal by TRUSTe, demonstrating that our Privacy section of this report (see page B14). privacy policy and programs meet best practices for transparency, accountability, and choice in the collection and use of personal As our Executive Chairman John Chambers shared at this year’s information. We also recertified our compliance with the U.S.-EU World Economic Forum, we believe the Internet of Everything can Safe Harbor framework with the U.S. Department of Commerce for positively revolutionize the way we connect as a society; however, customer, partner, and employee data. we cannot ignore the omnipresent risk of potential security breaches. Chambers said, “There are two types of companies: those who have Read more on B14. been hacked, and those who don’t yet know they have been hacked.” Recognizing this reality, we work to drive security innovation in our products and supply chain to combat the ongoing threats by groups “There are two types of companies: and individuals seeking to compromise the security of networks. those who have been hacked, and Innovation is key to continuing the development of cyber technologies and security solutions. As such, we do not believe that governments those who don’t yet know they have should regulate the design or development of security technologies. Rather, we advocate for reasonable state, provincial, and national been hacked.” government policies that meet the needs of the global economy John Chambers without hindering the continuous improvement of new technology Executive Chairman 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback B6 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details PRIORIT Y Ethical Conduct We believe that long-term, trusting business relationships are built Our COBC and ethics training is designed to educate our employees on honesty, acting ethically and with integrity. Our Code of Business about unlawful or unethical conduct that may be wrongly used to Conduct (COBC) provides employees with a clear understanding secure direct business or preferential treatment. We have zero and expectation of the high ethical standards we pride ourselves on, tolerance for corrupt behavior among our employees. In FY15, while our accompanying training is tailored to higher-risk functions 99.9 percent of our employees completed an annual certification and roles. Through these standards and practices, we have been of compliance with the Cisco COBC. recognized by the Ethisphere Institute as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies® for eight consecutive years. Our Ethics Office provides our employees with a safe platform to report concerns regarding ethical behavior, and we encourage employees to do so in good faith. In FY15, 584 cases were submitted to the Office from Cisco’s top five revenue-generating country locations, nearly half of which were questions seeking further guidance on integrity and ethics questions. Our Global Anti-Corruption Policies enable our employees and partners around the world to understand how to comply with local and international laws. Cisco does not make any political contributions to candidates that run for U.S. federal or state elected office, and we are transparent about any policy engagements we undertake on behalf of the technology industry’s public policy priorities and interests. Read more on B13. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback B7 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details PRIORIT Y Digital Rights Digital rights is a core element of our Human Rights Policy. We Cisco believes that industry self-regulation can be effective in believe that technology provides our customers with immensely protecting privacy, strengthened by innovative tools to provide beneficial access to information and an open platform for freedom consumers with choices to protect their personal data and of expression and communication. While Cisco’s products continue understand how it is collected and used. We continue to seek new to offer innovative opportunities and digital advancements, they also ways to improve the security of our products while upholding our remain susceptible to modern-day security and privacy risks should customers’ rights to enjoy technology without being subject to our equipment be used inappropriately or our networks breached. infringements on their freedom of speech and privacy. As a result, we are committed to designing risk-resilient products Read more on B16. and dedicated to promoting reasonable government legislation that respects user privacy without transgressing the rule of law, such as our advocacy for the LEADS Act. We are responsive to regulatory action that we believe impedes on individuals’ digital rights. In FY15, we supported Microsoft’s defense against the U.S. government’s demands to access email account content stored on servers in Ireland. We also support regulations and trends regarding increased transparency on digital rights. In FY15, we issued our first “transparency report,” providing information on requests or demands for customer data that we receive from law enforcement and national security agencies around the world. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback B8 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details In the February 6, 2015, issue of the Harvard Business Review (HBR), John Chambers was recognized as one of the world’s ten best CEOs, based on Cisco’s financial performance and our impact on employees, communities, governments, and society. HBR’s analysis suggests that financial performance accounts for only 35 percent of a CEO’s legacy, whereas 65 percent is attributed to non-financial criteria, including governance, workplace, and corporate citizenship. HBR also found that high-reputation companies have higher returns and excel on other key measures investors use to assess corporate performance. I want to emphasize that Cisco is committed to creating technology solutions that solve our customers’ challenges and make the world a better place by connecting the unconnected. To bring that value to the world, it is essential that we have the trust of all our stakeholders. HBR’s recognition emphasizes why we are committed to our governance structures and ethical conduct, which ensure we walk the talk to build trust and long-term business relationships. It also reinforces that our Corporate Social Responsibility focus is not only good for the world, but good for our business. Mark Chandler Cisco Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, and Chief Compliance Officer 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback B9 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our Plans 2016 Objectives In FY16, we will continue to monitor the CSR issues of greatest priority to our business and earn the trust of our stakeholders worldwide Objectives Target Date through ongoing dialogue and engagement. Conduct annual CSR materiality assessment. End of FY16 We will review our governance policies and practices and provide our employees with the tools they need to make ethical decisions. Human Rights Working Group quarterly review and update of To inform and guide our ongoing approach to respecting human rights, our Human Rights Roadmap, which aligns to the UN Guiding End of FY16 we will align with international frameworks such as the United Nations Principles on Business and Human Rights. Global Compact and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Through multi-stakeholder initiatives and public forums, Publish twice yearly transparency report that includes we will work to promote an open and secure Internet that spurs data requests or demands for customer data received from End of FY16 innovation for the benefit of business and society. law enforcement and national security agencies around the world. Engage with diverse stakeholder groups to inform our End of FY16 CSR strategy, performance, and reporting. 100 percent of eligible1 employees to complete Cisco End of FY16 Code of Business Conduct annual certification. 1. Excludes employees in France (which has a separate system), those recently joining Cisco through acquisitions, those on a leave of absence, and interns; also excludes contractors who must abide by our Supplier Code of Conduct 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback B10 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Governance & Ethics Governance & Sustainability Management Ethics Data Security & Privacy The Details Human Rights Strong governance and ethical conduct are essential to the success of our business, helping us build a sustainable, resilient business and gain the trust of our employees, customers, and stakeholders. Governance and ethics are routinely identified as areas of great focus, both to our internal business success and our external stakeholders—in particular, data security and privacy, digital rights, and human rights. We intend to sharpen our focus on these governance and ethics concerns as part of a larger effort to review our current CSR approach and develop a comprehensive long-term vision. This will include assessing our current CSR structure and identifying ways to better integrate processes and communication channels within our corporate governance structure. We are proud of our reputable standards for ethical conduct and believe it is important to continue our efforts to improve and build upon our strong foundation of good governance. The following section describes in detail how we have dealt with ethical concerns, as well as our intention to address emerging issues and strengthen our business resilience to CSR risks. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback B11 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Governance & Sustainability Governance and Table 1. Stakeholder Engagement Management Sustainability Management We maintain regular dialogue with our key stakeholders. Their views help us prioritize issues, better align our business to society’s needs, and develop our CSR strategy and programs. In addition to valuing our ongoing engagement with stakeholders in regards to CSR issues, we also offer our shareholders the opportunity to provide feedback on our remuneration policies at Ethics annual meetings. Key GRI G4 Indicators GRI G4 Standard Disclosures: 15, 16, 24, 34, 35, 36, 37, Stakeholder Groups Engagement Forums and Tools Data Security 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 45, 46, 47, 48, 51, 52, 53. & Privacy Communities Cisco Foundation Cisco Platform blog CSR opinion leaders Details of our corporate governance policies and process Cisco support forums High-Tech Policy blog Human Rights are available in our Annual Report and on our Investor Customers Annual Customer satisfaction survey Industry working groups Relations website. Employees “We’re Listening” blog Annual meeting of shareholders Government and regulators and company reporting Risk Management Industry Our business grows through our culture of innovation— Annual Employee Pulse Survey Investor Relations finding new ways to connect people and improve lives Investors Quarterly “all hands” meetings Partner community forums across the world. Nonprofits Ethics Helpline Partner Education Connection The Board of Directors, acting directly and through its Sales channel partners committees, is responsible for overseeing our robust Suppliers Public policy engagement Social media—Facebook, Twitter risk management processes. Working groups across the business report directly to the Board’s Audit Committee, which oversees financial and risk management policies. develop our CSR strategy by managing our reporting, in the Environment chapter. The SBP team manages the Cisco practices and programs are designed to help engaging with external stakeholders, feeding their strategy, funding, resources, organization, schedule, and manage business risks and to align risk taking appropriately insights back into the business, and helping business execution of SET, as well as environment-related issues with our efforts to increase shareholder value. units prioritize CSR issues (see Figure 1). not requiring SET engagement. Our strong incident management and business The SBP team acts as a catalyst for improvements by In FY15, John Chambers served as Cisco’s Executive continuity programs allow us to respond quickly to collaborating with others throughout the business to Chairman of the Board of Directors and our Chief disruptions or threats and minimize impact to our design programs that create long-term, sustainable Executive Officer. Our Nomination and Governance employees and business. benefits for our business and society. Local CSR Committee recommends candidates for election to teams and relevant functions—such as supply chain, the Board, taking into consideration diversity, business engineering, and ethics and integrity—embed our CSR experience, and other areas that contribute to an CSR Management and Corporate efforts into our business activities, set goals, implement effective Board. More information on our corporate Governance plans, and measure performance. Our Sustainability governance structure, remuneration policies, and Tae Yoo, Cisco’s Senior Vice President of Corporate Executive Team (SET) governs our major environmental committee duties can be found in our Annual Proxy Affairs, leads our CSR efforts through our Sustainable initiatives and is responsible for Cisco’s strategy and Statement, and further details can be found in each Business Practices (SBP) team. This team helps to performance in this area. SET is discussed in more detail committee’s charter. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback B12 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Governance & Cisco’s executives and the SBP team regularly engage in governance and management of Cisco, paying special Cisco does not make political contributions to candidates Sustainability CSR/sustainability activities, including attendance at the attention to CSR issues that are most relevant to our for U.S. federal or state elected office. Cisco also does Management World Economic Forum and responding to stakeholder business and our stakeholders. not engage in independent expenditures or electioneering inquiries, such as those from the Business and Human communications, nor do we make payments to trade Rights Resource Centre and the socially responsible associations or other industry groups to be used Ethics Public Policy and Political Support investor (SRI) community. specifically for political purposes. To assess whether Our Global Government Affairs team works with industry trade associations, industry groups, and other politically Our current corporate governance structure provides stakeholders, partners, and government leaders to Data Security active tax-exempt organizations, such as those organized robust oversight of corporate affairs through our various influence global, national, and local policies that affect & Privacy under Internal Revenue Code section 501(c)4, comply committees. In FY16, we plan to review our approach our business. Further details can be found on our Cisco with this policy, Cisco informs all of its groups of this so we can better integrate CSR issues into the overall Public Policy Engagements website and our High Tech restriction by written communication on an annual basis. Human Rights Policy blog. We occasionally make contributions in support of U.S. local and state ballot measures on issues that affect our operations, such as transportation or education. Cisco Figure 1. Our CSR Business Process fully complies with all reporting requirements regarding such contributions and we are planning to disclose those contributions on our Government Affairs webpage. In Business Functions Sustainable Business Practices Team addition, Cisco will review these contributions with the Board of Directors on at least an annual basis. 6 1 Cisco’s employee-sponsored political action committee Performance Measurement CSR Reporting (ePAC) enables eligible U.S. employees to contribute to the campaigns of U.S. federal and state elected officials and political candidates who champion the technology industry’s public policy priorities. 5 2 Global Partners and Forums Implementation Stakeholder Engagement We partner with a wide range of global and local and Analysis organizations to shape and extend the reach of our CSR programs, including governments, nonprofits, multilateral organizations, and peers. A member since 2002 of the 4 3 World Economic Forum (WEF), Cisco’s engagement with the WEF influences our CSR strategy and helps us learn from and share best practices. Other memberships include the Clinton Global Initiative (CGI), Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), the Conference Board’s Prioritization, Goals, and Initiatives Stakeholder Feedback to the Business Sustainability Council II on Products, Technologies and Solutions, and the UN Global Compact. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback B13 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Governance & Sustainability Ethics Other ethics training materials are available via an internal ethics website that includes videos, links to policies, and CASE STUDY Management an ethics discussion forum. As with the COBC, some Key GRI G4 Indicators training is tailored for different functions and roles, such as sales teams, finance professionals, and employees Ethics GRI G4 Standard Disclosures: 49, 50, 54, 56, 57, 58. who interact with government officials. GRI G4-HR3: Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. Data Security Reporting a Concern GRI G4-HR12: Number of grievances about human & Privacy rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through We encourage employees and other stakeholders formal grievance mechanisms. to promptly report concerns to us about suspected Human Rights unethical behavior. Ethics Helpline FY15 Results At Cisco we put our values into practice every day; doing To do this, they can: We provide several confidential ways to get help with the right thing is just a part of our DNA. Doing business honestly, ethically, and with integrity helps us build long• Speak to a manager or Human Resources an ethical question or concern. We do not tolerate representative. retaliation against individuals for reports of misconduct term, trusting relationships with our customers, suppliers, that are made honestly and in good faith. employees, and stakeholders worldwide. • Contact members of our Legal or Ethics Our Ethics Office accepts incident reports in five ways: Offices directly. by phone, mail, email, fax, or online. We strive to Code of Business Conduct • Contact the Ethics Office by email at manage all inquiries promptly and confidentially, to the ethics@cisco.com or through our anonymous extent provided by law. Our user-friendly Code of Business Conduct (COBC), web form. In FY15 the Office received 584 cases in total; nearly offered in 15 languages, helps guide our employee half were questions seeking further guidance on behavior and decisions in an engaging way, providing • Call our global Ethics Helpline, available 24 hours integrity and ethics questions. This is an increase interactive elements including an ethics decision tree, a day in more than 150 languages. from 467 cases in FY14, and demonstrates increased videos, FAQs, and links to other resources. awareness of and confidence in the Ethics Helpline. • Submit a concern via the Ethics Fax Line. The five most common types of cases in FY15 related • Submit a concern by mail. to the receipt of gifts (70), relationships (72), employee Ethics Training relations (76), policy issues (160), and outside business All regular employees (where permitted by law) must No one will face retaliation when a concern is raised commitments (264). recertify compliance with the COBC each year. in good faith. In addition, following the rollout of our human rights training certification, we received two inquiries from Anti-corruption training is mandatory for most legal staff; Most concerns raised relate to conflicts of interest and employees seeking further information. No human rights employees in sales, marketing, and services; and channel Human Resources issues. All concerns are addressed grievances were filed. partners, distributors, and sales-supporting consultants. and investigated appropriately. Violations of the COBC Where violations of our ethics and integrity expectations are subject to discipline, which may include termination were found, the types of action taken by Cisco included of employment. Find out more in our COBC. formal warnings and disciplinary action. The Ethics Office reports quarterly to the Cisco Audit Committee. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback B14 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Governance & Sustainability Data Security and Privacy Securing the Cloud Cloud computing has changed the way people and In addition to regulatory compliance, we voluntarily support several ambitious and successful industryManagement The Internet of Everything brings significant benefits to led initiatives, such as the Online Privacy Alliance and organizations share information. Our cloud systems society, but also raises potential data security and privacy TRUSTe, which are well-respected efforts that achieve help companies to secure access to their cloud, and we concerns. People can now access and share personal a reasonable balance between consumer protection Ethics protect them using best-practice security systems, such or business information anywhere, at any time, on any and business requirements. as Security Intelligence Operations. We analyze emerging device. This makes securing data more difficult and trends, threats, and innovations to help identify new Data Security increases the design challenges. opportunities and look for early warnings where security Providing Transparency & Privacy threats may occur. We use the Cloud Security Alliance It is our priority to drive increased transparency into our We are accountable for trustworthy product development, guidance to assess potential security risks related to security and privacy approach. For this reason, our new supply chain security, customer data protection, cloud solutions. Human Rights Trust and Transparency Center is dedicated to providing and transparency to earn the verifiable trust of our the information, resources, and answers to cybersecurity customers, partners, shareholders and employees. This We use our cloud security services to help maintain the questions that help manage security and privacy risk. is clearly reflected in our Trust and Transparency Center, integrity of our own operations. This helps reduce risks which we launched in FY15. and improve the protection of proprietary information. The Center contains: Our supplier review program assesses service providers to mitigate potential risks for cloud solutions in particular. • Our Trust Principles, which describe our commitment Security and Privacy by Design to strong protections for our customers, products, and At Cisco, “data security by design” means that company—such as providing equal and simultaneous Learn more about Cisco’s commitment to cloud security. security is not an add-on but a core component of the access to security vulnerability information for all development of our products, services, and systems. parties globally. A dedicated Cisco team provides guidance and targeted Compliance • Our approach to building the highest levels of security training on designing with security in mind throughout Compliance with privacy regulations is managed by a into everything we do. our business. These activities complement our annual team of representatives from our Legal, IT, Information Global Security Education event, privacy and security Security, Sales, Services, Marketing, and Human • Our data protection program and policies. videos, and other training. Resources functions. Our global program for reporting • Our new Transparency Report, which contains and tracking incidents provides a standard process data and Cisco’s principles regarding requests or Our guidelines and other resources help engineers to report, categorize, monitor, refer, and investigate demands for customer data that we receive from law and product managers understand how to integrate alleged incidents. enforcement and national security agencies around security, privacy, and data protection into new products the world. Like other technology companies, we will and applications. This helps them design features and Training is a key component of our compliance program. publish this data twice yearly. functionality that make it easier for Cisco, customers, We make online privacy training modules and resources and end users to protect their personal information available to all employees and contractors through our Read more. and comply with relevant regulations. For example, internal privacy portal. We also provide privacy and the Cisco Secure Development Lifecycle is a repeatable security training specific to certain roles; this is also and measurable process we have designed to increase part of our COBC and accompanying training. the resiliency and trustworthiness of our products. Read more. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback B15 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Governance & Promoting Security Awareness We also collaborate with peers to share our experiences Sustainability through organizations such as: The Cisco Security Education Program uses our Management experience to help other organizations increase security • Cloud Security Alliance awareness. The Cisco Security blog offers regular • Health Information Trust Alliance Ethics updates and tips, while our weekly Cyber Risk Report highlights current data security concerns and activity. • National Cyber Security Alliance The report addresses seven major risk management • Payment Card Industry Board of Advisors Data Security categories: vulnerability, physical, legal, trust, identity, & Privacy • International Association of Privacy Professionals human, and geopolitical. Human Rights Taking a LEAD to Update Privacy In February 2015 the Law Enforcement Access to Data Stored Abroad (LEADS) Act was introduced to Congress with the intent to update privacy law and preserve the U.S. tech industry’s access to overseas markets. Its passage will give law enforcement the tools needed to execute search warrants in a manner that respects user privacy and the sovereignty of host nations. Cisco has joined a coalition of technology companies through the ACT | The App Association to lend our Supporting Industry Peers and Protecting International Law Compliance support for the LEADS Act. As a signatory to a joint letter to the U.S. Congress advocating for the passage Cisco has been a prominent supporter in Microsoft’s landmark case with the U.S. government which debated the legality of the LEADS Act, we believe this timely amendment to of a search warrant for msn.com emails stored on a server in Ireland. Microsoft refused to comply with the request to outdated laws will strengthen consumer privacy rights, provide the content of the user’s emails, arguing that the U.S. has no authority to issue a search warrant outside its clearly define the framework for law enforcement, and territory. Rather, the company suggested the government process this request for personal data through the U.S.-Ireland allow U.S. technology companies to continue innovating. Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty (MLAT). We will continue to advocate for or against proposed In June 2014 Cisco joined with Apple to submit an amicus brief to the U.S. District Court in support of Microsoft, legislation that we find either aligned to or incongruent supporting their position that the warrant does not apply overseas and that the MLAT process is the best course of action. with our approach to data security and protecting The Electronic Frontier Foundation submitted a similar brief, providing further support on behalf of our industry as we try user privacy. to balance the interests and privacy of our customers with the appropriate application of domestic and international law. Cisco continues to support Microsoft as the case continues into the Second U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. Read more. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback B16 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Governance & Sustainability Human Rights Digital Rights: Freedom of Expression and Privacy A full appreciation of the human rights issues associated with network equipment requires an understanding of the Management We use the power of our business to enable social, equipment’s core features. The nature of Internet routing We believe that the rights to freedom of expression and environmental, and economic progress. We believe it is is such that in order to deliver messages and content, privacy are fundamental to our business and society. our responsibility to realize this progress in a way that service providers generally can see the IP addresses Ethics The Internet has transformed these rights, allowing respects human rights across our operations, business of the senders and recipients of information and, in billions of people in nearly every nation to access relationships, products, and services. the absence of adequate encryption, the contents of information previously unavailable to them—and we are Data Security messages and attachments. proud of our role in this. However, technologies, including & Privacy Our approach and commitment to upholding and ours, can be used by governments and organizations to respecting human rights is governed by our Human Individuals, companies, and countries make their own both enable and impede communications, and to both decisions with respect to how they operate networks Rights Policy. First published in 2012, our policy is protect and impair privacy. Human Rights and network security in terms of protecting the network informed by international human rights frameworks, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights itself from denial of service and other attacks and Our goal in developing ICT systems is to expand (UDHR), the International Labour Organization (ILO) protecting users from spam, hacking, and virus attacks. access to information and promote innovation. To meet core labor standards, and the UN Global Compact. This requires operators to have capabilities that can this objective, we build our products on open, global The policy reflects our commitment to apply the UN also be used to block access to particular websites or standards, which we believe are critical to overcoming Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, copy and download users’ communications. For network censorship, protecting privacy, and keeping the world which establish clarity on the relationship between the management purposes, network operators also require connected. Our work across the world is guided by the state’s duty to protect human rights and the corporate the ability to identify the protocols used for different following principles: responsibility to respect human rights. We review the types of traffic. We cannot shut down such networks— policy annually. • We do not participate in business activities that would only network operators have that capability. We advocate aid repression. that users should have access to workable encryption, • We do not support attempts by governments to and we have opposed the efforts of some governments Governance fragment the Internet or create a “closed” Internet; to block users from adequate encryption. We have a formal, company-wide human rights such attempts undermine fundamental human rights, governance structure to implement our commitment to including the right to freedom of expression. For these reasons, we believe that the threat to freedom human rights. Our Human Rights Working Group includes of expression and Internet freedom today resides not in experts from functions across the business, including • We do not customize or develop specialized or unique standardized equipment, but in efforts to adopt special filtering capabilities to enable regimes to block access protocols that deviate from global norms and efforts to Supply Chain, Privacy, Government Affairs, Business to information. enable special censorship or filtering systems. We have Strategy, Communications, and Investor Relations. The Working Group is overseen by our Corporate Affairs and • We do not supply or support mediation equipment that worked in opposition to such efforts and will continue to Legal departments and is sponsored by Randy Pond, allows the interception of telephone calls made over do so. We do not and will not supply video surveillance Cisco’s Senior Vice President of Operations. the Internet using Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP). cameras or video surveillance monitoring software in our public infrastructure projects in China. We are strongly • We do not deliberately build backdoors into our products, and we do not knowingly enable backdoors committed to a standards-based global Internet that in our products. maximizes the opportunities for freedom of expression, and we do not customize our equipment to help any government to censor content, track Internet use by individuals, or intercept Internet communications. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback B17 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Governance & Digital Rights: Product Use Our technology and systems can also play an important Sustainability role in helping to promote public safety—through crime We believe our role in providing more people across the CASE STUDY Management prevention assistance, for example—but we recognize world with access to the Internet is critically important that there is a growing concern about the use of and that operating in most countries brings more benefits networking equipment for improper surveillance that Ethics than if we were not present. In all countries where we would violate individuals’ privacy rights. do business, our technology and systems, whether they are sold directly or through local partners and service Data Security providers, include the same standard Internet-access Digital Rights: Internet Security & Privacy equipment and network management capabilities that There is undoubtedly a tension between security and are used by public libraries in the United States, which freedom today. We want governments to detect and Human Rights include such capabilities as blocking inappropriate disrupt terrorist networks while respecting their citizens’ content for children. basic human rights. We also believe in an open Internet where people can Cisco does not work with any government, including the access the same information no matter where they are U.S. government, to weaken our products. As a part of in the world. We design our products and services to our normal course of product development, we spend enable this access while safeguarding human rights. Our a great deal of energy designing products in ways that commitment to an approach that balances protecting user avoid vulnerabilities, and then attacking those same data privacy and the rule of law is further demonstrated products to proactively identify security issues before Human Rights Training by our support for the LEADS Act introduced to the U.S. attackers might. When we learn of a security vulnerability To help Cisco employees understand the relationship Congress earlier this year. We will continue to support in a product or service, we respond by validating it, between technology and human rights, we now offer legislation that is an appropriate response to the modern “Human Rights in the Digital Age,” a new video-based fixing it, and informing our customers. If a customer’s training course. Human rights training is part of our innovation era, which generates great technological security has been impacted by external forces, we react commitment to help everyone at Cisco understand advances that need to be used and regulated responsibly. the same way, regardless of the origin of the security what human rights are and the human-rights-related breach. We offer customers robust tools to defend their concerns in the IT sector. Despite these efforts, it has been alleged that some environments against attack—and to detect attacks when In FY15, this training was rolled out to more than 36,000 customers in some countries have misused our technology. they are happening. employees who work in business functions most likely In some cases, awareness of the fact that a government to have direct engagement with human-rights-related does not respect the open Internet is confused with business decisions, such as our Sales, Services, and complicity in efforts to limit communications or repress Supply Chain teams. At the close of FY15, 24,465 employees had completed the training. freedom, even where the equipment being supplied is standards-based, non-customized access equipment In FY15, we also expanded our coverage of human that is necessary to facilitate communications. rights in our Code of Business Conduct (COBC) annual certification process for all eligible employees. The COBC achieved a 99.9-percent completion rate. We continue to encourage leaders to share this training with their teams, and we plan to enhance the training in FY16. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback B18 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Governance & Digital Rights: Global Standards We are also active participants in the World Economic Our Human Rights Engagement Sustainability Forum’s Future of the Internet Initiative, which aims to We believe that open and global product standards play We regularly engage and collaborate with our Management strengthen trust and expand cooperation on Internetan important role in protecting and respecting human stakeholders on human rights issues to gain greater related challenges and opportunities. The purpose of the rights. For this reason, we work with policy makers and understanding, measure the ongoing effectiveness of initiative is to help develop the Internet as a core engine Ethics participate in standards-setting bodies, working groups, our work, and to help us gauge expectations. of human progress and safeguard its globally integrated, and industry coalitions to create and maintain a secure highly distributed, and multi-stakeholder nature. It will Examples of our collaboration in FY15 include: global standard for many of our leading technologies, Data Security consider topics such as internet governance, privacy, ranging from wireline and wireless local-area network • Institute for Human Rights and Business (IHRB): & Privacy cybercrime, access, and business models. (WLAN) connections to video encoding/decoding and Engagement with IHRB helps us understand potential security/encryption services. Some examples include: areas of concern and our ability to address them. Human Rights • The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Codes of Conduct • Business for Social Responsibility (BSR): We are Engineers (IEEE) The rights of our employees are enshrined in our COBC active participants in BSR’s Human Rights Working and in policies and guidelines that direct our day-to• The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) Group, a forum for companies from all industries to day activities and business decisions. These policies share ideas, exchange best practices, and discuss • The International Standards Organization (ISO) and guidelines incorporate relevant laws and ethical challenges. We also work closely with BSR to develop • The Common Criteria for Information Technology principles, including those pertaining to freedom of and execute a strategic Human Rights Roadmap. At Security Evaluation association, non-discrimination, privacy, freedom of BSR’s 2014 annual conference, Mark Chandler, Cisco’s expression, compulsory and child labor, immigration, fair • The International Telecommunications Union (ITU) Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary pay, and working hours. We are also working to increase participated in a discussion on respecting human rights • The World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) awareness of human rights among our employees through in the technology sector, moderated by Eileen Donahoe, the human rights training described on page B17. Director of Global Affairs at Human Rights Watch. In addition, Cisco continues to be an active participant in important discussions relating to the future of Internet To help protect the rights of workers in our supply • Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC): governance. chain, we maintain a Supplier Code of Conduct, which Cisco is a founding member of the EICC. For more describes our expectations on key human rights issues, information about our involvement with the EICC, For example, alongside other companies and civil see Supply Chain, page F13. including the prevention of child and forced labor. society organizations, we are continuing our efforts to ensure that the ITU does not replace the existing • Global Network Initiative (GNI): We support the We partner with suppliers who share our values, maintain principles of the GNI applicable to operators of multi-stakeholder approach to internet governance with a supplier audit process and capability-building programs, public Internet access networks and include them a government-led multilateral approach. We believe that and uncover and remediate human rights violations. For in contracts and processes where applicable. Internet governance needs to remain a multi-stakeholder more information about our supply chain program, process, a proven approach that created the open including our positions on slavery and human trafficking, • Business and Human Rights Resource Center Internet of interconnected network of networks in which (BHRC): Cisco has earned a 100-percent response and conflict minerals, see Supply Chain page F19. anyone can access content and use applications from rate in regards to BHRC inquiries about our business anywhere on the globe. Read more. in Myanmar. As we continue to grow our business through acquisitions and commercial agreements, we understand the necessity of performing due diligence and including appropriate clauses in our contracts for human-rights-related issues. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback B19 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Governance & Our Human Rights Roadmap 5. Due Diligence 6. Remediation Sustainability We have updated our Human Rights Roadmap to focus We will implement approaches to human rights due Employees and other stakeholders can submit questions Management our efforts on Cisco’s key role of supporting an open and diligence consistent with the UN Guiding Principles on or concerns related to human rights by email or secure Internet, as well as integrate human rights issues Business and Human Rights. telephone through our Ethics Helpline. We will review more systematically across the company. Our updated the level of uptake, and the types of concerns raised. Ethics roadmap and intentions for FY16 and beyond are: Data Security 1. Human Rights Stakeholder Engagement 2015 World Economic Forum & Privacy We will deepen our engagement with stakeholders on In January 2015, Cisco Executive Chairman John Chambers and top the relationship between human rights and the future company executives joined other Human Rights of the internet. This will include topics such as multibusiness, political, and international stakeholder internet governance, internet security and organization leaders in Davos, privacy, trust and transparency, and open and global Switzerland, for the World Economic product standards. Forum meeting. Cisco regularly participates in this annual meeting to gain valuable insight on economic and 2. Human Rights Advocacy social challenges and opportunities in We will use policy, diplomatic, and standards-setting markets around the world, and show channels to be increasingly vocal in our support for our ongoing commitment to improving societies and economies through open and global product standards, and a multidigitization. stakeholder approach to Internet governance. John Chambers participated in a broadcast panel on “The New Digital 3. Policy and Strategy Context” and explained the Internet of Our global Human Rights Policy articulates our Everything (IoE) and how everything will commitment to human rights and our approach to soon be digital—from cars to clothing to managing concerns such as privacy, data security, cities. He also noted Cisco’s ongoing commitment to providing customers with labor rights, and freedom of expression. We will secure products that can help mitigate review the policy on an annual basis, and continue the growing risks of security breaches. to refine our strategy. Read more. Cisco was also central to conversations on technology’s role in workforce development. We were part of the 2014 Global Talent Competiveness Index launch, which ranked countries on their ability to attract, develop, and retain talent. 4. Governance and Sustainability Management Cisco contributed a chapter on “Talent Growth as an Equaliser,” discussing how addressing the growing shortage of ICT Our cross-functional Human Rights Working Group professionals through programs like Networking Academy™ can help emerging economies reach their full potential. meets every quarter to discuss the implementation Climate change was another key topic. Chris Dedicoat, our President of EMEAR at the time, participated in discussions on of our Human Rights Roadmap, including stakeholder the business and environmental value of a circular economy to overcome the current “take-make-dispose” economic model. engagement and refining our governance model and Also, during the WEF, Cisco’s nonprofit partner NetHope announced its collaboration with Cisco, Facebook, Inveneo, and processes. To strengthen the integration between the Paul G. Allen Family Foundation to improve communications for those fighting the Ebola virus in West Africa. Cisco this working group and our other CSR efforts, we will donated more than a half-million dollars in cash, expertise, and product to deliver reliable communications needed to stop review our approach to the overall governance and the crisis. This highlights the power of public/private partnerships. management of CSR at Cisco. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C1 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our People Our Priorities “At the core of our success is our people, and they are our focus. We want to attract and keep the best people and develop the best leaders today for tomorrow—leaders who have impact and are building the most incredible teams.” Francine Katsoudas Senior Vice President and Chief People Officer 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C2 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details It is an exciting time at Cisco. We are building our next chapter. Our people share in our mutual success and we reward their Together, we are doing amazing things, and we are impacting incredible work in many ways from both an individual and family the world. perspective. This includes providing competitive pay and their birthday day off, as well as offering on-campus state-of-the-art We are driving the evolution of our business and creating a culture medical care, fitness centers, childcare, paid family time and college of learning, passion and innovation. This requires us to be bold. coaches. Our people are core to our business, and we want to show To be agile and quick. To lead transformations. To create and support our commitment to them every single day. an environment where our people can be their best selves. At the core of our success is our people, and they are our focus. Francine Katsoudas We want to attract and keep the best people and develop the best Senior Vice President leaders today for tomorrow—leaders who have impact and are and Chief People Officer building the most incredible teams. In 2015 we launched Our People Deal, which is centered on unleashing every employee’s potential. Our people told us what they needed to make Cisco and the world a better place. We listened. We were inspired. Our People Deal focuses on how: • We connect everything—people, processes, data, and things—and we use those connections to change our world for the better. • We innovate everywhere to create fresh ideas and possibilities. Taking bold risks to shape the future because we understand every failure can become a success if we learn from it. • We make a meaningful difference for our people, our customers and the world around us. We support each other and work together to create shared success that will benefit everyone. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C3 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details 2015 Objectives and Progress Objectives Target Date Progress Launch a new People strategy focused on: • Talent: Deliver innovative and consistent career development and employee experience. • Leadership: Build diverse and global leadership capabilities and pipeline. End of FY15 • Culture: Inspire employees to embrace culture, values, and integrity. • Organizational effectiveness: Deliver organizational transformation through workforce planning and organizational health analytics. Launch a new performance management program. End of FY15 Establish leadership commitments and introduce a capability assessment model. Use this leadership assessment to drive accountability and provide managers with the capabilities they End of FY15 need to develop their teams. Establish a differentiated compensation model that rewards behaviors and outcomes that End of FY15 support business success. Strengthen recruitment by building a clear picture of what Cisco offers prospective employees. End of FY15 Develop a talent plan for key strategic roles, with a priority on internal talent progression. End of FY15 Transition to an enterprise-wide approach to drive awareness, increase our workforce diversity, End of FY15 and integrate inclusion into key business and talent systems, policies, and practices. Achieved Partially Achieved Ongoing 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C4 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details 2015 Highlights Great Place Fortune Our People Deal to Work™ 100 Best Companies No. No. 1 Italy 1 Portugal International to Work For Recognition We launched No. 1 Switzerland Our People Deal, No. 2 Spain focused on No. 3 Chile transforming the No. 4 Norway employee experience No. 4 Peru No. 1 at Cisco. Aon Hewitt Best Employer (in Czech Best Teams Republic and Canada) Performance We established our People Leadership Management Commitments to drive transformations, build the best teams, We developed and create the Sync Up, a new way best employee of managing performance. experience. We created an 72 percent of people leaders executive leadership and 70 percent of employees team diverse in agreed that Sync Up gender, ethnicity, allows for more meaningful performance and Leadership generation, and work experience. development discussions. Diversity 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C5 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details PRIORIT Y Talent: The Right People, at the Right Time Our business strategy is clear. We are now transforming the work Keeping and developing our people is fundamental to Our People experience, investing in our employees to be at their best, and Strategy. We have so many talented people who choose to build their enabling them to innovate. careers with us. In fact, around 40 percent of our jobs are filled by people who already work here. That’s where Our People Strategy and Our People Deal come in. We are connecting our business strategy with Our People Strategy, which One way we make this happen is through the Stretch Assignment will help us achieve our business outcomes through our people and Marketplace (SAM). In addition to the traditional career development teams. Our People Deal details our values, what our employees can path through internal requisitions and career advancement, SAM is a expect of us, and what we ask of them in return. place where employees can find a short-term project or assignment to develop their skills. The assignments do not exceed six months or eight hours per week and give our people the opportunity to expand their skills and network, creating access to future growth Our People Strategy and Our People Deal will help us: opportunities. Anyone at Cisco can post a stretch assignment or • Drive improvements in the way leaders manage people apply to an available assignment. We filled 300 stretch assignments • E nable an innovative employee experience that attracts in FY15; 79 percent of the assignments were cross-functional. the best On average, one new assignment is posted each day. • Take inclusion and collaboration further than ever Read more on C21. • Identify and keep our top talent to spark innovation and secure our future 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C6 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Developing Tomorrow’s Leaders—Right Now Leadership Pipeline engaged in innovation projects across the company, aggressively We don’t just train. We nurture people’s skills and invest in their working to deploy their learnings on current business challenges. leadership potential. Further, 52 percent of the program participants have received a One of Cisco’s many initiatives is an 18-month development program promotion within the last 18 months to the next level of responsibility. for high-potential people leaders at early career stages. Our goal is to The acceleration of this talent is creating tremendous depth for us at retain this top talent, accelerate their impact on the company, and critical leadership positions across the company. prepare them for influential roles within the company. Our reach with We also have created an alumni network for this talent to continue to the program is global and crosses every function, enabling us to have an accelerated impact on the company following the completion foster a global community of tremendous talent, ready to address the of the program. They are expected to be catalysts for innovation and challenges that arise in every area of our business. Currently, we have change within their role and across their teams. retained 97 percent of this population and have over 260 participants 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C7 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details PRIORIT Y Inclusion, Diversity, and Collaboration To achieve our business goals and accelerate our transformation through our people, we need innovative strategies to fuel a highly We have used years of research and thought leadership to diverse, inclusive, and collaborative culture. This need offers a lead the way and help fulfill the promises of Our People Deal. growing opportunity to Cisco, as both customers and investors are We have sharpened our focus on the initiatives that have the focused on increasing the number of women and minorities in all ability to create exponential value in driving inclusion, diversity, leadership roles, including the composition of our Board of Directors. and collaboration, laying the groundwork by: In 2014, we created the Office of Inclusion and Collaboration (OIC) to • Expanding our insight into diverse representation blaze the trail—beginning with the groundwork needed to support an • Exploring new practices to attract and hire diverse talent inspired vision of unleashing the full power and potential of our people. • Driving leadership capabilities To start, we have redefined how we talk about diversity, inclusion, and • Accelerating the development of emerging leaders collaboration; look at key challenges and opportunities; communicate • Growing vibrant communities what’s at stake; and come together to create strategies to drive exponential value for Cisco, our customers, and our communities. We have expanded our view of diversity, creating a broader, deeper understanding of the power of diverse perspectives from across different cultures, abilities, genders, generations, ethnicities, orientations, and points of view. Read more on C15. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C8 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details CASE STUDY All In: Global Momentum Through Inclusion and Collaboration (I&C) Accelerating our transformation through our people starts with creating the right opportunities to inspire and support them. In 2015, we gained global momentum in doing just that, bringing people together on a global scale to connect and discuss what it really takes to be inclusive—to collaborate, to overcome obstacles, to step outside comfort zones, and to blaze new trails that benefit everyone. This year, we saw record attendance at our Women of Impact Conference—a flagship event for the development and advancement of women in technology. Attendance doubled to over 6500 employees, customers, and partners across 80 sites worldwide. Our theme—“Be Fearless”—resonated well with our global group, which included a strong showing by Cisco’s Men for Inclusion employee network. Approximately 18,000 new connections were created during the day, and 98 percent of the participants agreed the conference was a worthwhile investment in their career. In Japan and EMEAR, we created I&C Week, expanding on a three-year tradition of bringing forward-leaning employees together to connect, share, learn, and grow. In 2015, the agenda focused on making the conversations around inclusion and collaboration relevant to our customers and partners and on driving innovation—such as the “Do Something Different Tool” to inspire and track new inclusive behaviors. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C9 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details CASE STUDY Inspiring Imaginations: Hackathons and Incubators Hackathons are marathon-style events. We set a challenge, then give Network Programmability Hackathon teams just 24 hours to dream up and build a working prototype. In March, we ran a hackathon to create new “killer” apps or scripts, attracting 450 people from 27 countries who came up with HackIT 100 ideas. We put the best ones into our “incubators” and gave Our biggest hackathon is now in its sixth year. Fueled by caffeine, out prizes totaling $10,000. snacks, and video games, and spurred on by the chance to win US$10,000 in prizes, more than 550 would-be hackers from across IT Incubators our company took part in the latest one. Teams submitted more than To get the most ground-breaking ideas off the ground within 90 days, 100 projects. No less than 15 percent of them have the potential we place them into “IT incubators.” We give the Cisco people behind to become real products and services. the ideas the resources they need to get the projects going, including lab space, mentors, tools, and access to investors, sponsors, and other team members. We’ve completed 15 projects; 14 more are underway, and three are in the final stages. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C10 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our Plans Moments That Matter To create the most innovative experience for employees, we asked our people what matters 2 My Rewards 3 My Workplace most, and based on their feedback, we have • My Pay • My Workspace • My Benefits • My Facilities pinpointed the “Moments That Matter” in their • My Perks (Birthday & Services careers. Now we are working to improve them Day Off, Weekend Raffle, Family Fun Days) so we can fulfill the promise of Our People Deal. 4 My Technology Some of this work is big and will take time. • My CEC We can make other changes more quickly. 1 My First Impression • My Self-Service However, all of these changes are crucial, so • My Interview 2 3 Experience & Tools • My PC Refresh we are working on all of them right away, rather • My Offer • My First Day 1 4 than prioritizing just a few. The key is that we 5 My Personal are keeping our eyes set squarely on creating 5 Experiences the best employee experience. • My Becoming a Parent 10 • My Personal Events 10 My Last Impression 6 • My Cisco Anniversaries • My Retirement • My Leaving Cisco 9 8 7 6 My Making a “I want Cisco to be known for having the Difference most innovative employee experience. 9 My Innovation • My Volunteering I want us to be known as a company that • My Innovation Hub • My Innovation Capability • My Donations • My CSR/Sustainability builds amazing teams, transforms how Impact work is done, and changes the world.” 8 My Manager 7 My Development Chuck Robbins • My Change of Manager • My Promotion (Including CEO • My Manager Support Celebrating Promotion) Groups • My Stretch Assignment Marketplace • My Cisco Live Internal 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C11 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details 2016 Objectives Objectives Target Date Transform the employee experience through Our People Deal by: • Focusing on Connecting Everything, Innovating Everywhere, and Benefiting Everyone; continuing to focus on our employee experience by delivering the Moments that Matter (those defining career/personal End of FY16 moments for employees) • L aunching a new performance management experience (building on our new Sync Up approach) • Continuing to engage employees to innovate through creative forums including the Innovation Challenge Accelerate Leadership Development to elevate the Power of Teams by: • Using analytics and technology to provide leaders with insight into their team’s strengths, work priorities, and engagements End of FY16 • Launching the best teams at Cisco, understanding what the leaders of these teams do to accelerate excellence Build a plan for digital HR that will seamlessly allow our talent to be mobile, productive, and agile. End of FY16 Scale and accelerate our enterprise-wide approach to drive awareness, increase our workforce diversity, End of FY16 and integrate inclusion into key businesses and talent systems, policies, and practices. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C12 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our People Our People Deal Inclusion, Diversity, & Collaboration Developing Our People The Details Rewarding Our People A Safe & Healthy We are writing our next chapter. We are going to connect more things than ever, innovate more than ever, Workplace and benefit more people than ever. At the center of it all is our people. Our success depends on them—their engagement, their talent, their innovation, and their desire to continue to learn and grow. We can attract and keep the best people by making their experience with us the best it can be. We are going to give them a flexible work environment where they will be safe and healthy, where they can be their authentic selves, where they can get training and improve themselves, and where they will be rewarded for hard work. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C13 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our People Deal Our People Deal Inclusion, Diversity, This year, we created Our People Deal. We have always & Collaboration wanted it to be a movement—not a mandate. Something to inspire and empower our people. We listened to our people and used their own ideas to create it. Developing Our People Our People Deal sums up what it means to be part of Cisco and it is integral to everything we do. It is our Rewarding vision of who we want to be and what people can expect from us. It is about connecting everything, innovating Our People everywhere, and benefiting everyone. A Safe & Healthy Workplace It’s Already Working Our people have spoken, and we have listened. Here are some of the changes we have already made. • Better ways to manage performance: We now focus on our people and their development. For example, • More recognition for good work: Our Connected over the world can get the latest news on our business, Sync Up gives us real-time feedback between people Recognition program lets people praise their strategy, brand, culture, and awards. We refreshed leaders and employees—and keeps it all informal. colleagues and reward them in real ways. our CEC to be more dynamic and agile and to enable employees to find information faster. It is updated • Clearer expectations for people leaders: Our leaders • Improved office technology: Our people can be now have People Leadership Commitments to guide more agile, connect better, and innovate more. We constantly and approximately 90 percent of our people them in driving transformation, building the best teams, use our Cisco TV, WebEx,® TelePresence,™ Spark,™ use it as their main source of company news. and creating the best experience for our people. Now and Jabber® technologies to connect with people • Improved recruiting: We want the best. We use social our people also can give their leaders direct feedback anywhere in the world in real time. media, events, and our career website to connect, on how they are living up to these commitments. engage, and attract those people. In addition, we • Better communication: We help our people launched a social media recruiting tool we call Social • Better benefits: We now have “take your birthday off,” communicate more freely and closely by using the for example. We have also changed our formula for latest communication technology. The Cisco Employee Avengers, and it has increased our followers by bonuses to be more equitable. Connection (CEC) is a hub where Cisco people from all 40 percent. • More supportive culture: We are more focused on supporting amazing teams and transforming how “We listened. We evolved.” people do their work. We have also created an environment where 88 percent of our people believe they are able to bring their authentic self to work regardless of background or beliefs. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C14 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our People Deal We’re Still Listening Everybody’s voice matters. We work to make sure CASE STUDY Inclusion, Diversity, everyone is heard. & Collaboration People Leader Feedback Survey This year, we launched our People Leadership Developing Commitments that spell out what makes a great leader. Our People To see how effective they were, we asked our employees how their leaders were living up to those commitments. Rewarding Our People Those results included 60,000 suggestions and individual reports for our 7330 leaders (including 95 percent of our vice presidents). A Safe & Healthy Workplace Pulse Survey Since 2006, our annual Pulse survey has given our people a voice. Over the last 10 years, more than 75 percent (50,000 people) got back to us each year. Through Pulse, every leader sees how their team views life at Cisco, from our culture to their confidence in our future. For example, in 2014, 71 percent of our people said they believed in our strategy, and 73 percent were confident about our future. We wanted more, so we simplified our strategy statement, developed Our People Managing Performance Better Deal, and engaged our employees. Now, 93 percent of In FY15, we made a bold decision: We eliminated performance ratings and distribution curves. Instead, our leaders have our people agree with our strategy statement, 82 percent ongoing, real conversations with their people. This is Sync Up, and it is an important part of Our People Deal. say they believe in it, and 83 percent are confident we A lot of people were skeptical at first, because they thought that getting rid of ratings would make the relationship between will succeed. leader and employee less transparent. However, now that the vast majority of our people have started having Sync Up conversations, they realize that the elements that make a successful Cisco employee have remained the same. The difference is that it is now easier for leaders and employees to speak clearly about these things, without a rating getting in the way. In fact, 72 percent of people leaders and 70 percent of employees agreed that Sync Up allows for more meaningful performance and development discussions than the former performance rating system. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C15 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our People Deal Inclusion, Diversity, We have focused on exploring new approaches to attracting the full spectrum of diverse talent, and and ethnicity representation across technical, nontechnical, and manager-level roles. Inclusion, Diversity, and Collaboration are beginning the process of building new models and frameworks for innovation. We have amplified With new insight, we have started a powerful new dialogue & Collaboration across our leadership about what’s at stake, what value we and accelerated successful initiatives to develop our Key GRI G4 Indicators emerging leaders. We have also almost doubled the can create, and how we can come together to create it. Developing GRI G4 Standard Disclosures: 10. number of people joining in our growing Cisco I&C Our People Communities, from 13,000 last year to over 23,000. Leading the conversation is a new Chief Inclusion and GRI G4-LA1: Total number and rates of new employee Collaboration Officer, a new Chief People Officer, and hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, It has been a milestone year for Cisco and the new OIC a new CEO. Our Executive Leadership Team (ELT) is Rewarding and region. and we have built a strong foundation. Here are some potentially one of the most diverse in our industry and Our People GRI G4-LA12: Composition of governance bodies of the significant steps we have taken: reflects the full spectrum of Cisco’s diversity—gender, and breakdown of employees per employee category generation, ethnicity, culture, experience, expertise, according to gender, age group, minority group A Safe & Healthy ability, nationality, and tenure at Cisco. membership, and other indicators of diversity. Expanding Our Insight into Diverse Workplace Representation Our diverse ELT gives us new perspective and demonstrates A year ago, we transformed our Global Inclusion and Diversity is fundamental to who we are. Our view of that diversity is fundamental to our business. Diversity function into a first of its kind—the Office of diversity is expansive—a full spectrum of different backgrounds, abilities, genders, generations, cultures, Inclusion and Collaboration (OIC). The formation of the Building Leadership Capability OIC was based on four years of thought leadership and ethnicities, orientations, work styles, and points of view. As a global company, we see diverse representation as Our insights into representation have given us an groundbreaking research on the business value that is foundational to value creation. We still have challenges important edge in building a strong foundation. However, possible from the convergence of diversity, inclusion, to overcome. They’re challenges that are common within representation is just one part of a much larger vision. collaboration, and technology. our industry and we have come to understand that we We have also been building inclusive leadership capabilities. Inclusion and Collaboration (I&C) is a critical part of need an uncommon approach to resolving them. Starting with the top two levels of executive leaders, we Our People Deal. We listened and used ideas from Enhancing our insight into what it truly takes to increase are changing the way we talk about diversity, inclusion, our leaders, our employees, our customers, and diverse representation was an important step this year. and collaboration; the way we measure our progress; forward-leaning thinkers across industries to create an To gain this insight, we expanded our view into our and how we connect our business strategies and our organization that could drive transformation through our workforce diversity data, adding new details on gender inclusive practices. people. I&C is our vision of how we will unleash the full potential of our people. We have taken critical steps to expand our insight into “Connect everything.” the challenges and opportunities for increasing diverse representation. We are building inclusive leadership capabilities, starting with the top two levels of executives across the company. We have also created results-driven Inclusion Leadership Teams within every region and function. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C16 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our People Deal We also have made commitments to intensify our accountability for inclusive leadership. We are committed Figure 1. Executive Leadership Team to lead by example, and to create an inclusive environment Inclusion, Diversity, where people openly share their own perspectives and Began career 17 YEARS & Collaboration responsible for $2.3 million, 20 years with are respected, valued, and heard. We want to inspire which is now $47 billion MATH MAJOR General Electric Development and and attract diverse talent, break silos, and unleash the Innovation across Cisco’s 3 YEARS $36 Billion Developing power and potential of our people so that we can clearly 19 YEARS Technology Financial strategy and Portfolio operations Our People see how to connect everything, innovate everywhere, of Cisco CNBC CFO and benefit everyone. Previously at: Khosla Ventures, Council IBM, CH U CK Kelly HP Kramer One of the 40 Most Pankaj ROB B I N S Influential Lawyers Rewarding We scaled the highly successful I&C Planning Process, Patel CE O Chief Finance Officer of the Decade Chief Development Our People including our Business Stakeholder Reviews, across our NEW Officer 21 YEARS V I SI ON leaders within these top two levels. This included creating AU T H E N T I CI T Y E XE CU T I ON A Safe & Healthy a targeted methodology for sharing and discussing Biri Singh I N N OVAT I ON T E AM R E SU LT S Mark Chandler SVP & General Chief Technology Workplace organization-specific diversity data and trends and $20 Billion in acquisitions Officer Counsel CIO Hall of Fame engaging leadership teams in new strategies. We built Investment portfolio T E CH N OLOGY T RU ST $2 billion Reshaped and elevated Inclusion Leadership Teams (ILTs) across every region and 14 the role of IT at Cisco YEARS function to translate new insights and ideas into businessHilton Romanski DI SRU PT I ON OPE R AT I ON AL 20 E XCE LLE N CE Rebecca YEARS relevant strategies and align actions to goals to accelerate Chief Strategy Officer Jacoby the culture of diverse hiring, retention, development, and Previously at: E XE CU T I V E SVP, Operations inclusion. We also launched the Global ILT Innovation PASSI ON LEADERSHIP DI GI T I Z AT I ON Forum, to give our ILTs a collaborative environment to 6 TEAM YEARS NEW Karen Walker Kevin Bandy share successful practices and drive innovation. Chief Marketing CR I T I CAL THINKING R E LAT I ON SH I PS Chief Digital Officer Officer Previously at: Previously at: In order for our leaders to continue to develop the Accountable for a $2B global revenue marketing goal E XE CU T I ON CU LT U R E Rhea Springs, Salesforce, Accenture advanced skills necessary to accelerate diverse hiring, 2014 SirusDecisions Dr. Ruba Borno Chris Dedicoat all managers and above are asked to complete our ROI Award Joined from: VP Growth Initiatives & Chief of Staff EVP, Worldwide EMEAR Sales SOLID Managing Bias training. This training strengthens their Joe Cozzolino Francine Katsoudas GROWTH far outpacing competitors Chief People ability to recognize bias and to drive the policies, NEW SVP, Services Officer 20 YEARS Intel practices, and systems that will help us neutralize it. Ph.D Fellow PhD and Master of 25 years Company Science in Electrical experience overall Talent Engineering engineering, management, development We have also made cultural competency a top priority, sales and services performance and diversity Electrical Engineering 2 19 Organizational launching Project Horizon for 66 of our Country Leaders. and MBA Previously: YEARS YEARS strategy Innovative Project Horizon centers on our belief that cultural Motorola leadership competency is foundational to creating value through the power of teams across our global company. The program 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C17 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our People Deal starts with rigorous assessments for each Country Our Diverse Hiring Practices are part of an integrated Leader, identifying gaps in capabilities to leverage and holistic approach, beginning with the way we attract CASE STUDY diversity and integrate teams across cultures. Targeted qualified applicants to the way we talk to candidates Inclusion, Diversity, development plans follow, along with transformational about their qualifications—and the people we gather to & Collaboration practices for resolving existing challenges and creating lead those conversations. innovative solutions. Developing We have accelerated the adoption of Diverse Interviewer Our People We are asking a lot of our leaders. We are asking them Panels (DIPs) as a key part of the interview process for to align on how to build a stronger foundation and create all hiring opportunities across every function and every a framework for innovation. We are asking them to break region in our company. Our data shows that Diverse Rewarding down barriers, drive action and accountability, and model Interviewer Panels, which include a set of interviewers Our People greatness in inclusive leadership. of mixed gender and/or diverse ethnicity, increase the odds for hiring Black/African Americans by 70 percent Marriage Equality A Safe & Healthy In 2015, our Pulse scores indicated an improvement and Hispanic/Latinos and women by 50 percent within Benefit Everyone: The Long-Reaching Value Workplace within two key measures of inclusive leadership a group of applicants for a single job requisition. Our of Marriage Equality capability. The scores for the questions: “My team has Inclusion Leadership Teams are leading the acceleration— We were one of the very first U.S. companies to a climate in which diverse perspectives are valued” and making sure we connect talent acquisition practices recognize that marriage inequality outside of the “Cisco senior leaders emphasize the value of a diverse across the company and building the leadership workplace significantly hindered our ability to provide workforce” increased year over year. capabilities that will enable us to amplify the value. equal benefits to the families of our LGBT employees. So we took action—years of persistent action—to Our People Leadership Feedback Survey results affirmed address this fundamental problem. We also ramped up resources and training for those who our growing capabilities. The scores for the questions make and influence hiring decisions. In FY15, all talent Starting in 2009 with our groundbreaking “True Up” “My manager is committed to maximizing his/her skills, recruiters globally participated in training to enhance tax equalization measure, which provided equal tax my manager is self-aware and holds herself/himself treatment for our U.S. employees regardless of the their understanding of recruiting diverse talent. They now state in which they live, we created policies and accountable for leading by example” and “My manager create personal strategies for connecting with diverse practices to break down the obstacles. We took this creates an environment where people openly share their talent on social media. battle to the U.S. Supreme Court, signing “friendsown perspectives, are respected, valued, and heard” of-the-court” briefs along with other forward-leaning were the two highest rated in the 2015 survey. companies arguing that “the burden imposed by Accelerating the Development of inconsistent and discriminatory state laws of having Emerging Leaders to administer complicated schemes to account for Exploring New Practices to Attract As we have created new capabilities for our top leaders, differential treatment of similarly situated employees breeds unnecessary confusion, tension, and diminished Diverse Talent we have also created opportunities for our emerging employee morale.” As our leaders have gained new capabilities, we have ones. We have listened to our employees and they have In June 2015, the Supreme Court agreed, ruling explored new foundational practices to attract, retain, told us what really makes an impact in their ability to in Obergefell v. Hodges to guarantee the right for and promote the full spectrum of talent. In 2015, we connect, collaborate, grow, and develop the mindsets marriage equality. focused on accelerating the full scale adoption of proven and skillsets to move forward and lead. Benefitting everyone starts with equality everywhere. practices for excellence in inclusive hiring. To achieve it, we will fight the good fight, for our employees, for our customers and partners, for our country, and for our world. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C18 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our People Deal That is why we have sharpened our focus and In Japan, we created Project Quantum, a year-long Growing Vibrant Communities streamlined our strategic programs, initiatives, and events program designed to rapidly accelerate the development At Cisco, our culture of inclusion is fueled by a vibrant to what we call the “critical few.” We are putting our of high-potential women and create a breakthrough Inclusion, Diversity, I&C Community—a platform for diverse groups to come investment and energy into a more targeted portfolio of in gender diversity in leadership positions. Along with & Collaboration together, collaborate, and deliver high-impact initiatives. internal development initiatives with proven high returns in-depth training, participants actively shadowed Our I&C Community includes Employee Resource for our diverse emerging leaders. and interacted with global senior executives, created Organizations (EROs), virtual groups built around the Developing stretch assignments, and met frequently to share their unique needs of diverse groups of employees, such as Our People Our success is demonstrated by the exponential growth experiences and learning. Conexion, Connected Black Professionals, and Connected in participation in some of our top internal development Women. Our Business Initiated Networks, including programs. JUMP, a nine-month program that brings The impact of the program has been huge—over Rewarding Women in Cyber Security and Men for Inclusion, are high-potential female participants together to focus on 50 percent of the participants have been promoted since Our People aligned by function to support critical business imperatives authentic leadership, strategic thinking, and increasing joining the program and 15 percent have been elevated and facilitate employee development. The I&C Community impact, grew 24 percent this year. JUMP has improved to people leadership roles. To share their insights and also includes our Employee Virtual Groups to help connect A Safe & Healthy our retention of this critical group—by 81 percent in the inspire others to take the leap, participants in Project remote workers and I&C Ambassadors, who advocate for Workplace first year after completing the program. Participation in Quantum created a book titled “Finding the Aspiring and help drive our culture of inclusion at Cisco. DARE—short for Development, Authenticity, Readiness, Leader in You: Bringing the People Deal to Life.” and Excellence—was up 107 percent this year over We have driven expansion in our I&C Community over 2014. The program targets our early-in-career women, As we have sharpened our focus on the critical few the last year, growing from 13,000 to 23,000 strong—a focusing on visibility, internal politics, and positive internal initiatives, we have also focused on key strategic 75‑percent increase. With over 160 chapters in 43 branding. In 2015, DARE improved retention within the collaborations to expand our capabilities to develop, countries, the I&C Community engages every function group by 72 percent. engage, and empower our people. We collaborate with and region in the company, and 33 percent of Cisco over 25 world-class organizations that excel in the areas employees now participate. Our Next-Generation Leader (NGL) Program, a nineof social advocacy, groundbreaking research and insights, month development intensive program designed to and individual and team development. Some examples Connecting and collaborating through communities increase retention and promotion of high-potential Pacific of our global strategic partnerships include: Anita Borg ultimately benefits everyone. It offers powerful Rim Asian leaders from midto senior-level roles, created Institute, Hispanic IT Executive Council, Disabilities opportunities to network, build relationships, and grow significant gains within its initial pilot group. Current NGL Matters, Out and Equal, Diversity Best Practices, Global capabilities; deeper insight into diverse viewpoints; participants were promoted 74% higher than non-class Advancement of Women, and the Executive Leadership and better ability to attract, hire, develop, and promote participants. In FY15, we expanded the scope of this Council (ELC). diverse talent. successful program to emerging African-American/Black leaders. The initial NGL: African-American/Black program Through a wide range of live and virtual events, expanded on the original design and brought managers conferences, and programs, the organizations we work and their high-performing employees together to embrace with drive business value from the convergence of differences, unlock talent, and foster disruptive thinking diversity, inclusion, collaboration, and technology. and collaboration. Next year, we will expand again to include Hispanic/Latino participants. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C19 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our People Deal Diversity Data We have published workforce diversity statistics in our Inclusion, Diversity, Corporate Social Responsibility Report since 2005. This year & Collaboration we have expanded the data to include additional gender, race, and ethnicity information from Cisco’s 2014 EEO-1 report. Our 2015 EEO-1 submission can be found online. Developing Our People Table 1. Gender Diversity Rewarding FY13 FY14 FY15 Our People Female employees globally 23% 23% 23% A Safe & Healthy Female new hires globally 23% 23% 25% Workplace Female managers globally 20% 19% 18% (including directors) Female vice presidents 16% 17% 19% globally Female employees in the 26% 26% 26% United States Female managers in the 23% 22% 20% United States (including directors) Female vice presidents 19% 18% 19% “The biggest advantage that Cisco has is our people, who wake up in the United States every day with a passion for winning and changing the world. Cisco’s Inclusion and Collaboration strategies give us a huge opportunity to Table 2. Ethnic Diversity increase the impact of a diverse workforce and the drive toward the FY13 FY14 FY15 business outcomes our customers are asking for. Our industry is Percent of non-Caucasian 46% 46% 45% experiencing so much change, and in an environment this dynamic, employees in U.S. operations no one person can have all the answers—there is incredible power in Percent of non-Caucasian new hires in U.S. operations 48% 44% 47% diverse perspectives, now more than ever.” Percent of non-Caucasian 24% 28% 27% Chuck Robbins, vice presidents in U.S. operations CEO 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C20 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Circle size 1 inch Our People Deal Figure 2. FY15 Diversity Snapshot1 (Total Employees in FY15: 71,822) Inclusion, Diversity, Workforce Diversity—Overall Executive Leadership Team (ELT) Diversity (includes CEO and his direct reports) & Collaboration 23% Female 26% Female 36% Asian 77% Male 74% Male 5% Hispanic/Latino 38% Female 3% African American/Black 62% Male Developing Global Gender U.S. Gender U.S. Ethnicity 0.2% American Indian/Alaska Native Global ELT U.S. ELT Overall Overall Overall 0.1% Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander Gender Ethnicity Our People Overall Overall 1% Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) 55% White/Caucasian Rewarding 15% Asian Workforce Diversity—Technical2 8% Hispanic/Latino Our People 49% Asian 8% Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino)* 14% Female 4% Hispanic/Latino 69% White/Caucasian 85% Male 3% African American/Black 0%: Indian/Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander A Safe & Healthy 0.2% American Indian/Alaska Native * Two or More Races represented are African American and Asian Global Gender U.S. Ethnicity Workplace Technical Technical 0.1% Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander Cisco Board Diversity 1% Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) 43% White/Caucasian 27% Female Workforce Diversity—Non-Technical 2 73% Male Global Board U.S. Board 36% Female 23% Asian Genders Ethnicity 7% Hispanic/Latino Overall Overall 64% Male 4% African American/Black Global Gender U.S. Ethnicity 0.2% American Indian/Alaska Native 9% Asian Non-Technical Non-Technical 0.2% Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander 91% White/Caucasian 1% Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) 0%: Hispanic/Latino, African American/Black, American Indian/Alaska Native, 64% White/Caucasian Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander, Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) Workforce Diversity—Leadership Managers3 and VPs Hiring Diversity 18% Female 20% Female 30% Asian 4% Hispanic/Latino 25% Female 82% Male 80% Male 75% Male 2% African American/Black Global Gender U.S.Gender U.S. Ethnicity 0.3% American Indian/Alaska Native Global Gender U.S. Ethnicity Managers* Managers* Managers* 0.1% Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander New Hires New Hires 1% Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) 63% White/Caucasian 19% Female 19% Female 22% Asian 35% Asian 81% Male 81% Male 4% Hispanic/Latino 5% Hispanic/Latino 1% African American/Black 4% African American/Black Global Gender U.S. Gender U.S. Ethnicity 1% American Indian/Alaska Native 0.2% American Indian/Alaska Native VPs VPs VPs 0% Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander 0.3% Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander 0% Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) 2% Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) 73% White/Caucasian 53% White/Caucasian 1. Some figures may not total 100% due to rounding of underlying data. 2. Based on alignment to EEO-1 job categories. 3. People managers, directors, and senior directors. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C21 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our People Deal Developing Our People Developing the Way They Lead Our new CEO, Chuck Robbins, has been with us for 17 Since the program started in FY14, we have had four groups of senior directors who have started the program together. To date, we have reached 15 percent of our Inclusion, Diversity years. He is a testament to what we do for our leaders. senior director population. By the end of FY16, we & Collaboration Key GRI G4 Indicators At every level of our business we are training, coaching, will achieve our program goal of 20 percent. Program GRI G4-LA9: Average hours of training per year per and creating opportunities to help our employees develop benefits have included: employee by gender, and by employee category. the right skills to advance in their careers at Cisco. Developing • Improved leadership pipeline: 12.5 percent of GRI G4-LA10: Programs for skills management and Our People lifelong learning that support the continued employability Our leadership framework, C-LEAD, has helped our program participants have been promoted to VP, of employees and assist them in managing career endings. leaders develop the five skills and behaviors we look for which accounts for 20 percent of all VP promotions Rewarding GRI G4-LA11: Percentage of employees receiving in any leader: the ability to collaborate, learn, execute, since program inception. accelerate, and disrupt. Our People regular performance and career development reviews, • Business value through strategic projects: 18 by gender and by employee category. projects have been completed with these crossWe have formal training programs for anyone who functional teams of senior leaders. Projects have A Safe & Healthy wants to become a better leader—from live, virtual, and ranged from understanding new market dynamics and Workplace We help people be the best they can be, so we can online learning to one-on-one coaching. Our Leadership looking for new industry segments to standardizing all succeed. Development Roadmap lets people at any stage in their language and processes and improving global career quickly see what training and support we offer to business coordination. Developing Their Skills help them move up the leadership ladder. • New career opportunities: Many participants have Whatever their role, function, grade, or location, our been exposed to different parts of the company people always have the opportunity to learn new skills. Developing New Executives outside their previous job roles and have continued In FY15, we provided 3.86 million hours of training and Our High Potential Senior Director Program is an 8-week to develop their leadership skills through different job development for our people. program that gives our next-generation VPs early assignments and ongoing coaching. exposure on how to work beyond what they do. Our Professional Skills program has more than 800 We also want to develop more female leaders. This courses to build people’s skills and make them better They get a chance to apply a strategy framework to a program helps us identify them. It also gives women leaders. In FY15, 23,500 employees took advantage of the current business issue with the goal of making us better. insight into how our business is evolving—and how they program, totaling approximately 135,000 hours of training. We assess how well they lead and coach them on how can evolve their careers alongside it. Women account We ask our employees to rate the courses, which to be more effective. On top of that, they get to meet for 23 percent of our past participants. That’s about the consistently get a rating of four or more out of five. our company’s top leaders and learn from them as same ratio of women to men in our company but a full role models. six points above our FY14 percent of women VPs, which We adapt our training to the ways people learn best. is good progress. Training can take place over the web or in virtual classes, real classes, workshops, or short tutorials. It can be specialized or general. To better understand our culture and get better at their role, employees have the opportunity to choose a mentor. Our Global Mentoring Connection website makes “Innovate everywhere.” it easy to find the right fit. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C22 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our People Deal Spreading Their Wings In addition to training people, we give them experience Inclusion, Diversity in different areas of the business. That could be through People Leadership Commitments & Collaboration stretch assignments or a job rotation. This gives people the chance to develop new skills, while also helping us Focus Why “My Goal” What “My Commitment” fill any gaps. Be self-aware and confident. • I’m committed to maximize my strengths and developing my skills, Developing Me as a Lead by example, be curious, I’m self aware and hold myself accountable for leading by example. Our People Leader and create an inclusive In FY15, we expanded our Stretch Assignment Marketplace • I create an environment where people openly share their own perspectives, environment. and are respected, valued and heard. (SAM) across the entire enterprise. This evolution of our Rewarding SAM will let people find challenging work, so they can • I inspire and attract diverse talent, I frequently provide actionable performance My Team Drive horizontal engagement feedback and development coaching, and actively build a high-performing team. Our People use their skills and fulfill their aspirations. It gives people and lead linear and • I communicate and own Cisco's strategy, creating strongly aligned, challenging the chance to work on diverse assignments and develop exponential execution. goals for my team to realize our business outcomes. their potential. A Safe & Healthy Our • I unlock my team’s energy and passion to drive the next wave of change and Company Outpace the competition and develop leading edge solutions. Workplace Career Progression drive growth and profitability. • I break siloes, connect my team across functions, and support talent movement to achieve shared success. All this helps keep our people with us, in long and thriving Our careers. Career Days, Learning Days, University Days, Customer Enable our customers’ • I lead my team to know our customers’ challenges and partner with them to identify and deliver the outcomes they need. and our Career Advisory Services also help our people Business Goals: • I foster a culture that fuels innovation, curiosity, bold risk taking and fast Be the #1 IT Partner explore the opportunities available to them. decision making. More than 60,000 employees used our Career Development website to take advantage of Plan Your Career, to learn about assignments they could take, and to connect with mentors, peers, and advisors. Our Talent Finding the Greatness in People Connection Program also helps our people find and apply People leaders inspire our people, so we are making them the best leaders they can be. In FY15, we rolled out our People for available jobs around the business. Leadership Commitments and related initiatives to help them understand how to build and lead successful teams. What do we expect of our people? It’s all in our People Leadership Commitments, with our goals divided into four areas: Me as a Leader, My Team, Our Company, Our Customer. Making Sure It’s Working The People Leader Feedback Survey lets our leaders know how they are doing. After the survey, leaders meet with their own managers to talk about the feedback and their team’s suggestions. Then they go back to their teams to talk about the survey’s themes and make plans to deal with them. This helps us shape our training. It helps us make our leaders the best they have ever been. More than 7000 leaders have participated in our events and 95 percent of them have put what they learned into practice. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C23 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details • Our People Deal Rewarding Our People We give people compensation, benefits, and long-term savings packages that are competitive. Our goal is Paid Family Leave: This gives employees up to one week of pay to care for a seriously ill family member. that “total cash” (their base pay and bonus) should be Alternatively, they can increase their Paid Bonding Inclusion, Diversity Key GRI G4 Indicators at or near the top quartile of market (compared with our Leave by one week. & Collaboration competitors), no matter where they work. GRI G4-LA2: Benefits provided to full-time employees If someone is adopting a child, they get up to one week that are not provided to temporary or part-time Developing employees, by significant locations of operation. In FY15 our total compensation was approximately of Paid Adoption Leave as well, giving them a total of Our People US$14 billion. That includes salary, benefits, bonus, up to five weeks. commissions, stock awards, and retirement benefit. Everyone at Cisco contributes to the company’s Childcare Services Rewarding performance. That’s why we want to share Cisco’s People also want to know their work makes a difference, Our People and you can’t show that through a bonus. We reward To help employees put their families first, we offer a success with our employees. We want to share even our people in lots of other ways, from big awards to a host of programs, services, and support in a number more with those who contribute great results and simple “bravo.” of locations. A Safe & Healthy leadership. We want all our employees, regardless Workplace of their role at Cisco, to be rewarded based on In both San Jose and Bangalore, for example, we performance, not seniority. Giving Kudos have childcare on campus. Both centers are nationally “Thank you” means so much more when it comes from recognized and accredited with services available Total Rewards your peers. That’s why we launched our Connected through Cisco Family Connections and Families@1st. We want our people to feel like their job is rewarding Recognition program. It is a way for colleagues to praise San Jose provides services to children from six weeks in every sense of the word—not just financially, but their peers, immediately. Last year, our leaders and to 12 years old. Bangalore offers the same service for intellectually and emotionally. people recognized 57,000 people (that’s 80 percent of children three months to five years, as well as a summer our business), with approximately 187,000 nominations. camp for school-aged children. Therefore, our Total Rewards package is not just about money (though that’s part of it). It is also about giving Family Friendly Leave people flexible hours, with more time to pursue their Time with family is important. In 2015 we introduced personal ambitions and look after their loved ones. It is two new types of leave for our U.S. people. about giving people more help with life’s essentials, like on-campus state-of-the-art medical care, childcare, and • Paid Bonding Leave: This gives all new parents fitness centers. three weeks of paid bonding time to spend with their new child. “Benefit everyone.” 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C24 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our People Deal A Safe and Healthy Ergonomic injury is still our greatest occupational safety risk. Our Global Ergonomic Program helps our people Inclusion, Diversity Workplace who work in offices identify, understand, and reduce ergonomic risks. To help prevent these injuries we & Collaboration provided more adjustable furniture. Key GRI G4 Indicators Developing GRI G4-LA6: Type of injury and rates of injury, We address occupational hazards through our programs, Our People occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, risk assessments, tools, and training. We base our and total number of work-related fatalities, by region occupational health and safety programs on global and by gender. regulatory and industry standards that help manage Rewarding and reduce specific hazards. GRI G4-LA7: Workers with high incidence or high risk Our People of diseases related to their occupation. “Work safely” is our key message. We establish controls A Safe & Healthy covering labs, contractors, off-site work, radiation, We offer a number of medical and wellness resources. electrical, hazardous energy, and many other safety issues. Workplace We have technology that allows people to work flexibly. And we provide a wide range of benefits. All to keep In FY16 we are going to focus on office ergonomics, our people healthy, safe, productive, and creative. slips, trips, and falls. We will also prioritize raising awareness and evaluating third-party certification of Health and Wellness our management system. Occupational Health and Safety We want to create a healthy workplace that encourages In FY15 we continued to spread the word about our people to stay well. We have a wide range of programs occupational health and safety management system, Emergency Response and initiatives to help. modeled on the OHSAS 18001 standard. We have: More than 2900 of our people are part of 130 Emergency Response Teams worldwide, ready to respond in A healthy mind is as important as a healthy body. We • Improved how we assess and keep occupational have a free, confidential Employee and Family Assistance health and safety risks in check emergency situations. They are trained to give first aid, help evacuate buildings, and provide other support. Program that lets people talk to trained counselors who • Run training and promotions to make people more give personalized support for emotional, family, financial, safety conscious We carry out Incident Management Drills every year so and legal issues. We also offer specialized guidance on concerns like caring for an elderly parent, adopting a • Driven consistency across the organization we are prepared for a real emergency. In the event of a disaster we keep our employees and others informed child, and dealing with an illness such as cancer. • Evaluated operations for regulatory compliance through the Cisco Employee Connection website. In certain countries, people can sign up for our Emergency To help our people stay fit and well, we have contemporary Our local teams continue to investigate injuries, work fitness centers with modern equipment at our five largest with management, and keep track of how well the Notification System, which allows them to let us know whether they are safe or need help. U.S. campus locations. Providing convenient access program is working. to quality medical care, we offer comprehensive onsite health centers in San Jose, California; Research Triangle 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback C25 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our People Deal Park, North Carolina; and Bangalore, India. Each health In addition, we have technology that allows flexible center location provides primary medical care integrated working, including high-speed wireless access, a wide CASE STUDY with alternative medicine. Services include: variety of TelePresence™ video devices, and social Inclusion, Diversity software platforms that drive community connections. & Collaboration • Primary and family medical care • Lab services and travel medicine Injuries and Lost Time Developing • Physical therapy Increased safety awareness has brought down the injury Our People • Tele-health and lost time rates in the U.S. This is the first year we • Chiropractic and acupuncture (U.S. only) are reporting global injury rates. We will continue to Rewarding monitor for trends. • Dental center and vision center (U.S. only) Our People Table 3. Health and Safety Data Flexible Working A Safe & Healthy Global Expert Medical Opinion When people have a choice over how, where, and when FY13 FY14 FY15 Workplace they work, engagement and productivity rise. We give Our Advance Expert Medical Opinion program gives our people that choice and flexibility, depending on their Total incident rate, per 100 Cisco employees and their families the chance to get a full-time-equivalent (FTE) 0.23 0.38 0.28 free second opinion on medical conditions from leading job function and management approval. employees physicians from all over the globe. Our employees can choose from many different spaces Lost work days, per 100 These physicians will look at an individual case and give 0.7 3.67 2.85 recommendations and a treatment plan. to work in: workstations, open collaboration areas, FTE employees quiet rooms, audio privacy rooms, eCafes, and “creativity/ The program is open to everyone at Cisco, as well as fun zones.” Global All Injuries their dependents, their spouse, and their parents— — — 0.41 (new metric in FY15) anyone who has a serious or complex condition and is looking for advice, no matter where they live. It is global and completely free, and our people do not have to be enrolled in our medical plan to take advantage of it. It has been a huge success. People have told us the Expert Opinion has either changed their course of treatment or validated their choice, giving them peace of mind. “This service and the compassion of the team—from intake to final delivery—made my wife and I feel very loved and cared for by Cisco. I could not believe that Cisco would do this for an employee. Dr. Walsh was compassionate and expert. We felt finally like we had some grasp on the very bad medical problems experienced by my children.” — Cisco Marketing Manager, Orlando, Florida 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback D1 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Society Our Priorities “Whether creating better access to education and healthcare, restoring communications after disaster strikes, or helping nonprofits better serve more people, information and communications technology (ICT) can strengthen communities and improve lives.” Kathy Mulvany Vice President, Corporate Affairs 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback D2 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Cisco has been integral to the growth of the Internet, and we recognize in Uganda. Meanwhile our Supplier and Partner Diversity programs that digitization can help solve some of the world’s biggest challenges. also support wider economic empowerment, while giving us the benefit of more diverse and innovative businesses. Through our social investments, we empower global problem solvers to harness technology to address these challenges. Whether creating Finally, our employees are embracing Cisco’s commitment to connect better access to education and healthcare, restoring communications everything, innovate everywhere, and benefit everyone in their own after disaster strikes, or helping nonprofits better serve more people, communities. They volunteered 155,600 hours in FY15, with 28 information and communications technology (ICT) can strengthen percent of time spent mentoring young people in science, technology, communities and improve lives. engineering, and math (STEM)–critical fields in an increasingly digital world. Through our direct programs and those we implement with In FY15, our Cisco Networking Academy® program helped one million partners, we are reimagining how connectivity can foster positive people develop valuable ICT and career skills. Many of them were social change. women, people with disabilities, and underrepresented minorities. Our unique approach of making early-stage investments of cash and product to innovative nonprofits is speeding the pace of social Kathy Mulvany change. Cisco grantee Living Goods developed a mobile platform Vice President, to empower women entrepreneurs in Africa to sell affordable health Corporate Affairs products in their communities. An FY15 study showed the Living Goods program is helping to reduce child mortality by 27 percent 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback D3 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details 2015 Objectives and Progress Objectives Target Date Progress Provide at least 7 million meals for people in need through employee donations to our annual End of FY15 Global Hunger Relief Campaign. Reach 145,000 employee volunteer hours. End of FY15 Engage 500 employees in 10,000 STEM volunteer hours as part of our 7-year commitment End of FY15 to the US2020 initiative. Support 5500 remote patient visits worldwide through Cisco collaboration technologies. End of FY15 Connect 7000 U.S. military veterans to ICT training, credentials, and job opportunities through 1 End of FY15 Phase 2 of the IT Training and Certification Program and similar state initiatives. Reach 250,000 factory and farm workers through the Labor Link mobile platform developed End of FY15 by Good World Solutions and supported by Cisco. Reach 70 social enterprise customers supporting 80,000 farmers and microentrepreneurs and End of FY15 3 million poor beneficiaries through our support for Grameen Foundation’s TaroWorks initiative. Integrate diverse suppliers, partners, and business solutions into the sales department to meet End of FY15 customer requirements. 1. Phase 2 of the IT Training and Certification program was not launched. In FY15, we directed our efforts to the NC4ME Achieved Partially Achieved Ongoing program for military personnel exiting the service in North Carolina (see page D18). 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback D4 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details 2015 Highlights US$3.8 million in employee donations and Cisco 155,600 Foundation matching gifts raised through our 155,600 hours annual Global Hunger volunteered by Cisco 3.8M Relief Campaign, employees, a 14-percent $ enough to provide increase over FY14; 43,459 15 million meals. hours were devoted to mentoring in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM). Networking Academy contributed 1M One million to 1.3 million Cisco students gained the CCNA® students skills to thrive in the digital getting new jobs economy through between 2005 1.3M Networking Academy™ and 2014.1 courses offered at 9500 $286 million 150,000 learning institutions in cash and in-kind patients have benefited in 170 countries. contributions to community from the Jordan Healthcare programs by Cisco and Initiative, our 4-year the Cisco Foundation, investment to transform including $223 million in healthcare delivery 150,000 in-kind contributions with Cisco collaboration 286M for the Cisco and communication $ Networking Academy® technologies. program. 1. Our student outcome surveys were the foundation of the new job extrapolation analysis. This methodology (post-stratification weighting) is a standard methodology used by Penn State and other research institutions. For this analysis, a conservative approach was applied. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback D5 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details PRIORIT Y Economic Empowerment and ICT Businesses worldwide are struggling to find skilled IT workers. and CCNP® certification, he is now a network consulting engineer According to a 2015 Manpower survey of hiring managers in at an infrastructure solutions provider and a Networking Academy 41 countries, 34 percent of employers cite “lack of technical instructor at his alma mater. competencies” as the reason they have difficulty filling jobs. Yet millions of people are unor under-employed, unable to participate We also support organizations that help people gain the skills and in the growing digital economy because they lack the skills that experience they need to find long-term employment and stable employers demand. income. Digital Divide Data (DDD) is a social enterprise that provides business process outsourcing services to clients worldwide via a We are addressing this problem through our Cisco Networking model called impact sourcing. In FY14 and FY15, we helped DDD Academy® program and our investments in other skills-to-jobs launch and expand its first U.S.-based delivery office, Liberty Source, initiatives. Networking Academy™ courses provide in-depth technology which offers employment opportunities to unand under-employed training and encourage students to solve problems together, just military spouses and veterans. Our support helped fund recruitment as they will in the workplace. Courses are offered in multiple and training, launch accounting and finance services, and enroll languages and delivered through 9500 schools, community colleges, participants in higher education and certification programs. universities, and other organizations through a blend of online and classroom learning. In FY15 alone, one million people in 170 countries Read more on D15 and D18. were enrolled in Networking Academy courses—and 20 percent of students were female. According to surveys, 52 percent of students say Networking Academy contributed to them getting a new job, and 90 percent say the program had a positive impact on their lives.1 One student, Tylor Kytasaari, worked in construction and tended a bar to support his family of five before enrolling in Networking Academy courses at a community college in Missouri. Before he completed his associate degree, Tylor was hired as a network engineer apprentice at Cerner, a healthcare IT company. Armed with his Cisco CCNA® 1. Based on 38,492 surveys between March 2005 and July 2015 from students who completed courses through Cisco CCNA Routing and Switching 4 or higher. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback D6 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details PRIORIT Y Digital Inclusion The Internet gives billions of people around the world access to and their opportunities are often limited by lack of access to information and to new ways to connect, as well as access to education, workplaces, transportation, and other services. the basic ICT skills employers look for and new ways to support themselves and their families. The Academy of Borderless Possibilities offers free enrollment in Networking Academy CCNA courses to students with disabilities in We are proud of our role in this. We use our networking technologies Russia. Students access the training materials online so they don’t to create new opportunities for more people everywhere. Our have to overcome the challenges of leaving their homes. The courses technology powers the Internet, improving access for more than prepare students who complete the program for industry-recognized one billion people. We believe that no one should be excluded from certifications that can lead to in-demand jobs. One hundred students the benefits of connected technology, so we strive to design our completed the program in the first year alone. This is only one of products to meet the needs of people with disabilities through the several programs we have established worldwide for people with Cisco Accessibility Initiative. disabilities, such as hearing and visual impairment. We also work to enable people to have the skills necessary to make Read more on D15. the most of the technology available to them. Through the Cisco Networking Academy, we have prepared 5.5 million students since 1997 for careers in the ICT field. While the Get Connected course introduces people to basic computer and Internet skills, other more advanced courses prepare students with the knowledge and skills needed for a career in ICT. Networking Academy courses are also offered in orphanages, prisons, refugee camps, and other locations where people can benefit from building ICT skills that can help them build a career and improve their quality of life. Russia is expected to face a shortfall of more than 100,000 workers skilled in networking technology by 2016. Meanwhile, only 20 percent of working-age people with disabilities in that country are employed, 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback D7 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details PRIORIT Y The Role of ICT in Healthcare and Disaster Response A global shortage of specialized physicians prevents many people, Healthcare Initiative, which has benefited 150,000 patients in four especially children, from receiving care that could improve their wellyears through four strategic initiatives. being. Likewise, when disasters strike, relief efforts are often delayed when the communications infrastructure is degraded or destroyed. We also support the implementation of emergency communications systems after natural disasters and other crises. Our Tactical We use our expertise in ICT to address these issues. We have Operations (TacOps) team, which provides emergency partnered with governments and healthcare institutions to use Cisco communications support free of charge, responded to four crises collaboration technologies to extend the reach of doctors and other in FY15. For example, when a massive earthquake struck Nepal healthcare providers through virtual interactions. One program in in April 2015, a member of the TacOps team spent two weeks the U.S. brings top pediatric oncologists from six leading institutions there, setting up emergency communications so responders could in five states into the same virtual room. Our partner, the Children’s more efficiently deliver food, water, and medical care. The Cisco Hospital of Orange County, is the hub for this virtual pediatric Foundation also gave a US$100,000 cash grant to help our nonprofit network, which offers an unprecedented, collaborative approach to partner NetHope enable communication and information sharing treating some of the rarest, most complicated cancers in children among responding organizations. and adolescents. In response to the Ebola crisis in West Africa, Cisco contributed We have worked with the Jordanian government to deliver a service on-site hotspot equipment to link more than 100 locations in Sierra exchange platform (SXP) that provides affordable, high-quality Leone, Guinea, and Liberia, as well as a $100,000 cash grant to radiology services to hospitals in underserved areas with limited or NetHope to enable responders to connect laptops, phones, and no radiology specialists. Launched at three public hospitals in both tablets to improve communications and to help digital volunteers metro and underserved areas, this pilot program integrates a picture turn large amounts of data into visualizations and data sets for archiving and communication system (PACS) and Cisco collaboration more informed decision making. software. This cloud-enabled access to PACS-as-a-service allows hospitals to realize savings by eliminating film and achieving faster Read more on D21 and D22. turnaround times for radiology reads. The SXP is part of the Jordan 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback D8 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details CASE STUDY Improving ICT Skills in Spain When a recession crippled Spain’s economy in 2007, thousands of workers lost their jobs. By 2014, youth (ages 15 to 24) unemployment rates in Spain were higher than 50 percent. Although the IT industry in Spain remained strong, young workers lacked the skills and training needed for these types of jobs. In 2014, Fundacio Trinijove, a nonprofit organization specializing in professional training in Barcelona, adopted the Cisco Networking Academy curriculum to help more than a dozen young people launch new technology careers. Over 12 weeks, students attended in-class and online training, building skills in computer assembly, hardware troubleshooting, and software configuration. Cisco employees from the Barcelona office volunteered to help the students improve their English skills and translate difficult networking terminology. Fundacio Trinijove also partnered with local companies to provide internship opportunities. One student, Evelyn Iturra Molina, was hired as a help desk technician by Cirsa, a casino gaming company in Barcelona, just months after completing the program. Read more. Evelyn Iturra Molina 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback D9 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details PRIORIT Y Supplier Diversity Cisco spends billions of dollars with suppliers every year. Where We also launched the Partner Mentor Program (PMP) in FY15, a new appropriate, we source products and services from diverse suppliers pilot to help diverse businesses build their capabilities and provide and support diverse partners in our sales channel. We believe that additional support to Cisco channel partners (see case study on diverse backgrounds and ideas throughout our supply chain drive page D10). innovation and resiliency and help us keep pace with changes in the industry. Also in FY15, Cisco awarded WebEx® product grants worth nearly US$20,000 to nonprofit organizations to help them support more We look to recruit and develop diverse suppliers and to provide diverse businesses. them with access to opportunities. This supports economic empowerment and gives us access to a wider group of innovative, Read more on D23. diverse businesses. We believe that increasing supplier diversity is essential to meet growing stakeholder, customer, and regulatory demands. We engage directly with diverse suppliers and encourage our major partners to cultivate their own programs. In FY15, we showed our commitment to supplier diversity by responding to information and reporting requests from more than 86 customers. We improved our ability to track, verify, and recognize diverse suppliers (see page F6.) In countries where supplier diversity is a requirement, including Australia, South Africa, and the U.S., we look to meet all applicable regulatory obligations. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback D10 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details CASE STUDY Partner Mentor Program The Diversity Business Practices’ Partner Mentor Program brought together Global Blue Inc., a Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned business, and Dimension Data, a global leader in the provisioning and management of specialized IT infrastructure solutions and services. They have built a partnership which brings together Dimension Data’s expansive footprint and engineering resources and Global Blue’s access to veteran technicians who can do the physical installations. Their partnership has brought opportunities to both businesses, attracting new business, including eight new large enterprise accounts and successes with the State of California. These organizations value the security of a large company that also supports their goals of working with Service-Disabled VeteranOwned businesses. As a result of their partnership, Global Blue has hired three new account managers, all disabled veterans, who are benefiting from Dimension Data’s diversity development program. The relationship has benefited other disabled veteran-owned businesses. To support the partnership and grow the geographical scope, Global Blue has begun to build a sub-contractor network of other disabled veteran-owned businesses to expand the field services teams to new areas. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback D11 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details CASE STUDY Building ICT and Entrepreneurship Skills in Mexico In poor urban areas of northern Mexico, young people who lack traditional job skills are often tempted into a life of crime as the only means of making a living. At the same time, employers are struggling to find people qualified to fill IT and networking jobs. The ICT Networking and Entrepreneurship Skills Development program aims to foster stronger and more resilient communities, give at-risk youth access to safe spaces, and build the ICT and entrepreneurship skills base in the northern Mexican cities of Ciudad Juarez, Monterrey, and Tijuana. The program is a collaborative effort between Cisco, the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), World Learning, and the Mexican Secretariat of Public Education. The program offers Cisco Networking Academy courses at public high schools to prepare students for meaningful careers as computernetworking professionals. A series of entrepreneurship workshops is also offered. In the first two years (2012-2014), 1100 students completed the program, exceeding the goal by 66 percent. Nearly 52 percent of participants were women. One participant, Luis Alfonso, had dropped out of high school and become involved with a gang. Upon returning to school at his mother’s insistence, he enrolled in the program and was one of its first graduates. Luis earned a four-year university scholarship to study networking technology and engineering and even started his own small business, hiring three young men from the same program he completed. Read more. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback D12 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our Plans 2016 Objectives Our social investment strategy is to create opportunities for people to thrive in the digital world being created by the Internet of Everything. Objectives Target Date By capturing this market transition, we seek to create new and better Inspire and support our employees to reach or exceed ways of preparing people to innovate and succeed—to become the End of FY16 155,000 employee volunteer hours. global problem solvers of the new digital economy. We will accomplish this by continuing to evolve our flagship Cisco Networking Academy Engage 3500 Cisco employees in science, technology, program, by developing relevant skills for our Networking Academy End of FY16 engineering, and math (STEM) mentoring globally. students that lead directly to in-demand jobs, and by building connections between our students and organizations that need Empower Cisco employees to donate at least US$2.5 million IT talent. For example, in FY16 we are launching new Networking to critical human needs nonprofit organizations through our End of FY16 Academy curricula on the Internet of Everything and giving students annual employee giving campaigns. more opportunities to gain real-world work experiences that align to employer needs. Put simply, our future focus is on preparing people Provide IT skills development for 1 million students globally, for and connecting them to jobs. More than 200 million people are End of FY16 including women, minorities, veterans, and the underserved. unemployed globally, yet jobs that require technical skills are going unfilled. We know our experience in cultivating IT talent can help close Reach 450,000 factory and farm workers through the Labor this gap. As we prepare for a digitized world, we will help build the Link mobile-enabled, cloud-backed platform developed by End of FY16 workforce of tomorrow. Good World Solutions and supported by Cisco. We will continue to support innovative nonprofits in education, economic empowerment, and critical human needs and disaster Reach 90 social enterprise customers supporting 250 response, with our employees playing a key role. We will empower micro-entrepreneurs and 5 million poor beneficiaries End of FY16 through the TaroWorks initiative, supported by Cisco. them to become global problem solvers, including mentoring young people in STEM in their own communities; contributing financially to relief efforts after global emergencies like earthquakes, floods, and Provide support to 250 diverse-owned partner organizations. End of FY16 humanitarian crises; and putting their core competencies to work providing technical expertise to nonprofit organizations. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback D13 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Society Employee Volunteering Education Economic Empowerment The Details Healthcare Critical Human Needs & We use our expertise, technology, and resources to empower global problem solvers to speed the pace of Disaster Relief social change. We work with others—nonprofits, governments, and educational and healthcare institutions—to build thriving communities, improve people’s lives, and create a pipeline of IT talent for industries worldwide. Supplier Diversity Our strategy is focused on: One component of our approach is to support nonprofits that use technology in innovative ways to address global • Education: Training people in ICT through our Cisco problems. Our strategy is to provide cash and product Networking Academy program and using technology to grants to support early stage ICT-enabled solutions improve education outcomes. that have the potential to scale, replicate, and become • Economic Empowerment: Promoting skills development, financially sustainable. job creation, entrepreneurship, and financial inclusion in Our core business activities also make a positive difference underserved communities. to society through the economic empowerment we provide • Healthcare: Using networking technology to improve and the accessibility of our products, which enables people access to healthcare in remote regions and enable with disabilities to benefit from using our technologies. health professionals to share expertise. Similarly, to support economic empowerment among diverse suppliers, we provide advocacy, development, opportunities • Critical Human Needs and Disaster Response: Helping and support to diverse-owned suppliers and partners improve access to food, clean water, and shelter and throughout the supply chain. supporting communities affected by disasters. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback D14 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Employee Volunteering Employee Volunteering CASE STUDY Education Key GRI G4 Indicators GRI G4-SO1: Percentage of operations with implemented US2020 local community engagement, impact assessments, Cisco is a founding member of US2020, an initiative to increase the number of STEM professionals who mentor students, Economic and development programs. with a focus on girls, underrepresented minorities, and low-income children. Empowerment Cisco has pledged that 20 percent of our U.S. workforce will participate in STEM mentoring by 2020. In two years, more than 3100 U.S. employees have volunteered 36,000 hours. In FY15, 20 percent of the workforce at our campus in Empowering employees to volunteer with nonprofit and Research Triangle Park (RTP), North Carolina, volunteered as STEM mentors. Healthcare educational organizations is an essential part of our In April 2015, RTP participated in STEM Week, hosting 400 students, 52 percent of whom were African American, Latino, culture. Volunteering inspires employees, helping them or Native American. More than 500 Cisco employees engaged participants in activities such as speed mentoring and an Critical Human gain new perspectives, develop leadership and other Internet of Everything challenge. Preand post-event surveys indicated a 14-percent increase in students who said they Needs & skills, and work better as a team. Our employees have want a job that focuses on STEM and a 15-percent increase in students who said “I know what steps to take to get a Disaster Relief unique talents, career aspirations, and passions that STEM job when I am an adult.” extend beyond their day-to-day work. We also worked with Techbridge, which offers programs in the San Francisco Bay Area to help expand academic and career options in STEM for girls and increase the number of women and underrepresented minorities in those fields. FifthSupplier Diversity In FY15, Cisco employees volunteered more than grade students from two Oakland schools visited our San Jose headquarters, where they engaged in hands-on activities, 155,600 hours, a 14-percent increase over FY14. Also tours, role model conversations, and Cisco TelePresence® sessions. For many of the girls, it was their first experience with networking technology. Watch the video. in FY15, employee donations and matched funds amounted to US$12 million for nonprofit organizations. Our internal Community Connection tool helps employees Table 1. Performance Summary track their volunteering, find nonprofits to support, make donations, and request matching funds from the Cisco FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 Foundation. Regional employee-run Civic Councils work with our Community Relations team to identify volunteer Total corporate and Cisco Foundation cash and $294 million $297 million $275 million $286 million opportunities, manage grants, and build strong relationships in-kind contributions (USD) with local nonprofits and nongovernmental organizations. Number of hours volunteered by employees 107,150 129,000 136,000 155,600 The Cisco Foundation matches up to $1000 for cash Number of active students in Cisco Networking donations and $1000 for volunteering (at $10/hour) 1 million 1 million 1 million 1 million Academy courses per employee per year. Employees can choose from nearly 2900 approved organizations in 45 countries to receive matched funds for their own cash donations and Our annual Global Hunger Relief Campaign encourages together for group volunteering and team-building to volunteer hours. As a result, we support organizations employees to donate to charities and increases their fight hunger around the world. For example, during of all sizes—from small local programs to nationwide impact with matching gifts through the Cisco Foundation. our 12th annual campaign in FY15, employees in charities. To be approved, organizations must be In FY15, employee donations and matching gifts to this Richardson, Texas, sorted 19,000 pounds of food to make nominated by an employee and are subject to reviews campaign generated $3.8 million—enough to provide 16,000 meals for the North Texas Food Bank in Dallas. to determine eligibility with our giving policies. 15 million meals. The campaign also brings employees 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback D15 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Employee Volunteering Education In FY15, we made in-kind contributions of more than US$223 million for curriculum development and network simulation tools, instructor professional development, Key GRI G4 Indicators and technical support. Education GRI G4-EC7: Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported. We also partner with employers and others to Economic deliver mentorships, internships, and other hands-on GRI G4-EC8: Significant indirect economic impacts, Empowerment experiences that help students prepare for and get jobs. including the extent of impacts. For example, our Dream Team program gives dozens of Networking Academy students each year the chance to Healthcare work side-by-side with professional systems engineers We use our technology and resources to improve access to education, provide ICT skills development, and build to set up and maintain networks for large events hosted Critical Human the future IT workforce. by Cisco for our customers. Networking Academy Dream Team Needs & Disaster Relief To understand the impact of Networking Academy, in Each year, we give top Networking Academy students Cisco Networking Academy 2005 we began conducting exit surveys of students from the United States and Canada the chance to gain who complete courses through Cisco CCNA Routing real-world experience by setting up the network at The Internet of Everything will generate unparalleled Supplier Diversity Cisco Live, our annual customer event. demand for skilled workers and opportunities for creative, and Switching 4 or higher. According to the responses, tech-savvy people everywhere. Our Networking Academy 52 percent say Networking Academy contributed to them “Dream Team” members gain hands-on experience working under the direction of Cisco’s Network program identifies and develops the skills that people and getting a new job and 90 percent say the program had Operations Center engineers. They set up hundreds of businesses need to thrive in a digital economy. a positive impact on their lives.1 wireless access points and provide help-desk support and network troubleshooting. The Dream Team gives Since 1997, Networking Academy has helped more than Gaining skills through Networking Academy can help students an opportunity to work in a fast-paced, high5.5 million students worldwide build IT and career skills. people lift themselves and their families out of poverty pressure, real-world environment while networking with In FY15 alone, one million people in 170 countries were in developing countries. For example, students who take industry professionals and showcasing their skills for potential employers. enrolled—20 percent of them female. networking courses through our partner, Passerelles numériques Cambodia (PNC) earn nearly five times the In July 2015, Dream Team members helped install 1250 Our courses provide in-depth and hands-on technology national average salary three years after graduating from access points throughout the San Diego Convention Center and two adjacent hotels, establishing a network training, encouraging students to solve problems and the program and send 30 percent of their salaries to their with 99.9 percent uptime. work together, just as they will in the workplace. Courses families. Read more. are delivered in collaboration with 9500 schools, Team member Nick Saylor impressed Cisco engineers with his ability to communicate and was later hired as a community colleges, universities, and other organizations Companies tap into Networking Academy to fill ICT Technical Assistance Engineer for Cisco. The program through a blend of online and classroom learning. jobs and drive business growth in a digitized world. For has expanded to other Cisco events and organizations, example, Barclays partnered with Networking Academy including the National Basketball Association (NBA). to train university students and attract top talent to its Read more. technology center in Lithuania. Watch the video. 1. Based on 38,492 surveys between March 2005 and July 2015 from students who completed courses through Cisco CCNA Routing and Switching 4 or higher. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback D16 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Employee Support for Education Nonprofits Volunteering STEM education is a business imperative for Cisco CASE STUDY and is critical to all industries worldwide. We use our Education expertise, product donations, and cash grants to help our nonprofit partners engage and inspire students and deliver STEM education more effectively. We Economic have maintained long-term relationships with several Empowerment effective education nonprofits, including Citizen Schools, City Year, MIND Research Institute, and Healthcare Teach For America, that achieve strong results for the students they serve. Bridging the Digital Divide Critical Human For example, late in FY14, we provided a cash grant In Baltimore, Maryland, the four-year high school Needs & to the Silicon Valley Education Foundation’s Elevate graduation rate was 68.5 percent and the unemployment Disaster Relief [Math] program, a summer intervention program that rate for African-American men between the ages of 20 prepares rising 8th graders for success in 8th-grade and 24 was 37 percent in 2013. At Bridging the Digital Girls Power Tech Divide (BDD), which offers Cisco Networking Academy Supplier Diversity math, a critical course on the path to college and Every April, we support Girls in ICT Day, a global courses, the certification rate is 95 percent. BDD’s careers. The program is designed to address the event organized by the United Nations International mission is to provide training, certification, and job needs of students who score below proficiency in Telecommunication Union. search assistance at a reduced cost to African-American 7th-grade math, 88 percent of whom are students males, immigrants, and other underserved groups. In FY15, Cisco grew the initiative into the Girls Power of color. Just over a year later, a WestEd study Tech Global Mentoring Initiative. During April and May, Since its founding in 2014, BDD has prepared more showed that students completing the Elevate [Math] employees at Cisco offices worldwide mentored girls than 100 students for IT industry certifications, helping program scored nearly 24 percent better on an and young women ages 13 to 18, encouraging them to them stand out to potential employers. Partnering with algebra-readiness test than similar students who had consider education and careers in science, technology, Networking Academy and other companies, BDD is able engineering, and math (STEM). Our goal was to inspire to offer courses that prepare students for certification not participated. This increase is more than twice them to pursue a career in ICT by providing hands-on exams and entry-level jobs. Courses like Cisco CCNA the typical effect found in a large sample of similar exposure to the latest technology and engagement with Routing and Switching help students develop in-demand intervention programs. We will consider another grant industry professionals. skills that employers are seeking. to scale Elevate [Math] throughout California and “I saw great opportunities in the Internet of Everything. Cisco offers the Networking Academy curriculum beyond in FY16. Now I have an idea of the work I want to do in the and learning platform free of charge to educational future,” said Kristina Krachmarova, 16, a participant at institutions and other organizations. BDD makes our office in Sofia, Bulgaria. the classes affordable and accessible to those who wouldn’t normally have the means to pursue such a In 2015, Kristina was among 3300 young women who career path. participated in events at 91 locations in 56 countries; 1500 of our employees signed up to volunteer. Read more. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback D17 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Employee Volunteering Women Rock-IT In FY15, Cisco’s Asia Pacific Social Innovation Group held a four-part Education Cisco TV series called Women Rock-IT, designed to inspire young women to pursue careers in the Internet Economic of Everything economy. Empowerment The sessions featured four women from Cisco who have challenged stereotypes Healthcare and turned their passion for technology into rewarding and successful careers, including Monique Morrow, CTO Preparing Diverse Students for IT Jobs Critical Human of Cisco Services, and Vanessa At North Lake College, a two-year public community Needs & Sulikowski, the first woman at Cisco college serving Irving, Texas, and northern Dallas to earn the prestigious designation of County, 35 percent of students are Hispanic and Disaster Relief Distinguished Systems Engineer. 20 percent are African American. Each semester, More than 7700 students attended the events over Cisco collaborative technologies, including Cisco TV and TelePresence, about 700 students are enrolled in Cisco Networking Academy courses offered under the leadership of Supplier Diversity as well as in-person at Cisco offices and learning institutions that offer Cisco Networking Academy curriculum. An additional 900 students downloaded the recordings. Of those who attended, 74 percent were Networking Academy students or program director Jerry Mesquita, who believes the alumni. Ninety-three percent of attendees said they were “very satisfied” with the event and 38 percent said they expected courses are the “surest route to a good-paying job.” to enroll in a technology course within six months. Indeed, nearly all students who complete Networking Academy courses at North Lake obtain a job, and The program will continue in FY16 and will feature female leaders from outside of Cisco. more than 80 percent of them earn one or more Cisco certifications. Jerry, a former telecommunications network engineer, has helped make North Lake one of the Connecting Military Veterans to IT Training and Jobs top 10 Networking Academy schools worldwide for growth in enrollment. To help students get jobs, he Warren and David Neal are brothers from Michigan who enlisted in the U.S. Army and fosters relationships with area companies so they were deployed to Iraq. Warren handled radio communications for Humvees traveling are aware North Lake College is a talent pipeline for between bases and maintained phone systems and networks for a technology control their IT needs. For example, one area company was center. David installed communication systems aboard Black Hawk helicopters. interested in bilingual tech graduates. “We have a Despite having hands-on skills, a strong work ethic, and leadership qualities, veterans good percentage of students who are bilingual, so we like Warren and David often have a hard time translating their military experience were able to bring great candidates to their attention,” to something that resonates with civilian hiring managers. By enrolling in Cisco Jerry said. “The companies keep coming back to us Networking Academy courses at Davenport University in Michigan, the Neals built on when they have new positions. That drives up our job their military skills in classrooms and labs using real Cisco equipment. placement numbers, which in turn strengthens our reputation in the community.” Jerry hopes to offer some Networking Academy courses are designed to prepare students for industry of the Networking Academy courses in Spanish and certifications that employers recognize. Both brothers were hired by NetSource One, a Portuguese to attract even more students because technology solutions company that provides cabling, data center solutions, managed “bilingual technical graduates are in high demand.” services, VoIP, and networking to hundreds of clients in Michigan. Read more. Read more. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback D18 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Employee Volunteering Economic Empowerment Cisco began supporting DDD in 2010 and has since provided $685,000 in cash investments as well as Cisco product donations to help the organization work Key GRI G4 Indicators more efficiently, add new business services for clients, Education enhance its product offerings, and build the capacity to GRI G4-EC8: Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. reach more disadvantaged youth. Economic Empowerment In FY14 and FY15, Cisco helped DDD launch and expand We depend on thriving economies for business growth. its first U.S.-based delivery office, Liberty Source, at Fort We support programs and organizations that use Monroe in Virginia. Liberty Source offers employment Healthcare opportunities to unand under-employed military technology to help people in disadvantaged communities gain skills, find meaningful employment, start their own spouses and veterans. Spouses have a limited ability to Critical Human businesses, and promote financial inclusion. pursue their own careers and as a result are 30 percent Needs & more likely to be unemployed, despite being more Disaster Relief educated than the civilian population on average. Liberty to civilian jobs. Cisco is leading a coalition of IT companies Employability Skills and Employment Source provides services to clients such as finance and that will post training programs, certification programs, We work with several nonprofits that provide training accounting, human resources, and customer care. Cisco and jobs on the North Carolina Military Pipeline. Supplier Diversity and employment for students and workers, particularly support helps to fund recruitment and training, launch women, to help them gain the skills and experience they accounting and finance services, and enroll participants In addition, in FY15, more than 12,100 service members need to find long-term employment and stable incomes. in higher education and certification programs. across the United States took Cisco Networking Academy courses at 23 military bases, learning the skills For example, Digital Divide Data (DDD) employs We also help military veterans transition to civilian life. needed to manage the U.S. military ICT infrastructure disadvantaged youth who provide business process We have provided $2.5 million in seed funding to Futures, in the field. Since we began working with military bases outsourcing services—such as digital content Inc. to support development of a cloud-based job pipeline, in 1998, more than 58,300 military personnel have development, data and research services, image which uses a sophisticated algorithm to match military completed Networking Academy training and are better processing, and back office finance, accounting, and job codes with civilian jobs and career paths. Active-duty equipped for career opportunities once they have human resources services—to global corporate clients military personnel, military spouses, reservists, National completed their service. and governments from operations centers in Cambodia, Guardsmen, and veterans can access this job portal Kenya, and Laos. DDD provides IT training, employment, through the U.S. Military Pipeline. Between January 2013 Another example of improving job opportunities around university scholarships, and career counseling to give and the end of FY15, more than 250,000 veterans and the world comes from Israel, where Cisco is leading young people the skills they need to thrive. military personnel found work through this portal. the Ma’antech program to place Israeli-Arab engineers, who are underrepresented in the Israeli ICT sector, in DDD’s program graduates find jobs where they typically In March 2015, we partnered with the North Carolina Military high-quality jobs. Working with 52 other ICT companies, earn three to four times the average salary in the region Foundation to help veterans in North Carolina find collectively we have placed more than 1400 Israeli-Arab where they live. Total earnings over an employee’s employment. The pipeline technology is being used to engineers in ICT jobs, doubling the number in the sector lifetime once they leave DDD are estimated to increase help connect the state’s transitioning military personnel since we launched the program in 2011. by US$175,000. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback D19 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Employee Supporting Financial Inclusion and Volunteering Entrepreneurship More than two billion people live on less than $2 a day. Education Without access to financial services it is hard to break the cycle of poverty. Technology is helping to connect people to these services so they can save for the future, Economic provide for their families, start small business ventures, Empowerment and become financially stable. Healthcare For example, Living Goods is a nonprofit that gives entrepreneurs (mainly women) an opportunity to make a living in their communities as agents for affordable health Critical Human products and information. The agents sell mosquito nets, Needs & clean-burning cook stoves, and basic medications. They Disaster Relief also educate their communities about public and family health issues. An early stage investment from Cisco in Supplier Diversity 2012 helped Living Goods make mobile technology the backbone of its model, using it to expand sales, lower costs, and drive improvements. In FY15, a study from MIT, Yale, and University of Stockholm researchers showed that Living Goods is reducing child mortality by 27 percent in Uganda among its clients. Today, Living Goods has more than 1200 agents in Uganda and Kenya who have treated more than 563,000 children. Read more. Cisco is also a long-time supporter of Grameen Good World Solutions Gives Factory and Farm Workers a Voice Foundation, which develops innovative tools that social enterprise organizations serving the poor can use In September 2014, Good World Solutions, a long-time Cisco CSR partner, received a Gratitude Award in the Community Development category for its Labor Link mobile platform. Gratitude Awards honor social entrepreneurs who have created to enhance efficiency, increase scale, and maximize groundbreaking innovation in education, poverty alleviation, health, environment, community sustainment, and other areas. social impact. Our FY15 grant supported development Since 2010, Cisco grant support has helped Good World Solutions design, implement, and scale the Labor Link platform, of TaroWorks, a cloud-based platform that allows which uses mobile technology to give a voice to global factory workers and farmers and deliver real-time data to social enterprises working in remote parts of the world companies to align sourcing practices with worker needs. to manage their field operations, staff, and business Cisco was one of Good World Solutions’ earliest funders, recognizing the potential of Labor Link to help people thrive impact in real time. Built on the Salesforce platform and to improve supply chain transparency. Our support enabled the organization to prove the Labor Link concept and and accessed via Android devices, TaroWorks provides grow its reach from a few hundred sweater artisans in Peru in 2010 to more than 340,000 workers in 16 countries today. a full suite of features for managing large distributed Cisco’s supply chain team has used Labor Link with its own manufacturing partners. Read more. workforces, such as mobile data collection, project and 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback D20 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Employee client registration, and ongoing monitoring and evaluation. Volunteering Illumexico, which provides solar lighting systems to marginalized urban communities in Mexico, adopted TaroWorks to improve its business operations. It has been Education able to save approximately 84 work hours per month in data management, grow from a single branch to five Economic branches across Mexico, cut time to access operational Empowerment reports from three months to one day, and decrease the percentage of its portfolio at risk by 30 percent. Read more. Healthcare Cisco has provided cash grants to design, implement, Critical Human and scale TaroWorks and develop a business model for Needs & financial sustainability. In just over two years, TaroWorks Disaster Relief has signed on 70 customers working in 26 countries, who support nearly 175,000 microentrepreneurs and impact nearly 3.5 million beneficiaries. Supplier Diversity Product Accessibility We seek to design products that meet the needs of people with disabilities so that everyone can benefit from January 1, 2013, that will allow us to monitor accessibility San Diego and at the FCC co-sponsored M-Enabling the social and economic opportunities our technology throughout a product’s lifecycle. Summit in Washington, D.C. As well as allowing us to can bring. share our work and ideas, these events provide us Our accessibility team interacts regularly with customers opportunities to gain feedback on our products and Through the Cisco Accessibility Initiative, we consider with disabilities who contact us on the Cisco.com real-life accessibility challenges. product accessibility at all stages of the lifecycle, from accessibility help page. Support is provided for people design and shipping to product use. We regularly with disabilities who are having product issues (such as We also continued our support of the Rochester Institute refresh products, packaging, and documentation and visually impaired people or those using hearing aids or of Technology National Technical Institute for the offer training to product managers to emphasize the cochlear implants, etc.), assisting them with solutions, Deaf and the DeafTEC initiative in California by rolling importance of accessibility. and in some cases passing on recommendations to out training for educators and employers. DeafTEC is Cisco Engineering for product improvements. Over 300 a resource for high schools and community colleges In FY15, more than 500 project managers and engineers Cisco.com customer support cases were handled by our that educate deaf and hard-of-hearing students in completed the accessibility training. Delivering accessible accessibility team in calendar year 2015. STEM-related programs and for employers hiring products also helps us comply with legislation and deaf and hard-of-hearing individuals. meet the needs of many of our customers, including We give demonstrations on the accessibility of our state and federal governments. A mandatory recordproducts and also provide training sessions and give talks Learn more about Cisco product accessibility. keeping process for Cisco products took effect on on accessibility issues at events such as Cisco Live 2015 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback D21 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Employee Volunteering Healthcare by eliminating film and achieving faster turnaround times for radiology reads. In May 2015, JHI was recognized Technology is helping to connect people to healthcare with a Network Middle East Innovation Award for “Cloud in remote or underserved regions. Cisco networking Implementation of the Year” for SXP. In four years, more Education technology can help improve access to quality healthcare than 150,000 patients have benefited from JHI. for people who need it most. Economic Extending Access to Pediatric Care Empowerment Cisco TelePresence,® WebEx,® and HealthPresence®1 Our healthcare programs are dedicated to improving care collaborative technologies enable “care at a distance” for children through innovative and virtual technologies. Healthcare by extending the reach of doctors and other healthcare Our Connected Healthy Children initiative supports providers through virtual interactions. Using handheld children’s healthcare programs in Brazil, Canada, China, cameras and stethoscopes, healthcare providers can Critical Human India, Kenya, and the United States. Our technology gather patient information for doctors and specialists connects rural health clinics to pediatric specialists, while Needs & remotely. High-quality video and audio systems also roving teams use mobile technology to extend support to Disaster Relief facilitate face-to-face interactions with remote patients. even more remote areas. The Jordan Healthcare Initiative (JHI), launched in 2011, Supplier Diversity In one program in the United States, a program with is a prime example of these efforts. Cisco partnered Children’s Hospital of Orange County brings top pediatric with the Jordanian government on a series of projects oncologists from six leading institutions into the same Following the success of the pilot program, the hospital that use collaboration and communications technologies virtual room. Children’s Hospital is the hub for this virtual took over management of the effort and expanded the to transform healthcare delivery. For example, a mobile pediatric network (VPN), which offers an unprecedented, program by adding telehealth capabilities at new regional cancer screening unit uses Cisco TelePresence and other collaborative approach to treating some of the rarest, clinics. In FY15, Lucile Packard reported that physicians technologies to send images from around the Kingdom to most complicated cancers in children and adolescents. have used HealthPresence1 to see more than 500 the radiology department at King Hussein Cancer Center By breaking down geographic and institutional barriers, patients. Patients and their families reported 100 percent in Amman for timely consultation. the best minds in medicine are able to share essential satisfaction with the quality of the exam and more than medical knowledge and collectively inform treatment 92.3 percent overall satisfaction with the experience. At the end of FY14, we launched the final component of plans. VPN participants reviewed 100 children’s cancer JHI, a service exchange platform (SXP) for a radiology cases in FY15. Our Connected Healthy Children programs in Brazil, pilot that delivers affordable, high-quality radiology Canada, China, India, Kenya, and the United States (VPN, services to public hospitals, including underserved areas In northern California, children often have to wait up to Lucile Packard) have been transferred to government or with limited or no radiology specialists. The SXP radiology nine months and travel long distances to see a specialist. private organizations for sustainability. pilot launched at three public hospitals and integrates a In 2012, we partnered with Lucile Packard Children’s picture archiving and communication system (PACS) with Hospital to bridge this gap through a pilot program that While we remain committed to promoting health and Cisco collaboration software. This cloud-enabled access connected Lucile Packard specialists in Palo Alto to well-being through our technologies, in FY16 we are to PACS-as-a-service allows hospitals to realize savings patients at the Pediatric Group of Monterey and California shifting our priorities to put greater focus and resources Pacific Medical Center in San Francisco. on employability and employment. 1. Cisco networking and collaboration products are not intended for use in emergency situations or for real-time patient monitoring. Cisco technology enables enhanced communications to occur across geographies; availability varies based on regulatory status country by country. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback D22 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Employee Volunteering  ritical Human Needs C Additional grant support in FY15 will help Water For People enhance RIR to allow for visualization of a full range of and Disaster Relief monitoring metrics to better assess service delivery and predict sustainability for any given water system. Education Key GRI G4 Indicators On the Front Lines of Disaster Relief Economic GRI G4-SO1: Percentage of operations with implemented Every year, natural disasters cause devastation around Empowerment local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. the world. We support organizations such as NetHope, CARE, Feeding America, Habitat for Humanity, and Healthcare the American Red Cross to help communities recover We support nonprofit organizations around the world and rebuild. NetHope: Using Technology to Support Critical Human that help meet critical human needs for food, drinking the Developing World water, and shelter, and we support relief efforts following When major disasters strike, we establish special giving NetHope aims to better serve the developing world Needs & natural disasters. campaigns that allow our employees to donate to relief through the smarter use of technology. We helped Disaster Relief efforts and increase their impact through matching gifts found NetHope in 2001 in collaboration with Save from the Cisco Foundation. Since we began tracking the the Children and they remain an important strategic Supplier Diversity Critical Human Needs data in FY08, employee donations and matching gifts have partner. We continue to support the organization with equipment, employee time, and expertise. We help nonprofits provide basic resources to raised US$10.5 million for disaster relief, including $1.05 communities and make their organizations more million in FY15. The Cisco Foundation will match up to In FY15, Cisco hosted the annual NetHope Global financially sustainable and effective. Member Summit, bringing more than 200 leaders from $10,000 per employee for disaster campaigns each year. dozens of technology companies and international humanitarian and conservation organizations to our We have supported Water For People since 2010, helping Cisco Tactical Operations (TacOps) is critical to our San Jose, California campus. Collaboration is at the the organization reach its ambitious goal to secure disaster response capabilities, providing emergency heart of the NetHope summit, where CIOs and CTOs permanent access to safe drinking water for 30 districts communications when traditional communications are from some of the world’s most recognized nonprofits in nine countries by 2018. degraded or destroyed. By responding to emergencies share tools, demonstrate their best practices, and receive feedback to improve the way they do business. and natural disasters within the first few days, TacOps It is their opportunity to spend a week networking, With our cash grant support, Water For People developed often enables agencies to get communications up and sharing best practices, and talking about the newest the web-based Re-Imagine Reporting (RIR) platform, running faster than government or local providers can. innovative technologies. which transforms data from various sources into a visual When a massive earthquake struck Nepal in April 2015, form to aid decision making about water and sanitation Cisco set up a campaign that raised more than $650,000 programming. RIR demonstrates how effective data in employee donations and matching gifts. The Cisco outdoor access points that remained in place after gathering and analysis can support smarter decision Foundation also gave a $100,000 cash grant to help his deployment ended to provide ongoing making that leads to social change. Through RIR, Water NetHope enable communication and information sharing communications infrastructure. For People has increased access to reliable water and among responding organizations. A member of the sanitation by 14 percent and increased the likelihood of TacOps team spent two weeks in Nepal, setting up We also made significant contributions to the Ebola sustained access to reliable water by 26 percent across emergency communications so responders could deliver response in Western Africa. Our giving campaign the 30 districts where it works. In October 2014, Water for food, water, and medical care. He brought two rapid generated $177,000 in employee donations and matching People announced it had reached 90 percent of its targets response kits built with Cisco Meraki® cloud-based gifts. We partnered with NetHope to expand effective in Malawi, and had surpassed goals in some districts. security appliances and several high-capacity Meraki communications capabilities and promote sustainable 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback D23 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Employee recovery in the region. We contributed on-site hotspot stakeholder, customer, and regulatory demands. We Volunteering equipment, as well as a $100,000 cash grant to NetHope engage directly with diverse suppliers and encourage Diverse Business Classifications to enable responders to connect laptops, phones, and our major partners to cultivate their own programs. • Small Business tablets to improve communications. This also allowed (For more on the business benefits of supplier diversity, Education • Veteran-Owned Small Business digital volunteers to turn large amounts of data into see page D9.) • Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business visualizations and data sets. Cisco TacOps team members Economic helped design a network that linked more than 100 • Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Promoting Diverse Businesses • Historically Underutilized Business (HUB) Zone Empowerment locations in Sierra Leone, Guinea, and Liberia, then worked Diverse businesses are those that are at least 51‑percent • Small Disadvantaged Business with partners on the ground to implement it. TacOps owned and operated by a minority or historically assisted with two other disasters in FY15—the King Fire in • Minority-Owned Business Healthcare disadvantaged group. These include the eight groups California and Cyclone Pam in Vanuatu, South Pacific. • Women-Owned Business Enterprise defined by the U.S. federal government (see box). Cisco Critical Human In FY15, TacOps marked its 10-year anniversary of actively solicits diverse businesses to give them the providing humanitarian assistance. The team has greatest opportunity to supply us with goods or services. Needs & These organizations promote women-owned businesses Disaster Relief completed more than 30 humanitarian responses since by connecting them to multinational companies through In FY15, we improved our ability to track, verify, and assisting in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, which networking events, business fairs, and conferences. recognize diverse suppliers (see page F6.). Many of struck the U.S. Gulf of Mexico coast in 2005. Since 2002, we have sponsored diverse suppliers to Supplier Diversity our customers want to know about our spend with and support of diverse suppliers. In FY15, we responded complete training on leadership skills and strategy. Supplier Diversity to information and reporting requests from more than In FY15, we launched the Partner Mentor Program 86 customers. In countries where supplier diversity is (PMP), a new pilot to help diverse businesses build their a requirement, including Australia, South Africa, and Cisco spends billions of dollars with suppliers every year. capabilities and provide additional support to Cisco the U.S., we look to meet all regulatory obligations. Where appropriate, we source products and services channel partners (see page D9). PMP is intended to be a from diverse suppliers and support diverse partners in mutually beneficial business relationship between diverse our sales channel. Supplier and Partner Diversity are Capability Building and Business and non-diverse Cisco partners. The pilot expectations central to Cisco in fulfilling our goal of being the number Development include the following: one IT company. We connect diverse suppliers and channel partners • Support customer diversity initiatives by using diverse with relevant Cisco business units and other potential Cisco partners. Our commitment to supplier diversity is realized by our customers through the Cisco Diversity Business Practices ongoing efforts to recruit and develop diverse suppliers • Introduce diverse and non-diverse Cisco partners for program (formerly Global Supplier Diversity Business mentorship opportunities. and to provide them with access to opportunities, and Development). Suppliers and partners meet with our efforts are recognized worldwide. This supports executives from Cisco and other Fortune 500 companies • Present partners with fresh perspectives on ways to economic empowerment and gives us access to a wider further develop their businesses and gain access to a to discuss potential business opportunities at our Partner group of innovative, diverse businesses. broad network of resources. Operations Diversity Forums. Our forums average 100 Diverse backgrounds and ideas throughout our supply stakeholders in attendance or more. • Track and report all resulting business opportunities. chain drive innovation and resiliency and help us keep Cisco supports women-owned businesses as a In FY15, Cisco awarded WebEx product grants worth pace with changes in the industry. We believe that corporate member of WEConnect International and the nearly US$20,000 to nonprofit organizations to help them increasing supplier diversity is essential to meet growing Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC). support more diverse businesses. Read more. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E1 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environment Our Priorities “We’ve found strong environmental performance and reputation enhances customer loyalty, strengthens strategic relationships with governments, and helps attract the best employee talent.” Randy Pond Senior Vice President, Operations 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E2 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details I’m privileged to provide executive sponsorship of Cisco’s major • Offering our customers Cisco solutions—energy management, environmental initiatives in addition to, for almost a decade, being remote collaboration, teleworking and mobility, and cloud—that help the senior executive responsible for Cisco’s corporate sustainability reduce energy consumption from IT equipment, buildings, business function. Over that time, Cisco has built a best-in-class team that travel, and employee commuting. spans our business around the world to address environment-related challenges and opportunities in our operations, supply chain, Since 2010, Cisco has been a founding member of the Ellen MacArthur and products. Foundation Circular Economy initiative. We are implementing circular economy principles and addressing product end-of-life impacts We’ve built strong relationships with key global advocacy organizations across our business by: and established credibility with customers who want to use Cisco solutions to improve their own environmental sustainability. At Cisco, • Increasing the percentage of used product returned by we’ve found that strong environmental performance and reputation our customers enhances customer loyalty, strengthens strategic relationships with • Developing cloud-based asset tracking for our products across governments, and helps attract the best employee talent. other industry sectors Our two most important environment-related issues are energy • Creating lease and network-as-a-service delivery models to consumption/greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) and product end of improve asset utilization life. We continue to address the energy/GHG from our operations, supply chain, and products through: I’m pleased with the solid foundation we’ve built and the opportunities for the business in the years ahead. Please read about all of our • Setting a second five-year goal: to reduce operational Scope 1 efforts in the following pages, and feel free to provide your thoughts and 2 emissions by 40% by 2017 (compared to 2007 baseline) via the link provided in the upper right of each page. • Encouraging our suppliers to report to the CDP to address GHG emissions in our supply chain Randy Pond Senior Vice President, • Developing system architectures for our products that Operations enable efficient power consumption across a broad range of operating conditions 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E3 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details 2015 Objectives and Progress Objectives Target Date Progress Reduce total Cisco Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions worldwide by 40 percent absolute End of FY17 -22.4%1 by FY17 (FY07 baseline). Reduce total Cisco business-air-travel Scope 3 GHG emissions worldwide by 40 percent 2 End of FY17 * absolute by FY17 (FY07 baseline). Reduce Cisco’s FY17 net consumption-weighted electricity emission factor to half of the latest International Energy Agency world average emission factor publicly available before End of FY17 -64.7%3 the end of FY17. Reduce total Cisco operational energy use per unit of revenue worldwide by 15 percent End of FY17 +2.5%4 by FY17 (FY07 baseline). Use electricity generated from renewable sources for at least 25 percent of our electricity End of FY17 +71.9%5 every year through FY17. 1. A -22.4 percent reduction equates to 56 percent progress toward our -40 percent reduction goal. Achieved Partially Achieved Ongoing 2. To be updated later once data is available. 3. In FY15 our net consumption-weighted electricity emission factor is 64.7% lower than the global IEA average. 4. In FY15 our emissions per unit of revenue increased 2.5% above our FY07 baseline intensity level. 5. Due to changes in GHG Protocol Scope 2 reporting requirements, Cisco has significantly increased our renewable energy purchased compared with FY14. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E4 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details 2015 Highlights Cisco tied for #1 across all sectors on CDP’s 2014 investor carbon questionnaire announced 11,718 September 2014.1 We maintained 1 our membership on CDP’s Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) for the seventh year in a row and # Customers on the Carbon Performance returned 11,718 metric Leadership Index (CPLI) for tonne of Cisco products four of the last for reuse and recycling, five years. and we reused over US$365 million in Cisco equipment.2 71.9 percent of our global electricity came from renewable sources, exceeding our $ 16M 71.9 25-percent goal for the year. % Cisco spent US$16 million on energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives as part of our global EnergyOps Program. 1. 2015 CDP results are not announced until November 2015, after the release of this report. 2. Based on cost of goods sold. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E5 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details PRIORIT Y Energy and Greenhouse Gas The harm from increasing greenhouse gas (GHG) concentrations in is through improvements in low power mode and high utilization the earth’s atmosphere and associated climate change is real and operation. Our Design for Environment approach causes us to significant. We are taking long-term actions to reduce our contribution consider these opportunities during product design, where we design to GHG emissions through improvements to our products and our for longevity and with end of life in mind. Creating smaller, lighter operations, and through the actions of our suppliers. Energy and GHG products and packaging also helps reduce our distribution footprint emissions are our most important and complex environmental issues; (see page E34). they touch on every aspect of our business and value chain from our operations and the operations of our supply chain partners to product Energy in Business Operations design, manufacture, distribution, product use, and end of life. In our own operations, we are rolling out Cisco Connected Workplace, which increases the number of employees assigned to a particular IT Enabling Effect building and therefore maximizes workspace utilization and reduces The information and communications technology (ICT) sector has the number of buildings required. We are incorporating sustainability a significant role to play in addressing climate change by enabling into the design of new offices, labs, and data centers and are other sectors, such as transport, buildings, power, and industry, to implementing energy-related upgrades at hundreds of our existing become more efficient. Our products and services offer significant facilities. We also use our own remote-collaboration technologies to opportunities to help others reduce their carbon footprint—whether reduce the need for business air travel (see page E22). it is avoiding business travel by using videoconferencing, saving energy using a building management system, reducing transportation GHG in the Supply Chain emissions using smart logistics, or promoting the circular economy. We continue to promote reporting to CDP as a foundational step As well as enabling others, this offers new opportunities for our for our suppliers in reducing their GHG emissions. We are reducing business to innovate and grow (see page E38). Scope 3 emissions from our supply chain by shifting transport modality away from air and reducing product packaging. Product LCA Product Energy Efficiency results (see page E32) indicate transport emissions are a contributor Between 80 and 95 percent of our products’ carbon footprint is to Scope 3 emissions. created in the use phase, making product energy efficiency of primary importance. Our greatest opportunity to reduce energy waste Read more on E21. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E6 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Solar Power In June 2015 Cisco partnered with NRG Renew LLC (wholly owned subsidiary of NRG Energy, Inc. [NYSE:NRG]) to develop a 20 MW solar energy facility to generate power for our San Jose, California, headquarters. NRG Renew will finish development of the solar installation on its 153-acre parcel in the Sonoran Desert near the Arizona and California border by the end of 2016. Electricity generated by the solar installation will be sold to Cisco under a 20-year power purchase agreement (PPA). This will increase total use of GHG emission-free electricity at our headquarters and help us maintain our annual renewable energy purchases above 25 percent of global electricity use. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E7 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details PRIORIT Y Product End of Life Disposal of electronic products is Cisco’s second most material These programs are the single largest source of product returned to environmental sustainability issue as identified by our stakeholders. Cisco and they provide the newest and best-quality used equipment As well as throwing away potentially valuable materials, some for refurbishment and reuse. In FY15 our trade-in programs, along materials in certain components can leach into the water table if the with the existing takeback and recycle program, provided Cisco with product goes to landfill. We are committed to minimizing the amount over 12.5 metric tonne of equipment. In FY15, 11,718 metric tonne of of Cisco product that goes to landfill. This starts at design. Using our product were returned, 25 percent of which was refurbished, resold, Design for Environment (DfE) approach, we design for longevity and or reused. Very little returned material is sent to landfill because our with end of life in mind. Where possible, parts are of one material, entire product is recyclable. One-quarter of one percent of returned easily separable and clearly marked for recycling (see page E16). material is sent to landfill and consists of packaging and other trash in the shipment that can’t otherwise be recycled. Reducing waste is also a commercial opportunity for Cisco that we are exploring in various ways. We provide comprehensive product Read more on E42. end-of-life (EOL) services for our equipment. Our worldwide network of qualified recyclers processes products from customers, suppliers, partners, and inside Cisco. Reuse is our preferred option; wherever possible, we refurbish returned products for resale and reuse. If this is not possible, returned products are dismantled and recycled and the fractions sent to downstream recyclers to be sold on the global commodity markets (see page E42). Our customer return programs are the Cisco Technology Migration Program (TMP) and the Exceptional Pick-Up Program (EPUP). These programs are aimed at customers who are upgrading their equipment. To encourage use of the programs, customers receive an additional discount for returning functional, used equipment to us. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E8 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details 100% Product Return In conjunction with several channel partners and customers, we are working on a 100% Product Return pilot. The goal of the pilot is to “Cisco and Dimension Data share a make it easier for our customers and partners to return Cisco gear common vision of a circular economy, to us. We will then either recycle unusable equipment or refurbish viable equipment for reuse. where new ways are found to make The pilot will also help our customers and partners reach and report best use of equipment at the end of its on their own sustainability goals. For example, a large channel partner, Dimension Data, announced in November 2014 a five-year lifecycle. We’ve worked closely together goal to prevent a cumulative 4000 metric tonne of electronic waste from going to landfill. to set ambitious targets to help our clients dispose of unwanted IT assets, and we’re really excited about some of the innovative thinking and solutions that are happening as a result of this.” Colin Curtis Group People & Planet Director, Dimension Data 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E9 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details EnergyOps Program Overview The EnergyOps program is a US$57 million, multi-year investment to meet our FY17 energy and GHG reduction goals. Between FY13 and FY17, the program is implementing hundreds of energy efficiency and renewable energy projects across our 21 million square feet of real estate. By the end of FY17, we estimate this program will implement approximately 500 projects, avoiding over 140 GWh of energy use and 500,000 metric tonne of CO2e emissions on average per year. Besides reducing our impact on the environment and helping us meet our sustainability goals, the program will also reduce our operational expenses and make our operations more cost efficient. We estimate the projects implemented through the program will achieve an average four-year simple payback and collectively result in a $69 million, 10-year net present value for Cisco. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E10 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our Plans We will continue to focus on our energy and GHG and product end Supply Chain GHG Emissions Reductions of life priority areas. This includes: We will continue to request that our supply chain partners report to CDP, and have established a goal that 90 percent of our key suppliers Product Energy Efficiency will report their GHG emissions to CDP by FY16. We will work with Increasing our product energy efficiency is critical to reducing our supply chain to shift transport modalities away from air and to environmental impacts from the use phase while achieving the reduce product packaging. projected, and required, product performance specifications for the next five to ten years. Cisco products will require an architecture that 2016 Objectives has energy scalability, meaning they can provide energy-efficient service at variable traffic types, traffic demands, customer usage, and installs. To achieve these requirements we have four primary product Objectives Target Date energy efficiency engineering initiatives underway (see page E35). Reduce total, Cisco, Scope 1 and 2, GHG emissions End of FY17 worldwide by 40 percent absolute by FY17 (FY07 baseline). Energy in Business Operations (GHG Reduction Goals) We will continue to invest in energy efficiency improvements, onsite Reduce total, Cisco, business-air-travel, Scope 3 GHG emissions End of FY17 renewable projects, and renewable energy purchase agreements worldwide by 40 percent absolute by FY17 (FY07 baseline). across all our campuses globally to achieve our GHG emissions Reduce total, Cisco, operational energy use per unit of reduction goals. End of FY17 revenue worldwide by 15 percent by FY17 (FY07 baseline). Product Takeback Reduce Cisco’s FY17 net consumption-weighted electricity emission factor to half of the latest International Energy We will continue to work to improve our product takeback and End of FY17 Agency (IEA) world average emission factor publicly available return programs (see page E42). before the end of FY17. Use electricity generated from renewable sources for at least End of FY17 25 percent of our electricity every year through FY17. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E11 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environment Environmental Sustainability Materials Energy & GHG Emissions The Details Water Use Biodiversity & Land Use We believe our information and communications technology (ICT) can improve the world’s standard of living, improve the effective use of the planet’s resources, and improve energy efficiency, delivering new value to Non-GHG Emissions our customers and society. Effluents (Liquid) We’re building environmental sustainability into our business functions and processes. Energy consumption and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are the most important and most complex environmental issues for Waste Cisco. We are working to increase energy efficiency and reduce GHG emissions in our operations, our supply Appendix chain, and our products. Since electricity generation is a large user of water (for turbine condenser cooling), we can best conserve water by reducing energy use in our operations and our products. Improving the energy efficiency of our products is a priority because the energy consumed during their use accounts for up to 85 to 95 percent of our product life cycle carbon footprint. This means that innovation in our products and services that promotes energy efficiency and waste reduction can reduce GHG emissions by users of our products. In developing innovative products and solutions, we are using the power of the Internet to create sustainable business models for our customers. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E12 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details • Environmental Sustainability Environmental Sustainability Details about our performance and actions in all these areas are provided in the relevant Environment sections We use the GRI G4 performance indicators to guide our environmental impact assessment, reporting, and Environmental sustainability offers our business that follow. initiatives. Materials significant opportunities and challenges. We are taking • We provide complete, accurate, and public decisive action and have strong processes in place to Table 1. Sustainability Materiality environmental reporting for our stakeholders. improve our environmental performance. Tiers for Cisco Environment-Related Issues Energy & We maintain the following governance for our Tier Environment Topic GHG Emissions environmental sustainability efforts: Environmental Sustainability Materiality 1 Energy consumption (operations) Assessment • We seek stakeholder engagement and analysis on our Water Use Product energy efficiency sustainability materiality assessment, reporting, and Our sustainability materiality assessment is based on the results of our initiatives. input from stakeholders, results of life-cycle assessments IT enabling effect Biodiversity & (LCAs), and assessments by independent consultancies. • We maintain ISO 14001 certification for sites with 2 Waste (product EOL) significant potential for environmental impact. Land Use The sustainability materiality process is described in more detail on page A6 of the Introduction. Waste (product packaging EOL) • We use our CSR Business Process to govern Non-GHG Emissions 3 Transport emissions (from product logistics) reporting, stakeholder engagement, feedback to Our priorities are based on the impact from Cisco’s the business, initiative prioritization, goal setting, operations, our supply chain, and the use of our products Water pollution (liquid effluents) implementation, and metrics for environmental Effluents (Liquid) by our customers. Table 1 summarizes our prioritization sustainability issues. 4 Hazardous materials of environmental issues. Tier 1 and 2 are issues that receive increased investment and oversight. Tiers Biodiversity and land use Our Sustainability Executive Team (SET) governs our Waste 3-5 are important, but are considered “due diligence” Tier 1and 2-related environmental initiatives. SET is Water use because the supporting processes are fully incorporated organized around specific tracks. Each track is sponsored Appendix into the responsible business function. Waste (operational “trash”) by an executive from the affected business function. All tracks are co-sponsored by the executive that chairs 5 Non-GHG airborne emissions In FY15 we continued to see a trend of increasing SET. The SET tracks include: customer interest in sustainability as reflected in requests • Operational Energy Management—tracking for proposals, surveys, and other customer inquiries. GHG emissions, reducing overall energy usage, Principles implementing local alternative energy sources In FY14 Cisco invited about 5000 customers across all Cisco policies are developed under the following regions and market segments to complete an online governing principles: • 100% Product Return—increasing the return of survey on environmental sustainability. Our customers used equipment from customers for recycling or confirmed our environmental sustainability priorities. The • We integrate environmental responsibility throughout refurbish/reuse our business while meeting customer expectations top three issues identified by customers are: with respect to product function, delivery, quality, • Product Energy Efficiency—innovating products and • Product energy efficiency (Tier 1) service, and EOL management. facilities to use less energy • Sustainable product fulfillment, including electronic • Sustainable Product Fulfillment—offering bulk pack, • We work with our suppliers to integrate environmental multi-pack, and eDelivery to reduce materials for new delivery of software, documentation, and product responsibility into all life cycle phases of our products. packaging (Tier 2) product sales • Product takeback and recycling (Tier 2) 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E13 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental We believe that the most effective leadership is done by Environmental Management System acquisition are included in the scope of the Corporate Sustainability example. We will continue to improve our environmental Environmental Policy and corporate environmental Our Corporate Environmental Policy and environmental impact assessment, reporting, and initiatives and initiatives. Table 2 shows our ISO 14001 certification management system (EMS) provide us with a framework encourage our supply chain and business partners to key performance indicators (KPIs). Materials to monitor and manage the environmental impacts that further develop best practices for their own operations. we have identified are a priority for our business. Our EMS helps us identify the most significant Energy & environmental impacts at each Cisco site and set relevant Organization Cisco’s EMS is certified by TUV SUD America Inc. to the corporate and local environmental objectives or targets. GHG Emissions international EMS standard ISO 14001:2004. Cisco sites Key executives, along with business functions covered Based on potential impacts, site teams adopt one or by our environmental management system, create for ISO 14001 certification are selected based on a set of more initiatives to implement, which are aligned to Water Use and implement operational change. Teams focus on criteria that includes: corporate-level programs where possible. corporate-level initiatives that directly enhance Cisco’s • Facility size and lab area environmental performance. Biodiversity & • Building headcount capacity or persons housed All ISO 14001 certified sites have teams that pursue Land Use • SET provides oversight for our Tier 1and 2-related • Primary facility function environmental goals. Sites support corporate environmental initiatives. The executive sponsor of environmental initiatives and also have site-specific SET during FY15 was Randy Pond, Senior Vice These criteria focus on sites that will make the greatest Environmental Aspect teams that report on goals, Non-GHG Emissions initiatives, and metrics to measure our environmental President of Operations. contribution to reduce environmental impact. Once a performance. Table 3 lists the number of Aspect Teams • The Sustainable Business Practices team, within site has been selected for certification, we evaluate its per region that report on site-specific goals and activities. Effluents (Liquid) Corporate Affairs, is responsible for overall strategy associated environmental impacts, including corporate and coordinates funding, resources, organization, functional areas; associated products, activities, or Cisco’s primary corporate sustainability activities (such Waste schedule, and execution of each SET track. services at that location; and the environmental impacts as GHG and energy management, product environmental associated with the generation or use of materials, • Cisco’s Enterprise Risk Management program supports impacts on air and water, and depletion of natural compliance, and supply chain management) are included Appendix the identification, assessment, and management in our certified EMS and are part of the internal and resources. We use this information to calculate an of enterprise risks. Executive-level oversight of the external audits performed annually. This enables us to environmental score, which helps us prioritize facilities program is provided by a committee which reports internally track key corporate environmental performance and issues and mitigate the associated negative to the Board of Directors. Risks associated with goals, initiatives, and metrics. environmental impacts. In 2016 Cisco plans to certify Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainability are two new sites as part of its ISO 14001 program. included in this process. Our EMS aligns closely with our GHG and energy management program and supports the management of • Cisco’s overarching CSR objective is to build Figure 1 shows Cisco’s ISO 14001 certified site locations. sustainability into each business function and process. our sustainability information. This alignment has helped us automate our sustainability data collection and focus Scope and Implementation limited resources on more important tasks, such as All of Cisco’s ISO 14001 certified sites are audited by evaluating and implementing mitigation projects. an independent third party. Sites that were part of an 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E14 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental Internal EMS audits provide regular assessments as to previous audits. In a typical three-year period, every As part of our ISO 14001 certification, we participate in Sustainability whether our environmental processes and commitments site will receive one onsite audit and one virtual audit. annual external audits by a third-party registrar. These have been implemented and how well we are improving In FY15, we conducted 22 internal audits, including audits identify areas of improvement and performance our EMS at our certified sites. The frequency of these seven virtual audits using Cisco TelePresence® or Cisco while providing external validation and verification of our Materials audits depends on criteria including the size and WebEx,® and one “hybrid” audit including an onsite and EMS processes and programs. operational activities at the site and the results of remote auditor using Cisco TelePresence or WebEx. Energy & GHG Emissions Figure 1. Cisco ISO 14001 Certified Site Locations Water Use Biodiversity & Land Use Bedfont Lakes/Reading, United Kingdom Boulder/Englewood, Galway, Ireland Amsterdam, Netherlands Non-GHG Emissions Colorado Chicago, Illinois Brussels, Belgium Paris, France San Jose, California Effluents (Liquid) Vimercate, Italy Richardson, Texas Boxborough/Tewksbury Massachusetts Beijing, China Tokyo, Japan Netanya, Israel Waste New York, New York Austin, Texas Shanghai, China Atlanta, Georgia Hong Kong, China Herndon, Virginia Appendix Research Triangle Park, Bangalore, India North Carolina Singapore St. Leonards/N. Sydney, Australia 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E15 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental During internal and external ISO 14001 audits in FY15, To further embed environmental practices into our Cisco works in collaboration with the Electronic Industry Sustainability Cisco received two Best Practices and 40 Positive standard business operations, Cisco offers employee Citizenship Coalition (EICC) to develop common Comments on its ISO 1400 certified Environmental training on our business management system, which industry training, tools, and standards to support Management System. One Best Practice was from includes our EMS and environmental policies. We also suppliers in improving their sustainability capabilities Materials the external ISO 14001 audit in Sydney for energy offer training to our IT and engineering employees with and performance. For more information on Cisco’s management in labs. The other Best Practice was information on how they can reduce energy use within engagement with EICC, see Supply Chain, page F13. Energy & received in Amsterdam during an internal ISO 14001 Cisco’s labs and data centers. GHG Emissions audit for their cross-functional volunteer green team that works to improve environmental awareness and promote environmental performance at the site. Table 2. Cisco Environmental Management System ISO 14001 Certification Water Use KPI FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 Comments All numeric claims made in the Environment chapter Biodiversity & of the CSR report are subject to a multi-day, detailed, Number of Cisco sites with ISO 14001 bottom-up audit conducted by our internal ISO 14001 28 30 30 28 28 Land Use certification audit team. In 2015 this internal audit included seven different business functions and verified the data Percent of real estate portfolio with ISO 95% 96% 93% 93% * Non-GHG Emissions 14001 certification collection, analysis, and reporting process for 120 numeric environmental claims in the 2014 CSR report. * To be updated later. Effluents (Liquid) Verification of both data and processes is key to reporting valid data and is a proactive process to identify corrective action. Environment-related claims in the 2015 CSR Table 3. Aspect Teams per Region Waste report will also be audited in 2016. Global Americas Europe and Emerging Asia Pacific, Japan, Total Aspect Teams Teams Markets (EEM) China (APJC) Appendix Employee Training Waste reduction and recycling 8 7 7 22 To incorporate environmental design principles into our products and solutions, we run companywide events and E-scrap management1 √ 7 8 3 19 training such as video-on-demand classes. These show employees how they can contribute to our environmental Energy management2 √ 0 1 7 8 goal of reducing carbon emissions by creating new products, improving upon existing product designs, Green initiative/environmental 4 2 0 6 awareness2 and working with our supply chain to make upstream operations more environmentally conscious. Wastewater management 1 0 0 1 We continue to engage employees who have a significant Total per Region 20 18 17 57 role in defining product requirements or developing our products and packaging. Live learning sessions with both 1. These Aspect Teams have site-specific activities and goals but also support a corporate-level/global goal. 2. Used at smaller sites, these teams typically include activities around employee engagement, energy management, e-scrap management, waste reduction and internal and external experts cover topics that inspire and recycling, and local green activities unique to that site. promote expansion of new and existing sustainability best practices and DfE principles. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E16 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental Life-Cycle Assessment approach into our standard design processes that Sustainability Cisco uses life-cycle assessments (LCAs) to estimate focuses on the following areas: Realizing the Enabling Effect of the GHG emissions associated with our products. LCAs are a • Energy efficiency (minimum 80 percent efficient power Internet of Things (IoT). Materials holistic approach for assessing the environmental impact supply and efficient component selection) In FY15 we piloted a Connected Supply Chain program of a system, process, or product. LCAs help us: to model the economic and environmental benefits • Hazardous materials of web-enabled connectivity within our supply chain. Energy & • Assess the materiality of various contributors to • Design for recyclability and upgradability IoT connectivity within our supply chain will allow environmental impact. devices to transmit information about various aspects GHG Emissions • Recycling marking on plastic components (ISO 11469, of business operations, such as energy consumption • Select alternative materials that are environmentally SPI codes) for ease of sorting during recycling or productivity, enabling more efficient management of preferable. resources. Water Use • Packaging and fulfillment (reduction of materials and • Understand the impact of product power consumption. package volume as well as logistics impacts) As part of our FY15 pilot program, Cisco has been working with our supply chain partners to further Biodiversity & • Develop more energy-efficient manufacturing • Design for longevity develop the scope and application of the technologies Land Use processes by comparing assembly and test scenarios. our Cisco Energy Manager (CEM) solution can support. • Compatibility with product takeback programs • Inform packaging and accessory kit reduction projects; Specifically, we have installed thousands of sensors in a plant in Malaysia to monitor energy consumption. in particular, the trade-offs in using alternative and Cisco’s DfE principles are derived from a combination Non-GHG Emissions With this project, Cisco is exploring how such data reduced materials. of sources, including formal requirements (for example, can inform decision making, drive energy efficiency, • Understand the relative carbon efficiency of different ECMA-TR/370) and other best practices developed within and reduce the carbon footprint associated with the Effluents (Liquid) our business. In FY16, we will begin to update our DfE production of our products. With the success of this modes of transport for distributing our products. principles to include evolving customer requirements pilot, we are looking to expand the program in FY16. Waste To support our LCA work, we utilize external tools and and industry and regulatory trends. Implementation data sources, including thinkstep GaBi 6.4 and other will include training for a growing community of new publicly available data sources, such as the International employees. the controlled substances and any conditions of use; Appendix regulatory restrictions, such as Restriction on Hazardous Energy Agency (IEA), the United Kingdom Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), and the Substances (RoHS); substances to be reported and Hazardous Materials Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP). phased out; and substances under study for potential As a global supplier of network equipment to industry, inclusion on the controlled substances list. For additional we conform to applicable regulations for product, information on RoHS and other materials-related Design for Environment packaging, and battery materials. We have developed regulations, visit Cisco’s Materials webpage. In addition, We have incorporated environmental design principles our Controlled Substances Specification to fulfill global for up-to-date product-level information, visit our selfinto our products and manufacturing processes so that environmental regulations and we are committed to service Product Approvals Status (PAS) tool.1 less raw material, packaging, and transportation are reducing the impact of the materials used in our products used, and product refurbishment and recycling are more and in our supply chain. The purpose of this specification There are a number of materials that, while currently not effective. To this end, environmental design features were is to communicate Cisco’s substance use and reporting prescribed for use in our industry, we are working to incorporated into our product requirements document. requirements to engineering/component suppliers and reduce or substitute in our products where possible. We have incorporated a Design for Environment (DfE) manufacturing partners. The specification outlines 1. Cisco.com registration is required. Register here. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E17 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental Halogenated Flame Retardants and retardant or use a halogen-free flame retardant. This Employee Engagement Sustainability Polyvinyl Chloride percentage will continue to increase as new products In FY15, Cisco encouraged and supported employee Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and nonregulated halogenated adopt recommended alternatives to HFRs in plastics. interest in the environment in the following activities: flame retardants (HFRs) are used in printed circuit Materials boards, plastic parts we have designed, and cable PVC in Cable Insulation • Environmental Management Newsletter: Internal, Cisco worked on the International Electronics quarterly newsletters used to share information with insulation. We are working with manufacturing partners, Energy & Manufacturing Initiative (iNEMI) PVC Alternatives Project employees on Cisco’s recent environmental activities industry standards technical committees, and academia to reduce cable insulation PVC content. This effort across the globe. GHG Emissions to validate proposed alternatives for HFRs and PVC. Over the past four years, we have performed material focused on understanding the environmental trade-offs • Year-end shutdown: Cisco requires employees assessments, surveyed suppliers, and identified the of standard, halogen-free, and bio-based cable jacketing. in North America to take time off at the end of Water Use areas within our business with the greatest opportunity December. This is a great opportunity to communicate to move to HFRand PVC-free materials. Cisco complies with applicable packaging regulations to employees the importance of turning lab and ICT Biodiversity & that restrict the use of heavy metals and dangerous equipment off before the shutdown begins. In FY15, Land Use HFRs in Printed Circuit Boards (PCBs) substances in our packaging. the shutdown was 11 days long and resulted in Cisco We have continued to identify, confirm, and qualify avoiding approximately US$950,000 in energy costs alternatives to plastics containing HFRs used in Batteries and 4100 metric tonne CO2 equivalent (CO2e) of GHG Non-GHG Emissions our products. Batteries in Cisco products are generally used to emissions. During the period, 13 buildings located in maintain information in system memory when the device India, Germany, and the United States were able to Effluents (Liquid) In FY12 we tested and qualified new PCB laminate is powered off. These products are designed so the reduce their entire electricity load by 50 percent or materials that do not contain HFRs for use in new highbatteries can be easily located and recycled. Product more compared to normal operating levels. Waste end switching and routing products. The cost, design labels are provided to indicate that the product contains • Recycle IT Days: Each April, employees can bring in flexibility, and performance of these qualified laminates a battery. This information alerts our recyclers that a used electronics to Cisco sites around the world to make them attractive for a growing percentage of Cisco battery should be removed before further processing. have them recycled using the same vendors used for Appendix products, and we are encouraging our business units and our takeback and recycling process. This year, 129 suppliers to select these laminates for new designs. Supply Chain sites provided 431,726 pounds, or 196 metric tonne, of We have embedded responsible practices into our supply e-scrap. (See page E44, Internal Programs for Cisco.) Since FY12 we have qualified additional halogen-free PCB laminate materials and have increased their use in chain business processes. We continue to improve these • Employee Solar Discount Program: In October 2014, processes to make environmental sustainability a key Cisco launched a program to give employees and many new products. We will continue to research new criterion in our relationships with and assessment of our contractors (and their friends and families) the ability laminate materials as they become available and apply suppliers. Discussion of these practices is provided in to install solar panels on their homes at around a them to new products where quality and performance the Supply Chain and Environment sections of this CSR 10 percent discount. requirements can be met. report as indicated below: • Employee commuter incentives: The San Francisco HFRs in Cisco Designed Plastic Parts • EICC Supplier Code of Conduct Shuttle Pilot program continues to provide We are monitoring the plastic resins and presence of HFRs • Audit Findings transportation to employees and contractors living in used in the parts we design through design documentation • Supplier Scorecard San Francisco to our San Jose headquarters. In FY15, and surveys with our manufacturers. Approximately • Conflict Minerals Cisco provided about 48,000 rides to and from work, 86 percent of resin compounds (by component volume) • Supply Chain Emission Reduction Program which prevented about 2.1 million miles (3.5 million used in Cisco products either do not contain a flame • Scope 3 Cradle-to-Gate Emissions 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E18 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental km) from being driven by employees. At some sites material usage while protecting our product during Sustainability we offer programs that allow eligible employees to shipping, warehousing, and delivery. Packaging engineers purchase mass-transit passes with pre-tax dollars. work with the product design teams to reduce protrusions, Additionally, Cisco continues to install electric vehicle product fragility, and product dimensions to reduce Materials (EV) charging stations for our employees and visitors in product packaging and packing efficiency during transport. certain locations (see Electric Vehicles on page E31.) Energy & Products that are damaged in transit have both negative • Amsterdam Green Community: This team, which business and environmental impacts. Our customers are GHG Emissions consists of volunteers from multiple departments, is dissatisfied while additional resources, energy, and materials focused on ways to reduce energy usage, waste, and are needed to repair or replace the damaged product. Water Use travel at the Cisco Amsterdam campus. Each packaging design goes through rigorous drop and Biodiversity & Regulatory Fines vibration testing to confirm it provides the required level of product protection. Once basic packaging and material We continue to apply the four dimensions of Land Use requirements have been met, Cisco evaluates four environmental packaging design as part of our release Key GRI G4 Indicators additional aspects of environmental package design: process for both new products and some legacy product GRI G4-EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and Non-GHG Emissions offerings. Aligned to the SET Sustainable Product total number of non-monetary sanctions for non1. Packaging Material Optimization: Designing a package compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Fulfillment track, Pack It Green is a cross-functional, that adequately protects the product from transport cross-product initiative to eliminate the waste and costs Effluents (Liquid) G4-EN34: Number of grievances about environmental damage or waste while optimizing the volume of material associated with packaging while also improving the impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal and complying with all relevant environmental regulations. grievance mechanisms. customer experience. Project leads work to identify Waste 2. Space Efficiency Optimization: Designing a package opportunities, sponsor pilot and best practices projects, that optimizes space/cube efficiency during transport. and assist in educating others. The Pack It Green initiative Cisco has received no fines, penalties, or grievances continues to view our packaging challenges from the Appendix 3. Optimizing Distribution: Designing the product for greater than our US$10,000 reporting threshold in the product fulfillment level in order to prioritize, design, distribution in order to further reduce the amount of past five years. and implement improvements that go beyond just the packaging material used and/or greenhouse gases emitted in transportation. packaging itself. Materials 4. Environmentally Friendly Materials: Designing in recycled content and recyclability. We measure product packaging efficiencies for shippable products. Our packaging efficiency metric is the total weight of the product packaging over the weight of Key GRI G4 Indicators Packaging Material, Space Efficiency, the product plus its packaging. We look at packaging GRI G4-EN1: Materials used by weight or volume. and Distribution Optimization efficiency ratios and shipment volumes to identify the best opportunities for packaging and fulfillment optimization. Key GRI G4 Indicators To identify the causes of inefficiencies for our target Packaging GRI G4-EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for product tiers, we conducted detailed investigations. These The amount of packaging waste being added to landfills the organization’s operations, and transporting members historically have included customer surveys and a Six is an environmental concern for Cisco. To address our of the workforce. impacts in this area, our packaging designs minimize 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E19 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental Sigma “green belt” process improvement project. We have requirement for our product designs is minimizing materials components carry labels indicating their plastic recycling Sustainability addressed losses of efficiencies in the following ways: while still achieving performance and reliability targets. code number to aid end-of-life recycling. • Business participation in Pack It Green Packaging While we promote recyclable packaging, sometimes this Materials • Expanded sustainable packaging and fulfillment Generally, our packaging uses corrugated cardboard that is not possible. Although metallized anti-static bags are solutions best practices across the business not easily recycled, they are essential to the safe transport includes about 30 percent recycled content. Energy & • Continued development of new capabilities of products susceptible to damage from electrostatic GHG Emissions Generally we use thermoformed medium-density discharge (ESD). For example, a Cisco CRS blade shipped In total, approximately 413 metric tonne of material polyethylene (MDPE) cushions made from virgin as an upgrade for an existing Cisco CRS chassis would (corrugated board, plastic, wood, and other packaging material or recycled substitutes which are recyclable require an anti-static bag. Bags are sized to fit the product Water Use materials) and 6402 metric tonne1 of CO2e were avoided being shipped and minimize the amount of material used. in most regions after use. When regionally available in FY15. In addition, these changes have saved US$5.7 and technically feasible we use cushions made from Biodiversity & million through material and freight cost reductions. 100 percent recycled polyethylene, which are also Products Land Use recyclable. We use recycled content in our products as well as in Cisco’s sustainable packaging and fulfillment solutions our packaging. Electronic products consist primarily of reduce unwanted or redundant items often included in a Almost all our packaging for new products is made either electronic circuit boards, steel, and plastics. Cisco does Non-GHG Emissions typical shipment. All of these packaging and fulfillment of one material or multiple materials that are separable not require a minimum percentage of recycled content strategies not only reduce our material usage, but also for recycling. In our global market, customer, municipal, in new product manufacturing. However, we continue to Effluents (Liquid) help reduce GHG emissions through lower transportation and regional recycling practices vary greatly. The ability research the percent of recycled materials already being weights. To read more about Cisco’s efforts in this area, of customers to recycle our packaging depends on the used in our products, and the potential for us to specify see Table 3. For more information about how Pack It recycling facilities in place in their location. such a requirement. Waste Green helps reduce Scope 3 emissions, see page E34 (Scope 3 Transportation & Distribution). Cisco legacy products, including those produced We use reground plastic (a product of the excess material Appendix by acquisitions, may not incorporate all current best manufacturing) in certain portions of our IP phone. In Best practices developed for these categories are packaging practices. A similar challenge also exists for addition, we have begun to assess the possible use of regularly incorporated into our product design process packaging provided with OEM products that the Cisco recycled plastics within both our IP phone and storage through our DfE guidelines (see page E16). supplier delivers directly to the end customer. product lines. In the future, improved return rates have the potential to effectively scale this kind of material reuse. Recycled Content Based on planned volume, customer input, and projected savings, we redesign some existing packaging to Most product documentation is distributed electronically reduce the volume of material used and to improve to consumers. However, some physical documentation is Key GRI G4 Indicators recyclability. As products become more widely available still necessary, such as regional regulatory requirements, GRI G4-EN2: Percentage of materials used that are to our customers, our overall packaging becomes more safety materials, and operating instructions. We ask recycled input materials. resource efficient. vendors to use natural inks and recycled paper where possible. We continue to work on ways to reduce the Understanding the materials that make up our products, The plastic used in Cisco packaging falls into categories amount of physical documents shipped, including the regulatory requirements, and our customers’ needs helps us identified by codes 1 to 7. Polyethylene (codes 2 and 4) evaluation of new fulfillment technologies that may provide to identify opportunities to reduce or eliminate waste. A key is the predominant material. Many but not all of the plastic region-specific documentation solutions. 1. As calculated using UK DEFRA factor for air freight including a multiplier of 1.9 to account for radiative forcing. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E20 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental Table 4. Sustainable Packaging and Fulfillment Solutions: Focus Area Sustainability Category Benefits Cisco Product Examples Materials Primary product configurable options Reduce packaging and shipping costs by integrating product, • Cisco routers and switches subcomponents, and accessories into one carton. • Cisco UCS® blade servers Energy & GHG Emissions Secondary product configurable Reduce materials, packaging, and shipping costs by providing Customers can choose not to receive: options customers with a way to opt out of receiving cables, brackets, • UCS storage product power cables and similar items. • Aironet® wireless access point mounting brackets and clips Water Use We intend to expand the availability of such options to address growing sustainabilityminded customer demands. However, widespread customer awareness and adoption of Biodiversity & such options remains a challenge. Land Use Bulk packaging Reduce packaging and shipping costs, and increase Bulk-pack models are now available for high-volume spare products, including cables, operations efficiencies, by shipping like products in a carton optics pluggables, memory, and rack gear kits. selected during packing based on the order quantity. Non-GHG Emissions Electronic delivery of software, Increase dematerialization and operational efficiencies. The eDelivery program updates software-related products available for electronic Effluents (Liquid) licenses, and product documentation Reduce CDs, paper, and packaging. Reduce packaging and delivery though unique product IDs and/or CCW-based electronic fulfillment preferences. fulfillment costs. “Pointer cards” continue to be used across Cisco product lines to consolidate web links for product and compliance documentation. Waste Multipack products Reduce packaging and shipping costs, and increase Cisco Aironet products are offered in eco-packs of five and ten units. However, we (or eco-pack products) operations efficiencies, by selling “bundles” of like products in continue to work internally to address process-related roadblocks which can inhibit the Appendix specific volumes. Increase customer satisfaction; identified as adoption of this solution by our distributors and partners. Once addressed, we plan a significant issue by customers in our 2013 Sustainability to expand eco-pack availability to more of our high-volume products. Customer Survey, page F5. Dense packaging Reduce packaging and shipping costs by optimizing supply In FY15, we made strides in optimizing our inbound shipments for the Cisco C4000 chain packaging between our factories. product line, avoiding over 225 metric tonne1 of CO2e and achieving US$1.1M of savings. Packaging reuse and recycling Reduce packaging and related costs. Cisco products use recyclable polyethylene bags for moisture protection or consolidation within our supply chain and to of accessory kit subassemblies. Over the years, we have reduced the thickness and our customers size of many bags, and we have regularly encouraged suppliers to reuse these and any electrostatic discharge (i.e., static shielding) bags. In addition, Cisco continues to substitute metallized antistatic bags with a fully recyclable antistatic bag when possible, particularly for high-volume products (for example, optical modules). 1. As calculated using UK DEFRA factor for air freight including a multiplier of 1.9 to account for radiative forcing. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E21 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental Sustainability Energy and GHG Emissions 4. Reduce total Cisco operational energy use per unit of revenue worldwide by 15 percent by FY17 We believe we demonstrate a best-practice approach to goal setting by: (FY07 baseline). Cisco supports the reduction of global GHG emissions • Committing to realistic longer time-horizon goals, Materials through improvements to our products and operations 5. Use electricity generated from renewable sources befitting the scale of the problem. and through the actions of our suppliers. We use our for at least 25 percent of our electricity every year • Consistent and precise wording of goals with clear own products to demonstrate at-scale innovative and through FY17. measurement methodology. Energy & cost-effective methods for reducing GHG emissions, GHG Emissions helping our customers to do likewise. We formed our new goals based on our FY12 goals, • Consistent and transparent reporting from year to year. internal best practices, and expert opinion, including • Third-party assurance for all goal-related reporting. The GHG emissions from our operations are almost all recommendations from the Intergovernmental Panel Water Use directly associated with energy use (typically electricity). on Climate Change (IPCC), World Wildlife Fund (WWF), We have been recognized for our GHG management and Therefore, we report GHG emissions with energy. CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project), and the reporting by CDP, the EPA Center for Corporate Climate Biodiversity & U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Leadership, the Sustainability Roundtable, and the Land Use Our commitment to reduce our GHG emissions is a longAssociation of Energy Engineers (AEE): term goal that we have been working toward for many According to EPA predictions, ICT industry revenues • In September 2014, for the second year in a row, years. We have already made great improvements. By will grow significantly through the FY17 goal year, and Cisco achieved the best possible CDP disclosure Non-GHG Emissions the end of FY12 we reduced our Scope 1, Scope 2, and industry emissions normalized to millions of dollars will score of 100 with an “A” performance rating. These business-air-travel Scope 3 GHG emissions by 25 percent increase 16.5 percent over the same period. These rankings are based on information submitted to CDP Effluents (Liquid) (FY07 baseline) as part of our U.S. Environmental two projections indicate a business-as-usual increase in June 2014.1 This represents our seventh year on the Protection Agency (EPA) Climate Leaders commitment. in absolute emissions, so any goal to reduce absolute Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) and our Waste emissions is considered aggressive. Our current GHG fourth on the Carbon Performance Leadership Index In February 2013, we announced five new goals related goal is to reduce absolute emissions by an additional (CPLI). For a long-term problem like climate change, to our operational energy use and GHG emissions. The 15 percent by FY17, which combined with our 2012 Appendix consistently high rankings over an extended period goals recognize energy and GHG emissions as a key area achievement will give a 40 percent absolute reduction are strong evidence of a company’s commitment to of focus for us. using our original FY07 baseline. improving GHG emissions disclosure and performance. 1. Reduce total Cisco Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Cisco has made five-year commitments because long • Cisco was presented with the International AEE worldwide by 40 percent absolute by FY17 time horizons allow for large investments, which have Corporate Energy Management Award in September (FY07 baseline). a potential for big payoffs. For example, to achieve our 2015 for promoting the practices and principles of new goals, we secured a five-year spending plan of energy engineering and energy management. 2. Reduce total Cisco business-air-travel Scope 3 GHG emissions worldwide by 40 percent absolute by FY17 approximately US$57.5 million to implement hundreds of energy-related projects throughout our operations. For more information on the CSR awards Cisco received (FY07 baseline). in 2014, please visit our CSR website. We estimate this investment will result in over 140 3. Reduce Cisco’s FY17 net consumption-weighted GWh of energy savings and 500,000 metric tonne CO2e electricity emission factor to half of the latest of avoided emissions on average per year, while also International Energy Agency (IEA) world average achieving a $69 million 10-year net present value. emission factor publicly available before the end of FY17. 1. In each annual CSR report, we report on activities within the previous, completed fiscal year (through end of July). CDP’s latest scoring was released in September 2014 during our FY15 and was based on our submittal using FY14 data. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E22 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental Operations Scope 1 and 2 Our Scope 2 emissions result almost exclusively from our Scope 1 and 2 calculations. The EPA Center for Sustainability electricity use and represent over 94 percent of our Corporate Climate Leadership provides additional Key GRI G4 Indicators Scope 1 and 2 emissions. As a result, identifying program guidance. and implementing projects that reduce our electricity Materials GRI G4-EN3: Energy consumption within the organization. use is a major part of our energy and GHG reduction Historical Scope 1 and 2 emissions data often vary from GRI G4-EN4: Energy consumption outside of the strategy. In FY15, our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions previous publicly reported values, either in the most organization. recent CDP survey or our previous CSR report, because Energy & were 22.4 percent lower than our FY07 baseline on an GHG Emissions GRI G4-EN5: Energy intensity. absolute basis; solid progress against our plan to meet of updated reporting guidance, emissions factors, GRI G4-EN18: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. a 40 percent absolute reduction by FY17 (see Table 5). adjustments for acquisitions or divestitures, or correction of any errors found during review. In particular, all Scope Water Use GRI GRI G4-EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) To support standardization and benchmarking across 2 emissions reported this year have been adjusted to emissions (Scope 1). companies, Cisco uses the GHG Protocol Corporate reflect the Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s recently updated GRI GRI G4-EN16: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) Accounting and Reporting Standard as the basis for Scope 2 guidance, which has had significant impacts Biodiversity & emissions (Scope 2). Land Use Non-GHG Emissions Table 5. Summary of Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions KPI FY07 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 Comments Effluents (Liquid) Baseline Year1 Total GHG emissions: Scope 1, metric tonne CO2e 50,579 60,718 65,832 55,811 49,901 43,181 Waste Total GHG emissions: Scope 2 (location-based), 451,647 599,528 628,164 666,393 702,785 724,839 “Location-based” is used consistent metric tonne CO2e with GHG Protocol and does not include renewable energy purchases. Appendix Total GHG emissions: Scope 2 (market-based), 402,051 457,599 418,568 471,355 493,804 308,172 “Market-based” is used consistent with GHG metric tonne CO2e Protocol and does include renewable energy purchases. Scope 1 and 2 emissions (location-based) 14.4 15.3 15.1 14.9 16.0 15.6 Location-based intensity is a measure of intensity, metric tonne CO2e per million dollars operational efficiency commonly used by of revenue many Cisco stakeholders. Scope 2 emissions from primary data, percent 96.0% 97.9% 97.9% 96.3% 97.1% 98.3% Total GHG emissions: Scope 1 and 2 452,630 416,927 484,400 527,166 543,705 351,353 (market-based), metric tonne CO2e Percent progress against reduction goal.2 base year +14.5% +7.0% +16.5% +20.1% -22.4% Results are based on 2015 revisions to Goal: Reduce total, Cisco, Scope 1 and 2, GHG Scope 2 GHG Protocol methodology. Cisco’s emissions worldwide by 40% absolute by FY17 new corporate GHG reduction goal was (FY07 baseline) announced in February 2013. Percent progress against reduction goal. base year -4% -42% -28% -30% N/A Historical results calculated based Goal: Reduce total, Cisco, Scope 1 and 2, GHG on previous Scope 2 GHG Protocol emissions worldwide by 40% absolute by FY17 methodology. (FY07 baseline) 1. In the interests of transparency, our reporting policy for environmental metrics is to show the baseline year, data for the past five completed years, the goal, and progress against the goal. 2. Scope 2 emissions for all years have been adjusted to reflect the Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s new Scope 2 guidance. This new guidance was released in 2015 and has had material impacts on Cisco’s current and prior-year Scope 2 figures. As a result, in FY16, Cisco will be evaluating the impacts of this new calculation methodology with respect to its current and future GHG reduction goals. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E23 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental on Cisco’s current and prior-year Scope 2 figures. Indirect energy or electricity represents 90 percent of GHG Emissions Reduction Strategy Sustainability Since the Scope 2 guidance release, Cisco has been our energy consumption (Table 6). Through the various evaluating the impacts of the new methodology on our projects described in this section we have effectively Key GRI G4 Indicators current and future GHG reduction goals. We are making plateaued our level of energy consumption for the last GRI G4-EN6: Reduction of energy consumption. Materials the necessary adjustments to stay on track with our four years. With energy use rising, we are working hard GRI G4-EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) goals and we expect to achieve our 40 percent absolute to reduce the carbon intensity of the electricity we emissions. Energy & Scope 1 and 2 GHG reduction goal by FY17. use. Including renewable energy purchases, our global average contractual emissions factor is 64.7 percent GRI G4-EN31: Total environmental protection GHG Emissions expenditures and investments by type. Each year, an independent third party provides a limited below the world average (Table 7). We have achieved this assurance review of our GHG inventory, including the by locating facilities where low-carbon grid electricity is Water Use emissions relevant to our current GHG reduction goals, available and buying renewable energy from utilities and namely Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission sources. This It makes good business sense to reduce our energy green power providers. Our challenge will be to prevent limited assurance review is provided in accordance with consumption and GHG emissions and to enable a Biodiversity & our global average emission factor from increasing as the ISO 14064-3 International Standard and is published diverse energy supply for our operations. It helps us stay Land Use we grow in emerging markets such as India, where lowas part of our CDP submittal available online. competitive, and benefits the environment as well. Our carbon and no-carbon electricity is less readily available. overall strategy to accomplish this is to: Non-GHG Emissions Table 6. Energy Totals Effluents (Liquid) KPI FY07 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 Comments Baseline Year Waste Energy usage, GWh 1254 1613 1750 1763 1792 1810 Appendix Indirect energy usage, GWh 1029 1353 1465 1521 1573 1629 Electricity is the only indirect energy source used by Cisco. Direct energy usage, GWh 226 260 285 241 219 181 Direct energy consumption is the sum of Cisco’s natural gas and diesel usage for heating and backup power generation and regular gasoline and diesel fuel used in Cisco’s fleet. Electricity usage, GWh 1029 1353 1465 1521 1573 1629 Natural gas usage, GWh 148 118 144 111 104 80 Energy use per unit of revenue, GWh of energy consumed 35.92 37.31 37.99 36.27 38.02 36.82 Note: Energy use per unit of revenue is one of our five new per billion dollars in revenue goals; we have reported historical values where available. Percent progress against reduction goal. N/A +3.7% +5.8% +1.0% +5.8% +2.3% Goal: Reduce total Cisco operational energy use per unit of revenue worldwide by 15 percent by FY17 (FY07 baseline) 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E24 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental • Utilize our real estate space more efficiently through This conversion will decrease the number of buildings • Embed sustainability and efficiency criteria into our Sustainability Cisco Connected Workplace. in our portfolio and increase the utilization of our building, lab, and data center design standards remaining buildings. We expect to have reduced our • Increase the energy efficiency of our real estate • Apply Cisco’s green leasing standards in selecting operations with a focus on our engineering labs, our facility footprint by approximately one million square leased space and work with landlords to improve the Materials largest energy consumers and greatest source of GHG feet after the planned conversion is complete. efficiency of their buildings emissions. Energy & Building Efficiency: Strategy and Management • Engage employees to participate in energy GHG Emissions • Generate low-carbon electricity from onsite systems. Cisco has a dedicated Global Energy Management and conservation • Purchase renewable energy. Sustainability (GEMS) team that leads all energy and sustainability initiatives across our 22 million square feet Water Use Space Policy and Cisco Connected Workplace of global real estate. This team includes Cisco employees It is our policy that all new buildings and renovation and contracted energy managers that have the following Biodiversity & projects comply with our Cisco Connected Workplace primary responsibilities: Land Use (CCW) design specifications. By the end of FY15, CCW • Manage Cisco’s global annual utility budget represented approximately 36.9 percent of our total office and contracts space. CCW increases average occupancy and space Non-GHG Emissions utilization, making it a cost-effective GHG-reduction • Identify and implement demandand supply-side strategy. In FY13 we approved a master plan to convert energy solutions such as energy efficiency upgrades Effluents (Liquid) eight of our buildings to the CCW environment by FY17. and onsite renewable energy projects Cisco Connected Workplace Layout Waste Table 7. Electricity Emissions Factors KPI FY07 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 Comments Appendix Baseline Year IEA world average emission factor, g CO2e per kWh 507.1 502.3 502.3 528.7 536.0 536.0 Latest 2011 International Energy Agency (IEA) emission factor used for FY14-FY15. Prior years used latest IEA factors available at time of prior-year reporting. Cisco, global average electricity emission factor (gross), 439.1 443.2 428.7 438.1 446.7 445.0 g CO2e per kWh Cisco, major data center average electricity emission factor 394.9 435.0 423.0 438.2 447.9 421.0 (gross), g CO2e per kWh Cisco, global average electricity emission factor (contractual), 390.9 338.3 285.6 309.8 313.9 189.2 g CO2e per kWh Percent progress against reduction goal. -22.9% -32.7% -43.1% -41.4% -41.4% -64.7% Goal: Reduce Cisco’s FY17 net consumption-weighted electricity emission factor to half of the latest IEA world average emission factor publicly available before the end of FY17. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E25 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental Currently, the GEMS team is managing a multi-million • Implementing Cisco Energy Manager and other control • Power management: Installing smart power distribution Sustainability dollar, multi-year EnergyOps program that was developed policies on our own production IT environment units (PDUs) and Cisco Energy Manager (CEM) to to implement energy efficiency and renewable energy monitor power and control the use of our lab equipment • Implementing building analytics services to better projects across Cisco’s real estate portfolio and help monitor, analyze, and fix HVAC-related issues that Materials In addition, we continue to engage our lab employees Cisco achieve its FY17 energy and GHG reduction goals. reduce efficiency In FY15, this team enabled Cisco to avoid approximately to educate them and provide incentives for labs to Energy & 41 GWh of energy consumption and 19,100 metric tonne • Continuing an employee engagement campaign to actively monitor and conserve energy through the CO2e by investing US$16 million to implement 148 energy promote, educate, and motivate our employees to following approach: GHG Emissions conserve energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. We estimate • Digital signage: Over 200 digital signs are installed at that the energy efficiency and renewable energy projects our largest labs that show lab energy consumption Water Use Building Efficiency: Labs that we have implemented since FY10 have avoided statistics, tips on how to save energy in labs, and Over 60 percent of our operational electricity is used approximately 275 million kWh of energy and avoided winners of energy conservation awards. Biodiversity & to power and cool equipment in our engineering and 115,000 metric tonne CO2e for Cisco. services labs. Increasing the energy efficiency of our • Energy management plans and performance goals: Land Use labs is our largest opportunity to reduce Cisco’s We developed detailed energy management plans Table 8 shows the energy savings associated with our GHG emissions and energy costs. To reduce lab and performance goals that labs and employees GHG reduction projects implemented from FY11 to FY15. Non-GHG Emissions energy consumption, we are focusing our efforts could adopt and then receive credit for their energy Here are a few examples of projects implemented in on the following areas: conservation accomplishments from their own FY15 by the GEMS team: business units. Effluents (Liquid) • Updating lighting controls and using high-efficiency • Design: Incorporating best practice efficiency T8/T5 bulbs and LED technologies standards into our new Global Lab Specification • Rewards and recognition: We created regular to build new labs and retrofits that use energy as opportunities for employees to be rewarded and Waste • Installing variable frequency drives, electric efficiently as possible recognized for exemplary energy conservation efforts. commutative (EC) fans, and premium-efficiency For example, we recognized the employees at 13 Appendix motors and pumps to improve efficiency of HVAC • Infrastructure: Improving air flow management, buildings that achieved at least 50 percent energy systems ventilation, cooling, and similar building savings during Cisco’s FY15 year-end shutdown period. infrastructure systems • Installing waterside economization and dry cooler • Education and training: We created online courses to technologies to improve free cooling utilization • Utilization: Evaluating lab operations, removing unused teach employees how to reduce energy consumption equipment, and using virtual machines to increase • Installing solar window film to reduce heat gain and server utilization in their labs. improve occupant comfort • Applying coil optimization technologies that improve cooling system efficiency Table 8. Energy and GHG Emission Reduction Projects • Improving insulation of heating and cooling piping, KPI FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 valves, and pumps Number of projects implemented 19 26 103 90 148 • Improving hot and cold aisle containment within our labs Annual energy avoided, GWh/yr 16.8 15.6 76.5 27.2 41.4 Total estimated annual CO2e savings, tCO2e/yr 7400 7300 34,000 14,100 19,100 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E26 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental Building Efficiency: Data Centers In addition to incorporating efficiency and sustainability in our standard templates vary by size of the premises Sustainability Cisco’s newest data centers are located in Research into the design of our data centers, we implemented and length of the lease agreement, but in general, the Triangle Park, North Carolina, and Allen, Texas. These numerous efficiency retrofits in FY15, including: larger the premises and the longer the lease, the more data centers were designed to achieve a Power comprehensive the green leasing terms. Sample terms Materials • Replacing electric-resistance heaters with more Usage Effectiveness (PUE) of 1.41 and 1.35 at full efficient heat pumps in our backup generators in the green leasing templates include: load, respectively. Both have achieved a Leadership • Temperature controls Energy & in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED)-NC Gold • Applying coil optimization technologies that improve GHG Emissions Certification (v2.2) from the U.S. Green Building Council cooling system efficiency • Submeters for major utilities by incorporating numerous design features, such as: • Retrofitting existing computer room air handler (CRAH) • Building recycling program units with electric commutative (EC) fans to allow more Water Use • Chimney rack hot-air isolation for improved cooling • No chlorofluorocarbons used in HVAC system efficient variable fan speed efficiency • Bicycle storage and shower facilities • Waterside and airside economization • Installing mixed-mode waterside economizers to allow Biodiversity & greater utilization of free cooling throughout the year • Waterand energy-efficient fixtures Land Use • Variable frequency drives on major equipment, • Green building certification including pumps, chillers, and computer-room air These retrofits collectively are now saving Cisco over handler units 13,000 MWh of energy and 7500 metric tonne CO2e of Incorporating such terms into leases is important for us Non-GHG Emissions • Higher-voltage electrical service distribution of avoided emissions annually. because approximately half of our real estate footprint 480/277V; rack distribution of 415/230V is leased, often for long-term commitments. If we do Effluents (Liquid) Building Efficiency: Green Building and Leasing not specify any green leasing requirements at the • Rooftop solar photovoltaic We have made significant progress toward integrating time of leasing, it can be difficult to incorporate these Waste • Heat recovery from data hall for office space use green building standards into our real estate since our requirements later. (in North Carolina) first LEED-certified building was built in August 2009. Appendix • LED lighting By the end of FY15, 29 Cisco facilities had achieved LEED • Low-E glass windows certification, with 22 of them rated Gold or Platinum. • Reclaimed water use in cooling towers These 29 certifications represent over 3.3 million square (in North Carolina) feet of LEED certified space, which is more than 15 percent of Cisco’s global real estate portfolio. • Non-chemical water treatment system • Water-efficient plumbing Since FY11, we have integrated green leasing terms • Occupancy sensors integrated with lighting and into our standard lease template globally. Green leases temperature controls provide corporations with a valuable opportunity to communicate and implement sustainability goals as well • Landfill diversion during construction as to provide a foundation for measurement. Case studies are available on our website on the design and construction of the data center in Allen, Texas. In FY15, we included green leasing terms in 19 negotiated lease agreements, representing over 695,000 square feet of office space. The green leasing terms Waterside Economizer 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E27 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental Not all of the terms in Cisco’s green lease templates are In addition, we evaluated numerous other locations for Sustainability mandatory for every lease. At a minimum, green leasing both cogeneration and fuel cell installations but have allows us to better communicate and negotiate with the not yet found a location where the return on investment landlord with the goal to get our core sustainability design is competitive with other energy-efficiency and onMaterials principles included in the majority of our leases. site solar projects. We will continue to evaluate these technologies over the next few years and will implement Energy & Onsite Power: Solar them when they become more cost competitive. GHG Emissions In FY15, we installed and commissioned a 966-kW solar PV carport system at our Boxborough, Massachusetts, We have also installed nine solar hot water systems at our campus. We installed five arrays, making up 3168 solar campus in Bangalore, India. These systems collectively Water Use produce on average 5500 liters of hot water every day, panels. The forecasted output is more than 1.2 million kWh per year. This location was selected partly because which satisfies approximately 44 percent of our hot water Biodiversity & of the availability of the Solar Renewable Energy demands at the campus. We are currently evaluating Land Use Certificate (SREC) market in Massachusetts. At the time expanding this system and expect that over the next of publishing this report, Cisco was still determining if year, we will be able to satisfy approximately 67 percent and how it might participate in this market. of our hot water demands at the campus through solar Cisco’s Allen, Texas, Data Center Solar Project Non-GHG Emissions technologies. This project, combined with three existing solar projects campus, we engaged with the Indian Energy Exchange Effluents (Liquid) installed in the last two years—at our data centers in Purchasing Renewable Electricity and were able to get a contract set up to purchase Allen, Texas; RTP, North Carolina; and Bangalore, India— Purchasing electricity generated from renewable or approximately five percent of our electricity demands increased our total onsite solar PV capacity from 200 kW other low-carbon sources is a key component of our from solar. At our San Jose, California, campus, Cisco Waste to 2.7 MW. Collectively these systems will produce on GHG reduction strategy. Cisco’s global renewable contracted with NRG Renew to purchase solar power average 2.6 million kWh of electricity, avoiding more than electricity purchases are summarized in Table 9. We have produced from a solar farm that will be built in California Appendix 1100 metric tonne CO2e each year over the projected purchased renewable electricity primarily in the United in FY16. This agreement allows us buy 20 MW of 25‑year life of the systems. States and Europe since FY06 by buying Renewable solar power at a fixed rate for 20 years directly for our Energy Certificates (RECs) and entering into green power headquarters in San Jose. Onsite Power: Cogeneration and Fuel Cells contracts with various electricity suppliers. In FY15, we In FY15, we improved the efficiency of our existing 425 purchased 1085 GWh of Green-e Certified RECs and To further this engagement, Cisco is now working with kW cogeneration system at our Bedfont Lakes (UK) green power in the U.S. and 80 GWh of green power in both the WWF’s Corporate Renewable Buyers’ Principles campus by adding additional load and connecting two Europe, Middle East, Africa, and Russia (EMEAR). The and Rocky Mountain Institute’s Business Renewables chilled water systems together. This modification enables percent of electricity purchased from renewable energy Center. Cisco also participates in the EPA’s Green Power us to increase the runtime of the system at higher loads, sources for various regions is shown in Table 10. Partnership. In the July 2015 EPA green power rankings, reducing the amount of electricity we purchased from the Cisco was listed tenth among the National Top 100, grid. With the system now operating at peak efficiency In FY15, we ramped up engagement with our global seventh among Fortune 500 companies, and fifth in the it will avoid approximately 850 metric tonne of CO2e per electricity providers and were able to execute two new Top 30 Tech and Telecom companies. This EPA ranking year, and save over US$47,000 in electricity costs. renewable energy contracts. At our Bangalore, India, is updated quarterly. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E28 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental Scope 3 Table 9. Renewable Energy Sustainability Key GRI G4 Indicators KPI FY07 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 Baseline Year Materials GRI G4-EN17: Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3). Electricity from renewable sources, GWh 110 358 552 523 583 1170 Energy & GHG emissions reduction from renewable energy, 50,000 142,000 210,000 195,000 209,000 417,000 GHG Emissions Scope 3 emissions cover a broad range of activities, metric tonne CO2e including our supply chain, logistics, product use, and product end of life. We provide comprehensive Percent progress against reduction goal. 10.7% 26.5% 37.7% 34.4% 37.1% 71.9% Water Use information on our Scope 3 emissions in response to Goal: Use electricity generated from renewable Question 14 of the 2014 CDP Investor survey. sources for at least 25 percent of our electricity Biodiversity & every year through FY17 Land Use Our Scope 3 reduction efforts are focused on reducing business-air-travel and supply chain operations Non-GHG Emissions emissions. We are using Cisco network technologies to Table 10. FY14 Electricity Usage from Renewable Sources reduce our air travel, supported by business processes, management practices, information systems, and Region Percent of FY14 Electricity from Renewable Sources Effluents (Liquid) standardized assessment methodologies for their use. FY07 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 Baseline Year Waste Scope 3 Business Air Travel EMEAR (Europe, Middle East, Africa, and Russia) 31.4% 64.4% 61.8% 70.9% 63.9% 54.5% Key GRI G4 Indicators Appendix United States 9.5% 27.4% 43.6% 39.1% 43.8% 96.9% GRI G4-EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials Global 10.7% 26.5% 37.7% 34.4% 37.1% 71.9% for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. • June 2008: EPA Climate Leaders commitment to Travel reduction to meet our first five-year goal was aided We believe that the global problem of climate change reduce all Scope 1, Scope 2, and business-air-travel by budget reductions due to the economic downturn requires a significant reduction in emissions in absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions worldwide by 25 percent beginning in late 2008 (Table 11). Since then, Cisco terms. For our operations, we have made the following absolute by end of CY12 (CY07 baseline). This goal has been entering new markets that require developing public commitments that impact Scope 3 emissions: was met in 2012 and the commitment was closed. new and expanded business relationships, which has pushed travel back up. In FY16, we need to elevate • September 2006: Cisco made a commitment at the • February 2013: Cisco announced a new goal to reduce total Cisco business-air-travel Scope 3 GHG the discussion to better use our remote collaboration Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) annual meeting to reduce emissions worldwide by 40 percent absolute by technologies for these new opportunities. GHG emissions from all Cisco business-air-travel worldwide by 10 percent absolute by FY09 (against FY17 (FY07 baseline). a FY06 baseline). This goal was met in 2009 and the commitment was closed. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E29 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental Despite these challenges we have managed to achieve from the goal of travel substitution. Second, we are Sustainability absolute reductions in emissions compared to our unsure how to characterize emissions factors for different FY07 base year. We experienced our first reductions classes of air travel for a single company. Even though in air-travel emissions, measured on an annual basis, Cisco is a large company, it is likely that scheduled Materials starting in FY08. As the economy recovered from the air service has not been changed by our reduction 2008-2009 downturn and our travel increased, we still in air travel, even reductions measured in hundreds Energy & met our FY12 reduction goal. of thousands of flights per year. Of course, as more GHG Emissions companies adopt collaborative network technologies, We do not apply different emissions factors across the the number of plane flights could decrease. Currently, timeframe in which we report because our focus is to we have chosen not to complicate what is inherently a Water Use reduce travel through the use of ICT. If we varied the conceptual reduction by not considering class-of-service emissions factors, other aspects, such as the effect of flown in selecting emissions factors. Biodiversity & a modernizing air fleet, could create the appearance of Cisco TelePresence IX5000 Series Land Use reduced travel. Each year, an independent third party provides a limited-assurance review of both our Scope 3 air-travel Reducing GHG Emissions from Scope 3 Business Air Travel To date, we have not adopted different emissions factors emissions data and our calculations. In our FY13 CSR Non-GHG Emissions To replace physical travel and meet our business-air-travel for different classes of air service, for two reasons. First, report, in response to a comment during the external reduction goal, we rely on Cisco remote-collaboration our focus is on using remote collaboration technologies assurance process, we updated the emissions factors technologies, including Cisco TelePresence® video– Effluents (Liquid) to avoid travel. Reporting reduced emissions because used in the calculation to the latest DEFRA emissions conferencing, Cisco WebEx® desktop conferencing, a larger percentage of employees flew economy class factors and applied them to all years reported, including Cisco Unified Communications, and Cisco Jabber® this year compared with last year moves the focus away our base year. Waste collaboration software. Appendix Table 11. Scope 3 Air-Travel Greenhouse Gas Emissions KPI FY07 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 Comments Baseline Year Total Scope 3 air-travel GHG emissions, All emissions recalculated, starting with our 2013 CSR metric tonne CO2e 199,104 114,707 125,605 139,530 157,868 * report, using DEFRA 2014 emissions factors (RicardoAEA/Carbon Smart); radiative forcing not included. Percent Scope 3 air-travel emissions from primary data Primary air-travel data adjusted to represent 98.0% 98.2% 98% 98% 98% * 100 percent of Cisco business-air-travel. Percent progress against reduction goal. Goal: Reduce FY12 was goal year for first five-year goal of 25 percent. total, Cisco, business-air-travel, Scope 3 emissions base year -42% -37% -30% -21% * worldwide by 40% absolute by FY17 (FY07 baseline) * To be updated later 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E30 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental Our rollout of Cisco remote-collaboration technologies now interoperate. For example, WebEx users can The net effect of our adoption of collaborative technologies Sustainability across the company continues, but the rate of adoption see and hear—and can be seen and heard in—Cisco has been a reduction in travel, carbon emissions, and has matured. Therefore, we are no longer trending TelePresence rooms, expanding the types of remote travel costs, plus an increase in employee productivity adoption metrics that we have included in our previous collaboration enabled by Cisco technology. and work-life balance. At the same time, we maintained Materials CSR reports. These technologies include: and grew the customer relationships we need for Use of WebEx is pervasive at Cisco. Essentially all Cisco continued revenue growth. • Immersive Cisco TelePresence videoconferencing: employees using Cisco assigned laptops have a WebEx Energy & We have more than 1500 Cisco TelePresence rooms GHG Emissions account. Hosting and attending WebEx meetings with However, replacing business-air-travel with remote deployed in our offices worldwide. other employees, our customers, our partners, and other collaboration requires more than just installing • Personal Cisco TelePresence videoconferencing: stakeholders is as common (and easy) as using the technology. We also had to adapt business processes, Water Use Hardware-based (for example, DX80 and MX300) telephone. management practices, and culture to take full advantage personal video totals more than 8000 units. Softwareof these new network technologies. As experience with Biodiversity & based (Cisco Jabber) videoconferencing is available to We use Cisco TelePresence, Cisco Jabber, and Cisco remote collaboration technologies increased, both within all Cisco employees using Cisco assigned laptops. WebEx for virtual company meetings, executive Cisco and among our customers and partners, remote Land Use • Cisco Connected Workplace videoconferencing: operational reviews, and department ”all hands” meetings, interactions have progressed from being the exception of Cisco Connected Workplace is Cisco’s shared office thereby expanding the types of interactions that can be a few years ago to now being a standard practice within Non-GHG Emissions conducted remotely. Additionally, about one-third of our space solution. Many small, flexible-use rooms for one Cisco. We anticipate they will be expected behavior to two people have smaller videoconferencing units annual global ISO 14001 site audits are performed using worldwide in the near future. Effluents (Liquid) installed, totaling more than 400 units worldwide. Cisco remote collaboration solutions. This real-world experience guides product development and helps with Scope 3 Business Air Travel: Avoided • Cisco WebEx desktop conferencing: WebEx is the rollout of supporting management practices. Waste available to all Cisco employees using Cisco assigned GHG Emissions laptops. Cisco TelePresence and Cisco WebEx The Transport Substitution chapter of the draft GHG Protocol ICT Sector Supplement distinguishes between Appendix emissions reductions and avoided emissions. Emissions reductions are actual, measured, absolute changes to emissions. Avoided emissions project what might have happened if an action hadn’t been done. Cisco focuses on emissions reductions, but we receive inquiries about avoided emissions, so a brief discussion is provided. It is difficult to project with certainty what might have happened to Cisco air-travel emissions without the widespread adoption of our collaborative technologies. To estimate avoided emissions, Cisco has compared changes in our actual air-travel emissions against changes in revenue and headcount. Revenue and headcount are two factors thought to correlate with Cisco MX800 with Dual Speaker Track Camera Option 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E31 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental changes to the amount of air-travel. Our data indicate telecommuting or working in a flexible office space does Sustainability that, from FY04 to FY06 and before the acquisition of not directly reduce air travel, it does afford opportunities to WebEx and the introduction of Cisco TelePresence, become more proficient in using collaborative technologies, changes to GHG emissions were roughly proportional especially important for a 24/7 global company. This Materials to changes in revenue or headcount. The revenue side proficiency can be applied directly to business activities of this observation is consistent with the fact that about where remote collaboration reduces air travel. Energy & two‑thirds of Cisco’s air-travel emissions were originally GHG Emissions from our sales and service organizations, both “highElectric Vehicle Charging Stations touch” business functions. The more products sold, Electric vehicle (EV) purchases by Cisco employees the more customers Cisco serves, and the greater the continue to increase, particularly in locations where Water Use potential for business travel. In addition, in the past, Cisco has major operations, such as California and North if someone was hired, it was likely she or he would Carolina. One concern that often prevents people in Biodiversity & become a traveller. general from purchasing EVs is so-called “range anxiety.” Land Use Because charging can be a time-consuming process, the Electric Vehicle Charging at Cisco (San Jose, California) Scope 3 Employee Commuting workplace is a logical place for charging stations. Non-GHG Emissions Teleworking Providing charging stations on our campuses for In addition to these stations, we have also been working The employee skill set developed to reduce businessemployees and guests has important benefits for Cisco. with property owners at our leased facilities to include EV air-travel, and the accompanying business processes Effluents (Liquid) As an employee service, it can assist with employee charging for all occupants of their facilities. and management practices, are also used to reduce employee travel between home and work, as well as satisfaction, recruiting, and retention. Supporting EV adoption also aligns with our sustainability strategy and Because emissions from the electricity used to charge Waste between buildings at a Cisco site. The wide availability can help reduce Scope 1 emissions related to our fleet employee EVs are typically less than from commuting in of collaboration tools within Cisco permits employees to operations. We installed our first EV charging station in a fossil-fuel-powered car, Cisco has directly contributed become well versed in integrating these technologies Appendix FY11. By the end of FY15, we had a total of 189 stations to avoiding about 900 metric tonne CO2e as a result of into their daily business activities. Several Cisco network with 378 charging ports available for use by Cisco employees and guests using these onsite recharging technologies permit flexible working environments, employees and guests at no cost at several campus stations. These figures are expected to increase as including Cisco Virtual Office and Cisco OfficeExtend. locations, including:1 more employees buy EVs and we expand the number of Cisco Virtual Office provides wired and wireless voice, charging stations in our real estate portfolio to meet the data, and video service for an employee’s home or small • San Jose, California additional demand. commercial offices. OfficeExtend is a simpler, remote • Research Triangle Park, North Carolina wireless access point in the employee’s home that In FY14, we joined the U.S. Department of Energy EV provides the same highly secure communications to a • Lawrenceville, Georgia Everywhere Grand Challenge, which helps promote wireless local-area network (WLAN) controller at the • Boxborough, Massachusetts the installation of workplace charging stations through connected Cisco campus. • Bedfont Lakes, United Kingdom the sharing of information and best practices. We also participate in webinars and one-on-one discussions Over 25,000 Cisco employees have adopted Cisco Virtual • Green Park, United Kingdom with other companies who want to learn more about Office, which includes a Cisco Integrated Services Router • Lysaker, Norway workplace charging to share our experience and help and IP Phone, to effectively work remotely. Although • Amsterdam, Netherlands expand the EV charging network. 1. Cisco includes the electricity used to charge employee EVs in our Scope 2 emissions. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E32 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental Scope 3 Life Cycle Emissions Sustainability Figure 2. Breakdown of GHG Emissions by Life-Cycle Phase for Select Product Categories Life-cycle assessment (LCA) techniques and specifically carbon footprinting help us understand where the largest Materials impact of our products lie so we can focus our attention IP Phone Chassis-Based Switch Small Access Router on the areas where we can make the most difference. 0.2% 1% 1.45% Energy & We use the five product life cycle stages defined by the Transport -0.2% Transport -0.4% Transport -0.2% GHG Emissions GHG Protocol in its 2011 Product Life Cycle Accounting Manufacturing End of Life 6% End of Life 5.95% End of Life and Reporting Standard, which itself is based on the ISO Manufacturing Manufacturing Water Use 14040 series standards: • Material acquisition and pre-processing 19.5% Biodiversity & • Production Land Use • Distribution and storage 80.5% 93.4% 92.8% • Use Non-GHG Emissions • End of life Use Use Use Effluents (Liquid) We are committed to shaping our industry in this area through two avenues: Large Chassis Router Mid-Level Ethernet Switch Waste • Internal research to develop our capabilities • Industry engagement 3.2% -0.2% 3% -0.5% Transport Transport Appendix End of Life End of Life Our LCA work has focused on our most common products, including IP phones, standalone switches, 4% 8.5% Manufacturing Manufacturing and routers, which cover a substantial portion of our product line. We have also assessed Cisco TelePresence videoconferencing to determine the net benefit from using ICT as a substitute for travel. For many of our product families, we have determined that the use phase accounts for between 80 and 901 percent of the carbon 93% 89% life cycle impact as shown in Figure 2. Use Use The use phase can account for more than 90 percent of life cycle emissions for larger core routers and switches, because power is higher relative to weight. For lowerNote: Negative EOL values indicate material credits associated with recycling and reuse of materials. power devices—like endpoint devices that might have a 1. Global emissions factors can vary by a factor of three, which impacts use-phase emissions. This analysis used the global average electricity emissions factor. Larger grid emissions factors increase the percentage of overall emissions in the use phase. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E33 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental shorter lifetime, that can be turned off, and whose use is We participate in several ICT industry efforts working in working toward practical and useful methodologies to Sustainability compatible with idle or standby modes—the percentage toward a common approach to assessing environmental assess the GHG emissions impact of our products. of emissions from the use phase is lower but still the impacts of products, including: largest contributor. • GHG Protocol Scope 3, Product Accounting and Scope 3 Cradle-to-Gate Emissions Materials Reporting, and ICT Sector Supplement standards. We receive numerous inquiries from stakeholders about In FY12, we improved our capability to perform LCAs, supply chain emissions. Some are concerned that Over the last three years, Cisco has contributed to the Energy & developing tools to automate the analysis of product GHG emissions from subcontracted activities do not development of these standards which form the basis GHG Emissions materials and standardizing life cycle models. Since appear in our Scope 1 and 2 reporting. We subcontract for accurate accounting. then, we have focused on specific areas within our LCA the assembly of our final products and also rely on analysis to further improve data availability and accuracy • European Telecommunications Standards Institute a worldwide network of component suppliers and Water Use in the materials and manufacturing phases. Figure 3 (ETSI) LCA assessment of telecommunication logistics providers. These business partners, in turn, shows the manufacturing phase carbon footprint of a equipment and service, DTS/EE-00014. rely on additional supply chain partners to support their Biodiversity & Cisco IP phone. Collecting accurate data to support LCA • International Electronics Manufacturers Initiative respective contributions and performance through our Land Use modeling is most difficult for the largest impact areas (iNEMI) Eco-Impact Evaluator Project (completed in supplier sustainability scorecard to Cisco products. identified in the manufacturing phase: integrated circuits, FY13) to develop a simplified LCA tool for ICT products bare printed circuit boards, displays, and assembly (Cisco was co-editor). To address the “subcontracting” of our GHG emissions, Non-GHG Emissions and test processes. To address this challenge, we are each year, we ask our suppliers to report to CDP. We also • High-Density Packaging Users Group (HDPUG) PWB working with industry peers and suppliers to collect more measure supplier CDP participation and performance Environmental Life Cycle Analysis project focusing Effluents (Liquid) data and improve calculations. through our supplier sustainability scorecard. on developing a model for the manufacturing of bare circuit boards. For more information, please refer to: Waste • Sponsorship of Stanford University civil engineering Figure 3. IP Phone Manufacturing • A facsimile of the FY15 letter requesting our suppliers annual class projects. Phase Impacts to report to CDP. (See Appendix.) Appendix 3% These efforts build and share knowledge, apply life cycle • The FY15 CDP supplier reporting status shown in Electronic Components 1% Packaging concepts to our product design and operations, build Table 12. (excl ICs) 1% Enclosure Metals engagement with academia, and support the ICT sector • The FY15 Supplier Scorecard results related to CDP Cables 3% <1% Electromechanicals reporting (see Supply Chain, page F13.) Plastics Integrated Table 12. Supply Chain Partners Reporting to CDP1 10% Circuits 35% KPI FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 Comments Memory 13% Contract manufacturing, by percent of spend 100% 100% 100% 100% * Tier 1 partner. Goal: 100 percent 13% Approved Vendor List (AVL) components, 69% 80% 86% 87% * Tier 2 partner. Goal: 80 percent 22% by percent of spend LCD Screen Global transportation, by percent of spend 50% 93% 98% 95% * Tier 1 partner. Goal: 90 percent Printed Wiring Board 1. Cisco’s top-level metric for supply chain reporting to CDP is based on total Cisco spend within each supplier category. In the Supply Chain section, the supply chain objectives and Table 1 introduce a related goal and metric based on “key” suppliers, or those suppliers with whom Cisco has direct relationships and a reasonable ability to influence behavior. * To be updated later. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E34 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental As the number of suppliers reporting to CDP and their model, the emissions reductions resulting from these customers. For these reasons, improving product Sustainability thoroughness in reporting improves, so too does our activities fall under Scope 3 Purchased Goods and energy efficiency represents more than just a regulatory ability to use our suppliers’ combined data sets to help Services (for more details, see Materials, page E18.) requirement for Cisco; it is a significant opportunity for us prioritize emission reduction opportunities and establish to help customers save on energy costs, reduce global Materials long-term targets for our supply chain. Scope 3 Product Use Phase energy demand, and lower GHG emissions, in addition to (Product Energy Efficiency) making our products more competitive. Energy & Beginning in FY14, CDP supplier data served as a GHG Emissions resource for the calculation of our own Scope 3 supply Key GRI G4 Indicators Advocacy and Standards Development chain emissions to CDP. Cisco engages with governments, regulatory agencies, GRI G4-EN7: Reductions in energy requirements of products and services. and standards-setting bodies in key jurisdictions to Water Use A detailed account of our FY15 Scope 3 Carbon Inventory monitor and influence the development of emerging can be found in response to Question 14 of the CDP GRI G4-EN27: Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services. product energy-efficiency requirements and standards, Biodiversity & Investor Carbon questionnaire available on CDP’s website. particularly around climate change. We believe that Land Use these activities, when done properly, bring clarity and Scope 3 Transportation and Distribution As global energy use has risen, so have GHG emissions. consistency to the global marketplace and create Mode Shift and Pack It Green are two key initiatives While the ICT industry accounts for about two percent of predictable requirements that enable companies to Non-GHG Emissions within the Supply Chain Greenhouse Gas Reduction the world’s GHG emissions from energy, we expect ICT focus on the environmental issues that are most relevant Program that have led to transport emissions reductions. energy consumption to grow faster than GDP.2 Product to their business. Specifically, we believe that product Effluents (Liquid) energy efficiency is an important focus for Cisco because energy-efficiency standards can promote innovation by The Mode Shift initiative continues to optimize our global, of the number and type of energy-consuming products being performance based; by taking into account product virtual factory-to-factory freight movement of goods, that we sell each year. While some of these devices are functionality; and by relying on objective criteria, realWaste specifically shifting transportation modes from air to replacements, others are additive, contributing to the world data, and system-level efficiency. ocean whenever practical, while still meeting customer growth in emissions from ICT equipment. Throughout their Appendix expectations on lead time. In FY15, despite the slowing We have been working closely with the EPA to define life cycle, our products consume the largest proportion of of ocean freight due to U.S.-based port strikes, Mode energy, and release the most GHG emissions, during the ENERGY STAR standards for relevant products since Shift avoided 100,800 cumulative metric tonne1 of use phase. Product energy efficiency has emerged as a 2008. In 2013 the EPA released the Version 1.0 ENERGY CO2e emissions. key design criterion in our products in light of our growing STAR specification for Small Network Equipment; its awareness of climate change issues. objective was to differentiate more efficient products In FY15, Pack It Green expanded its GHG emissions across six types of networking equipment. We are reporting to include reductions due to reduced weight Customers and regulators have rising expectations qualifying in-scope products with this and other existing shipped (see Materials, page E18.) of products to minimize energy costs and GHG ENERGY STAR specification programs. To date, this emissions. Every year the number of inquiries related to includes set-top boxes,3 enterprise servers, IP phones, Scope 3 Purchased Goods and Services environmental sustainability we receive from analysts, and small network equipment (SNE). We are engaged Pack It Green and the eDelivery programs were founded customers, shareholders, and non-governmental in the development of an ENERGY STAR specification on the principles of material and waste reduction in the organizations (NGOs) rises. Cisco tracks applicable for large network equipment (LNE) which will cover a interest of customer satisfaction. In a fully outsourced energy-use regulations and certification programs significant portion of our routing and switching products. to review compliance needs as requested by our A list of Cisco ENERGY STAR-qualified products is available on the ENERGY STAR program website. 1. As calculated using UK DEFRA factor for air freight including a multiplier of 1.9 to account for radiative forcing. 2. Jonathan Koomey, Growth in Data Center Electricity Use 2005 to 2010, Analytics Press, August 2011, www.analyticspress.com/datacenters.html; and Gartner 2007, http://www.gartner.com/newsroom/id/503867 3. As of the end of FY15 Cisco no longer sells set-top boxes. This division and associated products were part of a divestiture. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E35 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental ENERGY STAR is a useful means to promote product Table 13. Energy-Efficiency-Related Initiatives and Organizations Sustainability energy efficiency improvements. However, we believe Organization Area/Issue of Engagement that an approach that addresses product energy efficiency across an entire product system is a better Materials Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Cisco is an active member of ATIS and engages with other member organizations way to measure and promote product energy efficiency. Solutions (ATIS) to develop standards relevant to the telecom industry. In 2010, Cisco took a lead ENERGY STAR standards generally apply to a single point role in the development of the ATIS TEER standard for the measurement of product Energy & of power supply conversion at the front end of the total energy efficiency. GHG Emissions system. In contrast, the Alliance for Telecommunications Minimum Energy Performance Standards Energy performance requirements and maximum power consumption of Industry Solutions (ATIS) Telecommunications Energy (MEPS) (Australia and Korea) standby modes. Efficiency Ratio (TEER) measurement method covers Water Use all power conversion and power distribution from the European Telecommunications Cisco is engaged with ETSI in the development of standards for energy efficiency. front end of the system to the data wire plug, including Standards Institute (ETSI) Biodiversity & application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs). Land Use Electronic Industry Citizenship Cisco is a founding member of the EICC, sits on its board, and contributes to the Coalition (EICC) development and revision of the EICC Code of Conduct. Table 13 highlights several illustrative examples of energy efficiency initiatives and organizations that Non-GHG Emissions The Green Grid (TGG) The Green Grid is a global consortium of companies dedicated to resource efficiency Cisco participates in. in business computing ecosystems. Cisco participates on a broad range of issue topics; examples include: data center management; liquid cooling technology; Power Improving Product Energy Efficiency Effluents (Liquid) Usage Effectiveness (PUE); Water Usage Effectiveness (WUE); and Energy Reuse Effectiveness (EUE). To achieve the projected—and required—product performance specifications for the next five to 10 Waste International Telecommunication Union Cisco is a major contributor to the ITU-T SG5 Lead Study Group on ICT and climate years, Cisco products will require an architecture that (ITU) (worldwide) change. Cisco presented to ITU the ATIS TEER methodology, which was then has energy scalability, meaning it can provide energyAppendix incorporated into Measure L, energy-efficiency metrics and measurement for efficient service at variable traffic types, traffic demands, telecom equipment, creating the opportunity for a single worldwide metric. customer usage, and installs. In order to achieve this, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Minimum energy efficiency requirement for networking router and switch Cisco has four primary product energy efficiency (METI) (Japan) product groups. engineering initiatives underway. These are: U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), Cisco has been actively working with the EPA for more than seven years to define • Power initiative: We are improving general product Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ENERGY STAR standards for networking equipment: SNE, LNE, telephony, and servers. efficiency, from plug to port, with a goal to achieve a Cisco also has actively worked with Lawrence Berkeley National Labs, the EPA/DOE sixto seven-percent increase in conversion efficiency technical arm, Navigant, NRDC, and Ecova on measurement methodologies and by 2020. As an example, in 2015 a switch using 25 to metrics. Cisco routinely provides feedback to these organizations on best practices, 30 kW has a plug-to-port efficiency of 81 percent; by draft standards, and actual power measurement procedures for relevant products. 2020 we want the plug-to-port efficiency to be in the 88 to 90 percent range for a switch using 100 kW. Telecom Regulatory Authority TRAI is an Indian government regulatory organization for the telecom industry. of India (TRAI) In 2011 it released recommendations and guidance on energy efficiency • Thermal initiative: We are exploring alternative metrics and measurement. Cisco provided extensive document reviews and methods of cooling (air flow, liquid, and refrigerant recommendations on how to align with existing and widely adopted ATIS/ANCI cooling) to reduce operating temperatures and facility and ITU-R relevant documents. cooling requirements. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E36 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental • High-speed interconnects: High-speed interconnects Sustainability from silicon-to-silicon or optics-to-silicon are an integral Figure 4: Total System Power Efficiency* Figure 5. Example of Board-Level Energy part of high-speed data and the control plane. These (Percent Improvement) Consumption by Function interconnects consume a significant portion of the total Materials system power. We are exploring ways to increase the 1 interconnect speed, driving the gigabits per second per 0.80 0.82 0.84 Miscellaneous9.9% TOTAL SYSTEM POWER EFFICIENCY Energy & watt consumed (Gbps/W) metric as high as possible to 0.8 0.72 CPU 3.1% GHG Emissions increase performance and reduce energy use. 0.57 • Customer facilities: We are working with customers 0.6 Memory Water Use to reduce the amount of energy required to operate 9.5 ASIC their IT facilities with power solutions that increase 0.4 45.8 the efficiency of overhead power, avoid step-down Biodiversity & Land Use transformers, and provide integrated cooling strategies. 0.2 31.7 When we evaluate product energy efficiency, we 0 Field-Programmable consider the entire system power performance. We CY05 CY10 CY13 CY15 CY18 Non-GHG Emissions Gate Array (FPGA) measure the efficiency loss as electricity passes through YEAR OF PRODUCT RELEASE each component (or function). This can include, for * Total internal system power conversion and distribution from plug to Effluents (Liquid) example, the external power supply, front-end line card, ASIC; covers the complete internal power system conversion. point of load, and ASICs. Over the past 10 years we have Waste aggressively reduced our product energy consumption while increasing performance. For example, in our found in most Cisco products. ASICs are designed • Voltage scaling: To compensate for the performance products with release dates from CY05 to CY15, we have for a particular application in a particular product and variation inherent in manufactured products, we are Appendix increased circuit card power from 500W to 1350W and account for a significant percentage of board-level scaling, or adjusting, the energy consumed by ASICs gone from 8 kW to 28 kW chassis using conventional energy consumption (Figure 5). For lower-cost, higherto achieve performance standards and minimize fan tray cooling methods. These improvements have volume products, we use off-the-shelf original equipment energy consumption. We are adjusting the ASIC chip resulted in a total available power increase of 2.5 times manufacturer (OEM)-designed ASIC chips. For our energy requirements (up and down) to compensate for while increasing our total system power efficiency by enterprise and data center switches, Cisco Nexus® and any manufacturing variation in performance. Cisco Catalyst® switches, we design our own ASIC chips. 44 percent over the same period (Figure 4). • Adaptive power management: This enables an ASIC to actively manage the energy it requires based on the We are projecting a 2.3-percent increase in total system We are developing energy savings approaches for our load of work it is processing. power efficiency from current 2015 products to products ASIC chips that include: available in 2018. Our vision is to develop common power • Feature-based energy management: ASIC chips are Our ASIC power reduction techniques have increased designs and specifications across Cisco technologies to often developed to be rich in features and capability so the cumulative Gbps/W performance of our products continue the improvement of system power efficiency they can be used in many products. We are developing by 71 percent from 2005 to 2015 (Figure 6). We are with each product generation. new ASIC chips that are configurable to the specific projecting an additional 63 percent cumulative Gbps/W features within the product. As an example, such a performance increase from 2015 to 2018. As part of this system power efficiency approach, we chip would not draw the power needed to manage 48 are working to reduce energy demand for ASIC chips ports when it is placed in a 24-port switch. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E37 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental In 2009, Cisco was co-editor for several of the ATIS TEER Sustainability standards and Energy Efficiency of Telecommunications Figure 6. ASIC Performance, Gbps/W Figure 7. System Performance Equipment: Methodology for Measurement and Reporting (Core Routing ASICs) Improvements, Gbps/W standards, and specifically those regarding: Materials • Servers and server blades 4 6.25 1.0 0.91 (ATIS-0600015.01.2009) 0.9 6 Energy & GHG Emissions • Transport and network systems 0.8 (ATIS-0600015.02.2009) 5 0.7 • Router and Ethernet switch products Water Use (ATIS-0600015.03.2009) 4 3.64 0.6 Gbps/W Gbps/W 0.5 These ATIS TEER standards created a framework for 3 2.67 Biodiversity & measuring product energy usage that takes into account 2.17 0.4 Land Use product functionality and uses real-world loads to 2 1.48 0.3 0.23 Non-GHG Emissions determine energy efficiency across the entire product. 1 0.2 0.11 This is important because it allows companies like Cisco 0.1 to compare energy-usage design improvements from 0 0 Effluents (Liquid) product generation to generation, and it helps consumers CY05 CY10 CY13 CY15 CY18 CRS1 CRS3 NCS6008 make more informed purchasing decisions. YEAR OF PRODUCT RELEASE CY05 CY10 CY14 Waste These ATIS TEER standards have been incorporated into the Network Equipment Building System (NEBS) design guidelines applied to telecommunications equipment • Cisco Catalyst 1900 Series, 2800 Series, 2900 Series, using the ATIS TEER standard. The results show that Appendix 3800 Series, 4500 Series, 6000 Series, and 6500 in these products, there was an 8.5-fold increase in in the United States. NEBS is the most common set Series Switches normalized bits-per-watt performance between the three of safety, spatial, and environmental design guidelines generations of products, with only a 2.5-fold increase in applied to telecommunications equipment, and • Cisco CRS-1 and CRS-3 Carrier Routing Systems power usage. compliance as an industry, but not a legal, requirement. • Cisco Network Convergence System (NCS) All Cisco products that have entered the market since 6008 Router Scope 3 Product End of Life 2011 have gone through the ATIS TEER testing. • Cisco ONS 15454, NCS 4016, NCS 2000 Series The last product life cycle phase defined in the GHG Multiservice Provisioning Platforms Protocol Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting We have used the ATIS TEER standard to develop energy profiles for representative models and products within the • Cisco Nexus 7000 Series Switches Standard is end of life (EOL) management. There are following product families: minimal emissions associated with this life cycle phase The products tested make up more than 90 percent of for Cisco products, and most of them are connected to • Cisco ASR 9000 Series Aggregation Services Routers Cisco products that are in ATIS TEER scope. Figure 7 the transport of the returned product and the recycling • Cisco ASR 5000 Series Aggregation Services Routers presents system performance improvements, in Gbps/W process. The largest impact of recycling on GHG for Mobile Packet Solutions consumed, for a sample of our core router products emissions is reducing upstream emissions (for more (CRS-1, CRS-3, NCS) for which first-, second-, and details, see Product Takeback, Reuse, and Recycling, third-generation energy performance was measured page E42.) 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E38 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental As Cisco introduces initiatives to increase the return of In FY09, Cisco sponsored and contributed to the SMART Water-Energy Nexus Sustainability used or EOL products, we have planned a study on the 2020 report, which still guides industry strategy today. Our environmental sustainability materiality assessment relative environmental impact of earlier or later product This report identified opportunities for the ICT sector to determined that operational water use (office building retirement. Energy efficiency usually improves with each develop and apply network technologies to reducing total Materials potable water, sanitation, landscaping, and cooling new product generation, so earlier product retirement GHG emissions by 15 percent. This would represent a towers) is not a significant impact area for our business. can decrease overall emissions since the use-phase substantial positive impact considering that the ICT sector However, because the production of electrical power Energy & emissions dominate the product life cycle. However, was projected to be responsible for only three percent is one of the largest users of fresh water, the greatest GHG Emissions creating new products introduces other environmental of global emissions in 2020. Potential reductions are opportunity for Cisco to reduce our impact on water impacts. A similar dynamic exists in the automotive concentrated in the areas of transportation, buildings, resources globally is by continuing to make our products industry. For example, is it better to retire a functional power/energy, and industry. Innovative applications Water Use and operations more energy efficient. 30-mpg car for a new 40-mpg car? We will consider the of network technologies promote change through our results of LCA to inform our approach in this area. solutions, our products, and our operations. The U.S. Geological Survey estimates in their latest Biodiversity & 2010 water report that 19 gallons of water are used on Land Use Enabling Effect average to produce one kilowatt hour of electricity in We are making progress in managing the GHG emissions Water Use the U.S. Considering this, the energy savings we are achieving through our energy and GHG reduction efforts Non-GHG Emissions in our own operations, in our supply chain, and at other phases of the product life cycle. Our products and are having a big impact on reducing water usage. We Key GRI G4 Indicators estimate that our FY15 energy reduction projects (see Effluents (Liquid) services also offer oppourtunities through their so-called GRI G4-EN8: Total water withdrawal by source. Table 8 on page E25), which avoided 41 GWh of energy enabling effect. GRI G4-EN9: Water sources significantly affected by usage, also avoided three million m3 of water usage in Waste The “enabling effect” is when ICT sector products and withdrawal of water. FY15. Since FY10, we estimate that our energy reduction services can be used to achieve reductions in GHG projects have avoided the use of over 19 million m3 of emissions in other industry sectors. For example, highwater. To put this into perspective, the avoided water Appendix definition videoconferencing (ICT sector) can be used Water scarcity is a serious issue affecting over one usage we achieved from our energy projects in FY15 in place of face-to-face interaction to avoid air travel billion people around the world. Even though technology alone exceeded Cisco’s total FY15 water usage at its (transportation sector), and energy monitoring and companies like Cisco do not directly use significant operations. control of IP-enabled devices (ICT sector) can be used amounts of water, we understand the importance of reducing water consumption as much as we can in our to reduce energy consumption in buildings (real estate, operations and in our supply chain to help protect this Water Usage industrial sectors). limited resource for future generations. Key objectives of We have been collecting and tracking water usage data Cisco’s water management program for all sites are to: for our major campus locations since FY07 (Table 14). In The enabling effect of Cisco’s equipment was identified FY15, we were able to collect water data for 73 percent as a Tier 1 environment-related issue (Table 1) during • Identify and implement site-level water conservation of our real estate portfolio (Table 14). We have made our sustainability materiality assessment. We believe opportunities for our operations, focusing on watergreat improvements in our ability to track water it is an area in which we can have significant positive scarce and water-stressed locations. consumption, but this continues to be a challenge given environmental impact through the avoidance of emissions. • Work with local governments, water utilities, owners of the size and geographic dispersion of our operations and our leased buildings, and other partners to incorporate Although the use of ICT products consumes energy, best practices into our operations. there is substantial opportunity to use them to reduce global energy-related GHG emissions and make the world more energy efficient. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E39 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental that many of our locations are shared buildings without tool we identified that one of our sites is located in a • Replacing turf with native planter beds that require Sustainability water submeters. We continue to investigate all possible water‑scarce area and two sites are in water-stressed little water, and installing drip irrigation lines to improve causes of our year-on-year increase in water use. areas. We will continue to monitor these sites for irrigation efficiency changes in water availability and develop specialized Materials Cisco primarily uses water to operate our lab and data • Using a water harvesting system at our Bangalore, water management strategies accordingly. India, campus to capture rainwater for filtering and use center cooling systems, for landscaping and irrigation, Energy & and in our restrooms, breakrooms, cafeterias, and We will be re-evaluating our water-stressed and waterkitchens. We reduce our water consumption in these Water Conservation GHG Emissions scarce locations, including our San Jose campus, to areas as much as possible and also use reclaimed Our main water conservation initiative in FY15 was to determine if there are additional water conservation water instead of potable water in applications such as convert almost all of our water fountains at our main opportunities and strategies that could be implemented Water Use landscaping and in cooling towers. campus in San Jose to planter beds with native plants in FY16. and water-efficient drip irrigation. Prior to FY15, we Biodiversity & In FY15, Cisco used 42 m3 of water per employee, implemented numerous water conservation initiatives that which is less water consumption per employee than the are still saving water today: Land Use average person uses each year in the U.S.1 However, • Using irrigation controllers throughout the San Jose water consumption is still an important area of focus main campus Non-GHG Emissions for Cisco because some of our facilities are located in regions where water rights and usage are a concern, • Using recycled water for irrigation Effluents (Liquid) including our headquarters in San Jose, California, which • Installing variable-frequency drives in our cooling towers is moving into a fourth year of drought. • Installing two-way valves for toilets, waterless urinals, sink aerators, low-flow showerheads, and pre-rinse Waste We use the World Business Council for Sustainable spray valves for kitchen sinks Development (WBCSD) water tool to identify areas San Jose, California, Decorative Fountain (Before) Appendix with water scarcity or water stress issues. Through the Table 14. Water Use KPI FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 Comments Total water use, m3 (thousand) 1764 1864 1969 2021 2179 Includes potable water and recycled irrigation. Real estate portfolio covered 68% 71% 68% 72% 73% by water reporting San Jose, California, Decorative Fountain (After) 1. The average person in the U.S. uses 80–100 gal/day, or 0.302833–0.378541 m3/day. Source: http://water.usgs.gov/edu/qa-home-percapital.html 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E40 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental Sustainability Biodiversity and Land Use Cisco Connected Workplace and our collaboration technologies reduce the demand for office space by more efficiently using existing space and enabling Key GRI G4 Indicators employees to work remotely while remaining productive. Materials Cisco Connected Workplace layouts can accommodate GRI G4-EN11: Operational sites owned by, leased by, managed in, or adjacent to protected areas and areas approximately 30 percent more employees than a Energy & of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. traditional office layout, substantially reducing space and GHG Emissions GRI G4-EN12: Description of significant impacts of land requirements and therefore reducing associated activities, products, and services on biodiversity in environmental impacts. We are in the process of protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value converting many of our buildings into Cisco Connected Water Use outside protected areas. Workplaces, which will be complete by FY17. By doing GRI G4-EN13: Habitats protected or restored. this, we have already reduced our real estate footprint by Biodiversity & approximately one million square feet. GRI G4-EN14: Total number of IUCN Red List species Land Use Eastern Box Turtle and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. We use environmental impact assessments to evaluate the biodiversity and land-use impacts of our sites and These efforts include: Non-GHG Emissions GRI G4-EN26: Identity, size, protected status, and generate annual biodiversity summary reports for all biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats land and property we own. Table 15 shows the percent • Establishing two conservation areas of 49 and 60 acres. significantly affected by the organization’s discharges of Effluents (Liquid) water and runoff. of our portfolio with biodiversity assessments in place. • Constructing three turtle tunnels under the highway For example, we own buildings in San Jose, California, to provide a safe passage for migration. Waste located near a protected area for the American Cliff • Installing turtle curbing around the site to prevent Biodiversity is the variability among living organisms Swallow, which is a bird species on the Least Concern migrating turtles from entering the roadway and from all sources and the ecological complexes they are category of the IUCN Red List. To protect their habitat parking areas. Appendix a part of. All organizations impact biodiversity directly during nesting season, we close our balconies on those through their own activities or indirectly through their buildings and remove mud nesting locations on our • Enhancing 16 acres of turtle nesting habitat within the conservation area. supply chain. Cisco’s primary impact on biodiversity is the buildings after nesting season is over. land we use for our facilities. We mitigate this impact by • Funding a two-year construction phase turtle reducing the demand for physical office space through We have also undertaken efforts to protect the habitat monitoring plan and a two-year Blanding’s turtle employee telework programs and other support solutions of Blanding’s Turtle (IUCN Endangered Species) and conservation research project. such as Cisco Connected Workplace, Cisco Virtual the Eastern Box Turtle (IUCN Vulnerable Species) on • Restricting future development on approximately Office, and Cisco OfficeExtend. 60 acres of our land in Boxborough, Massachusetts. 50 acres of our land. Table 15. Biodiversity and Land Use KPI FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 Comments Percent of real estate portfolio with 63% 61% 61% 60% 61% Includes International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List and national biodiversity assessment conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations. Owned property. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E41 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental Sustainability Non-GHG Emissions Effluents (Liquid) We seek to situate our operations in areas where we can successfully serve our customers while limiting our negative environmental impacts. Operations location is an especially Key GRI G4 Indicators Key GRI G4 Indicators important consideration with our data centers. We currently Materials cool most of our data centers by air movement. However, GRI G4-EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting GRI G4 EN10: Percentage and total volume of water substances (ODSs). recycled and reused. as equipment becomes more compact and consumes more Energy & power per unit area, we need to identify more efficient GRI G4-EN21: NOx, SOx, and other significant GRI G4 EN22: Total water discharge by quality GHG Emissions air emissions. cooling mechanisms. One of the options we have begun and destination. to implement is water-based cooling. GRI G4 EN24: Total number and volume of Water Use significant spills. Table 17 tracks liquid spills and discharges from Because most of our production is outsourced to supply chain partners, our global operations primarily consist of Cisco facilities. Biodiversity & standard office activities and research labs. This limits Land Use our non-GHG emissions to volatile organic compounds Table 16. Non-GHG Emissions (VOCs) from cleaning products, nitrous oxides (NOx) and sulfur oxides (SOx) from onsite fuel combustion (from KPI FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 Non-GHG Emissions vehicle engines, boilers, or emergency generators), Volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions1 Negligible Negligible Negligible Negligible Negligible and the subsequent development of ozone from the Effluents (Liquid) photochemical reaction of NOx. Table 16 summarizes our NOx, metric tonne 340 381 341 270 212 non-GHG-related airborne emissions: VOCs, NOx, SOx, Waste and particulate matter. SOx, metric tonne 1.05 1.11 1.00 0.88 0.72 We comply with California Air Resources Board requests Particulate matter Negligible Negligible Negligible Negligible Negligible Appendix and do not use mechanical equipment, such as gasoline1. Quantities of VOC-based chemicals deployed are minimal and are not required to be monitored. powered lawn mowers, after 11 a.m. on designated Spare the Air days when air quality is poor in the San Francisco Bay Area. Table 17. Effluent Spills and Discharges In accordance with the 1987 Montreal Protocol on KPI FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, we also Spills and discharges None None None None None have worked with our supply chain partners to phase out ozone-depleting substances (ODSs) in their manufacturing processes. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E42 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental Sustainability Waste nearly 100 percent are recycled, and all commodity fractions go to downstream recyclers to be made into aimed at customers, suppliers and partners, and internal users (Table 19). A flow diagram of the programs listed in new products. During FY15, we also refurbished, resold, Table 19 is shown in Figure 8. Product Takeback, Reuse, and Recycling or reused over 2903 metric tonne of products returned Materials to us (Table 18). Customer Programs Key GRI G4 Indicators We have two trade-in programs, the Cisco Technology Energy & GRI G4-EN28: Percentage of products sold and their Information on our compliance with product recycling Migration Program (TMP) and the Exceptional Pick-Up GHG Emissions packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. regulations can be found online. Products are labeled Program (EPUP), for customers that are purchasing new with a crossed-out “wheelie bin” symbol to encourage equipment and have qualifying equipment to upgrade. end users to reuse or recycle electronics instead of Eligible customers receive a discount for returning Water Use disposing of them in the trash. Our trade-in and takeback programs are designed to working used equipment to us. These programs are the bring back the products that Cisco or our acquired single largest flow of materials back to Cisco and they Biodiversity & companies have sold to channel partners and end-user We have nine different programs in operation to support provide the newest and best-quality used equipment for Land Use customers. Of products sent to our e-scrap recyclers, our product trade-in, takeback, and recycling efforts refurbishment and reuse. Non-GHG Emissions Table 18. Product Trade-In and Return KPI FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 Comments Effluents (Liquid) Product return, metric tonne 11,595 13,324 12,539 12,180 11,718 Lighter and more powerful products are in part responsible for the Waste decreasing trend in product return weight. Refurbish, resell, and reuse rate, percent 17% 25% 25% 23% 25% Appendix Returned material sent to landfill 0.89% 0.43% 0.33% 0.30% 0.27% Landfill material consists only of non-electronic waste materials, such as broken pallets, wet cardboard, and shrink wrap, accompanying Cisco product returned by customers for recycling. Table 19. Cisco Takeback, Reuse, and Recycling Programs Category Material Stream Customer programs • Cisco Technical Migration Program (TMP) • Exceptional Pick-Up Program (EPUP) • Cisco Takeback and Recycle Program Programs for companies producing or repairing Cisco products • Manufacturing Scrap/Reuse Program • Global Scrap Program Internal programs for Cisco • eBin/Lab Scrap Program • Non-Genuine Brand Program • Cisco Data Center Server Recycling Program • E-scrap events 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E43 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental Sustainability Figure 8. Reverse Logistics Material Sources and Flow of Materials for Reuse and Recycling SOURCES OF REVERSE Materials Cisco End Customer Cisco End Customer Contract Repair eBin & Lab Data Center Server Recycle IT Non-Geniune Brand Contract Manufacturers Trade-In Program Takeback & Manufacturers & RFDsScrap Program Recycling Program Events Program Protection Program Scrap/Reuse Program LOGISTICS MATERIALS Energy & (TMP/EPUP) Recycle Program Global Scrap Program (Internal) (Internal) (Internal) (Internal, Not Public) GHG Emissions Water Use RL RECEIVING Cisco Reverse Logistics Cisco Reverse Logistics Cisco RL Value Recovery Value Recovery Value Recovery Non-Proprietary Parts CENTER Biodiversity & Receiving Center Reuse Program Components Resale Land Use Non-GHG Emissions REFURBISH, Cisco Capital Cisco Capital Cisco Service Supply Cisco Service Supply Remarketing Remarketing Reuse to Customer REUSE, RESALE Refurbishment Vendor Refurbishment Vendor Resale to Customer or RFD Effluents (Liquid) RECYCLERS Waste Reverse Logistics Recyclers Appendix Trade-in materials are routed to value recovery and The Cisco Takeback and Recycle Program is focused the growth in our business and the requirements of local queued for refurbishment for resale or reuse by Cisco on Cisco branded items that do not qualify for either regulations. Capital® Remarketing, Cisco Service Supply, or an of our two trade-in programs. This program also internal Cisco lab. accepts equipment from other manufacturers that has Engaging with our takeback and recycling programs been replaced by newly purchased Cisco items. The is easy and straightforward. Customers go to the web Reuse is always our first priority. In FY15, Cisco reused equipment is typically old and has no reuse value, or it portal,1 select the program that applies to them, and over US$365 million of Cisco equipment, calculated at is damaged. These materials go to the closest Cisco submit a pick-up request form. Cisco’s contracted third standard cost (COGS). Any item that is not reusable goes approved recycling site. Currently, there are 30 approved party then contacts the customer to arrange the pick-up to one of our authorized recyclers. recycling locations (Figure 9). The number and location of and work out the logistics for returning the materials to Cisco authorized recyclers continue to expand based on the appropriate location. 1. Cisco Connection online registration required. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E44 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental Sustainability Figure 9. Cisco Reverse Logistics Locations Materials Sweden Netherlands Russia Energy & United Kingdom GHG Emissions Germany Belgium Water Use Switzerland France Canada Japan California Italy Spain Biodiversity & Arizona Texas South Carolina Hong Kong Land Use Florida China India Mexico Non-GHG Emissions Thailand Costa Rica Venezuela Effluents (Liquid) Malaysia Colombia Singapore Waste Peru Appendix Brazil Receiving and Reuse South Africa Recycling Chile Argentina Recycling Subcontractor Warehouse/Disassembly Programs for Companies Producing or Repairing manufacturers (OEMs), original design manufacturers Internal Programs for Cisco Cisco Products (ODMs), and proprietary component suppliers. The largest of Cisco’s internal programs is the eBin/Lab The Cisco Manufacturing Scrap/Reuse Program takes Scrap Program. The eBin program began at our San excess, obsolete, or damaged materials from our contract Our contracted repair manufacturers and distribution Jose campus, where 185 labs produce a large amount of manufacturers, manufacturing partners, original equipment depots use the Global Scrap Program for their excess, e-scrap, and now eBin includes all Cisco labs and offices obsolete, or damaged materials. Both of these programs worldwide. The eBins are green plastic rolling bins where are a valuable source of reusable product. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E45 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental materials are collected in the labs for recycling. Smaller certified to one or more e-scrap-specific recycling Product Packaging End of Life Sustainability labs may have only one eBin, and large labs may have standards, such as R2, R2 Rios, and eStewards. Our We have not adopted a packaging takeback program, more than a dozen. Each eBin has an owner, and when contracts require recyclers to enforce our strict recycling as the environmental impact, including transportation the eBin is full, the owner visits our recycling web portal processes upon any of their subcontractors doing Cisco Materials and emissions, from a packaging takeback program and fills out a pick-up request, which is fulfilled by a work. We approve every prospective recycling company outweighs the potential benefits when compared with Cisco authorized recycler. and every recycling location before sending any Cisco using local recycling. Instead, we design our packaging to Energy & equipment for processing. Additionally, our recycling be separable and recyclable so it can be directed to local GHG Emissions The Cisco Data Center Server Recycling Program serves process described earlier is formally documented and is packaging material recycling programs (see Packaging, data centers in 11 countries. When a data center no part of the contract with each of our recyclers. page E18.) longer needs a server, it is offered to other Cisco data Water Use centers for possible reuse. When one of these servers Each contracted recycler provides Cisco with monthly reaches the end of its useful life, it is recycled, with all reports showing all cases opened and processed on a Solid Waste from Operations (Trash) Biodiversity & parts being shredded. Some products are not reused lot-by-lot basis. When each lot is processed, the report Land Use because they have, or have had, sensitive data residing includes a mass balance showing the weight as received Key GRI G4 Indicators in their memory. and the weights of each fractional commodity adding up GRI G4-EN23: Total weight of waste by type and to the gross weight received. disposal method. Non-GHG Emissions The Non-Genuine Materials Program handles items that GRI G4-EN25: Weight of transported, imported, exported, we occasionally receive in equipment returns that are We hold quarterly business reviews with each of the four or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms Effluents (Liquid) non-genuine Cisco products. Non-genuine items also contracted recyclers to review the past quarter’s results of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and come to Cisco through law enforcement actions that and to go over all action items that were to be worked percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. seize counterfeit Cisco equipment. When non-genuine on during the quarter and the focus areas for the next Waste equipment is found, we use a special witnessed protocol quarter. We also conduct random spot site audits of the whereby the collected materials are properly destroyed. recycling facilities. Cisco’s Waste Reduction and Recycling Program uses Appendix the principles of reduce, reuse, and recycle for our We also hold an annual Recycle IT Day for our E-Scrap Recycling Process operations. The program is a key component of our ISO employees. Cisco employees and contractors can bring After being weighed, each load of e-scrap is dismantled 14001 certification and global environmental policy. in their e-scrap from home and Cisco pays to have the and sorted into “commodity fractions.” This separates materials recycled properly. Any Cisco office location Municipal and regional recycling practices vary. What the steel, aluminum, cardboard, plastic, wire/cable, and can host a recycling day event. In April 2015, we held our is easily recycled in one region may not be as easily printed circuit boards. Printed circuit boards are then 20th Recycle IT Day event, with 129 Cisco sites around recycled in another. The ability of our facilities to recycle shredded and sorted further before going to a specialized the world participating and more than 196 metric tonne operational waste often depends on the recycling smelter where as many as 19 metals are harvested from of used electronics collected. Since Cisco started holding facilities in place in that region. All our facilities take steps the boards. These harvested metals are sold on the global these events, our employees and contractors have helped to reduce their operational waste and recycle materials metals markets. All materials, including any batteries or recycle over 2426 metric tonne of used electronics. that can be recycled in each location. packaging materials, are sent to downstream recyclers to eventually be sold on the global materials markets and E-Scrap Recyclers Table 20 shows our solid waste metrics. Note that used as raw materials to make new products. operational waste recycling performance depends on We currently have four contracted e-scrap recyclers. both Cisco performance and the availability of supporting Each recycler has several company-owned facilities Additional information regarding our trade-in, takeback, services by local waste hauling and disposal vendors. and several subcontracted recyclers to provide global and recycling programs is available on our product recycling coverage. Cisco’s contracted recyclers are recycling web portal. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E46 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental Examples of how we reduce waste at many of our Typical examples of items that we recycle include: 700 metric tonne of food waste from local landfills to Sustainability facilities include: be turned into compost. A breakdown of our waste • Batteries stream for the San Jose site in Figure 11 illustrates our • Using online learning and communications • CDs key sources of operational waste, the complexity of Materials technologies to reduce paper use • Beverage containers proper waste stream segregation, and the need for local • Making product information available online to reduce • Wood and pallets recycling services. paper use • Cardboard Energy & • Mixed paper GHG Emissions • Using compost made of landscape waste at our San • Packaging materials The lower recycling rate at our RTP campus in FY14 Jose campus was primarily due to our recycling vendors modifying • Toner cartridges their method to calculating total recycled material, which Water Use Examples of how we reuse materials at many of our • Compost lowered the amount of recycled material compared to facilities include: • Polyurethane foam prior years. Data for FY12 to the present have been • Landscape waste updated with this new calculation method. Years prior Biodiversity & • Managing an internal Repo Depot program, which • Mobile phones Land Use allows us to reuse lab and testing equipment to FY12 were not able to be updated. The RTP recycling • Food waste program was monitored closely in FY15 which enabled • Reusing incoming pallets with outgoing shipments • Construction waste a 45-percent increase the recycling rate over FY14. Non-GHG Emissions wherever possible Figure 10 shows our trash recycling rates for solid We will continue to monitor the recycling program at • Collecting PC equipment for reuse by our vendor wastes for our major North America campus locations. RTP and our other major campus locations to verify Effluents (Liquid) • Donating surplus used office supplies to local schools Our San Jose headquarters led the way by diverting whether we are meeting our year-on-year improvement 84 percent of all waste streams in FY15, including a food goal for recycling rates. Waste waste separation program that diverted approximately Appendix Table 20. Solid Waste from Operations (Trash) KPI FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 Comments Total operational waste generated, metric tonne 4510 4359 4953 6932 5308 Percent real estate portfolio covered by waste reporting 51% 58% 55% 56% 57% Includes major campus locations in the United States, India, and China. Total operational waste recycled, metric tonne 3212 2954 3673 5454 3964 Operational waste recycled, percent 71% 68% 74% 79% 75% 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E47 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental Sustainability Figure 10. Recycling Rates for Solid Waste from Major North America Operations (Trash) Figure 11: Breakdown of Solid Waste Streams (Trash) at San Jose, California, Headquarters Campus Materials 100% Energy & 90% Mixed Recycling 2% 1% Construction Waste Foam GHG Emissions 1% Special Projects 80% Mixed Paper 2% <1% Other Water Use 70% Wood 5% Biodiversity & Confidential Landscape Land Use Paper Waste 60% 7% 32% Non-GHG Emissions 50% Cardboard 10% Effluents (Liquid) 40% 15% 30% Surplus Donation 23% Waste Compost 20% Appendix 10% 0% 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 FISCAL YEAR Total San Jose Boxborough RTP 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback E48 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Environmental Sustainability Appendix Materials Energy & GHG Emissions 2015 Carbon Disclosure Project Reporting Water Use Apr 16 th , 2015 Dear Valued Business Partners and Suppliers: REFERENCES: Biodiversity & Cisco, our stakeholders, and our customers are concerned about GHG emissions from Cisco's products and operations, 1. Cisco Announces New Greenhouse Gas Reduction Goals (blog): as well as from the operations of our business partners and suppliers. For the sixth year in a row Cisco invites you, our http://blogs.cisco.com/csr/cisco-announces-new-greenhouse-gas-reduction-goals/ Land Use partners and suppliers, to report your GHG emissions to CDP. Cisco is committed to reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In 2012, we met our public commitment to reduce Cisco’s worldwide Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from our operations, and our Scope 3 business-air-travel GHG 2. CDP 2014 Investor Survey (with Supplier Module questions). emissions by 25 percent absolute (against a 2007 baseline). In 2013, we announced a new set of five-year, GHGThe questions that must be answered to meet Cisco scorecard requirements per Step 1 are highlighted in the following Non-GHG Emissions related goals to be completed by 2017 (Reference 1 of this letter). Cisco markup of CDP’s questionnaire: Companies can be invited to report to CDP in two ways: https://www-1.compliance2product.com/c2p/getAttachment.do? code=uIDeESYMcn1pUA2gdI97MvVb7fNAhg8gOYXK8pzvIHCL5uVmXnKLTAb5mTcc4uAz · Many large, publicly traded companies are invited directly by CDP to respond to CDP’s Investor Survey. If your Highlighted questions were selected to support the identification of potential Cisco-supplier energy and GHG emissions Effluents (Liquid) company has already received such an invitation in February, Cisco requests that your organization respond by the requested deadline (end of June). reduction opportunities: Companies are encouraged to answer all CDP survey questions. · Through CDP’s Supply Chain program, of which Cisco is a member, Cisco will be requesting our suppliers to report to CDP (by the end of July). The supply chain request includes the same questions as the CDP Investor Waste Survey plus questions from a separate, CDP Supply Chain Module. If your company already responds to the 3. CDP verification guidance Investor Survey, only a response to the Supply Chain Module needs to be submitted in July. https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Respond/Pages/verification.aspx Cisco is requesting that our partners and suppliers respond to the CDP survey, making your response publicly available via the option provided for this purpose in CDP's Online Response System (ORS). Appendix It is Cisco's objective for all suppliers and partners to complete the following five steps: 4. CDP Supply Chain Module and Supply Chain Responder Information Pack can be downloaded from https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/guidance-supply-chain.aspx. 1. Report to CDP annually, responding at a minimum to the questions highlighted in Reference 2 of this letter for all supplier facilities worldwide. 5. CDP reports summarizing 2014 Investor and Supply Chain responses are available from the following web page 2. Make the Investor Survey response publicly available via the option provided for this purpose in CDP's ORS. https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Results/Pages/All-Investor-Reports.aspx. 3. Demonstrate third-party review of your GHG emissions per Reference 3 of this letter. Reports that include Cisco’s reporting and performance are shown below: 4. Set a GHG emissions reduction goal (absolute reduction goals are preferred). a. The A List: The CDP Climate Performance Leadership Index 2014 https://www.cdp.net/CDPResults/CDP-climate-performance-leadership-index-2014.pdf 5. Request that your suppliers and business partners also report to CDP using the same process described in this b. CDP S&P 500 Climate Change Report 2014 letter. https://www.cdp.net/CDPResults/CDP-SP500-leaders-report-2014.pdf Supplier compliance to Cisco’s requirement to report GHG emissions to CDP is included in Cisco’s supplier scorecards. Please refer to separate communication concerning Cisco’s supplier scoring procedures. By the middle of April, if you have not received an invitation from CDP to respond to CDP’s survey, please contact CDP © 2010 Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliated entities at respond@cdproject.net. The CDP Supply Chain questionnaire and supporting information, including instructions for Cisco.com|Privacy Statement|Trademarks|Created by IT Creative Solutions ORS, are provided as Reference 4 of this letter. Do not send your emissions information to Cisco. Report your GHG emissions directly to CDP via ORS. Cisco will obtain your reporting status and emissions information via an analytics package offered by CDP. Please forward this request to the appropriate party within your company. If you have any questions about Cisco's or your company's carbon reporting, please contact us at cisco-cdp-questions@cisco.com. Best regards, Jeff Gallinat Kathleen Shaver SVP, Supply Chain Operations Director, Supply Chain Operations 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback F1 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Supply Chain Our Priorities “Our supply chain continues to adapt, innovate, and transform our products and services to create outcomes that enable Cisco’s business and optimize the customer experience. The reach of our global supply chain is immense and we take seriously the responsibility of delivering superior technology products in an ethical and environmentally responsible manner.” John L. Kern Senior Vice President, Supply Chain Operations 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback F2 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Supply chain plays a critical role in the overall performance of the as a single company. It also permits us to focus our efforts on making company. We transform the technological innovations our engineers progress in those areas where we see the most critical needs and create by using our global network of capabilities to manufacture and where we can have the most influence. Based on our capabilities, deliver the solutions that enable our customers to harness the power expertise, and potential impacts to our supply chain, we have chosen of networking. Our supply chain continues to adapt, innovate, and to focus on the human rights of the most vulnerable workers in the transform our products and services to create outcomes that enable supply chain, as well as carbon reductions and energy efficiency. Cisco’s business and optimize the customer experience. We believe that sustainability is central to the success of Cisco and The reach of our global supply chain is immense and we take our supply chain. We look forward to strengthening our position in seriously the responsibility of delivering superior technology products FY16 as an industry leader in sustainable supply chain operations. in an ethical and environmentally responsible manner. The sustainability challenges we face today are complex and require collaboration with our supply chain partners to solve. We are John L. Kern committed to engaging with industry counterparts to drive ongoing Senior Vice President, improvement through shared platforms such as the Electronic Industry Supply Chain Operations Citizenship Coalition. Sharing the foundation of a common code of conduct permits Cisco to extend our resources further than we could 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback F3 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details 2015 Objectives and Progress Objectives Target Date Progress Establish a GHG emissions reduction goal for our supply chain operations.1 End of FY15 Enhance our supplier engagement by further integrating the EICC Supplier Code End of FY15 of Conduct into day-to-day business operations. Require supply chain employees to complete Cisco’s corporate human rights training End of FY15 (81% participation to date). Work with university partners to incorporate sustainability into business education for supply chain professionals. End of FY15 1. We are currently in the process of finalizing our Scope 3 supply chain GHG emissions reduction goal. Achieved Partially Achieved Ongoing 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback F4 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details 251,000 2015 Highlights Eliminated 100,881 tonnes1 of $ CO2 emissions and saved millions in costs Recovered by moving from air to $251,000 in excessive ocean transportation recruitment fees modes. Established and verified their reimbursement to 100,881 our first ever, long-term Scope 3 migratory factory supply chain emissions reduction Emissions workers in Malaysia. roadmap. Reduction Roadmap 50 Improved our 50-percent GHG emissions inventory and identified those activities and % increase in the number of smelters verified to be complaint with the 81 percent of supply chain employees completed sourcing practices assessment protocols most suitable to be the of the Conflict-Free Cisco’s corporate focus of our emissions Smelter Program human rights 81 reduction efforts. (CFSP). training. Emissions Inventory % 1. As calculated using UK DEFRA factor for air freight including a multiplier of 1.9 to account for radiative forcing. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback F5 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details PRIORIT Y Human Rights in Our Extended Supply Chain Labor standards matter to Cisco. Stakeholders expect us to take more responsibility for the working conditions, welfare, and human rights of workers employed by our first-, second-, and even thirdtier suppliers, where transparency can be challenging to achieve. Labor standards also matter to our customers, making this an issue that could impact revenue and that poses a significant reputational concern for our business. We take a proactive approach to upholding labor standards in our supply chain through our relationships with our suppliers. The Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Supplier Code of Conduct is the backbone of our supplier engagement process and is the baseline expectation, not the end goal. If labor violations are discovered in our supply chain, we take swift action to resolve them. For example, when we discovered that factory workers were paying excessive recruitment fees at one of our supplier locations, we acted swiftly, engaging with the supplier to pay back affected workers. We remain committed to protecting the rights of vulnerable workers in our supply chain. The principles embodied in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights are reflected in our human rights policy, and include the ethical treatment of all workers in our supply chain, an important element of our Supplier Code of Conduct. Read more on F13. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback F6 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details PRIORIT Y Promoting Supplier Diversity and Inclusion We recognize that diverse perspectives in our workforce, partner We can also promote diverse suppliers through the second-tier spend ecosystem, and supply chain will drive future innovation. Through that takes place with our manufacturing and logistics providers. In FY15, our supplier diversity program, we aim to support woman-, minority-, we automated the process with firms we do business with to report and veteran-owned and service-disabled businesses, as well as their spend with diverse suppliers that is related to the production and companies in historically underutilized business zones in the United delivery of Cisco products. In FY16, we will expand our second-tier States. Enhancing their participation benefits Cisco by: spend reporting program to our key suppliers who take an active role in expanding diverse spend within their operations, so that we can better • S trengthening supply chain competitiveness and reducing the risk recognize opportunities to multiply our diversity spend impact. of disruption in our supply chain by broadening our supplier base Read more on F15. • C ontributing to improved satisfaction for customers, some of which include supplier diversity in their procurement policies and bid packages • H elping our supply chain operate in the communities that make up our customers We have seen a renewed focus on supplier diversity by key government, service provider, and enterprise customers. In FY15, we responded by developing systems to improve the tracking of our spend with diverse suppliers. For our direct spend, we implemented a process to validate the diversity credentials of suppliers and to recognize them for it. By having more accurate systems, in FY16 we will be able to increase the opportunities of diverse suppliers to be considered and rewarded in the procurement process. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback F7 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details PRIORIT Y Ethical Sourcing Practices We are committed to sourcing components and materials from We are committed to supporting a collaborative multi-sector approach suppliers that share our values around human rights, ethics, and to the complex issue of conflict minerals. Through our participation environmental responsibility and are taking all steps to comply in the CFSI we are multiplying our influence by collectively identifying with relevant legislation. smelters and communicating the importance of becoming verified as conflict-free. The ethical sourcing of raw materials—avoiding the use of conflict minerals—remains a key issue for the IT sector. Our customers, We rely on our direct suppliers to evaluate the sourcing practices regulators, and other stakeholders expect transparency and proactive of their own supply chains. We use the CFSI’s standard tools and management of conflict minerals in our supply chain. By working templates with suppliers to identify which smelters and refineries are closely with the EICC’s Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI) and in their—and by extension our—supply chain. The CSFI’s Conflict-Free our direct suppliers, we have made considerable strides in FY15, Smelter Program (CFSP) determines which smelters and refiners increasing by 50 percent the number of certified smelters identified can be validated through independent audits to be conflict-free. In in our extended supply chain. FY15, we provided multiple training sessions to educate suppliers on completing the reporting template, to help strengthen their We designed our Conflict Mineral Due Diligence Program to capabilities, and to improve data quality of smelters and refineries. investigate the source and chain of custody of potential conflict minerals contained in our products. The program is based on the Read more on F19. five-step due diligence framework set out in guidance from the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD). 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback F8 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details CASE STUDY Discovering How Supply Chain Employees Connect to Sustainability We believe that every employee in our supply chain function plays chain priorities. An online community was also created to encourage a part in promoting our values and accomplishing our sustainability continued engagement and crowdsource new disruptive ideas. In goals. While sustainability performance has been incorporated into FY16, we plan to expand the program and host additional workshops supplier management practices, we have realized there is also a need at our supply chain offices globally. to ignite the personal passion of our own supply chain employees around the world. Effective employee engagement must focus on raising awareness, promoting action, and aligning to business outcomes. In FY15, we piloted a supply chain employee engagement program intended to help employees discover their personal connection to sustainability and how their role influences our performance. Our first employee event was held in San Jose, California, and brought colleagues across several supply chain functions together to discuss how they can influence sustainability initiatives and supply “The workshop was an excellent chance to step back from the day-to-day supply chain operations and collectively look at the bigger picture. Having representatives from across supply chain operations come together allowed us to delve into what the current state is, and how we can leverage each other to incorporate real sustainability change back into our individual roles.” Christopher K. Stevens Network Development Program Manager, Supply Chain Network Modeling Group 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback F9 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details CASE STUDY Supply Chain Emissions Reduction Program Our stakeholders ask us to reduce and disclose the carbon footprint of Major accomplishments in this first year of the program include: our operations and supply chain. Our work with the CDP has consistently shown our commitment to disclosing these environmental impacts. • D eveloped a playbook for centralized management, functional ownership, and reporting of Scope 3 supply chain emissions However, our customers expect more, such as reducing supply chain impacts and costs of manufacturing through leadership in • On-boarded in-flight emissions reduction activities (see page E34) materials, transport production efficiencies, and emissions reduction. • C ontinued development of our supply chain emissions baseline Our unique position as a global supplier of Internet of Everything reporting and prioritization capabilities (IoE) technologies further enables us to take on these challenges through product innovation (see page F14). Bringing together the right • D eveloped a first-ever long-term Scope 3 supply chain emissions opportunities while embedding long-term emissions accountability roadmap1 to set the stage for emissions reduction forecasting and into both our own and our suppliers’ processes requires a wellgoal setting orchestrated effort. To enhance our progress, we launched the Supply Chain Emissions Reduction Program in FY15 with a mission to refine and accelerate our supply chain emissions reporting, prioritization, and reductions activities. 1. Lifecycle assessment (LCA) and CDP-based supplier emissions data serves as the foundation of our supply chain emissions reduction roadmap. Benchmarking, supplier engagement, and internal case studies have assisted in further prioritizing reduction areas and in establishing measurement techniques for both current and future targeted actions. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback F10 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our Plans 2016 Objectives In FY16, we intend to continue to emphasize our commitment to ethical sourcing practices, enhancing the environmental sustainability Objectives Target Date of our operations, and supporting the principles of diversity and 100 percent of key suppliers report their GHG emissions inclusion in our supply chain. End of FY16 to CDP. As part of our commitment to operate in accordance with the EICC Code of Conduct, we intend to continue our education and outreach Increase percentage of key suppliers that set GHG End of FY16 efforts about the new fifth-generation of the Code, which became reduction goals in their CDP reports to 75 percent. effective in April 2015. Our efforts will include driving the development of industry-wide initiatives that focus on ensuring the protection of Implement internal and external capacity building, systems, the most vulnerable workers in the supply chain. We are also excited and collaboration tools to better position qualified diverse End of FY16 to begin executing on our Scope 3 supply chain emissions reduction supplier procurement investment. roadmap. We have alignment across our supply chain to accelerate our emissions reduction activities, and we have the support of many Provide suppliers with human rights training focused on End of FY16 of our tremendous suppliers and partners. the protection of vulnerable workers. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback F11 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Supply Chain Our Supply Chain Embedding Sustainability in Core Business Practices Promoting Transparency The Details Working with Suppliers to A highly dynamic and complex supply chain builds the Cisco products that empower businesses and Build Capacity enable collaboration around the world. For us, it’s about building close relationships with our partners and suppliers based on common ground and shared values. We expect all of our suppliers to meet the same high standards for ethics, labor rights, health and safety, and the environment that we set for ourselves. The Supplier Code of Conduct is the baseline expectation, not the end goal. We lead today by beginning with Cisco technology solutions that create deep insights into energy use and empower reductions in cost and carbon impact. Leading also means strengthening efforts to be conflict-mineral-free, promoting human rights, and using technology to drive safe and ethical working conditions. And this innovation powers our entire process, from delivering our products using optimized routes and transportation modes to responsibly reusing and recycling of returned products. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback F12 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our Supply Chain Our Supply Chain Figure 1. Supply Chain’s Global Operating Ecosystem Spend by Region Embedding 32% 10% Key GRI G4 Indicators Sustainability in Canada and Europe, Core Business GRI G4-12: Describe the organization’s supply chain. United States Middle East, Practices and Russia The manufacturing of our products is entirely outsourced. Promoting More than 700 suppliers around the world make finished Transparency Cisco products, supply approximately 62,000 parts that go into our products, provide logistical services, and collect and recycle products at the end of their useful Working with life. We spend billions of dollars each year with these Netherlands Suppliers to suppliers, the majority with: Russia Build Capacity Canada • Manufacturing partners: A select group of suppliers that produce finished Cisco products. United Czech • Component suppliers: A much wider group of States Republic China suppliers, often contracted directly by Cisco to Poland provide parts to our manufacturing partners according Mexico to our specifications. Thailand • Logistics service providers: A small number of India suppliers that distribute our products to our customers. Brazil Malaysia Understanding Our Supply Chain Our supply chain is global and complex. Manufacturing and sourcing strategies may change based on 50% business needs. Figure 1 shows the locations of our 25 manufacturing sites and strategic logistics centers. Asia Pacific 8% and Japan Latin America and Mexico 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback F13 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our Supply Chain E  mbedding Sustainability EICC Supplier Code of Conduct All suppliers must acknowledge their commitment to CASE STUDY Embedding in Core Business Practices the EICC Supplier Code of Conduct (the Code), which Sustainability in is designed to promote worker safety and fairness, Sustainability is one of the main criteria we use to environmental responsibility, and ethical business. EICC Investing in the Next Sustainability Leaders Core Business assess how our suppliers are doing. We build and grow members review and update the Code regularly to reflect In FY15, we enhanced our relationship with the Center Practices relationships with suppliers that perform well, and we best practices and address emerging issues. (The fifth for Responsible Business at the University of Californiarecognize their achievements through our Supplier Berkeley Haas School of Business to benchmark metrics version of the Code was ratified in 2014 and became and promote supply chain sustainability in school Promoting Appreciation Awards. We aim to help our suppliers effective April 1, 2015.) curriculums. Transparency improve, but we will not continue to work with those that systematically fail to comply with our standards. “Cisco is a valued corporate partner with the Center We want suppliers to understand that following the Code is for Responsible Business. Cisco engages with our essential to be eligible to do business with Cisco. We also students and faculty to promote responsible business Working with In FY15, we updated the language of our contracts with expect them to extend the Code to their own suppliers. practices. We source live projects from Cisco through Suppliers to major manufacturing partners to expand our review in which our students grapple with sustainability and Build Capacity the areas of supplier diversity and Code of Conduct. The ethics section of the Code specifically addresses the CSR challenges. The students learn about an issue Additionally, 81 percent of supply chain employees protection of identity and nonretaliation of whistleblowers. Cisco faces, engage with Cisco and other key completed human rights training. This training connects stakeholders involved, and ultimately offer their Our suppliers must maintain such programs and suggestions to Cisco for how to address it. This the work of our supply chain employees with our corporate communicate them to their personnel, so employees provides incredible value to our students as they learn commitment to respect human rights, emphasizing that can raise concerns without fear of retaliation. We rely about real-life challenges faced by a global leader and everyone in a supply chain function has a responsibility on our suppliers to track and resolve formal grievances. potential courses of action.” to watch for and call out human rights abuses. —Robert Strand, Ph.D. Executive Director, Berkeley-Haas Center for Responsible Business Supplier Scorecard Industry Leadership and Involvement We use a business scorecard to monitor our key suppliers’ We are committed to working with industry partners to performance on a range of criteria, including technology, • Acknowledgement of the Cisco Controlled Substances drive common, high standards for our suppliers to use. cost, quality, responsiveness, and collaboration. Sustainability Specification, including compliance with environmental Our involvement in the Electronics Industry Citizenship represents between three and eight percent of a supplier’s regulations such as the European Union (EU) Coalition (EICC) is important—we believe industry total score. The sustainability portion of the scorecard Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHS) collaboration will help us to have greater influence in asks for: factories further back in our partner ecosystem. • Completion of a Conflict Minerals Disclosure • Acknowledgement of the Code Survey questions are tailored to each type of supplier. We We encourage our employees to lead beyond Cisco— • GHG reporting through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) assess suppliers’ sustainability performance at least once we know that by partnering with other thought leaders, • Data on labor issues, such as injury and illness rates, per year as part of regular business reviews. Suppliers we can increase our positive impact. In 2015, Kathleen working hours, and employee turnover must maintain strong scores to earn and retain their status Shaver, Cisco’s Director of Supply Chain Sustainability, Risk Management, Compliance, and Security, Kathleen Shaver, served as the chair of the EICC Board of Directors. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback F14 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our Supply Chain as key suppliers. To address findings from the survey Table 1. Supplier Scorecard: Sustainability Survey Results1 appropriately, we include targeted capability-building CASE STUDY initiatives in our regular engagement with suppliers. FY13 FY14 FY15 Embedding Sustainability in Suppliers are often asked to complete multiple surveys Suppliers publishing a CSR report Core Business by different customers, so we are working with our peers Practices to reduce this burden and standardize processes. In Manufacturing partners 86% 100% 100% FY15, more than 80 percent of our audits were shared Logistics providers 100% 100% 100% Promoting EICC audits. Transparency Component suppliers 52% 52% 63% Our own customers are asking more questions about sustainability in the supply chain. They want more than Suppliers reporting to CDP Working with written responses to formal requests for proposals. Our Suppliers to customers want to engage in conversation with us to Manufacturing partners 100% 100% 100% Build Capacity learn about how we are making progress in the areas of Logistics providers 100% 100% 100% human rights and vulnerable workers, greenhouse gas emissions reduction, and conflict minerals. Component suppliers 74% 86% 89% Energy Reduction Pilot Our supply chain is at the forefront of realizing the Suppliers that have set a GHG emissions reduction target Emissions Reduction economic and environmental benefits of the Internet The availability and accuracy of Scope 3 supply chain of Things—web–enabled devices that can transmit Manufacturing partners 71% 100% 100% information about energy consumption and productivity. GHG emissions data remains our biggest challenge in creating a baseline from which to establish an emissionsIn FY15, our Connected Supply Chain program installed Logistics providers 67% 62% 73% reduction goal for our supply chain. Through our new thousands of sensors in a manufacturing partner’s plant in Malaysia to monitor energy consumption. With this Component suppliers 41% 56% 58% Supply Chain Emissions Reduction Program, emissions project, Cisco is exploring how big data can inform reporting will be embedded into our prioritized supply decision making and drive energy efficiency and reduce Manufacturing partners and logistics providers chain processes and tools, and we will work with the carbon footprint associated with the production suppliers to enhance CDP data specific to Cisco’s of our products. The initial data are promising. With GHG emissions data 100% 100% 100% products. Our Scope 3 supply chain GHG emissions the success of this pilot, we are looking to expand the related to Cisco products program in FY16. reduction goal is currently being finalized. 1. Suppliers are defined as having a sustainability scorecard with Cisco. This effort is one example of the projects that make up Scorecard suppliers are selected based on the nature of the supplier’s We have seen significant improvement in the CDP our Supply Chain Emissions Reduction Program, which business relationship with Cisco. aims to help suppliers realize the following benefits: disclosure rates of our suppliers. However, we continue • Cost reductions to engage with a few remaining component suppliers • Emissions reductions that do not report to CDP. We have identified a variety • Increased data transparency and accuracy of challenges through feedback from those suppliers, • Improved customer satisfaction including recent acquisitions, lack of in-house expertise, • Increased resiliency and resource constraints. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback F15 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our Supply Chain Promoting Transparency To gain an accurate picture of the lifecycle impacts of our products, we also need to understand the impacts associated with our supplier GHG emissions. Please see Embedding Key GRI G4 Indicators page E32 for more information. Sustainability in Core Business GRI G4-HR6: Operations and suppliers identified We encourage suppliers to share information, even in as having significant risk for incidents of forced or Practices areas where they are not performing well. For example, compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. we ask suppliers to report any environmental or health Promoting and safety infractions, as well as remedial actions, through the scorecard. We make it clear that they will not Transparency Improving transparency in the supply chain is critical be penalized for disclosing this information. Our aim is to helping us address some of our most significant to promote open dialogue and to work with suppliers to Working with sustainability issues: supply chain labor standards, reach an acceptable outcome. Suppliers to lifecycle environmental impacts, and ethical sourcing. Build Capacity To target our work with suppliers and peers and improve performance, we need to identify key concerns and Promoting Supplier Diversity Influencing Low-Spend Suppliers impacts. Supply chain transparency is also something our We believe that improving supplier diversity is essential Our broad product portfolio necessitates a complex stakeholders want to see—customers and governments to meet growing stakeholder, customer, and regulatory global supply chain comprised of numerous types of suppliers that we need to engage in our sustainability are demanding it. demands. Internally, that means increasing awareness of programs. In some cases we may have a relatively low the value proposition and the inherent resiliency supplier level of spend with a supplier. This can be influenced by To help us understand key impacts in our supply chain diversity encourages within our procurement function. several factors, including the diversity of their customer and how they are managed, we: base, duration of our business relationship, price of the In FY15, we improved processes and systems to track, component, and dividing our sourcing needs between • Encourage suppliers to publish CSR reports describing two or more suppliers for resiliency purposes. verify, and recognize diverse suppliers. We developed how they manage their most significant sustainability collaboration platforms which will help increase We believe to have the greatest impact, we must impacts awareness and scale engagement between diverse focus our efforts on those suppliers that we have the • Require suppliers to report GHG emissions and targets suppliers and key internal stakeholders. In FY16, we aim greatest potential to influence. While we communicate via CDP and our scorecard our expectations with all suppliers during the onto pilot this platform, raise internal training, and engage boarding process and on an ongoing basis, we focus • Conduct site audits of high-risk supplier facilities a broader cross-section of diverse suppliers in the our audit and engagement efforts on approximately procurement process. 150 suppliers. These suppliers account for more than • Use tools like Labor Link to gather actionable, direct 80 percent of our supply chain expenditure, including feedback from factory workers to complement over US$1 million in spend with each supplier annually. As part of Cisco’s role on the United Nations Global audit findings Many of these suppliers–nearly all of our manufacturing Compact (UNGC) Supply Chain Sustainability Advisory partners and logistics service providers, and some By the end of FY15, 58 percent of our key component Group, we contributed to the inclusive sourcing section component suppliers–are considered “key” due to the suppliers had set goals to reduce their GHG emissions, of the UNGC’s Second Edition of the Practical Guide for nature of their business relationships with us. up from 56 percent in FY14. All of our key manufacturing Continuous Improvement (see page 50 of the guide). partners and 73 percent of our logistics providers have also set such goals, and all are able to provide data on GHG emissions related to Cisco products. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback F16 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our Supply Chain Working with Suppliers In addition to helping supplier managers, we seek to understand factory worker perspectives to assess at least 25 percent of our high-risk suppliers. Audits are conducted by a third-party auditor at the supplier’s Embedding to Build Capacity whether Code principles are helping to protect the most vulnerable. By using technology platforms such as Labor facility. All audits in FY15 were announced; however, we do conduct unannounced audits as necessary. We share Sustainability in Link, we hear workers’ voices, which helps us understand audit findings through EICC common audits where our Core Business their quality of life challenges and how we can help needs align with those of other EICC member companies. Key GRI G4 Indicators Practices through training programs. Auditors use the standard protocol and audit tools GRI G4-EN33: Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. developed by the EICC covering all aspects of the EICC Promoting Our strategy focuses on engaging with suppliers and Code of Conduct, including reviewing documentation, GRI G4-LA15: Significant actual and potential negative building their capabilities. Our engagement includes conducting site tours, and assessing how suppliers Transparency impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken. collaborating on improvements, vulnerable workers, monitor their own suppliers. working hours tracking, and worker engagement practices. GRI G4-HR11: Significant actual and potential Working with Internally, we engage with supplier-facing employees For any findings identified, the supplier must produce a negative human rights impacts in the supply chain Suppliers to and actions taken. across the globe to train them on Code fundamentals and corrective action plan and then provide evidence that the Build Capacity how to embed sustainability into their roles. This regular corrective actions have been implemented. Action must GRI G4-SO10: Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken. engagement between supplier management, factory be taken on priority issues within 30 days. All findings workers, and internal employees helps us maximize are expected to be addressed within 180 days except for technology and optimize resources to build capacity issues that require long-term improvement plans. While audits are essential to monitoring and assessing and focus on improvement. supplier compliance, we believe engaging with suppliers We work closely with suppliers until their performance is more likely to result in sustained improvements improves, then conduct a follow-up audit if needed. in performance. Audit Process During FY15, 71 percent of outstanding corrective action We completed audits of 46 supplier facilities in FY15. plans were closed within the EICC’s prescribed timeframe. In FY15, we took a more holistic approach to identifying We prioritize high-risk supplier facilities for site audits improvement opportunities. This included enhancing using the EICC self-assessment process. Our aim Version 5.0 of the EICC Supplier Code of Conduct was internal and supplier systems and processes that will help is to audit all high-risk manufacturing facilities and ratified in 2015, and the Validated Audit Process (VAP) address more systemic, root cause challenges. component suppliers every two years. As in FY14, we 5.0 was released in April 2015. met this commitment and our EICC commitment to audit Table 2. Number of Audits Table 3. Percentage of High-Risk Suppliers Audited FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 Manufacturing partner facilities 11 22 12 17 Manufacturing partner facilities 65% 59% 60% 59% Component supplier facilities 21 30 22 29 Component supplier facilities 27% 54% 31% 58% Total 32 52 34 46 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback F17 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our Supply Chain Table 4. Audit Findings and Responses in FY15 Category Finding Response Embedding Sustainability in Labor Core Business Working hours Lack of effective procedures to control the weekly/monthly Supplier enhanced attendance system to alert management when workers exceed weekly working hours and rest day based on EICC and/or standard; added automation to increase efficiency, increase resources for high demand. Set Practices legal requirement. improvement targets to reduce overtime and update progress with customers. Continue to track improvement with combination of online work hour tracking together with on-site validation. Promoting Wages and benefits Social insurance coverage is not sufficient in many facilities Social insurance becomes mandatory for all new employees. For existing workers, supplier will in China. Some workers have not bought all required continue to educate workers and improve the coverage. Cisco has required a target completion Transparency insurance types. by end of 2015 and tracks coverage progress monthly. Freely chosen employment Lack of policy and procedures in place to address forced Supplier has established procedures and policies on forced labor and human trafficking. labor and human trafficking. Working with Related training on the EICC Code requirements were provided to labor agents and service Insufficient communications and monitoring of labor providers were asked to sign a declaration of commitment to follow the Code. Suppliers to requirements to labor agents and service providers. Build Capacity Health and Safety Occupational safety Insufficient identification of health & safety risks and lack of Supplier has set up an internal risk assessment procedure and completes internal assessments monitoring of the equipment used. regularly of health & safety risks, and has provided training to the workers that will need special equipment using guidance pictures in the workshop. Inadequate first aid kits and irregular inspection of the kits. Supplier has made a checklist of the first aid kits and completes regular monitoring of the kits. Emergency preparedness Several emergency exits at the production floor and Supplier is completing regular inspections of the exits and equipment, and is providing training to dormitory were found locked or inaccessible. No inspection the staff that these cannot be locked or blocked. process for emergency preparedness is in place. Supplier has made a comprehensive fire drill plan to be completed by all workers. Evacuation drill was not performed in the past two years at one facility. Physically demanding work One facility did not identify and assess the hazards of Supplier established ergonomics program to identify, assess, and control physically demanding physically demanding work. work positions and provided appropriate rest time/anti-fatigue equipment. Food, sanitation, and housing Some emergency exits in the dormitory were locked Verify all emergency exits are open with daily inspection by the dormitory management. in one facility. Supplier has provided EICC health and safety training to service providers, has conducted regular Lack of monitoring of the dormitory/canteen service provider. internal audits of the dormitory/canteen, and has followed up on corrective actions. Environment Hazardous substances Inadequate hazardous material and waste treatment Supplier has provided a sufficient secondary container for the hazardous material and provided vendor management. training to workers, and has conducted regular visits/audits on the waste treatment vendors. Ethics No improper advantage Lack of gift policy and procedures; not sufficient training Supplier has established gift policy and procedures and provided training to all employees. to all workers of gift policy and procedures. Management System Supplier responsibility Inadequate monitoring of the EICC Code of Conduct Supplier has defined next-tier major suppliers, and has made an audit plan to cover 80% of these implementation status of next-tier major suppliers. suppliers in the required time period and follow up on the corrective action plans. Management accountability and Inadequate risk management operations review for all Supplier has established related document to cover responsibilities and accountability for EICC responsibility/risk management EICC elements. elements; strengthen EICC training for management team. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback F18 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our Supply Chain Table 5. Categorization of Audit Findings in FY14 (Continued) Table 5. Categorization of Audit Findings in FY14 (Continued) Findings Findings Findings Total % of Audit Findings Findings Findings Total % of Audit Embedding Identified Identified Identified Number Elements Identified Identified Identified Number Elements Sustainability in as Priority1 as Major2 as Minor 3 of Audit Resulting as Priority1 as Major2 as Minor3 of Audit Resulting Core Business Elements4 in Findings Elements4 in Findings Practices Labor 29 101 51 1720 10.5% Environment 1 32 19 1000 5.2% Freely chosen employment 0 21 10 Environmental permits and 0 7 2 Promoting reporting Child labor avoidance 4 7 5 Transparency Pollution prevention and resource Working hours 15 48 18 0 3 0 reduction Wages and benefits 8 17 8 Hazardous substances 1 19 10 Working with Humane treatment 0 4 1 Wastewater and solid waste 0 1 5 Suppliers to Nondiscrimination 2 2 5 Build Capacity Air emissions 0 2 1 Freedom of association 0 2 4 Stormwater management 0 0 1 Ethics 1 16 17 520 6.5% Management System 0 48 37 920 9.2% Business integrity 0 4 1 Company commitment 0 1 0 No improper advantage 0 2 6 Management accountability and Disclosure of information 1 1 0 0 7 5 responsibility Intellectual property 0 0 2 Legal and customer requirements 0 2 4 Fair business, advertising, and Risk assessment and risk 0 4 3 0 6 5 competition management Protection of identity 0 3 0 Improvement objectives 0 3 5 Responsible sourcing of minerals 0 0 2 Training 0 4 2 Privacy 0 1 3 Communication 0 4 2 Nonretaliation 0 1 0 Worker feedback and 0 2 0 Health and Safety 10 118 68 1560 12.6% participation Occupational safety 0 25 12 Audits and assessments 0 6 3 Emergency preparedness 7 32 19 Corrective action process 0 3 1 Occupational injury and illness 1 14 12 Documentation and records 0 4 0 Industrial hygiene 0 9 3 Supplier responsibility 0 6 10 Physically demanding work 1 13 3 An audit finding is defined as a nonconformance with the EICC Code of Conduct found during an audit. Criteria for categorization of findings are in accordance with the EICC Validated Audit Process Audit Operations Manual. Machine safeguarding 0 5 6 1. Priority finding: A major nonconformance with significant and immediate impact. 2. Major finding: A significant failure in the management system that renders established processes or procedures ineffective. Food, sanitation, and housing 1 19 13 3. Minor finding: Typically an isolated or random incident that does not necessarily indicate a systemic problem with management systems. Health and safety communication 0 1 0 4. Total audit elements: The total number of audit elements with the potential for a finding for the 46 FY15 audits. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback F19 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our Supply Chain VAP 5.0 has strengthened the protection of labor rights and environmental protection with stringent requirements Figure 2. Supplier Engagement Process 1 on migrant workers and new checkpoints for tracking Embedding GHG emissions and wastewater. We expect the number Sustainability in of findings in these categories to increase in our Core Business FY16 report. Practices Code of Conduct requirements communicated to all suppliers (see page F13). Learn more about the Validated Audit Process on the Promoting EICC’s website. Transparency Scorecard evaluation for 2 key suppliers (see page F13). Audit Findings Corrective actions 6 Working with Labor practices and health and safety make up the and capability building Suppliers to largest portion of findings. A total of 24 suppliers are (see page F17). Build Capacity currently being tracked for working-hours findings (11 contract manufacturers and 13 component suppliers). These suppliers will be tracked for a minimum of six 3 months to demonstrate improvement in or compliance with EICC work hours and rest day standards. Identify suppliers 5 representing top In FY15, we focused additional audit resources on 80% of expenditure. component suppliers likely to be at higher risk for noncompliance with the Code. We found issues related 4 to occupational safety and emergency prevention awareness. The VAP has also placed additional emphasis Site audits of high-risk on maintaining hazardous materials and tightening facilities (see Tables 2 and 3 standards for the handling and management of hazardous starting on page F16). materials in factories, leading to a higher proportion of hazardous substances findings compared to FY14. EICC self-assessment to identify high-risk facilities. Based on the FY15 audit findings, our FY16 engagement priorities are focused on improving component suppliers’ awareness of EICC standards, driving improved management accountability, and further embedding risk Conflict Minerals sourcing minerals in a manner that respects human rights management processes into our suppliers’ operations. and aligns with our commitment to the EICC Supplier Cisco is committed to the ethical sourcing of tin, tungsten, Code of Conduct. Our due diligence activities continue to tantalum, and gold in our products as part of our effort to For more detailed audit findings, see Table 4 on page F17. evolve from our early efforts, which focused on engaging improve working conditions in our extended supply chain. our suppliers to identify the smelters that were producing Our Conflict Minerals Policy asserts our commitment to one or more of the four minerals. In FY15, our efforts have 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback F20 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — Our Priorities The Details Our Supply Chain focused on driving more smelters toward certification through industry collaboration and influencing suppliers CASE STUDY CASE STUDY to conduct appropriate due diligence as well as shifting to Embedding alternative conflict-free sources of minerals. Sustainability in Core Business We have improved our understanding of the smelters Practices supplying us and have increased the number that are certified conflict-free by the Conflict-Free Sourcing Promoting Initiative (CFSI) by 50 percent over the past year. Transparency We continue to work with other CFSI members to verify the status of the remaining facilities and encourage more Working with smelters and refineries to comply with the Conflict-Free Suppliers to Smelter Program (CFSP). We are also working with “Excellence in Sustainability” Supplier Award Build Capacity suppliers to improve the accuracy and completeness Each year, Cisco awards one supplier with the of the data they provide and to better understand the Ethical recruitment practices and the Excellence in Sustainability Award, and this year’s sourcing strategies they are implementing to eliminate elimination of recruitment fees winner was KEMET. Nominees for the award have gone above and beyond in the environmental and the use of noncertified smelters. Many migrant workers seek jobs based on the promise social impacts of their operations and have embodied of good wages and a better life. However, workers the spirit of collaboration. For more information about our conflict minerals due sometimes incur excessive recruitment fees from labor diligence processes, see our Conflict Minerals Report. brokers, which can result in extreme financial hardship and amount to bonded labor conditions. Verite’s survey The Five Nominees: of 500 migrant IT factory workers in Malaysia reported Table 6. Smelters and Refiners Verified as Conflict-Free that 77 percent were charged fees and had to borrow KEMET: Achieved a conflict-free supply chain for or in the CFSP Verification Process money to pay them. Fifty percent took longer than one tantalum in Kisengo, Democratic Republic year to repay the debt. of Congo. Total Smelters Number Percentage As an EICC member, Cisco contributed to a task force to SK Hynix: Reduced the amount of energy used and Refiners Verified or Verified or address this serious issue and identify actions companies processing memory in Cisco products by 37%. by Mineral In Process In Process can take to eliminate forced labor in supply chains. PEM: Is on the forefront of global environmental Gold 205 66 32% In FY15, we identified excessive recruitment fees compliance requirements (RoHS, REACH). impacting migrant workers at one of our supplier WUS: Leading in water quality protection with the Tantalum 50 35 70% locations. We acted swiftly to engage the supplier; installation of state of the art wastewater treatment. they then investigated their recruitment practices and implemented immediate changes to eliminate Jabil: Provided leadership in human rights and the Tin 240 52 22% recruitment fees. Cisco secured the return of development of programs to empower women. US$251,000 back to impacted migrant workers. Tungsten 54 28 52% 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback G1 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — General Standard Disclosures Economic Environmental Social: Labor Practices & Decent Work Social: Human Rights Social: Society Social: Product Responsibility GRI Index Global Reporting Initiative Index The Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines are a set of internationally recognized indicators covering a company’s governance, economic, labor, human rights, society, and environmental impacts. “(The) GRI’s mission is to make sustainability reporting standard practice for all companies and organizations. Its Framework is a reporting system that provides metrics and methods for measuring and reporting sustainability-related impacts and performance.” 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback G2 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — General Standard Disclosures Economic Environmental Social: Labor Practices & Decent Work Social: Human Rights Social: Society Social: Product Responsibility This table covers the GRI 4 indicators found in Cisco’s 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report, 2015 Annual Report, and company websites. GRI-G4 Guideline (continued) Location General Standard Disclosures Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization Message from Chuck Robbins G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities CSR Materiality—Our Priorities Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization Cisco Systems, Inc. G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services Cisco Products and Services G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters Cisco Systems, Inc. Corporate Headquarters 170 West Tasman Drive San Jose, CA 95134 USA G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or Cisco Corporate Overview that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 2015 Annual Report G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) Cisco Corporate Overview, 2015 Annual Report G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization Cisco Corporate Overview, 2015 Annual Report G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender Our People/Inclusion, Diversity and Collaboration G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Not reported G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain Supply Chain G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership FY15 Annual Report G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization Cisco’s CDP 2015 Submission, Cisco’s Corporate Environmental Policy, Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the Governance and Ethics organization subscribes or endorses 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback G3 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — General Standard Disclosures Economic Environmental Social: Labor Practices & Decent Work Social: Human Rights Social: Society Social: Product Responsibility GRI-G4 Guideline (continued) Location G4-16 Memberships in associations and/or advocacy organizations in which the organization: Governance and Ethics • Has positions in governance bodies; • Participates in projects or committees; • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or • Views membership as strategicMemberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations Identified Material Aspects And Boundaries G4-17 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, Cisco Corporate Overview and joint ventures G4-18 Process for defining report content CSR Materiality—Our Priorities G4-19 List all the material aspects identified in the process for defining report content CSR Materiality—Our Priorities G4-20 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers) Unless stated otherwise for specific issues covered in the report, boundaries are consistent with those defined in G4-17 G4-21 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Limitations are noted where applicable within the sections G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons No major changes: any adjustments are explained within the report for such re-statement G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied No major changes: any adjustments are explained within the report in the report Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Governance and Ethics/Stakeholder Engagement; Also as noted throughout the report linked to specific issues G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Governance and Ethics/Stakeholder Engagement G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group Governance and Ethics/Stakeholder Engagement G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has CSR Materiality—Our Priorities responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Also as noted throughout the report Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period for information provided About this Report G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Cisco Fiscal Year 2014 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback G4 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — General Standard Disclosures Economic Environmental Social: Labor Practices & Decent Work Social: Human Rights Social: Society Social: Product Responsibility GRI-G4 Guideline (continued) Location G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual, Cisco Fiscal Year 2015 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents csr_report@cisco.com G4-32 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report This GRI Index table G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Assurance Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible Governance and Ethics/Governance and Sustainability Management for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight Investor Relations: Corporate Governance G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest Governance and Ethics/Governance and Sustainability Management governance body to senior executives and other employees Investor Relations: Corporate Governance G4-36 Report executive-level positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether Governance and Ethics/Governance and Sustainability Management post holders report directly to the highest governance body G4-37 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance Governance and Ethics/Governance and Sustainability Management body G4-38 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest Governance and Ethics/Governance and Sustainability Management governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members InvestorRelations: Corporate Governance G4-39 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer Governance and Ethics/Governance and Sustainability Management Investor Relations: Corporate Governance G4-40 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest Our People/Inclusion, Diversity and Collaboration, Cisco’s 2015 Proxy Statement, governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity Investor Relations: Corporate Governance G4-41 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Governance and Ethics, Code of Business Conduct, Investor Relations: Corporate Governance G4-42 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating Governance and Ethics/Governance and Sustainability Management of strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts G4-43 Report measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of Governance and Ethics/Governance and Sustainability Management economic, environmental and social topics G4-44 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to Governance and Ethics/Governance and Sustainability Management economic, environmental, and social performance 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback G5 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — General Standard Disclosures Economic Environmental Social: Labor Practices & Decent Work Social: Human Rights Social: Society Social: Product Responsibility GRI-G4 Guideline (continued) Location G4-45 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of Governance and Ethics/Governance and Sustainability Management economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or CSR Materiality—Our Priorities compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management Governance and Ethics/Governance and Sustainability Management processes for economic, environmental and social topics G4-47 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of Governance and Ethics/Governance and Sustainability Management economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles G4-48 Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability Governance and Ethics/Governance and Sustainability Management report and ensures that all material aspects are covered G4-49 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest Governance and Ethics/Governance and Sustainability Management governance body G4-50 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body Governance and Ethics/Governance and Sustainability Management and the mechanism(s) used to address them G4-51 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives Cisco’s 2015 Proxy Statement, Investor Relations: Corporate Governance (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance) G4-52 Report the process for determining remuneration Investor Relations: Compensation and Management Development Committee Charter, Cisco’s 2015 Proxy Statement G4-53 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration Investor Relations: Compensation and Management Development Committee Charter G4-54 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual to the median This information is not publicly disclosed annual total compensation for all employees in each country of significant operation G4-55 Report the median percentage increase of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid This information is not publicly disclosed individual to that of all employees in each country of significant operation Ethics And Integrity G4-56 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, Message from Chuck Robbins, Governance and Ethics/Ethics, Code of Business Conduct, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation Supplier Code of Conduct, Financial Officer Code of Ethics G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior Governance and Ethics/Ethics G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior Governance and Ethics/Ethics 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback G6 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — General Standard Disclosures Economic Environmental Social: Labor Practices & Decent Work Social: Human Rights Social: Society Social: Product Responsibility GRI-G4 Guideline (continued) Location Economic Aspect: Economic Performance G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Message from Chuck Robbins, Message from Tae Yoo, 2015 Annual Report, Letter to shareholders G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2015 Annual Report G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions, Cisco’s CDP 2014 Submission, Cisco’s Corporate Environmental Policy G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 2015 Annual Report G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Cisco does not receive financial government support Aspect: Market Presence G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 2015 Annual Report G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of We provide levels of compensation that are generally above local minimum wage requirements operation G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation Our People/Inclusion, Diversity and Collaboration Cisco recruits staff from markets local to our operations and has structured leadership development programs around the world to build strong local leadership teams Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CSR Materiality—Our Priorities, Society G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported Society G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Society, Society/Digital Inclusion Aspect: Procurement Practices G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply Chain, Society/Supplier Diversity G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation The manufacture of our products is entirely outsourced, however, many goods and services purchased for our operations are provided by local suppliers worldwide. We will review the need to report our spend on local suppliers at a company-wide level in future. 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback G7 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — General Standard Disclosures Economic Environmental Social: Labor Practices & Decent Work Social: Human Rights Social: Society Social: Product Responsibility GRI-G4 Guideline (continued) Location Environmental Aspect: Materials G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Environment/Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Environment/Materials G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Environment/Materials Aspect: Energy G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Environment/Energy and GHG emissions/Operations Scope 1 & 2 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Environment/Energy and GHG emissions/Operations Scope 1 & 2 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Environment/Energy and GHG emissions/Operations Scope 1 & 2 G4-EN5 Energy intensity Environment/Energy and GHG emissions/Operations Scope 1 & 2 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/GHG Emissions Reduction Strategy G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Environment/Energy and GHG emissions/Scope 3 product use phase Aspect: Water G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Environment/Water use, Environment/Effluents (liquid) G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Environment/Water use G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Environment/Water use G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Environment/Effluents (liquid) Aspect: Biodiversity G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Environment/Biodiversity & Land Use G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity Environment/Biodiversity & Land Use value outside protected areas G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and Environment/Biodiversity & Land Use areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored Environment/Biodiversity & Land Use G4-EN14 Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by Environment/Biodiversity & Land Use operations, by level of extinction risk 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback G8 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — General Standard Disclosures Economic Environmental Social: Labor Practices & Decent Work Social: Human Rights Social: Society Social: Product Responsibility GRI-G4 Guideline (continued) Location Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Environment/Energy and GHG emissions/Operations Scope 1 & 2 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 1 & 2 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 1 & 2 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Operations Scope 3 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Environment/Energy and GHG emissions/Operations Scope 1 & 2 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/GHG Emissions Reduction Strategy G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Environment/Non-GHG Emissions G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions Environment/Non-GHG Emissions Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Environment/Effluents (liquid) G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Environment/Waste/Solid Waste from Operations G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Environment/Effluents (liquid) G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Environment/Effluents (liquid) G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Environment/Waste/Solid Waste from Operations Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats signifcantly affected Environment/Biodiversity & Land Use by the organization’s discharges of water and runoff Aspect: Products and Services G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Environment/Energy and GHG emissions/Scope 3 product use phase Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Scope 3 Life Cycle Emissions Environment/Waste G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services Environment/Energy and GHG emissions/Scope 3 product use phase Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Scope 3 Life Cycle Emissions G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category Environment/Waste 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback G9 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — General Standard Disclosures Economic Environmental Social: Labor Practices & Decent Work Social: Human Rights Social: Society Social: Product Responsibility GRI-G4 Guideline (continued) Location Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Environment/Environmental Sustainability G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Environment/Environmental Sustainability environmental laws and regulations Aspect: Transport G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Scope 3 G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s Environment/Materials operations, and transporting members of the workforce Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/Scope 3 Business Air Travel, Scope 3 Life Cycle Emissions: Avoided GHG Emissions, Scope 3 Employee Commuting Aspect: Overall G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Environment/Environmental Sustainability Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/GHG Emissions Reduction Strategy G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions/GHG Emissions Reduction Strategy Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply Chain G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Supply Chain/Embedding Sustainability in Core Business Practices All Cisco key suppliers must acknowledge their commitment to the EICC Supplier Code of Conduct. Audits are undertaken to assess performance, in addition to related criteria being part of a supplier scorecard G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Supply Chain Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Environment/Environmental Sustainability/Regulatory Fines G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Environment/Environmental Sustainability/Regulatory Fines mechanisms 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback G10 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — General Standard Disclosures Economic Environmental Social: Labor Practices & Decent Work Social: Human Rights Social: Society Social: Product Responsibility GRI-G4 Guideline (continued) Location Social Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Employment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Our People/Inclusion, Diversity and Collaboration, Our People/Rewarding our People G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region This aspect is tracked and managed locally For related information on employee diversity go to: Our People/Inclusion, Diversity and Collaboration G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by Our People/Rewarding our People, 2015 Annual Report significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender We will review the need to report on a company-wide level in future CSR materiality assessments Aspect: Labor/Management Relations G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Our People G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective Cisco complies with applicable local laws and regulations, as well as agreements with employee agreements groups or representatives, regarding operational changes. Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Our People/A Safe and Healthy Workplace G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that This aspect is tracked and managed locally help monitor and advise on occupational health and saftey programs We will review the need to report on a company-wide level in future CSR materiality assessments G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of workOur People/A Safe and Healthy Workplace related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation Our People/A Safe and Healthy Workplace G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions This aspect is tracked and managed locally We will review the need to report on a company-wide level in future CSR materiality assessments Aspect: Training and Education G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Our People/Developing our People G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category Our People/Developing our People 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback G11 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — General Standard Disclosures Economic Environmental Social: Labor Practices & Decent Work Social: Human Rights Social: Society Social: Product Responsibility GRI-G4 Guideline (continued) Location G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and Our People/Developing our People assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by Our People/Developing our People employee category Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Our People/Inclusion, Diversity and Collaboration G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, Our People/Inclusion, Diversity and Collaboration age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Governance and Ethics/Ethics G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of This information is not publicly disclosed operation Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply Chain/Working with Suppliers to Build Capacity G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria Supply Chain/Embedding Sustainability in Core Business Practices All Cisco key suppliers must acknowledge their commitment to the EICC Supplier Code of Conduct. Audits are undertaken to assess performance, in addition to related criteria being part of a supplier scorecard. G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken Supply Chain/Working with Suppliers to Build Capacity Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Governance and Ethics/Human Rights/Employees G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance This is confidential information that Cisco does not disclose. Cisco encourages and expects mechanisms its employees to share concerns and provides numerous methods to do so. Cisco's global Code of Business Conduct describes how to raise concerns. Employee concerns are tracked at both regional and corporate levels 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback G12 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — General Standard Disclosures Economic Environmental Social: Labor Practices & Decent Work Social: Human Rights Social: Society Social: Product Responsibility GRI-G4 Guideline (continued) Location Social: Human Rights Aspect: Investment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Governance and Ethics/Human Rights Supply Chain/Embedding Sustainability in Core Business Practices G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights All Cisco key suppliers must all acknowledge their commitment to the EICC Supplier Code of clauses or that underwent human rights screening Conduct and must comply with all applicable national, European and international rules relating to ethical and responsible standards of behavior, including those dealing with human rights. Audits are undertaken to assess performance, in addition to related criteria being part of a supplier scorecard G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that Governance and Ethics/Human Rights are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Aspect: Non-Discrimination G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Our People/Inclusion, Diversity and Collaboration G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken This is confidential information that Cisco does not disclose. Cisco encourages and expects its employees to share concerns and provides numerous methods to do so. Cisco’s global Code of Business Conduct describes how to raise concerns. Employee concerns are tracked at both regional and corporate levels Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply Chain/Embedding Sustainability in Core Business Practices Supply Chain/Working with Suppliers to Build Capability G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective We meet applicable laws, regulations, and standards where we do business. bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights These issues are also covered in our Supplier Code of Conduct and supply chain auditing Aspect: Child Labor G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply Chain/Embedding Sustainability in Core Business Practices Supply Chain/Working with Suppliers to Build Capability G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to These issues are covered in our Supplier Code of Conduct and supply chain auditing contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Supply Chain/Working with Suppliers to Build Capacity Aspect: Forced Or Compulsory Labor G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply Chain/Embedding Sustainability in Core Business Practices Supply Chain/Working with Suppliers to Build Capability G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and Supply Chain/Promoting Transparency measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback G13 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — General Standard Disclosures Economic Environmental Social: Labor Practices & Decent Work Social: Human Rights Social: Society Social: Product Responsibility GRI-G4 Guideline (continued) Location Aspect: Security Practices G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Governance and Ethics/Human Rights G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are Cisco site security is provided by third party providers, which are subject to our Supplier Code of relevant Conduct. Product manufacturing is entirely outsourced to operations Aspect: Indigenous Rights G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Governance and Ethics/Human Rights G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken Not material—Cisco’s operations do not uniquely impact indigenous people We will review the need to report on a company-wide level in future CSR materiality assessments Aspect: Assessment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Governance and Ethics/Human Rights G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact Governance and Ethics/Human Rights assessments Human Rights training has been rolled out to employees in business functions most likely to have direct engagement with human-rights-related business decisions. All Cisco key suppliers must acknowledge their commitment to the EICC Supplier Code of Conduct. Audits are undertaken to assess performance, in addition to related criteria being part of a supplier scorecard Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Governance and Ethics/Human Rights G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria Supply Chain/Embedding Sustainability in Core Business Practices All Cisco key suppliers must acknowledge their commitment to the EICC Supplier Code of Conduct. Audits are undertaken to assess performance, in addition to related criteria being part of a supplier scorecard. G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Supply Chain/Working with Suppliers to Build Capacity Supply Chain/Promoting Transparency Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Governance and Ethics/Ethics G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Governance and Ethics/Ethics grievance mechanisms 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback G14 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — General Standard Disclosures Economic Environmental Social: Labor Practices & Decent Work Social: Human Rights Social: Society Social: Product Responsibility GRI-G4 Guideline (continued) Location Social: Society Aspect: Local Communities G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Society/Employee Volunteering, Society/Education, Society/Economic Empowerment, Society/Critical Human Needs and Disaster Relief G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and Society/Employee Volunteering, Society/Education, Society/Economic Empowerment, development programs Society/Critical Human Needs and Disaster Relief G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities Due to the nature of Cisco’s operations, this aspect was not assessed as material We will review the need to report on a company-wide level in future CSR materiality assessments Aspect: Anti-Corruption G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Governance and Ethics/Ethics, Global Anti-Corruption Overview G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant Governance and Ethics/Ethics risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Governance and Ethics/Ethics, Global Anti-Corruption Overview G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Governance and Ethics/Ethics, Global Anti-Corruption Overview Aspect: Public Policy G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Governance and Sustainability Management/Public Policy and Political Support G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary Governance and Sustainability Management/Public Policy and Political Support Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 2015 Annual Report G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their 2015 Annual Report outcomes Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 2015 Annual Report G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws 2015 Annual Report and regulations 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback G15 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — General Standard Disclosures Economic Environmental Social: Labor Practices & Decent Work Social: Human Rights Social: Society Social: Product Responsibility GRI-G4 Guideline (continued) Location Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply Chain/Working with Suppliers to Build Capacity G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society Supply Chain/Embedding Sustainability in Core Business Practices All Cisco key suppliers must acknowledge their commitment to the EICC Supplier Code of Conduct. Audits are undertaken to assess performance, in addition to related criteria being part of a supplier scorecard. G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken Supply Chain/Working with Suppliers to Build Capacity Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Governance and Ethics/Governance and Sustainability Management G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Due to the nature of Cisco’s operations, this aspect was not assessed as material grievance mechanisms We will review the need to report on a company-wide level in future CSR materiality assessments Social: Product Responsibility Aspect: Customer Health and Safety G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Governance and Ethics/Human Rights/Digital Rights: Product Use Environment/Environmental Sustainability G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for Environment/Environmental Sustainability/Life-Cycle Assessment improvement Environment/Environmental Sustainability/Hazardous Materials G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and Supply Chain/Audit Findings safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Aspect: Product and Service Labeling G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Environment/Environmental Sustainability G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service We meet applicable laws, regulations, and standards related to product labelling information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements 2015 Cisco CSR Report Website Feedback G16 — — INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE & ETHICS OUR PEOPLE SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT SUPPLY CHAIN GRI INDEX — General Standard Disclosures Economic Environmental Social: Labor Practices & Decent Work Social: Human Rights Social: Society Social: Product Responsibility GRI-G4 Guideline (continued) Location G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and Not reported service information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Governance and Ethics/Stakeholder Engagement Aspect: Marketing Communications G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Code of Business Conduct G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Marketing communications are regulated by national and international law and are also subject to voluntary codes. Cisco’s marketing communications are also governed by our Code of Business Conduct and by additional guidelines and best practices. G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing FY15 Annual Report—Legal Proceeding Disclosures communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Governance and Ethics/Data Security and Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data FY15 Annual Report—Legal Proceeding Disclosures Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Governance and Ethics G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and FY15 Annual Report—Legal Proceeding Disclosures use of products and services Americas Headquarters Asia Pacific Headquarters Europe Headquarters Cisco Systems, Inc. Cisco Systems (USA) Pte. Ltd. Cisco Systems International BV Amsterdam, San Jose, CA Singapore The Netherlands Cisco has more than 200 offices worldwide. Addresses, phone numbers, and fax numbers are listed on the Cisco website at www.cisco.com/go/offices. Cisco and the Cisco logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cisco and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. To view a list of Cisco trademarks, go to this URL: www.cisco.com/go/trademarks. Third party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company. (111OR) © 2015 Cisco and/or its affliates. All rights reserved. This document is a Cisco Public Information.
