Your Power Our Care SGCC always on your side Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 我们支持全球契约 This CSR report is dedicated to illustrating State Grid Corporation of China’s aspiration, action, and performance in maximizing the integrated economic, social and environmental value, as well as its implementation of social responsibilities in 2014 and the commitment for 2015. Statement State Grid Corporation of China (SGCC) declares that all information of the CSR report is substantiated, balanced, and comprehensive. It systematically illustrates SGCC’s aspiration, action, performance, commitment and future improvement in maximizing the integrated economic, social and environmental value. We ensure its authenticity, objectivity and promptness. We hope, by means of publishing the CSR report, to strengthen the communication with stakeholders and the society, establish mutual trust and cooperation based on the same value recognition, and promote sustainable development. January 2015 相关出版物 国家电网公司 2009 社会责任报告 《国家电网公司履行社会责任指南》 《国家电网报》 《亮报》 《国家电网》 国家电网公司 《能源评论》 《电网技术》 我们支持全球契约 2009 社会责任报告 国家电网公司标识 标识以球形设计展示国家电网公司美好的发展前 景，反映公司树立全球视野，建设世界一流电 网、国际一流企业的坚定信心。 标识以圆形图案象征公司内外的互动、协调、团 结、和谐，表达公司坚持“四个服务”宗旨，与 客户、员工、社会和谐相处，共同发展。 标识以纵横交错的经纬线表现公司以建设和运营 电网为核心业务，努力超越、追求卓越，为经济 社会发展保障更安全、更经济、更清洁、可持续 的电力供应。 标识以绿色的标准色反映公司奉献清洁能源、建 设和谐社会，象征公司持续发展、生机勃勃、基 业长青。 联系地址：北京市西城区西长安街86号 邮编：100031 国家电网公司社会责任工作办公室 相关出版物 《国家电网公司履行社会责任指南》 《国家电网报》 《亮报》 《国家电网》 《能源评论》 《企业软实力》 《电网技术》 国家电网公司 2010 社会责任报告 我们支持全球契约 2010社会责任报告 国家电网公司标识 标识以球形设计展示国家电网公司美好的发展前 景，反映公司树立全球视野，建设世界一流电 网、国际一流企业的坚定信心。 标识以圆形图案象征公司内外的互动、协调、团 结、和谐，表达公司坚持“四个服务”宗旨，与 客户、员工、社会和谐相处，共同发展。 标识以纵横交错的经纬线表现公司以建设和运营 国家电网在您身边 电网为核心业务，努力超越、追求卓越，为经济 社会发展保障更安全、更经济、更清洁、可持续 社会责任报告 社会责任报告 2014 的电力供应。 标识以绿色的标准色反映公司奉献清洁能源、建 设和谐社会，象征公司持续发展、生机勃勃、基 2012 业长青。 联系地址：北京市西城区西长安街86号 邮编：100031 国家电网公司社会责任工作办公室 State Grid Corporation of China CSR Report 2005~2014 Table of Contents Report Overview 4 Message from the Chairman 6 Corporate Profile The time frame covered by this report: Language of the report and how to get a copy: How to identify the topics for 2014 The Aspiration Jan. 1, 2014-Dec. 31, 2014. Certain part may go beyond this time The CSR Reports are available in both Chinese and English, including 10 Explore, Practice, Test and Improve a frame. paper and electronic versions. Please email csr@sgcc.com.cn or call at Scientific Outlook on CSR Collect topics for the CSR report via Reporting cycle: 86-10-63413454 for a hard copy, or you can download the report from Suggestions from the management; 12 Responsibilities Originate from SGCC’s CSR Report is an annual report, usually released by the end our CSR website. Analysis from external and internal experts; of February the next year. Procedure for Report Preparation: Mission and Arise from Strategy Topics from other entities; Organizational coverage: Please visit our CSR website for more details. 14 Responsibilities are Rooted in Topics from external stakeholders; SGCC (Refer to “Corporate Profile” for organizational structure). References: Topics benchmarked with CSR standards. Management and Accomplished Previous reports: Sustainability Reporting Guidelines by Global Reporting Initiative through Mechanism SGCC released its CSR Reports for 9 consecutive years on Mar. Guidelines to the State-owned Enterprises Directly under the Central 2006, Jan. 2007, Jan. 2008, Jan. 2009, Jan. 2010, Feb. 2011, Feb. 2012, Government on Fulfilling Corporate Social Responsibilities by SASAC Identify the topics The Action Abide by State Grid CSR Performance Guide, we Feb. 2013 and Feb. 2014. SOEs’ Harmonious Development Strategy Implementation Outline During continue applying the two-dimensional matrix of 20 Ensure Reliable & Trustworthy Power Note on the data: the 12th Five Year by SASAC The data for 2014 used in this report are preliminary statistics. They State Grid CSR Performance Guide “Value Creation & Social Concerns” to indentify the Supply may be slightly different from the final results. The data for 2013 Guidance on Chinese Enterprises' Corporate Social Responsibility by topics: 36 Deal With Each Stakeholder Topics significantly affecting value creation effect; are final statistics, part of which differs slightly from the 2013 CSR Research Center for Corporate Social Responsibility, Chinese Academy of Responsibly Topics greatly concerned by stakeholders; Report. Social Sciences 60 Become a Model of Green Topics about social issues of common concern; Extended reading: CSR Guide for China's Industrial Enterprises and Industrial Associations by Development Topics emphasized by general standards; For information related to corporate governance, social China Industrial Economic Federation Topics of importance to a power grid enterprise. 68 Develop Overseas Business with responsibility management, stakeholder’s participation mechanisms, ISO 26000: Social Responsibility Guide (2010) by International Organization and index calculations, please visit the official website: for Standardization ISO Responsibility http://csr.sgcc.com.cn; AA 1000 Assurance Standards by Accountability Institute, Britain 76 Guarantee Operation Transparency http://www.sgcc.com.cn/ywlm/socialresponsiility/index.shtml. …… and Be Open to Public Supervision The Performance 86 Economic Performance Topic choices for CSR Report 88 Social Performance Social Concern Scan the QR code for more contents. 89 Environmental Performance 90 Comprehensive Analysis of Key Indicators High The Commitment 94 Commitments for 2015 and Fulfillment in 2014 96 Commitment & Fulfillment of Provincial Companies 99 Commitment & Fulfillment of Subsidiaries Low Low High Value Creation Performing Subject 102 Corporate Responsibility to Employees Value Creation Dimension: assess the relevance, importance, 108 Employees’ Responsibility to the Society and feasibility of specific topics (It must take into consideration the resources, potentials and advantages of the company and stakeholders). 114 UN Global Compact: Initiatives and Social Concern Dimension: assess the degree of concern on Performance specific topics by the society and stakeholders (It must fully consider the attention from CSR standards). 115 GRI Index 116 Assurance Statement CSR is the fundamental expectation and requirement from all walks of life. Build a responsible, reliable and trustworthy SGCC CSR is the starting point as well as the ultimate goal of the company’s operation. Corporate Social Responsibilities of SGCC Embed CSR into corporate operation 2. Be responsible for each 1. andEnsure reliable trustworthy Pursue maximized integration of economic, Provide safer, cleaner, more economical and sustainable energy social and environmental value supply with minimum economic, social and environment costs stakeholder power supply Realize utmost contribution to sustainable development Fulfill the responsibility for scientific development and push for optimal allocation of the energy resources Quality Service Fulfill the responsibility for securing power supply and maintain public social security 1. Serving Agriculture, Scientific Ensure reliable and trustworthy power supply Fulfill the responsibility for management excellence and guarantee operational Countryside and Development (The key to create maximum integrated value) efficiency Farmers Fulfill the responsibility for technical innovation and lead independent industrial innovation Fulfill the responsibility for global vision and deepen global resource integration Employee Secure Power Development Society Owners Supply anc on e Per ati pir for m As Operate the company in a human-oriented way A responsible, reliable and Be responsible for Quality Service: responsible for customers 2. Win-win Management Partnership Environment trustworthy stateCustomers Excellence Be responsible for each stakeholder (Be responsible Be responsible for Agriculture, Countryside and Farmers: for everyone involved in the corporate operation) Be responsible for Employee Development: responsible for employees owned enterprise Be responsible for Win-win Partnership: responsible for partners Be responsible for Corporate Citizen: responsible for the community Corporate Technical Citizen Employees Partners Innovation Become a role model of green development (Be Operate the company in a environment-friendly way Action 3. responsible for the environmental effect caused by corporate operation) Be Responsible for Environmental Protection and Low Carbon Emission: responsible for the environment Environmental Protection & Global Vision Low-Carbon Communication 3. & Cooperation Develop overseas business with responsibility 4. Develop overseas business with responsibility Become a (Social responsibility is the company’s eternal pursuit no Implement overseas business development strategy with responsibility on model of green development 4. Develop matter where it operates) global vision overseas business with Transparency and stakeholders’ participation ensure social 5. responsibility Ensure transparent operation and be open to social 5. Guarantee operation transparency and supervision ( Transparency and social supervision makes social responsibility trustworthy and sustainable) responsibility trustworthy and sustainable Be Responsible for Communication and Cooperation: ensuring stakeholders’ right to know, to participate, and to supervise, building trust, promoting mutual be open to public understanding, and cooperating to create integrated value supervision 2 3 SGCC CSR Report 2014·Message from the Chairman 2014 has been an extraordinary year for SGCC. Under the interconnection between power grids and coming up with rural areas. SGCC has solved this problem for 3.36 million strong leadership of the CPC Central Committee and the the strategic concept of Global Energy Interconnection households and brought electricity access to 870 thousand State Council, SGCC further promoted the development which is to build a globally interconnected strong and smart people in 210 thousand households. Be responsible for pattern transformation of both the company and power grid with UHV grid as the backbone and delivery of clean employees. Place staff training and democratic management grid, sped up the construction of a modernized company energy as the priority to ensure clean replacement and as the core for the strategy of vitalizing the company by with “A Strong Power Grid, Excellent Assets, Services and electricity replacement. The Global Energy Interconnection human resource development. Ensure employees’ right Performance”. While pursuing the maximized integrated connects the power grid in different countries and regions to know, to participate, to speak, and to supervise. Be economic, social and environmental value, the company has with different time zones and seasons to stimulate the responsible for partners. Stick to transparent operation, ushered in a new age of fulfilling its social responsibilities development, exploitation and coordination of new energy promote responsible procurement and push for the and promoting its sustainability. in large capacity in a larger scope so as to push for the independent innovation and upgrade of the equipment energy revolution and sustainability. Eight UHV projects manufacturing industry. Be responsible for the community. Always prioritize safe power supply. Under the complex were included in the Air Pollution Prevention and Control Build public welfare brands such as UHV Scholarship circumstances of large-scale integration of new energy, mass Action Plan. Three UHV projects including HuainanFund and other programs to assist students and the poor. operation of new equipments, frequent natural disasters and Nanjing-Shanghai UHV AC project began construction. Implement “Young Volunteers Action” for 12 consecutive damages from external forces, SGCC still ensured the grid’s Other UHV projects such as Southern Hami-Zhengzhou years which has benefited more than 700,000 people. safe operation and reliable power supply. Even during the UHV DC project began operation. UHV projects have flood season, Fufeng, Jinsu and Binjin UHV DC lines were entered a new stage for large-scale construction and rapid Implement international business responsibly. Leverage operating at full capacity, transmitting electricity of 21.6GW development. SGCC has built the grid with the world’s our advantages in technolog y and management to to East China, an increase of 69%, and accommodating largest integrated capacity of wind power and the fastest deploy the win-win concept and advance in international 90TWh of hydropower from Southwest China, increased growth of PV generation. energy cooperation and overseas business operation by 85% and both made record high. They have ensured in a responsible way. SGCC won the bid for auxiliary the export of hydropower in Southwest China and reliable Scientific management and S&T innovation is the basic transmission project of Belo Monte hydropower in Brazil. power supply in East China. The trans-regional and transguarantee to enhance the capacity of fulfilling our social UHV transmission technology is going global. The company provincial power transmission via UHV reached 136.7TWh, responsibility. “3I5G” system (Intensive Management successfully acquired 35 percent stake of CDP Reti. increased by 88%. UHV’s advantages in mass transmission on Human Resource, Materials and Finance and Grand Besides, SGCC has signed energy cooperation agreements over long distance and energy optimization were fully Planning, Construction, Operation, Maintenance, and with Rossetti, Kazakhstan SK Fund, and the Ministry 董事长致辞 utilized to promote the smog governance in East China and the development and utilization of clean energy in West Marketing) and three centers (control and dispatching center, operation monitoring center and call center) of Electricity and Energy of Egypt. Now the company is operating the backbone energy networks in the Philippines, China. The company also successfully guaranteed the power were built. SGCC also speeds up the construction of an Brazil, Portugal, Australia, Italy and Hong Kong. Its overseas supply of major events such as APEC, CICA and the Youth integrated governance system, sorting out 1,300 core assets reach $29.8 billion, 17 times higher than that of 2009. Olympic Games. business flows, and releasing 484 corporate standards, and 452 universal systems. The company revenue has made A brand new year starts with brand new expectations. Insisting on law-compliance as the essence to implement record high, making great contribution for consecutive An innovative development steps into a new journey. social responsibility. Employees should always keeping growth. It has been rated as an A-Class enterprise by In 2015, we will implement the spirit of the 3rd and 4th Mr. Liu Zhenya, Chairman of SGCC in mind the concept of governing by laws and study the SASAC evaluation on operation performances for 10 Plenary Sessions of the 18th CPC Central Committee knowledge of laws and regulations. Incorporate the ruling consecutive years and ranked 7th on Fortune Global 500 for and the Central Economic Work Conference to adapt to by law concept into the enterprise management, covering 4 consecutive years. Its S&T innovation capability has been the economic “new normal”, speed up the coordinated Message from the Chairman various levels, businesses and duties so as to ensure exclusive supervision. Moreover, standardize working procedure and greatly enhanced. The world’s first five-terminal flexible HVDC transmission projectZhejiang Zhoushan Flexible development between UHV and grids at all levels, improve operation and management, ensure safe power supply realize close-loop and efficient decision making mechanism HVDC Transmission Demonstration Project was put into and quality service, deepen the sustainable development, and management and supervision mechanism. In search operation. Smart grid innovation project won the first prize promote the sustainable utilization of energy sources, and of building a law-abiding company with complete coverage, for Science and Technology Progress. SGCC’s technical make positive contribution to the building of a moderately whole-process supervision and employee total involvement. standard has won the highest prize of China Standards prosperous society and the realizing the Chinese dream of Innovation and Contribution Award for three consecutive the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation. Promoting sustainable energy development is the core task years. And let’s not forget that the number of patents we to fulfill our social responsibility. A new round of energy own ranks first among all SOEs. revolution centered around new energy is rising across the globe since the 21th century. Large-scale development Treat every stakeholder responsibly. Be responsible for and exploitation of clean energy has become the common customers. Improve work efficiency and services. The choice for various countries to ensure energy supply, company spares no effort in solving “the last kilometer” protect the ecological environment and cope with climate problem, which significantly enhanced the customers’ change. SGCC strictly implements the strategy of One Belt satisfaction. Be responsible for agriculture, countryside And One Road (OBAOR), accelerating the cross-border and farmers. Keep solving the undervoltage problem in 4 5 SGCC CSR Report 2014·Corporate Profile Corporate Profile Organizational Structure——Provincial Companies 1 Beijing Electric Power Company, SGCC 10 Anhui Electric Power Company, SGCC 19 Jilin Electric Power Company, SGCC 2 Tianjin Electric Power Company, SGCC 11 Fujian Electric Power Company, SGCC 20 Heilongjiang Electric Power Company, SGCC SGCC was established as a state-owned enterprise on on Fortune Global 500 Electricity sales 3 Hebei Electric Power Company, SGCC 12 Hubei Electric Power Company, SGCC 21 East Inner Mongolia Electric Power Company, SGCC December 29, 2002. It has been rated as an A-Class enterprise by SASAC evaluation on operation 7th 3,469.4 TWh 4 Jibei Power Grid Company, SGCC 13 Hunan Electric Power Company, SGCC 22 Shaanxi Electric Power Company, SGCC 5 Shanxi Electric Power Company, SGCC 14 Henan Electric Power Company, SGCC 23 Gansu Electric Power Company, SGCC performances for 10 consecutive years. As the largest of the national territory Revenue RMB 6 Shandong Electric Power Company, SGCC 15 Jiangxi Electric Power Company, SGCC 24 Qinghai Electric Power Company, SGCC utility in the world, SGCC ranked 7th on Fortune Global 500. Serving 88 % 2,096.1 billion 7 8 Shanghai Electric Power Company, SGCC Jiangsu Electric Power Company, SGCC 16 17 Sichuan Electric Power Company, SGCC Chongqing Electric Power Company, SGCC 25 26 Ningxia Electric Power Company, SGCC Xinjiang Electric Power Company, SGCC SGCC is the largest power grid constructor and 9 Zhejiang Electric Power Company, SGCC 18 Liaoning Electric Power Company, SGCC 27 Tibet Electric Power Company, SGCC Providing power to a Total assets RMB operator in the world. Our mission is to provide safer, population of over cleaner, and more economic and sustainable power 2,900.9 billion Organizational Structure——Subsidiaries directly managed by SGCC supply. As a super-large state-owned enterprise crucial 1.1 billion 1 China Electric Power Research Institute 12 SGCC Call Center 23 State Grid XuJi Group Corporation to national energy security and economic lifeline, Line loss 2 State Power Economic Research Institute 13 SGCC International Service Company 24 State Grid Pinggao Group SGCC operates as a group with 200 billion registered capital and 1.86 million employees. SGCC serves 1.1 Over 1.86 million 6.81 % 3 State Grid Energy Research Institute 14 NARI Group Corporation(SGCC Electric Power Research Institute) 25 Shandong Power Equipment Co., Ltd. employees billion people in 26 provinces, autonomous regions China Electric Power Equipment and 4 State Grid Smart Grid Research Institute 15 Technology Co., Ltd.(State Grid Project 26 State Grid Energy Conservation Service Co., Ltd. and municipalities, covering 88% of the national Length of transmission line* Reliability rate of urban power supply Management Company) territory. SGCC also operates overseas assets in the Philippines, Brazil, Portugal, Australia and Italy, etc 1, 095,000 km 99.967 % 5 State Grid Management Academy (SGCC CPC School) 16 Luneng Group Co., Ltd.(Duchengweiye Group Company) 27 State Grid Yingda International Holdings Group Ltd. with good performance. State Grid Xin Yuan Co., Ltd.(State Grid Xin Transformation capacity ** Reliability rate of rural power supply 6 SGCC Advanced Training Center 17 28 China Power Finance Co., Ltd. Yuan Hydropower Co., Ltd.) 3,430 GVA 99.878 % 7 State Grid Institute of Technology (Youth League School) 18 State Grid International Development Limited. 29 Yingda Taihe Property Insurance Co., Ltd. *110 (66) kV and above transmission line; 8 State Grid Operation Company 19 State Grid General Aviation Co., Ltd. 30 Yingda Taihe Life Insurance Co., Ltd. **110 (66) kV and above transforming facilities. All above-mentioned data exclude overseas assets. State Grid DC Engineering Construction 9 20 State Grid Materials Supply Co., Ltd. 31 Yingda Chang’an Insurance Brokers Co., Ltd. Company State Grid AC Engineering Construction 10 21 State Grid Zhongxing Co., Ltd. 32 Yingda International Trust Co., Ltd. Company Organizational Structure—the Headquarters State Grid Information & 11 22 Yingda Media Investment Group Co., Ltd. 33 Yingda Security Corporation Ltd. Telecommunication Technology Company 1 Administration Office, SGCC 12 Dept. of AC Transmission Project, SGCC 23 Restructuring Office, SGCC 2 General Office, SGCC 13 Dept. of DC Transmission Project, SGCC 24 Dept. of Retirement Affairs, SGCC Honors and prizes for CSR fulfillment in 2014 Dept. of Information and Communication A-Class Enterprise by SASAC Evaluation 3 Research Office, SGCC 14 25 Dept. of Logistics, SGCC SGCC Smart Grid Innovation Project won the First Five-star Enterprise on the CFIE Social Responsibility Technology, SGCC on Operation Per formances for the 10th Prize of the National Award for S&T Star List consecutive year Dept. of Procurement (SGCC Bidding Dept. of Corporate Culture (Youth League and 4 Dept. of Development and Planning, SGCC 15 26 Management Center), SGCC Party Committee), SGCC Huainan-Shanghai UHV AC Pilot Project and A-class financial performance by SASAC for the JinpingSouthern Jiangsu UHV DC Project won China Excellent Corporate Citizen of 2014 5 Dept. of Finance & Asset, SGCC 16 Dept. of Affiliates Management, SGCC 27 Supervision Office, SGCC 4th consecutive year the National Gold Prize for Excellent Project. Dept. of Public Relations (SGCC Brand 7th on Fortune Global 500 for the 4th consecutive The Qinghai-Tibet Interconnection Project won 6 Dept. of Safety Supervision, SGCC 17 28 Labor Union, SGCC China Top 100 Green Companies Building Center), SGCC year China Grand Awards for Industry in 2014. 7 Dept. of Operation & Maintenance, SGCC 18 Dept. of International Cooperation, SGCC 29 National Power Dispatching & Control Center Being awarded the National Sovereign Credit The UHV AC Series Compensation Project won Leading Enterprise by the 9th People's Corporate Rating by three major international rating the first prize of the 2014 China Power Industry 8 Dept. of Marketing, SGCC 19 Dept. of Auditing, SGCC 30 SGCC Operation Monitoring Center Social Responsibility Award agencies for two consecutive years S&T Progress Award 9 Dept. of Rural Electrification, SGCC 20 Dept. of Legal Affairs, SGCC 31 SGCC Power Exchange Center Function standards for smart meter won the Second Place of Chinese Top 500 Most Valuable 23 units and 37 individuals won the National Labor first prize of the China Standards Innovation and Dept. of Science & Technology Brands for two consecutive years Award 10 21 Dept. of Personnel, SGCC 32 SGCC Association of Enterprise Management Contribution Award (Department of Smart Grid), SGCC First Place of Top 500 Chinese Service Enterprises Advanced Unit in Management Enhancement by 62 groups won the Title of National Workers’ Pioneer 11 Dept. of Construction, SGCC 22 Dept. of Human Resource, SGCC for the 10th consecutive year SASAC st st 1 Prize in the 21 National Enterprise Management Pioneer Enterprise of “Caring for Climate – Ecological 1 group and 1 individual were recognized as model Organizational Structure—Branches SGCC North China Branch SGCC East China Branch Modernization Innovation Achievement Civilization” by the United Nations Global Compact group and individual of national retired cadres. SGCC Central China Branch SGCC Northeast China Branch SGBH won “Best CSR Management Practice” by SGCC Northwest China Branch SGCC Southwest China Branch 2014 IEEE-SA Corporate Award the United Nations Global Compact …… 6 7 http://csr.sgcc.com.cn 2014社会责任报告 履责意愿 A Prominent Role in UHV in Transforming Energy Mode a Decade 2004-2014 UHV is “Created by China” and “Led by China” The construction and operation of the extension project of SGCC’s 1000kV UHV AC Demonstration Project upgraded the independent innovation capability and core competitiveness of China’s electric power equipment industry and made a firm stance in leading the world’s UHV transmission sector. It’s a hard journey for the last ten years. SGCC opened the door for the era of UHV in the world, shouldering it as a national responsibility and mission. Since its initiation in 2004, UHV has now sailed into a new phase of large-scale construction and fast development. SGCC staff have pioneered a strategic direction to transform energy development, ensure energy security, construct ecological civilization and serve socio-economic sustainability. SGCC marched forward through difficulties and conquered obstacles to promote UHV and form a global consensus on this technology. China has organized a number of large-scale independent research and demonstrations on UHV, which was highly appreciated by senior state The leaders, including Chinese President Xi Jinping. The praise was echoed among international peers. With local government backing it up, the development of UHV has been included into the national 12th Five Year Plan, the 12th Aspiration Five Year Plan for Energy Development, Air Pollution Prevention and Control Action Plan, Mid and Long Term S&T Development Plan, and Action Plan for Energy Development Strategy (2014-2020). The concept of a Global Energy Interconnection backboned by UHV has triggered positive responses and wide Awareness comes first in responsible development praises from the international community. The innovative march in the last decade has created new records one after another in the world history of grid construction in search of excellence and in pursuit of outperformance. SGCC adheres to independent innovation, makes firm strides forward, improves itself every year to a new level, exceeds itself with every power line, and makes innovative breakthroughs in UHV's core technologies, key equipment, project construction, standard formulation and commercial operation. It has become a golden card of the country as it was Created by China and Led by China . 9 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Aspiration Explore, Practice, Test and Improve a Scientific “Strengthening of state-owned enterprises is to improve ourselves during deepened reform and rebirth from Outlook on CSR harsh condition instead of sticking in the mud and making no attempt for progress. We need to fulfill our social responsibility, forge a good image and intensify reform measures.” —— Chinese President Xi Jinping Speech at the panel discussion with a delegation from Shanghai during the “Two Sessions” in 2014 Implement the requirements from the Central Government and the essence of a series of important speeches from President Xi Jinping. Stick to the principle of governing and administrating by law, and build a law-based country, 8 Key Points in the Corporate CSR Concept Effectuate the essence of the government and society. Ensure that a scientific approach is taken to legislation, law is enforced strictly, CSR originates from It loses the substance for the shadow to pursue social responsibilities without taking justice is administered impartially, and the law is observed by everyone. Promote modernization of Fourth Plenary Session of the the operation of the into consideration the process and overall performance of grid construction and governance system and competence of the state. 18th CPC Central Committee, company. operation. promote the rule of law in Stick to the principle of protecting property right, honoring contract, unifying market, fair exchange, the country, and implement fair competition and effective administration. Market will play a decisive role in resource allocation and Understand and recognize the social and environmental influence of company’s Identify the groundwork government will be better functioned. Improve the laws and regulations for socialist market economy. operation, both positive and negative. What specific influence entails what specific the social responsibilities of CSR responsibility. of managing the corporate Strengthen legislation of enterprise’s social responsibility. Strive to build a law-based enterprise to according to law. ensure that all staff abide by the law, covering all aspects and controlling all processes. Realize the Manage the influence of company’s operation on the society and the environment by management of human resource, power, business and the enterprise by law. Connotation of CSR thorough communication and effective operation with stakeholders. Maximize positive implementation influence while minimize negative influence. Whether the company can keep a transparent and ethical business practice, including Thoroughly implement the Central Economic complying by the laws, regulations, moral bottom line, and business ethics, considering Work Conference and promote responsible and Standard for responsible stakeholders’ expectations and interests, being committed to sustainable development corporate action sustainable development focusing on apprehending, and promoting stakeholders’ participation. All the above-mentioned practices ensure adapting to and leading the “new normal”. operational transparency. Aspiration arises from corporate governance, including the corporate mission, value, In Ecological Civilization CSR is the integration strategy, and organizational system, as well as external pressure and momentum. In Economic Construction In Social Construction Construction of the aspiration, action Action is the practices to implement the responsibilities assumed by the enterprise. and per formance of Performance is the company’s contribution to sustainable development, that is, Thoroughly deepen the reform, innovate Take the people’s longing for a good life Bolster a green, circular and low-carbon the company to take responsibilities. the creation of economic, social and environmental value, and the operational macro-control mode, strengthen as an objective, and make it the starting development. Explore an approach transparency to the satisfaction of stakeholders and the society. risk control, and promote economic point and foothold of everything the for a scientific development that caters d e ve l o p m e nt t ra n s fo r m at i o n f ro m Party is working at. Implement social to socio-economic development and the Go beyond the simple, narrow pursuit of maximized profits. Spare no efforts in realizing extensive growth in large scale and fast policies strictly, strengthen the assurance ecological environmental protection. The purpose of the the unity and harmony between the corporate and social sustainability in the course speed to intensive growth in good quality and improvement of people's wellbeing, Ecological construction is progressed company to implement of seeking maximized integrated economic, social and environmental value. Work for a and high efficiency. Speed up structural to provide the basic necessities for our in a systematic way. Strictly observe an its social responsibility adjustment and industrial upgrade. people, and care for the people with low ecological red line , which will be ensured reliable, trustworthy, responsible SOE brand in the masses. Economic growth is more driven by income. Attach greater importance to by institution. Optimize national land Value requires the company to go after the maximized integrated economic, social market, human capital, technical progress social stability. Innovate social governance space development pattern to promote The essence of building a responsible SOE and environmental value. Transparency calls upon the superior design, institutional and overall innovation to find and create m e c h a n i s m t o i m p rove g ove r n i n g resource conservation. Focus on solving new growth points. Mold a green, lowmethods which are systematic, lawpressing environmental problems that i s to a c h i e ve “ va l u e, construction and communication innovation of the corporate transparency. t ra n s p a re n c y, a n d Recognition addresses to the company’s understanding, awareness and guidance of carbon circular development mode and abiding, comprehensive, and addressing jeopardize people’s health. Strengthen recognition”. create a new situation of harmonious, to the source. Promote the construction ecological environmental protection by the expectations from stakeholders and the society. synergetic and joint development among of a safe China. implementing the most rigid protection different regions. system. Social responsibility is the Social responsibility is the process to explore and practice employees’ new working process of transformation method, and the new development mode, novel communication method, and for the company and its To apprehend, adapt to and lead the “new normal” is the basic logic for China’s socio-economic development for the time being and for the time to come. It’s contemporary management mode of the company. employees. also the general work guideline for CSR implementation. 10 11 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Aspiration Strategy of Sustainable Development Responsibilities Originate from Mission and Arise from Strategy Core Advocate the sustainable development of the company, the industry and the society. Ensure the sustainable operation of the enterprise. Goals Maximize the integrated value. Strive for social recognition and trust. Corporate Value Promote energy sustainability by focusing on constructing the Strong and Smart Grid. Ensure reliable and trustworthy energy supply by efficient operation and S&T innovation. Goal Satisfy power demand for economic development with quality service. Highlights Win over social recognition with transparent operation and supervision from all walks of life. Build a modernized company with “A Strong Power Grid, Excellent Assets, Services and Promote the sustainable development of the industry with the company’s industrial driving force. Performance” Stimulate the sustainable development of the society with the company’s social influence. Accelerate the transformation of grid development mode, construct the Strong and Smart Grid, and Corporate Vision Corporate Tenet modernize the grid development. To serve the country, customers, Approaches Build a World-class Grid and Accelerate the transformation of company development mode, ensure efficient running of “3I5G”system power generation enterprises and the a World-class Enterprise socio-economic development and modernize the company development. Corporate Mission Deploy the Strategy Delivery clean energy towards a Corporate Spirit harmonious society Corporate Philosophy of Harmonious In search of excellence In pursuit of outperformance Ensure safer, cleaner, more economical, and Oriented to people, loyal to company and committed to serving the society Development “13520” One Core Build a Credible, sustainable energy supply and push for a Sustainable development healthier development, more harmonious society and a better life Green, Vital, Safe and Three Goals Civic Central SOE Notable enhancement of the Core Values CSR Fulfillment Concept Remarkable progress in social capacity to create integrated Distinct improvement economic, social and Develop the company communication ability environmental on the brand reputation Integrity, commitment, innovation and dedication and operational value. and influence. Serve the society transparency. Oriented to people Seek mutual advancement Five Characteristics of Central SOE Build a credible Build a green Build a vital Build a safe Build a civic Strategic Approach central SOE central SOE central SOE central SOE central SOE Transform the development mode of the power grid Transform the development mode of Value appreciation of statePromote energy conservation Innovate internal mechanism Guarantee safe and reliable Implement macro-control policies the company owned assets and emission reduction Intensify democratic power supply Accept supervision with transparent policies Fair and efficient power trade Develop circular economy management Stabilize the corporate running Participate in social welfare undertakings Protect customers’ legal rights Protect the ecological Promote well-rounded Establish a safe, long-term Develop together with partners with winIntensify anti-corruption and environment development of employees mechanism win cooperation promote integrity Establish advanced corporate Build up a responsible SOE brand culture Ensure law-abiding operations 12 13 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Aspiration Improve the Contents of CSR Fulfillment Responsibilities are Rooted in Management and Accomplished through Mechanism CSR Contents The “3I5G” system construction promotes management innovation Categorized by functions of Categorized by stakeholders’ integrated value creation responsibilities The “3I5G” system has refreshed operation and development and kept improving development quality and efficiency, which includes intensive and effective management, intensively shared resources, integrated and smooth businesses, unified and complete infrastructure. At the same time, it has brought about positive outward influence so that the company can better perform its CSR and construct a fine and healthy corporate ecosystem. Ensure Reliable Become a Guarantee & Trustworthy Model of Green ...... Operation To To ...... To Power Supply. Development Transparency customers communities employees A world-class power grid and a world-class enterprise Promote the value of the enterprise and its customers Enhance corporate management efficiency, economic Standards for power supply Safeguard the legitimate benefits and services reliability specified by laws ...... Compulsory ...... rights and interests of and regulations responsibility Strengthen Upgrade Cultivate employees Construction Design corporate provincial prefecture (city) Implementation Approach Headquarters companies companies H e l p c u s to m e r s w i t h safe and scientific power ...... Obligatory ...... E n s u re f a i r a n d j u s t responsibility treatment to employees consumption Grand Planning Intensive material management Improve Grand Construction Tap on the potential of SGCC Call Center business power supply reliability in ...... Voluntary ...... Career cultivation Intensive financial procedure responsibility Grand Operation light of resource constraints. management Business Operation Professional Monitoring Center Innovate Grand Maintenance Flattening Intensive PR management management mode Intensive Grand Marketing Reform Optimize the Action of CSR Fulfillment S&T Support organizational IT Communication Integrated Construction structure Team Stability Branding of the Headquarters and Logistics System Standardization Branches Auditing Maintain transparent and ethical behavior of the company and its employees Corporate Culture Security Guarantee Staff Participation Take the initiative to Initiate communication Pursue the maximization of Fo r t i f y i n s t i t u t i o n a l Build a strong supporting and guarantee system consider real and potential with stakeholders the integrated economic, construction influence of decisions and social and environmental Collaborative mechanism intergrating activities on the society Ensure stakeholders’ right value Build a long-term effective responsibilities, standards, appraisal, and environment to know, to participate, mechanism to ensure institutions and processes and to supervise Make the most contribution transparent and ethical Minimize negative impact to sustainable development behavior of the company while maximize positive through decisions and and its employees Responsibilities Standards Appraisal Institution Process influence activities 14 15 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Aspiration Stakeholders’ Participation Promote CSR Penetration: All Employees’ Participation, Full-Process Blending, and All-Round Coverage Information Disclosure Feedback Acceptance Dialogue and Communication Joint Action Disclose important information Listen to customers’ opinions, Panel discussion with customers. Formulate power supply solutions A comprehensive and profound reform of organizational management mode is in need to promote thorough implementation of CSR in activities such as tariff standards, pricing suggestions and expectations. Discuss together about topics on with customers. of the organization within its influence and maximize its contribution to the sustainable development. policy, service channels, and Carry out service satisfaction serving Agriculture, Countryside Jointly promote the new countryside service standards. surveys to know topics of customers’ and Farmers. construction. Popularize knowledge on safe concern. Put heads together for the Jointly promote the coordinated power use, electrical shock first Conduct thorough investigations development of electric power development of power source and Import Expand All employees’ aid, and power facility protection. on power supply services and pay industry, supplier qualification power grid, and solve the problems Idea is the CSR Concept Value Creation Scope participation Disclose trade plans, price, field visits to business halls, power standards and product standards. in design and construction. forerunner Types procurement information and supply stations and customers. Learn core topics of partners’ Jointly develop key equipment. (Implement CSR Optimize the Enrich the concept of concept) policies. Give audience to the opinions concern. Jointly conduct public welfare corporate mission corporate value Guided Bulletin information on safe and suggestions from power Figure out the welfare strategy activities. Form Understanding by a scientific production and project quality. generation companies, design with professional bodies. ... ... of CSR Penetration CSR outlook Publish important information and construction companies and ... ... Full-process All-round blending Implement coverage on public welfare and electricity suppliers. the strategy Change perception Change action Leverage the driving force from the social environment poverty alleviation. Get to know the progress and of sustainable ... ... results of public welfare projects. development Leverage the driving force from stakeholders ... ... For the enterprise For employees nce Refi Explore new Practice new rma n rfo nt ma e po pe eme na Management is management mode working method g aking Imp Information Bulletin on website 95598 power supply hotline Visit customers Jointly conduct checking and r ma ove Responsibility y-m t the support. na leadership lic emen Notice in business hall Online feedback platform Symposium controlling potential dangers g (Popularize CSR Hand out publicity materials Power supply satisfaction survey Corporate CSR-driven Fi e l d r e s e a r c h o n s e r v i n g Protect rural power facilities management) e governance management Overall promotion ad c Hold press conferences Industrial moral building Agriculture, Countryside and Coordinated construction of Upgr nstru structure Mold new corporate sy m ocess co tio stem pr ent Press conferences on dispatching investigation Farmers. power plants and power grids behaviors n sh e Poli anag m information Expert advisory meeting Symposium Expert forum Combine efforts and tackle Press conferences on bidding Research on public welfare projects Coordinating meeting designing and construction ons ible Respon Channels information Th i rd p a r t y e v a l u a t i o n o n Visit symposium Examination and feedback in Change action Change performance sp &D planni i R s on onsible Resp sible Resprketin Enhance Ceremonies of public welfare performance of public welfare Public welfare forum conformity with the rules & R ble g construction ma g e Corporate business Corporate public welfare operation n culture activities projects. ... ... regulations management Re a sp construction nsi b Environmental harmony m in onsibl ten e Respo atio n le Report on electricity poverty ... ... Set up UHV Scholarship Fund Value ance oper Create a harmonious hens ive Hum s al St r a Maximize integrated preisk nt maresour an pp r ai te g alleviation Community co-construction relation with r e em na c ty-hea gem nag Safevironmenlth Co value A y nt m e ent man Performance is stakeholders a Enhance Enhance Long-term Financial Media reports ... ... C ont r o l -en ageme t m functional ass ets operating planning agement the basis. Corporate man management mechanism ... ... communication en nt Bu r m Stakeholder management (Realize CSR an IT em -te e management m age rocur gem t dge Shortnnin g ment Pm ana t pla penetration） Branding Build an excellent responsible SOE brand “9-Step” Mechanism of CSR Implementation SGCC’s Comprehensive CSR Management Model Choose prioritized topics: Identify performance standard: Comprehensively consider resource and capability and choose the CSR Clarify the indicator system and effective standard for topics which contribute most to sustainable development. measuring and monitoring the performance of CSR topics. Determine implementation concept: Regularly benchmark and feedback: Consider the factors of economy, society, and environment and ensure Timely keep informed and monitor the topic progress, transparency and stakeholders’ participation. achievements, existing problems and challenges. Formulate implementation strategy: Ensure operational transparency: Support of Mindset Decide the strategic roadmap to maximize the integrated economic, social Ensure stakeholders’ right to know, to participate, and to supervise. Change Mindset Change Action and Action Change and environmental values. Improve constantly: Improve institutional guarantee: Topics that are more scientifically chosen, better implemented Pursue maximum integrated value Support of responsibility leadership CSR optimizes business operation Ensure the implementation of philosophy and strategy on prioritized topics. and more effectively communicated. Improve the transparency of Support of governance mechanism CSR enhances functional management Plan the implementation action: corporate operation Support of implementation mechanism CSR improves operating mechanism Plan and carry out major CSR action projects and ensure sufficient resource Strive for social trust and recognition input. 16 17 http://csr.sgcc.com.cn 2014社会责任报告 履责意愿 Let Innovation UHV in Be the New Engine a Decade Leverage the conglomerate advantages and various social forces. Hold 300 important themed discussions and organize 30 domestic and The foreign academicians, 300 professors and professors of engineering, 800 senior engineers and Ph.Ds, 500 construction companies, and 170 domestic equipment manufacturers to conduct various work on UHV, such as scientific Action research, experiment, demonstration, planning, designing, construction and operation. Yield a new business card for China’s S&T development. Accomplish important key technological researches and obtain 705 authorized patents. Embedded in mind and Build world-class test bases and R&D centers and develop a full range of UHV actualized in action key equipment and components. Successfully solve a series of difficulties, such as big-span construction, heavy-cargo transportation, and intensive installation and commissioning of a large number of new equipment. Lead the formulation of 40 national standards and the release and implementation of 6 international standards. Build and put three AC and four DC UHV projects into operation. Create multiple world records, such as the first commercial operation of the UHV AC/ DC projects, project systematic design, double-circuit UHV AC transmission on the same tower, and ultra-large-capacity AC transmission. These lines have withstood harsh weather and natural disasters such as lightening, high winds, high and low temperatures and snowstorms. They have also undergone strict tests of various operation modes and different faults and maintained safe and stable operation consistently. On January 18, 2013, “UHV AC transmission key technology, system equipment and engineering application” won China's highest award for science and technology——the National Award for S&T Progress (Special Prize). Project leader SGCC Chairman Liu Zhenya received the award from state leaders. The length of SGCC’s UHV lines in operation and under construction is over 15,000 km 18 19 2014社会责任报告 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action 履责意愿 Ensure Reliable & Trustworthy Power Supply Fulfill the responsibilities of scientific development, excellence management, safe power supply and technical innovation Ensure safe and reliable power supply Unleash grid’s function to optimize resource allocation Accomplish important power supply tasks UHV enhances cross-regional resource allocation capacity Reinforce grid risk control UHV promotes the Global Energy Interconnection Strengthen emergency response capability Promote the coordinated development of power grids at all level ... ... ... ... Maximum load in 2014 Management innovation ensures quality and benefits 659.95 GW “3I5G” system improves operational efficiency Promotes overall corporate operational capability Trans-regional power delivered Improve corporate management performance via UHV 136.7 ... ... TWh Electricity sales in 2014 3,469.4 TWh S&T innovation supports grid development Safer, cleaner and more economical power supply Construct the strategy of S&T support Accelerate the construction of smart grid and development Accommodate power generation fueled by new energy Complete first-class S&T innovation Promote the construction of energy bases system ... ... Push forward major projects of the big grid and S&T demonstration projects Carry out major S&T innovation ... ... Grid investment in 2014 385.5 Patents owned by SGCC 40,646 RMB billion 20 21 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility on Scientific Development UHV promotes the optimal allocation of energy resources UHV promotes the Global Energy Interconnection. To cope with the global energy problem, SGCC brought UHV has entered a new phase of large-scale construction. up the strategic concept of building a Global Energy SGCC’s four AC and four DC UHV projects were listed in Interconnection with overall breakthrough in UHV the Action Plan for Air Pollution Prevention and Control transmission technologies, which is to connect of China. UHV grid has become the strategic focus of the grids between energy bases and load centers national energy development and clean development. These across or within the continents. The Global Energy projects have built fourteen UHV substations, 8 converter Interconnection also fits the strategic concept of stations, and 12,000km lines with 130GVA/GW transforming One Belt And One Road (OBAOR) . Accelerating and converting capacity, which will be put into operation by the interconnection of infrastructure, including 2017. power grids, is in line with the development needs Hami of various countries. SGCC has signed a strategic Xilingol League power cooperation agreement with Kazakhstan Social Topics of guaranteeing reliable and trustworthy Concern power supply to promote the interconnection of power grids Xilingol League-Shandong UHV AC between two countries, work on building largeEnsure the scale coal-fired integration and new energy bases Smart grid safe and stable operation of Beijingdong in Kazakhstan, transmit large-capacity electricity forges an energy the power grid over long distances to China and other neighboring allocation Coordinated development platform. countries via UHV technologies. It is of economic of grid at Haminan-Zhengzhou UHV DC various levels complementarity and pragmatic significance. UHV grid optimizes energy resource Ensure power allocation supply for major events Taiyang Mountain Jinan Trans-regional power transmission capability of UHV grids Improve grid’s emergency High management Serve the Rated transmission capability development of clean energy Accumulative transmitted electricity since operation Management and new energy Jindongnan innovation drives the development of Improve the power grid and grid’s S&T the enterprise Jindongnan-Nanyang-Jinmen UHV AC JindongnanJingmen innovation 5GW capability UHV AC project Huainan-Nanjing-Shanghai UHV AC 66.609TWh Zhengzhou In operation in January 2009 Nanjing Taizhou Low Xiangjiaba-Shanghai 6.4GW Nanyang Huainan UHV DC project Low High Value Creation In operation in July 2010 89.8TWh Nindong-Zhejiang UHV DC Huainan-Zhebei-Shanghai UHV AC Suzhou Wannan Shanghai Sunan Nanhui JinpingSunan 7.2GW UHV DC project Jingmen Fengjing In operation in July 2012 62.2TWh Zhebei Transformation capacity Total smart substations Shaoxing HuainanZhebei-Shanghai 1,550 6.75GW 3,430 Xiangjiaba-Shanghai UHV DC Zhezhong UHV AC project JinpingSunan UHV DC Zhexi In operation in September 2013 24.152TWh GVA Yalong Cascade Zhenan First phase of Jinshajiang River Project XiluoduZhexi UHV DC ZhebeiFuzhou UHV AC Haminan-Zhengzhou 8GW UHV DC project Electricity traded at the In operation in January 2014 13.3TWh The focus is to ensure reliable energy supply for sustainable socioFuzhou Investment on S&T National Power Market in development in 2014 2014 economic development while promoting the “1U4L” strategy and XiluoduZhexi 8GW accelerating the construction of Strong and Smart Grid. Improve Constructed UHV DC 7.08 678.9 UHV DC project the grid’s resource allocation capability and the level of safety In operation in July 2014 25.1TWh RMB billion TWh UHV DC under construction and stability as well as economical operation efficiency. Promote the strategic transformation of energy development, guarantee Constructed UHV AC ZhebeiFuzhou 6.8GW the national energy security and provide safe, reliable, clean and UHV AC project UHV AC under construction In operation in December 2014 62GWh quality power for the social and economic development. 22 23 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility on Scientific Development Smart grid forges a new energy Put into operation on UHV promotes the construction of energy bases. allocation platform Zhebei-Fuzhou December 26 SGCC has built three AC and four DC UHV transmission UHV AC With an investment of RMB18.9 billion, channels for energy bases to transmit the power out the 2×603km-long project has further from coal-fired power bases in Shanxi, Huainan and Grid intelligent transformation realized its leapfrog 35 national smart grid projects. In 2014, 218 EV charging SGCC has constructed smart development. The demonstration expansion project of and battery swapping stations and 5,007 charging poles grid pilot projects Huaibei, Hami and the hydropower bases in Southwest 305 strengthened the UHV power grid in East China. The electricity exchange capacity China. SGCC’s four AC and four DC UHV projects are the new-generation smart substation was constructed were constructed. The quick charge network covering between Northern Zhejiang and Southern included in the Action Plan for Air Pollution Prevention with major breakthroughs in core technologies, such as Beijing-Shanghai Highway, Beijing-Hong Kong-Macao Zhejiang, between Fujian and Zhejiang and Control and the Jiuquan-Hunan UHV DC project will overall integrated design, smart equipment development Highway, and Qinghai-Yinchuan Highway (two vertical reached 10.7GW and 6.8GW respectively. and testing, and modularization construction. All of these and one horizontal) has basically come into being. transmit the electricity out which is produced in energy It has greatly secured the power supply in have greatly improved the intelligent transformation of bases in Shanxi, eastern Inner Mongolia, Ningxia, and National smart grid projects 35 Zhejiang and eased the tension of surplus substations. SGCC has launched the construction of 50 Smart grid promotes the revolution of energy production northern Shaanxi. power in wet season and power shortage newgeneration smart substations and accomplished the and consumption. Smart grid has diversified the ways in dry season, and solved the peak shaving UHV promotes large-scale development and exploitation intelligent transformation upgrade of 200 substations. for energy production, ensured the exploitation of clean problem for Fujian Electric Power Grid. of clean energy. China has abundant clean energy A total of 1,550 smart substations have been built energy and promoted the transformation of energy Xiluodu-Zhexi Put into operation on July 3 resources. Exploitable hydropower reaches 570GW and helicopter and smart inspection robot have been allocation from on-site balance to trans-regional optimal ±800kV UHV DC With an investment of RMB19.7 billion, the and the exploitable wind power and solar power is popularized. allocation in a larger scope. Smart grid can be used as a Project 1562km-long project has a transmission over 2,500GW and 5,000GW respectively, equivalent to platform to optimize resource allocation. The focus used capacity of 8GW, a major innovation 2500GW of conventional thermal power. SGCC plans to Smart grid projects have been widely applied. SGCC to be strengthening smart grid. Now it should be shifted project with comprehensive application began the construction of the second phase of to promoting the revolution of energy production construct the UHV synchronous grids in Southwest China of typical design and equipment. It can the National Wind/PV/Energy Storage and Smart and consumption and serving the social-economic to transmit hydropower out via 16 loops of UHV DC deliver 40TWh of clean hydropower from Transmission Demonstration Project, the first of its kind development. channels. The wind power and solar power in West and Southwest China to Zhejiang province, North China will be delivered out via UHV DC channels in the world to integrate wind power generation, solar equivalent to saving 12.4 million tons in ways of bundling wind and coal-fired power, bundling power generation, power storage system and smart Smar t grid promotes the development of new of standard coal and reducing carbon wind, PV and coal-fired power, and complementing transmission. The company also initiated 41 smart grid industries,and promotes the development of new dioxide emission by 30 million tons. hydro and PV power. innovation demonstration projects of 6 categories. Now energy industry, enhances the production of new Haminan-Zhengzhou Put into operation on January 27 SGCC has constructed 305 smart grid pilot projects and energy equipment and drives the advancement of ±800kV UHV DC With an investment of RMB23.4 billion, new materials, smart equipment, EV, and smart power Project the 2210km-long project is the world’s supply facilities. Smart Grid bolsters the integration and first ±800kV/8GW DC transmission project. interaction of EV and the power grid, explores how to It’s also the first UHV project integrating serve smart city construction and carry out cooperation large -scale thermal power and wind to build demonstration districts of smart grid innovation. power bases, which greatly enhances the capability to deliver electricity from Xinjiang to elsewhere. It bears a great Demonstration Projects of Smart Grid Innovation launched by SGCC in 2014 strategic significance. Number of Area Demonstration Task Projects Offshore wind power testing base 1 UHV transmission enhances trans-regional resource Project to support new The National Wind/PV/Energy Storage and nd 1 allocation capacity. The “1U4L” strategy will intensively energy development Transmission Joint Demonstration Project (2 phase) Combined commissioning of wind power and urban develop large-scale coal-fired power, hydropower, 1 heating nuclear power and renewable energy bases, allocate Project to support Complementation of varied distributed generation. 3 the application of electricity power resources nationwide or throughout distributed generation Coordinated operation of micro-grid 3 the globe via UHV grids, and improve the development Smart community 1 Project to facilitate Smart building and allocation efficiency of fossil fuels to accelerate 2 convenient power Smart district 2 the development of clean energy. Relying on the consumption Smart harbor 3 transmission channels mainly consisting of UHV grids, Project to enhance EV Interaction between EV and the power grid 3 112.2TWh of hydropower generated in Sichuan was development Project to serve smart Demonstration district of smart grid innovation 2 transmitted out annually, with an increase of 62.3%. city construction Smart grid supports smart city 8 Trans-regional and trans-provincial wind power and PV Project to upgrade New-generation 500kV/330kV smart substation 2 Flexible DC transmission 2 generation was transmitted at 19TWh, with an increase grid Intelligent Panoramic view of Jinhua Converter Station of Smart transmission line 6 Transformation DC distribution system of 90%. 1 XiluoduZhexi ±800kV UHV DC Project Total 41 24 25 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility on Scientific Development Promote coordinated development of grids at different levels Length of 110 (66) kV and Scientifically plan the construction of grids for the 13th Five above transmission line in Year. Launch the strategic planning of grid development Sichuan-Tibet Interconnection Project serves operation the development of Tibetan areas for the 13th Five Year and its medium-and-long-term 52,000 km development in line with the Grid Implementation Program for the Action Plan for Air Pollution Prevention This is a key project for SGCC to implement the Fifth Party’s strategic plan on Tibet and to serve the socialT h e p ro j e c t s t a r t s a t S i c h u a n X i a n g c h e n g 5 0 0 k V substation in the east and ends at Tibetan Changdu and Control. Take into consideration the need for large economic development and long-term stability of the 500kV substation in the west. The Sichuan Xiangchengenergy base construction and regional economic Transformation capacity of Tibetan areas in Sichuan and Tibet. The project will greatly Batang 500kV line, Tibetan Bangda-Yulong 220kV substation, 110 (66) kV and above development and optimize the planning for UHV grids enhance the economic and social development in the Changdu-Yulong and Changdu-Bangda 220kV lines were 280 and grids at different levels. Tibetan areas of Sichuan and Tibet, and improve the living in construction at the same time. The project has newly GVA conditions of the people there. It is of great significance constructed 1,521km lines with a dynamic investment of Promote the coordinated development of grids at different to maintain social stability and national security and RMB6.63 billion. It’s by far the most challenging UHV AC levels. With safe, qualified, efficient and large-scale promote national unity. State leaders have attached great transformation/transmission project on the plateau in the construction of UHV grids as the emphasis, coordinate importance to this project. Yu Zhengsheng, Member world. The construction was extremely difficult. Four stations the construction of UHV and grids at different levels, of Politburo and Chairman of CPPCC, has affirmed the were in high altitude. For example, the altitude of Bangda and improve the Northwest 750kV main grid, and advance project’s significance on multiple occasions. The provincial Yulong stations was over 4000m, which suffered from severe governments of Sichuan and Tibet and SGCC co-founded cold and was lack of oxygen. The construction efficiency was the construction of pumped storage power stations. With a steering committee of Sichuan-Tibet Interconnection greatly set back. There were no railways or highways along the improvement of urban power supply reliability as the Newly constructed lines in Dynamic investment of Project, led by SGCC Chairman Liu Zhenya. Related the construction sites, which resulted in the difficulty in the project the project focus, optimize distribution grid planning and adapt to 1,521 6.63 leaders from these two provincial government and SGCC transporting main equipment. All transformation facilities and the rapid development of distributed generation and EV. materials were transported on No. 318 and No.214 national were deputy leaders of this organization. Upgrade rural grids and improve power supply capability. km RMB billion roads or local roads. Promote key grid projects at all levels. In 2014, SGCC put one AC and two DC UHV projects into operation and started constructing another two AC and one DC UHV projects. The Sichuan-Tibet Interconnection Project was put into operation six months in advance. The Northwest 750kV main grid, auxiliary project to supply power to electrified railway, and pumped storage power stations like Xianju Project in Zhejiang, are progressed in an orderly way. SGCC has started the construction of 50,000km lines of 110(66) kV and above with a transformation capacity of 320GVA and put into operation 52,000km lines of 110(66) kV and above with a transformation capacity of 280GVA. Tap on the grid transmission capacity. Depending on the realities of power grids in different areas, SGCC conducted thorough analysis on the constraints on power grid transmission capacity in five aspects, namely, simulation technology, control technology, transmission technology, management reinforcement, and equipment upgrade. The company organized projects to improve grid transmission capacity. Status of projects to enhance grid transmission capacity in 2014 Voltage level Number of accomplished Improvement on transmission (kV) projects capacity (MW) 500 9 6600 220 33 5140 110 29 661.3 合计 71 12401.3 Sichuan-Tibet Interconnection Project 26 27 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility on Scientific Development Distribution grid construction guarantees people’s livelihood Overhead lines with high Complete the standardization system for distribution Newly added emergency failure rate were maintained grid construction. Compile all-process and all-system repair spots 27,856 management policies and technical standards for distribution grid from 10kV to 0.4kV on the corporate level. 353 Release 6 general institutions including the operation and maintenance of distribution grid and cable, emergency repair for distribution grid, and distribution The average radius for repair automation construction and maintenance. Issue other services 4 specifications regarding the operation, maintenance and repair of distribution grid and cable. Publish a series 4.89 km of standardizations such as typical design and general engineering cost for 10kV and 0.4kV distribution grid and Updated Description for 10kV Distribution Grid’s Typical Design and Standard Materials. The application rate of typical design in newly built projects was over 90%. Finish the software development and test for distribution grid’s standard design. The standardization rate for material procurement in SGCC’s units was over 95%. Improve quality service of the distribution network. Advance “cell” distribution and standardized repair. Integrate the operation and distribution data of 10kV lines in all prefecture-level companies. Exact connection Capacity expansion and upgrade for distribution transformers was established among stations, lines, transformers and households to effectively support the repair of distribution grid. Fully knowing situations of low voltage within SGCC’s system and utilize 95598 orders and the power supply quality of distribution grid. SGCC marketing to collect data. Strengthen the monitoring of performed 278,000 live assignments throughout the year, undervoltage problems in all key areas and supervise the with an increase of 40% year on year. Popularize easy, implementation of control measures. Follow complaints convenient and effective live detection measures and on distribution grid repair, supervise improvement solve the problem of seasonal heavy load on rural grids. Distribution grid construction guarantees a safe measures and constantly improve power supply quality. Accomplish the formulation of 5 technical standards, and stable power consumption environment including Technical Guide for Distribution Automation. and reduce power cut time in the operational district Strengthen distribution grid’s capability to ensure Formulate the technical standards for the bidding of SGCC Tianjin Electric Power Company enhanced by 13.8 minutes. The company uses visual power livelihood. Expand the scope of urban power grid master station, terminal, and fault indicator. Finish the the capacity for 5 substations in light of the power supply programming so that it can rapidly respond to construction and upgrade, continuously improve evaluation system of distribution automation operation consumption situation in Wuqing. After the upgrade, customers’ demand. The average time for power access distribution lines of high failure rate, promote live work of and orderly advance the application of distribution eleven 20MVA transformers were added to ease the is shortened by 5 days. Power grid troubleshooting distribution grid and live equipment testing, and enhance automation. tension of power supply and facilitate the development and customer power demand can be truly interactive. of local industrial zones, new energy vehicles, SGCC Ma’anshan Power Supply Company spared e-commerce and aquaculture. 80,000 customers were no effor ts in renovating the power supply for provided with safer and more stable environment for aging communities. Right now the power supply power consumption. 40,987 19 78 100% facilities in 18 communities have been upgraded, SGCC Fengtai Power Supply Company further eliminating outdated distribution equipment and million hours × deployed its fruit in linking marketing up with safety issues in these residential areas. The company household distribution. The integration of grid information and replaced distribution transformers, added new customer data can enable quick location of the fault consumption branch boxes, and rectified external Accomplish the Reduce Distribution automation Power quality zone and the range of customers affected by power cut. lines. The company planned to finish the renovation of upgrade of 10kV lines power cut of system has covered indicators are automatically Emergency repair used to depend on calls, which was distribution facilities for all 46 old communities by the prefectures and cities collected for all urban quite passive. Now the company can take the initiative end of 2015. distribution grids 28 29 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action 科学发展责任 Responsibility on Management Excellence Build “3I5G” system The Management Reform for “3I5G” System Solutions How to do Power grid has distinct economics of scale and scope. Most businesses are highly homogeneous. Large grid companies Grand Intensive Integrate various kinds of production elements Integrate all production elements and core Planning Management scattered in different subsidiary companies, and businesses of the group for unified allocation and should adopt strategic operation and management mode, allocate, integrate and optimize them in a unified optimized combination to enhance efficiency strengthening the intensive management of various way within SGCC’s system so as to realize the and benefits as the value orientation in principle resources and core businesses, and promoting the upward collaboration of scale economy, improvement on of being cost-saving, restricted and efficient, so Intensive HR centralization of core business management, thus to form management management and control, and various businesses. as to manage skillfully, lower the cost and gain the economics of scale in production and organization Grand Grand sustainable competitive competency. Marketing Construction management, and realize maximized overall efficiency of Enhance the Flattening Reduce the level of corporate legal persons and The management chain and business procedures the conglomerate. integrated Management managements and shorten the management will be simplified by condensing the levels corporate Intensive Intensive and social financial chain. Clarify the position of each managerial of property ownerships and managements SGCC spent 5 years in promoting the integration of the material value resource level in a scientific way and strengthen the and reducing none-core institutions so as to Headquarters and its branches, strengthening the intensive management management Headquarters’ (mother company) control to lower achieve a swift and lean organization, intensive the cost for conglomerate coordination. and power ful control, smooth information control of its human resources, financial resources, materials communication, quick response, and efficient and core resources and the operation and management of decision and management. Grand Grand its core businesses. The company finished the construction Maintenance Operation of “3I5G” system in 2014, accomplishing an intensive, Professional Focus on various operational activities, specify the B u i l d a u n i f i e d m a n a g e m e n t s ys te m a n d Management boundary of responsibilities, and give play to the technical standard by focusing on various flattening, professional, new mode of grid business self-discipline advantages of modularization. Build operational activities, specifying the boundary operation. thorough control capacity even to the margins of of responsibilities, and optimizing business the businesses and effectively reduce the cost for procedures. Construct an operational system that coordination between different sectors. penetrates into all levels and covers the entire business area so as to improve its control over businesses, exert the advantage of scale operation Problems targeted by “3I5G” System and improve the company’s core competitiveness. Problems to be solved Traditional methods Constraints Decentralized grid The connection between different grid management Constrain the implementation of unified management holds back regions was weak. Electricity was on-site self balance of electricity nationwide; the development of the balanced in different regions and different provinces. Constrain UHV planning and construction Strong and Smart Grid. The traditional grid management system was and the coordinated development of grids at decentralized according to geographic scope and different levels; Outcomes of “3I5G” System voltage levels. Constrain the company to exert its overall strength, to support the highly intensive construction, highly stable operation, and high quality maintenance of the big grid. Decentralized operation Multiple levels of property ownerships result in SGCC can hardly bring its conglomerate and SGCC’s Construct a unified, management can hardly a long chain of management, and they are small, scale advantages into play or implement conglomerate standard corporate satisfy the company’s all-inclusive and scattered. standardized and lean management, which operation organizational demand for sustainable results in low efficiency and benefit. breaks new development. Construct a structure Construct a unified, The management ground Grid’s unified, strong intensive resource team and the staff sustainability The operation management Production is emphasized while services are There is a serious conflict between traditional support and with production as its focus ignored; operation management and the overall management and present a new achieves new guarantee can hardly adapt to the Businesses are segmented and managed in a customer-oriented trend in the market control mode image breakthroughs system increasing demands for decentralized way; economy. It has become harder and harder to 6 6 services. Customer service quality is not highly acknowledged. meet customers’ need for quality, convenient, economical and efficient services. “Unifications” “New” Construct a The company’s The overall The operation management Traditionally, SGCC Headquarters had inadequate It hinders the company from realizing a Construct a unified, unified, effective brand value and corporate with unclear responsibilities control over its core resources and businesses. In face world-class grid and a world-class enterprise transparent business soft power are efficiency is and unmatched supervision of inadequate supervision and evaluation, executive and the objective of “A Strong Power Grid, operation organization boosted to a new improved to a new cannot meet increasingly efficiency is weakened level by level; Excellent Assets, Services and Performance”, monitoring system str ingent regulator y SGCC has many subsidiaries with unclear functional incompatible with the macroenvironment of mode level level Construct a Power supply requirements. orientation and responsibilities. It results in the strengthened industrial and social supervision. unified, standard service reaches a redundancy of organizational structure, overlapping work flow system new height functions and repeated responsibilities. Business end lacks control and supervision and there abounds with operational risks. 30 31 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility on Management Excellence The “3I5G” System is a leading management innovation for central SOEs, which complies with the requirement for the basic law of corporate management as well as the realities of the country and the company. It is supported by the intensive management of human, financial and material resources, centered on the overall organizational reform of corporate value chain business, and based on the construction of auxiliary mechanisms, such as systems, standards and culture. It has accomplished an excellent facelift in management as a large-scale SOE. The “3I5G” System is a reform with all employees’ participation. It’s a revolution to fundamentally adjust the internal productive relations and liberate productive forces within the company. It’s also the most profound and far-reaching reform in management since the founding of the company, laying a solid foundation to build a company that lasts. SGCC business operation monitoring Center Greatly enhance SGCC’s operational capability. Corporate efficiency and profits keep improving. A new type of grid corporate management system Improve planning efficiency. In 2014, the average time for Total asset turnover period (Day) basically comes into being. feasibility research and preliminary work of grid projects Realize 2-tier legal persons and three -level Construct 5-in-1 Coordination Mechanism. was shortened by 37% and 22%. The approval cycle for 514 management. Condense the original five-tier legal A unified, topdown process is built. ARIS was preliminary design was shortened by 33%. 474 person system (the Headquarters, region, provincialintroduced to achieve dynamic matching and Enhance grid construction capability. According to 468 462 professional assessment, SGCC’s overall grid construction 444 439 level, prefecture-level, and county-level) to a twosynchronized adjustment among five management tier legal person system (the Headquarters and elements, namely, responsibility, process, system, capability was improved by 8.51%. The efficiency was provincial-level). The original five-level management standard and evaluation. Dynamic and unified enhanced by 8.52% and the comprehensive benefits were 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 was simplified into three-level management (the management for these five elements can be realized. elevated by 6.14%. Please refer to page 87 for detailed reasons of the increase of the total Headquarters, provincial-level and prefecture-level). The Headquarters has accumulatively developed 1,300 Strengthen grid dispatching & monitoring capacity. asset turnover period in 2014. The function of various levels is better clarified. The universal procedures covering power supply stations Regulation and control integration realized an integrated Added economic value (RMB billion) Headquarters’ status for strategic decision, resource in provinces, prefectures, counties and townships, operation of scheduling and equipment monitoring. The coverage of centralized monitoring in substations reached 18 allocation and management control center is more promoting the transformation from functional 99.95%. The qualification rate of substation monitoring 15.7 prominent. Provincial companies will enrich their management to comprehensive functional and process management capacities and operational forces and play management. information was improved by 15.5%, compared with that 10.4 8.1 a key connective role as the middle-level management A general institution based management mechanism in 2013. 5.9 and business organizers. Prefectural-level and countyis established. Finish a new management system Enhance grid operation and maintenance efficiency. level companies will focus on implementation. directory, including 452 general institutions , 254 nonThe efficiency for power transmission personnel, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Positions are standardized in a unified way. The general institutions , 95 operational procedures, and transformation personnel, and distribution personnel functional departments of the headquarters for the 59 other specifications. All job positions are covered is 34km/person, 33.7MVA/person and 30 units/person, provincial companies, prefecture-level companies and county-level counties are no more than 21, 11 and 8 and all processes are responded to. 49,330 standards and institutions were abolished. 1,203 business are increased by 2km/person, 13.6MVA/person and 9 units/ person respectively after the system construction. Management performance is respectively. The business implementation institutions managed in an institutional way among SGCC’s 1,300 Sales businesses are integrated according to different greatly enhanced for the former two level companies are no more than 8 businesses of different levels. levels and categories. All businesses in all grids are and 7 while the county-level companies can only have 2. Take the lead to establish a unified technical standard integrated in 95598 within SGCC’s business area. SGCC was titled “Advanced Unit in Management A unified, efficient business organization mode is formed. system of full coverage in the electric power industry. Verification and distribution of measuring instruments and Enhancement” by SASAC for its success in completing this A business system is established based on centralized Publish SGCC Technical Standard System Table, which asset management are integrated at provincial level. Power campaign. The company also won special awards in overall management, in which functional management and is revised every year. It gradually realized the dynamic metering check and business extension and application budget, procurement management, and IT management. business-supporting organizations can complement integration between corporate standards with national for installation are integrated at both prefecture level and The total assets of its subsidiaries were RMB475.231 billion, each other. Business operation tends to be modularized, standards and industrial standards. The Table includes county level. The cost for metrological verification was increased by 32.57%. Profits reached RMB20.601 billion, changing the original overlapping management. 1,019 technical standards of SGCC and 3,600 core lowered by 47.75% while its efficiency was enhanced increased by 16.83%. Added economic value RMB10.465 Business professionalism has been greatly enhanced. industrial standards and national standards. by 346.94%. The average connection time of business billion, increased by 16.8%. extension and application for installation for high voltage 32 customers is 8.29 days. 33 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibilities of Secure Power Supply and Technical Innovation Ensure safe and reliable Innovation drives scientific power supply development SGCC released Accomplish important power supply tasks. Ensure Optimize S&T support and scientific development strategy. Guarantee the power for the success of big early warnings the power supply for big events, such as the NPC, Complete the Framework of Major Specific Research on events 3,494 the CPPCC, the Fourth Plenary Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee, the Central Economic Work During Beijing APEC, SGCC has mobilized 17,698 the Key Technologies and Equipment of Global Energy Interconnection. Come up with technical implementation Flexible HVDC Sets Sail Conference, Shanghai CICA Summit, Nanjing 2014 employees in power emergency repair, line inspection, approaches and research contents to clarify the direction Youth Olympic Games, and Beijing APEC. No mistake, transformation operation, and security guard, 1,309 for major research. Enhance the capability for basic and On June 27th, 2014, the world’s first five-terminal flexible accident or complaint has occurred. automobiles and 64 emergency generation vehicles. It prospective research. Propose 98 topics in 5 directions and HVDC transmission project——Zhejiang Zhoushan mobilized 142,400 man-times and 10,900 vehicle-times organize demonstrations and arrange SGCC’s first batch ±200kV/1GW Five-Terminal Flexible HVDC Transmission to safeguard 108 key substations (including switching Demonstration Project began its trial run. The project has Strengthen safety risk control of the power grid. Build of key basic and prospective scientific projects. Optimize stations) and 535 transmission lines to ensure safe and a line of 141.5km, of which submarine cable is 129km. an early warning platform for grid operational risks, superior design of technological planning and identify 6 reliable power supply for 16 important venues such as the It will effectively promote the accommodation of new covering 5 branches, 27 provincial companies and major research branches and 18 technical fields. In 2014, Olympic central area, Beijing Capital International Airport, marine energies, such as offshore wind power and tidal 394 prefecture-level companies. SGCC released 3,494 the company invested RMB7.08 billion in R&D. energy. The electricity among the islands in northern as well as 19 hotels where officials stayed. early warnings within the system and ensured the safe Zhoushan can be swiftly exchanged and complementary, implementation of 3,639 maintenance tasks. SGCC had The power supply for Nanjing 2014 Youth Olympic Improve first-class S&T innovation system. Enhance the providing a strong support for the development of the no grid or equipment accident at levels of ordinary Games involved 96 substations and 738 lines. SGCC S&T innovation system. Speed up the construction of new district of Zhoushan islands. This project is a major or above There were 3 personal injuries, 13 fiveJiangsu Electric Power Company totally invested RMB3.05 overseas research centers. European branch of State Grid S&T demonstration project whose intellectual property level grid accidents, 2 six-level grid accidents, 1 fivebillion in grid construction. During the Games, it mobilized Smart Grid Research Institute was established and the first rights are fully owned by SGCC. It has the most terminals level equipment accident, and 2 six-level equipment 70,700 man-times and 7,775 vehicle-times and carried batch of research projects in the U.S. research institute was and the highest voltage level among world’s multipleaccidents. out 29,200 inspections on transformation equipment and launched. A guidance mechanism was constructed so that terminal flexible HVDC projects. This project signifies that 10,600 visits to various customers to ensure successful China is leading in the world in this regard, and it provides SGCC’s directly owned research institutes worked together power supply. an effective solution for the construction of the Strong Fortify emergency management capability. Strengthen with provincial research organizations to carry out scientific and Smart Grid. emergency drills and emergency preparation. Evaluate and technological development and support services. The During the 2014 Summer Davos Forum, the emergency power supply companies’ emergency response lab elimination mechanism started implementation and command center of SGCC Tianjin Electric Power Company capability in key cities and improve emergency plans. 52 labs within SGCC’s system were assessed. Release the was on duty 24 hours for the safe and reliable power Compile Action Plan to Prevent and Respond to Violent Guide for Sharing SGCC Laboratory Resources. supply for big events, VIP Customers and key venues. Some S&T Results in 2014 and Terrorist Attacks and carry out anti-terrorist trainings There was no flicker on the grid, no mistake on power and exercises. Prepare 32 copies of responding cards supply and no complaint from customers. SGCC has Make major S&T innovations. Conduct themed research on for all kinds of emergencies. “Smart Grid Undertakes and Promotes the 3rd Industrial 10,475 16 provided strong support for the success of this event. Revolution”. Organize NARI Group and other 41 enterprises to establish Smart Electricity of Industry Alliance. Organize Authorized patents China Excellent China EPRI and NARI Group to jointly conduct key technical Patent Award research on grid development, making world-leading progress in IGBT component development, ±1000kV converter transformer and wall bushing technology. Promote the construction of specific big grid projects and S&T demonstration projects.Zhoushan Flexible HVDC 57 88 % commercialized new technologies Transmission Demonstration Project was put into use were applied according to schedule. Fujian-Xiamen Flexible HVDC Transmission Demonstration Project started construction. Advance the big grid research in 44 topics of 6 areas and obtain periodic progress in six areas, such as big grid emergency control. 12 projects have been successfully declared to be the National “863” Program, National “973” 143 484 Program, and supporting projects. The evaluation on smart Release national and Release corporate grid efficiency was applied as an ECP project. Experts will industrial standards technical standards On-site operation to ensure the power supply for the Opening supervise 226 key S&T projects. Ceremony of Nanjing 2014 Youth Olympic Games 34 35 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Deal With Each Stakeholder Responsibly Be responsible for each stakeholder Implement the responsibility on quality service, the responsibility in Agriculture, Countryside and Farmers, the responsibility on win-win partnership and the responsibility as a corporate citizen Be responsible for partners Be responsible on win-win partnership and rooted in every co-operation Serve power generation companies Be responsible for customers Propel independent innovation of the equipment industry The responsibility on quality service is rooted in every business Promote responsible procurement Improve power quality and reduce interruption time ... ... More convenient 95598 call center services seamless service Centralized tendering volume reached in 2014 ... ... Reliability rate of urban power supply in 2014 RMB 3690 billion 99.967 % Be responsible for agriculture, countryside and farmers Be responsible for serving agriculture, Be responsible for communities countryside and farmers , rooted in obligation Be responsible for corporate citizen and Urban-rural power supply integration supports modern agriculture rooted in every good deed Provide quality power for building a beautiful countryside Establish “UHV Scholarship Fund” Improve power construction projects in areas without Carry out employee volunteer services electricity access and ensure their basic living Persist on assisting Tibet, Xinjiang and Qinghai conditions ... ... ... ... Donated in 2014 Bring power to 870,000 RMB 114 million people without access to electricity in 2014 36 37 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility on Quality Service Improve power quality and reduce system interruption time Be Responsible for Carry out uninterruptible power supply on distribution grid. In 2014, the company carried out uninterruptible Improve electricity demand-side management. The company pushed forward the construction of “National Operate work of uninterruptible power supply Customers power supply on distribution grid for 278,000 times, reduced outage time by 19 million hours/household and enhanced power supply reliability by 0.032%. Average Demand-side Power Management Platform” and analyzed the power supply and demand situation in 278,000 times advance. The priority was to ensure residential power failure and outage time was lowered to 4.8 minutes consumption and control those companies with highEstablished emergency Customers’ Topics on quality service among core customers in 30 important cities including energy consumption, high emission and over capacity. repair points 26,416 concern Beijing and Qingdao. Other cities’ average failure and SGCC launched comprehensive check of potential outage time was lowered to 19.8 minutes. dangers of high-risk and important customers and Minimize system public places. Ensure interruption time Improve operation and management of distribution grid. accurate Build a metering SGCC has optimized the grid structure and enhanced diversified SAIDI for urban users payment its automation with standardized and serialized decreased from 3.854 platform Improve 95598 call equipment. Standardized achievements have been center Protect applied in distribution grid and automation was orderly Different measures were taken to reduce customer services hours per household information promoted. The company started to test the terminals’ outage time Accelerate High service layout special performances and developed automatic index to 2.891 Further SGCC Zhejiang Electric Power Company formed a improve evaluation system to monitor system application effects power in real time. convenient service map and took the administrative village as Innovation quality Popularize on quality one unit to execute aiding formulation of business extension hours per household service knowledge on plans, repair distribution grid and deliver outage notices. using electricity Form a professional first-aid repair crew. The company safely These measures provided support for fault repair and business established an efficient repair and recovery mechanism consulting service and linked the operation and distribution by arranging near resources that could offer timely Low data from the power source to customers. 95598 repair orders help and 24-hour response to “make the light on first”. fell by more than 20%. Low High Effect on integrated value A gridding emergency repair mode covering all voltage SGCC Heilongjiang Electric Power Company insisted on creation levels was built and prefecture-level and county-level live work without power cut and carried out 36,000 times of power companies founded 26,416 repair points. Average live work on distribution grid, reducing the outage time by annual power outage time for urban and rural power 105,200 hours per household. It strengthened the professional users decreased by 24.99% and 17.57% separately on a management of grid operation and maintenance in county year-on-year base. level and in 2014, the average annual outage time in county level was less than 10 hours per household. Satisfaction rate of call center service Voltage qualification rate 99.42 % 99.999 % Serve customers on Install smart meters 95598 platform 66 million 378 million Attentively serve aquaculture farmers 38 39 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility on Quality Service More convenient 95598 call Improved quality guarantees center services better services Process customer calls more than 95598 call center is a centralized service platform Improve the level of standardization. The company 11,270 offering full-fledged businesses. It provides 7/24 online services and real time control, which is the world’s largest public service center with most functions and revised SGCC Service Quality Standards of Power Supply, SGCC Customer Service Quality Standards and clearly pointed out the service channels, projects and customers. It offers full-fledged businesses and 24-hour standards. It revised the State Grid Interim Procedures professional services to 1.1 billion people. Service time of 95598 Business Management to formulate 95598 95598 platform issues for repair, complaint and report decreased by 71.11%, services. It released SGCC Rewards and Punishment common rules 13.90% and 31.81% separately. Service awareness and Regulations for Power Supply Service to regulate 31 efficiency were significantly improved. employees’ services and improve the standardization. Unify professional ser vice standards. Through Increase transparency of power supply services. centralized personnel management, service control Released the electricity price and references, charging and performance assessment, 95598 call center has standards, business process, service projects, 95598 unified the standards of service acceptance, business hotline, power outage notice, position discipline, classification, order processing, quality inspection, ser vice promise and the telephone number for customer feedback and service evaluation. It recruits complaints on the official website, Weibo and Wechat. and trains service representatives in batches in order Responded the customers’ concerns and requests at to improve their business and service skills. According first time. to the customer satisfaction survey, in 2014, the company's overall customer satisfaction increased Carr y out power supply ser vice investigations. 2.55% year on year. There were totally four investigations to verify 170 complaints, interviewed 66 customers with complaints, Widen smart service channels. SGCC has built up China’s interviewed 104 customers with complaints through first intensive and professional utility service platform telephone, investigated 114 urban business halls and -95598 customer service information system and call Serve customers with a smile 107 rural power substations, visited 153 residential center. The average daily login volume is 720,000 times. areas, 113 villages and towns, 58 new installation Average daily marketing orders are more than 2 million households and randomly talk with 1,152 customers. pieces. It serves 378 million electricity customers. Preliminarily establish the ser vice integration These investigations helped us understand the Through the highly integration of 95598 platform and mechanism. Through the comprehensive forefront situation of power supply services and verify production and marketing information system, the implementation of smart meters promotion and the actual situation of business expansion and review. company can monitor the distribution grid in real time electricity information collection system construction, Fast service brings convenience to people 151 problems were found and all were rectified. from all dimensions and bi-directionally drive fault SGCC has built up an all-inone collaborative warning for active repair and 95598 customers’ request mechanism of business extension and application SGCC Yueyang Power Supply Company launched Organize skill competitions of power supply. The for installation to strengthen business cooperation a “1+1 and 1+3” installation model for low voltage for repair at the same time. Thus the average repair company organized the second competition of power customers, which was a simplified door-to-door time fell by 71.11% in 2014. between departments. It also established a fair, supply skills and awarded 6 six excellent groups, 30 service. Once local qualified residents applied, they open and unified service evaluation mechanism, professional individuals and 6 excellent organizations. could access to electricity in the second day. Low strengthened online information monitoring and Taking the competition as an opportunity, the company voltage non-resident customers could access to issued 31 general rules. fully implemented specialized and standardized electricity in three working days after application. Residents’ business ex tension and application services, and put fine requirements into every for installation could be done in one day and the customer service. application materials were reduced to 2 pieces from 4 pieces. Low voltage non-resident customers only need three days to finish this business and the application 98.56 % more than 46.4 99.95 % 98.48 % materials reduced to 3 pieces from 6 pieces. million Accessibility rate of 95598 Deal with Rate of timely Satisfaction rate of call center service business orders dispatch list service 40 41 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility on Quality Service Actively protect the legitimate rights of customers Heart to heart quality service 25 Collect power consumption Strictly implement the national electricity pricing policy. Protect customer information. With the widespread use Speed up service layout. SGCC accumulatively invested pieces. Installation time was shortened by 20% and the information from SGCC puts priority on the execution of environmental of social media, mobile terminals, and smart meters, RMB497 million to deploy 46,700 self-served payment average accessing time was shortened by 3.5 days. 256 ways protection policies in electricity tariff, such as standard the interaction between users and the power grid has terminals, 653,000 payment spots and 147,000 rural to pay electricity bills million users adjustment of additional subsidy of the renewable become more frequent. Information of measuring payment spots. Urban customers can pay their electricity Construct a collaborative service mechanism. The energy, electricity pricing policy for denitration and and pricing data, time interval parameters and gross bills in 10 minutes wherever they are. Billing spots are company streamlined the process and procedures dust extraction, electricity pricing of electric vehicles, settlement concerns users’ vital interests. Thus SGCC available in every village in rural areas. SGCC Lingshou and constructed a collaborative and all-in-one service Repair metering boxes and varied prices for cement industry. It strictly follows implemented decentralized and tiered management on County and Jiashan County Power Supply Companies mechanism: low voltage residents could access to 369,900 the pricing standards according to the national and provincial authorities, and carries out screening, customer information and strengthened hardware and software upgrade for safe storage and use of customer could provide power supply service in every village through building payment spots and village convenient the electricity the second day of application; design, construction and installation of key projects were started measuring and charging tasks of relevant companies information. The transfer of information in APP and service stations. at the same time, which could reduce seven procedures and production lines. SGCC strengthens supervision mobile operation is encrypted. In addition, it signed the and the time needed is 20% less than the promised by using information techniques such as marketing contract with partners to identify responsibilities, rights Establish diversified payment platform. The company maximum time. business application system to carry out inspection and and interests and increase security management. vigorously promoted the interactive channels of 95598 general investigation on electricity pricing. website, mobile APP and WeChat and has expanded the payment methods to 25 kinds including business hall, Ensure accurate metering. The company issued advance payment, online banking, self-served payment Handbook of How to Identify and Deal with Electric terminal and recharge card. It set up a third party Meters’ Faults to enhance the monitoring of fault Transformation of “One Meter for One payment platform and the Internet financial trading meters, establish a database for meter operation and Household” helps customers better platform including public utility payment, life service understand power consumption carry out spot check on meters for controllable and and e-commercial. in-control quality of meters. It implemented broken SGCC Qinghai Electric Power Company enhanced the metering boxes maintenance project, changing 16.5962 communication with the government, owners in residential Improve business efficiency. SGCC simplified the million metering boxes and repairing 369,900, which compounds and property management companies to impel application materials of business extension and The mobile APP provides convenient search function, has improved the operation safety. The company also meter reform and auxiliary projects construction. 120,000 application for installation: low voltage residents were payment, spot navigation, power outage notice, reinforces the study of cutting-edge technologies and households finished the“One Meter for One Household” reduced to 2 pieces from 4 pieces; low voltage nonmessage subscription, online customer service, and explored 41 non-standard means of meter detection, upgrading in 2014, which solved the problems of under knowledge query. residents were reduced to 3 pieces from 6 pieces; high voltage, low reliability and high tariff for customers who enhancing its technical and work level. In 2014, SGCC voltage customers were reduced to 4 pieces from 9 used to share one meter together. Now they can enjoy tiered deployed 66 million smart meters and collected pricing, operation and maintenance service, long-distance information from 256 million customers. charge promotion and supportive payment channels. Provide more convenient payment Little bulb lights a great life SGCC Pudong Power Supply Company noticed the SGCC Changchun Power Supply Company carried out residents’ trouble when separately paying the public the “Little bulb lights a great life” corridor lighting project. service bills of water, electricity and gas every month and As of October 2014, it has benefitted more than 427.9 actively teamed up with water and coal enterprises to thousand households. establish a platform reading the three meters together, SGCC Tianjin Company served the construction of which was China’s first remote and automatic platform A Beautiful Tianjin and lighted the street lamps in old reading water, electricity and gas meters at the same communities.In 2014, it finished the inspection and time. rectification of lamps in 396 communites, involving over SGCC Weihai Power Supply Company cooperated 6,500 street lamps. with China Mobile and China Unicom and added over SGCC Yinchuan Company carried out the public 500 payment terminals with RMB3 million investment. welfare activity of lightning the way home and finished The city now has 4,288 payment points with each point the rectification of black corridors in 35 communities, serving 284 households. The average payment distance is benefiting more than 12,000 households. within 1 km. Thus the company was awarded as the first in local moral evaluation for 14 consecutive years. Pay attention to users’ privacy protection during power supply service 42 43 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility on Agriculture, Countryside and Farmers Urban-rural power supply integration supports Be Responsible for agricultural modernization Newly build or upgraded low voltage lines of Agriculture, Countryside Advance in the rural grid upgrade. 2014 is the fifth year of upgrading the rural grid. SGCC focused on Transform power grid to ensure the masses’ power safety 99,744 km and Farmers speeding up rural grid construction, increasing rural power supply guarantee and better adapting to new Jiangxi Xunwu has abundant hydropower with over 160 hydropower stations. In the remote villages Upgraded power meters for Degree of concern from agriculture, countryside Topic choices on responsibilities on serving socialist countryside and new-type urbanization construction to solve the pressing problems, improve between Jiangxi, Fujian and Guangdong, 1,793 rural households of Xiangshan Town, Xunwu County and other six towns were directly powered by small 1.896 million households and farmers agriculture, countryside and farmers project risk control, standardize project management, hydropower stations, which was tough, expensive impel standardization and raise the development and unstable. SGCC Xunwu Power Supply Company Accelerate the quality of rural distribution grid. In 2014, over 90% integration of upgraded the power grids in a comprehensive and Speed up the upgrade and urban and rural rural grid projects were excellent. standardized way in mountainous areas. Power grids power supply reform of rural Improve power grids in 16 villagers of 7 towns have been through the services for agriculture, Enhance management of county-level power transformation. Thanks to the grid reinforcement and countryside and farmers Speed up the power construction supply companies. SGCC started to improve the expansion, many hidden problems have been solved in areas without Guarantee access to electricity management of power supply companies in towns for this small and aging hydro-grid which is poorly emergency Improve power supply for and villages. Through longitudinal comparison operated, such as high tariff, low supply reliability and High consumption agriculture management of histor y data and lateral comparison of the voltage instability, Those 1,793 households could for agriculture, countryside and access to the large grid and about 7,700 villagers farmers Strengthen the differences among all units, SGCC popularized the quality control could use safe and affordable power like residential Construct of rural power best practices of 80 county-level companies and 170 consumption customers in urban areas. Construct smart rural grid township-level companies. With enhanced operation modern management and maintenance management, township-level of rural power companies distribution grid failure decreased by 10.8%. Low Low High Effect on integrated value creation Invest in rural power grids Reliability of rural power supply RMB 46.45 billion 99.878 % System average annual Voltage qualification rate for interruption for rural power users rural users 10.687 hours per household 98.808 % Serve large fruit-growing households 44 45 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility on Agriculture, Countryside and Farmers Invest in rural undervoltage Provide quality electricity for a upgrade in 2014 Promote county-level integrated management beautiful countryside RMB 13.03 billion platform. SGCC has promoted marketing system in 170 escrow counties. The centralized monitoring rate of 35kV substations has increased from 81% to 90%. Keep solving the undervoltage prolem in Strengthen the management of rural grids’ power Ensure power supply actively when fighting Anti-drought power rural areas quality. In light of the rural grids’ upgrade, SGCC has against droughts service teams 9,430 SGCC promoted safety supervision and management optimized grids’ structure, layout, supply reliability integrated platform. The online application was used Follow up the central capital of RMB340 million and power quality. SGCC also strengthened the Henan Province suffered a severe drought in the summer in 70% direct-supply, direct-management and stakeallocated by the state, SGCC Anhui Electric Power process control of rural power supply. Power supply of 2014. SGCC Henan Electric Power Company, holding counties, and 30% escrow counties. Company raised an equity RMB280 million and which coordinates its 18 power supply subsidiaries, RMB2.58 billion supplementary loans to upgrade reliability has reached 99.878%, up by 0.026 percent Solve the undervoltage shouldered the responsibility as setting up 960 antiHelp irrigate farmland 56918 problem for rural households rural power grids. RMB600 million was arranged for point. Cumulative interruption time was 10.687 drought teams with a total of 12,000 employees. The 3.36 Comprehensively solve undervoltage problem in rural hours/household, down by 2.278 hours/household, technical renovation and RMB190 million for overhaul company temporarily set up 495 irrigation distribution areas. According to monitored data, undervoltage maintenance. County-level companies used their own with a year-on-year decrease of 17.57%. Voltage million transformers, and 160km of 10kV line, and eliminated square km users account for 0.75% rural households. SGCC capital on rural grid maintenance and renovation to qualification rate for rural users reached 98.808%, up 1,050 hidden dangers. Electricity for water supply and established a normalized working mechanism of cope with undervoltage problems thoroughly. by 0.241 percent point. Voltage failure time declined irrigation was ensured to the greatest extent, making comprehensive control, issued A Notice of Carrying SGCC Liaoning Electric Power Company built an by 16.82%. sure of a harvest. out Normalised Dynamic Governance of Undervoltage integrated platform to monitor voltage, reactive in Rural Areas. By strengthening voltage quality power, 3-phase imbalance and line losses. A mobile Ensure power supply at important time. A total of monitor and governing, ensuring financial support data monitoring system was also developed to solve RMB11.135 billion was invested to guarantee rural Help farming in asparagus town” and intensifying supervision and assessment, SGCC undervoltage problem. power supply during the Spring Festival. 67,900 urged all industries to establish a mechanism to SGCC Zhejiang and Hunan Electric Power Company distribution transformers were upgraded, together Caoxian county of Shandong Heze City has an area of govern rural undervoltage and conduct normalized analysed the reasons for undervoltage according to with 16.5 thousand kilometers of 10kV lines and 186.67 square km for asparagus planting, with an annual management. In 2014, investment of rural the principle of “one program for one station area”, and 57.8 thousand kilometers of low-voltage lines. SGCC output of 260,000 tons, accounting for one-sixth of undervoltage transformation reached RMB13.03 solved the undervoltage problem. national output. It is known as China asparagus town. established16,900 emergency repair teams, with billion, solving the undervoltage problem for 3.36 To ensure the electricity reliability of asparagus growers, 193,700 employees for repair and on duty. During million households. SGCC Caoxian County Electric Power Company festivals, emergency repair teams were dispatched installed power lines for asparagus greenhouses over 27,900 times, with 98,800 employees per time, which 66.7 square km. Six new 100kVA transformers were set guaranteed power supply for rural households up to ensure the warming bulbs’ full operation, and during the Spring Festival. the quick start of electric heaters. Farmer’s income was increased by RMB20 million. Ensure power supply with all efforts when fighting against drought. Throughout the year, SGCC has established 9,430 teams and mobilized 32,8389 Solutions to service problems after meter person-times for anti-draught effor ts. 69,446 installation in rural areas deficiencies in irrigating equipment were eliminated. 2,621 generators of were provided, and 10,001 To solve the problem of post-meter-installation service, irrigation transformers were installed. 5,509.2km-long SGCC Jiaxing Electric Power Supply Company 10kV lines and 15,529.2 km of undervoltage lines established a service mode. Under this mode, the were put up temporarily. All together RMB557.112 meters will be purchased by the local government, and community service centers will be set up by thirdmillion was invested to help irrigate 57158.6 squre party entities. This mode therefore has a clear division of km farmland, drill 10, 815 wells, and solve water responsibility for both the utility company and service problem for 14.009 million people. centers by the time of meter installation. Meanwhile, the company expanded platform for service by connecting 96345, community service hotline, and 95598, power supply service hotline; also by more forms of sending farmers contacting cards, filing at the reception rooms in town and promulgation in village service centers to have a seamless connection between demand and supply. Upgrade rural power grids 46 47 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility on Agriculture, Countryside and Farmers Power project construction to guarantee livelihood in areas Serve rural safe power use without electricity access Launch the project to consolidate the foundation of including Tibet and Tibetan areas in Sichuan and Qinghai. Most non-electrified areas within SGCC’s business safe rural power consumption. SGCC constructed a It was distributed and promoted to popularize safe power area are mainly in southern Xinjiang, Ganzi, Aba and service mechanism for safe rural power use led by the consumption knowledge and skills among Tibetan Liangshanzhou in Sichuan Province where minority government, implemented by villages, participated by residents. SGCC also issued 85.809 million copies of groups reside, and the Tibetan areas in Qinghai and the general public and constructed by jointed forces, and posters, sent 117 million MSMs, and promoted safe power Gansu and other remote areas. With advance of the explored new measures accordingly. SGCC standardized use on mainstream medias for 13,400 times. Moreover, power projects construction, the remaining areas are management of safe power consumption, power supply SGCC organized examinations on safe use of rural power more remotely distributed where natural conditions are facilities and temporary electricity supplies, provided to enhance management and technical skills of grass-root harsh and construction is more difficult. warning, marking, labeling and other material measures, employees. and also increased installation of level-3 RCDs. SGCC also SGCC reinforced project coordination and supervision, promoted Risk Identification and Control Manual for Rural as well as safety inspections onsite to urge the Distribution Grid Construction to strengthen management progress. The company also utilized 35kV distribution of on-site safety. and hybrid power supply of single-phase and threesafe power consumption promulgation phase to enhance efficiency. In 2014, SGCC invested access to campus Popularize knowledge of safe power use. Conduct RMB8.74 billion in power project construction in areas and popularize safety education in rural primary without electricity access, put in use 4,715 kilometers of SGCC Altay Electric Power Supply Company conducted and secondary schools. By considering seasonal transmission lines of 35kV (and above), 104 substations projects to promote safe power use by carrying out faceand agricultural actualities, , convey knowledge in a with a transmission capacity of 573MVA. SGCC also to-face lectures, handing out pocket books which are understandable way, and make rural people receive easy to read, and setting up “Safety Tree” publicity boards built 11,028 km-long 10kV lines, 7,557 distribution general knowledge of safe power use, first aid after electric and message boards. With unified materials, methods transformers and 15,652 kilometers of undervoltage shock, and power facility protection. SGCC compiled and management, the company conducted safe power lines. The company provided power for 870 thousand General Knowledge on Safe Power Consumption in Rural consumption education to ensure the focus on safe power people of 210 thousands households and solved Areas and Safe Power Consumption in Rural Areas—for use for children, affirmation from parents, recognitions from isolated operation of 10 county-level grids and the Primary and Secondary Students (bilingual version of the government and the public. weak links between 38 county-level grids with the main Tibetan and Chinese) for areas without electricity access, grid. Transmission lines of 35kV Rural grids’ upgrade effectively improves Accelerate the electric power construction power supply for farmland wells in grain in areas without electricity access in Qinghai Investment for rural grids’ upgrade (and above) into operation Transformation capacity 39.427 10,580 15,941 producing areas RMB billion km MVA Newly added Benefit farmland Areas without electricity access managed by SGCC Qinghai electrified pumped wells 468 Electric Power Company are in remote areas and Tibetan areas with harsh natural conditions. Most electric power 4.15 Substations Distribution transformers square km 79,537 constructions are conducted at the altitude above 4,000 meters 1,019 and transmission lines would cross mountain ridges and alpine areas. Difficult conditions, short effective construction period, huge investment and limiting power consumption Household meters Low-voltage have all affected the construction. In 2014, SGCC Qinghai upgrade problems solved for Electric Power Company invested RMB976 million to construct Lines of 10kV newly built or upgrade 1.896 336 million households 183 power construction projects in areas without electricity access in 17 counties of 5 cities, bringing electricity to 50,900 69,857 million households people of 12,700 households in the service area of Qinghai km grid. Farmers and herdsmen changed their traditional lifestyle and production methods after their access of electricity. Their cultural lives have been enriched, their efficiency and life quality has been improved. 48 49 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility on Win-win Partnership Serve power generation companies Be Responsible Serve direct power trades of big customer for Partners Promote the coordinated development of power generation and grid.SGCC has vigorously promoted SGCC Anhui Electric Power Company and Shanxi UHV technology and “One Ultra and Four Large (1U4L)” Electric Power Company have successfully organized Degree of strategy to provide a reliable transmission channel for the initial direct power trade of large users through the partners’ Topics for win-win partnership power generation. Meanwhile, the company has also trading platform, reaching the amount of 5.2TWh and concern insisted on appropriate advance grid construction to 751GWh respectively, and the average price for power generation companies was reduced by RMB26.3/MWh ensure the coordinated development of power source Promote direct and RMB39/MWh. Serve and power purchase and grid.The integration process of wind power and PV pilot for big support the development of customers power has been optimized and streamlined to accelerate Jointly promote new energy new energy’s integration. the sustainable growth of power industry Serve power generation Prioritize dispatching management and receive Promote the companies supervision from all parties.SGCC organized symposiums Promote localization of major power equipment on open, fair and just dispatching and supervision for Jointly develop with design and High responsible procurement Fight against comments and suggestions to improve dispatching construction companies commercial bribery and corruption, and management process.Meanwhile, the company has operate in compliance Cooperate for with the law implemented the power generation control objectives, Ensure law-abiding operations of construction Protect the key technical intellectual property research reasonably arranged the generation schedule, and fairly companies.A project constraint management rights and maintain a sound market order deployed the auxiliary services.The power dispatching mechanism has been established to select the superior and transaction information has been disclosed in and eliminate the inferior.Meanwhile, the supervision Low compliance with the regulations to be inspected by the on construction companies has been strengthened to government and the society. ensure the quality of construction projects as well as Low High Effect on integrated value creation the safety and health of the employees in construction Orderly advance the construction of a unified national companies.SGCC has insisted on cooperation and power market.SGCC has established a technical support mutual benefits to guarantee the reasonable profit platform which is nationally unified for the power and sustainable development of the construction market to provide a transparent and efficient passage companies. for power generation companies.The transaction rules, model contracts, access rules, and cross-regional and Serve construction companies to participate in grid Centralized procurement of inter-provincial transaction rules for big customer direct construction.In 2014, SGCC revised the tendering Total on-grid electricity goods and materials power purchase have been formulated to improve the document template for design, construction and 3,650 TWh 100 % regulation system of the primary unified national power market.The company has also steadily promoted pilots supervision and lowered the bidding threshold to expand the competition of potential bidders for big customer direct power purchase and launched and attract more social construction companies to the technical support platforms for the Headquarters, participate in project construction. branches and 8 provincial-level companies. Enhance innovation capability of design firms.SGCC Actively cooperate with power generation companies conducted annual credibility evaluation for design Centralized bidding Responsible procurement rate to conduct environmental protection renovation. contractors and organized quantitative evaluation for RMB 369 billion 100 % According to the Time-bound Treatment on Atmospheric Pollution Towards the Key Industries in Beijing-Tianjinall Class-A and Class-B design firms which participated in the design of power transmission and transformation Hebei and the Surrounding Areas issued by the Ministry projects.SGCC also enhanced the innovation of power of Environmental Protection, SGCC has sorted out the design institutions and stimulated the innovative environmental renovation progress of each generator capability of the technicians by launching design and constantly updated generators’ outage schemes for competitions. environmental renovation.All the renovation applications of the power generation companies have been arranged appropriately. 50 51 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility on Win-win Partnership Propel the independent innovation of the equipment manufacturing industry B y r e l e a s i n g S G CC A p p l i ca t i o n D i r e c t o r y f o r Standardization Construction Achievements (General Enhance suppliers’ satisfaction Design and Equipment) and publishing SGCC 1000kV Fascicle of General Equipment for Transmission and In 2014, supplier service center has set up a WeChat public Transformation Project and SGCC ±800kV Convertor account named “SGCC Supplier Service”, through which Station Fascicle of General Equipment for Transmission suppliers can acquire the latest business updates and and Transformation Project, the company has check business processes and FAQs, greatly improving intensified the application of general equipment, work efficiency.For the purpose of promoting supplier enhanced their consistency and generalization, satisfaction, supplier service center has enlarged the business hall from 50 square meters to 800 square meters, as well as the efficiency of project construction to increased service seats from 4 to 30, expanded service optimize and innovate the technology of equipment team members from 3 to 20, and varied means of services manufacturers and to raise the level of China’s from single-innovation to diversified collaborative equipment production. applications.Its function used to be simply answering bidding questions.Now it has been expanded to provide one-stop services covering the entire supply chain.The service network was extended from the Headquarters to 27 provincial companies, which has been fully acknowledged by the general suppliers. UHV propels the independent innovation The constructors are assembling electric equipment and upgrade of the equipment of 1000kV Zhezhong Power Station in Lanxi manufacturing industry China XD Group,Ltd.has successfully developed the Promote responsible world’s first 1000kV stepped controllable hunt reactor (SCSR) with globally leading technical performance.Meanwhile, procurement Improve procurement organization mode and Strengthen communication and realize a win-win the company has successfully researched and developed China’s first 1000MVA/1000kV loaded voltage-regulating implement clean procurement.A unified electronic partnership.SGCC hold supplier symposiums regularly Promote professional supervision and carry out honest transformer applied to UHV AC transmission projects. bidding process has been promoted to realize an to make clear the main measures and requirements procurement.SGCC has published and updated Material Tebian Electricity Apparatus Stock Co., Ltd.has obtained online operation of the entire process and bidding in the perspective of material management and Management and Supervision Measures covering the whole 11 granted patents in the process of developing 1000kV suppliers’ qualification certificates have been granted control by informing the product quality problems process of supply chain and organized supervisors to inspect all UHV transmission and transformation products, including 7 paperless.The company has also given priority to and the penalty to suppliers’ misconduct, leading the the processes of bidding in an allround way.The company has invention patents.Three have already been authorized with purchase the products with eco-mark and promoted suppliers to bear a sense of “quality concern, honest also organized training programs of material management as international licensing patents.Supported by the national supply chain partners’ capability of environmental cooperation and joint development”.The company key projects, TBEA has made an independent breakthrough well as theme party lectures of honest practice, enhancing the protection and resource saving so as to promote has also provided an efficient and convenient channel in UHV transmission and transformation technology sense of honesty and discipline of the employees. capability and quality of integrated value creation and for the suppliers to express their claims, query and and possessed the world’s commanding height of the to jointly create a responsible green supply chain. complaints on the e-commerce platform. technological innovation in this field. Improve procurement strategy to enhance efficiency. Having mastered the design, manufacture and experiment SGCC has released Standard System Framework for technology for control & protection devices and converter Strengthen information transparency to ensure open Develop with suppliers.While collecting and verifying Procurement in 2014 to propel standardized construction. valves, Xuji Group Corporation independently developed procurement.SGCC has insisted on disclosing all the the suppliers’ qualification, SGCC has sent expert The company has solidified ID application by using technical its ±1100kV/5000A UHV DC converter valve with the world’s matters required to be disclosed by law and those not teams to the production lines of the general suppliers specifications and promoted procurement efficiency by highest voltage and the largest rated current, as well as compulsively required as much as possible during to provide manufacturing and technical solutions and “selection comes first and compilation second” of the technical a 320kV/1000MW VSC-HVDC converter valve with the the process of bidding.The company strictly issued advice, supervise on the rectification of workmanship, specifications.Meanwhile, it has improved IT construction and world’s highest voltage and the largest capacity.The overall bidding announcements on designated media with management and safety deficiencies, as well as assisting decision-making function and promoted e-commerce technology is leading the world. thorough, detailed and open tendering documents, to increase suppliers’ awareness of improving the As one of the first batch of construction companies to platform to conduct online bidding and procurement activities. qualifications, price calculation methods, technology management system as soon as possible, eliminating participate in UHV projects, Pinggao Group Co., Ltd has The time of bid’s opening and evaluation has been reduced by and business price weights, evaluation indicators and security vulnerabilities and cutting off quality defects. successively developed 1100kV fully-localized GIS, 1100kV 90% and 30% respectively and the process to contract signing bid-winning principles.Being open to supervision from TBEA and China XD Group, Ltd.have passed system bypass circuit breaker, 1100kV bypass circuit disconnector has also been shortened from one month to one week.It fully all walks of life, the company has strengthened the certifications of ISO9001 quality management, and 816kV DC disconnector, to break the technical improved the efficiency and benefit of the group’s procurement monopoly of overseas companies with core technologies of rigidity of rules and maintained fair opportunities. ISO14001 environmental management and ISO18001 management.The ratio of responsible procurement has reached UHV switchgear. occupational health and safety management. 100%. 52 53 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility as Corporate Citizen Initiate the establishment of “ Advocated by SGCC Chairman Liu Zhenya and participated UHV Scholarship Fund by the electric power sector, the UHV Scholarship Fund will Be Responsible for To encourage the majority of students to scale new definitely become a public welfare project with industrial characteristics and good reputation as an independently Communities operated special fund.The Fund will become a collective heights in world’s electric power industry, expand their memory for all students majoring in electric power. space for growth and dedicate themselves to UHV — Liu Zhongxiang, Deputy Director of the Grassroots and the career of electric power, SGCC Chairman Liu Organization Administration Bureau of the Ministry of Zhenya advocated and initiated the establishment of Civil Affairs “ Degree of concern from Topic issues on responsibilities in serving communities UHV Scholarship Fund together with 19 electric power communities companies and industrial organizations.He personally The establishment of UHV Scholarship Fund reflects how the donated RMB3 million.It’s the first scholarship fund in electric power industry concerns the students and supports the cause of education.It’s also a banner of “Created by China” and Establish and the energy sector.It raised RMB23 million.In 2014, after Help the grant UHV “Led by China” for this industry, showcasing how we scale the aged, the Scholarship three months’ nomination, observation and selection disabled and Fund heights of the electric power development in the world.UHV is the poor according to comprehensive performance, ability of Assist an important milestone in China’s electric power development, the scientific research and other indicators, the Fund granted and a golden business card for China’s independent innovation students Transparent RMB10,000 scholarship per person to 160 electric power and globalisation. information Care for stayunder graduates from 17 universities after the review of — Guo Peng, Deputy Director-General of Department of at-home Public welfare community the UHV Scholarship Fund Council.The event has left a Finance, Ministry of Education activities on environmental vivid mark among universities, media and the masses. High protection Point-to-point assistance Assist Xinjiang Abide by and Tibet Logo interpretation UHV Scholarship Fund Logo Illustration the law and regulation The main body of the logo consists of “U” and “T”. Low U T Low High Effect degree of integrated value UHV Scholarship Fund Ultra（UHV） Technology creation Union Teacher University Talent Red symbolizes love. The golden key is to help the students open the door for success in UHV and the career of electric power and sustain its healthy development. The whole design looks like a key. Gold – represents the last character of the Chinese translation Donate Execute 115 100 of “Scholarship”, and also means the pass-on of value. Red – embodies love and care, and also the core of the RMB million edu-aid programs Gold represents value. Scholarship. Yellow suggests brightness. Yellow – is the brightest color, standing for a bright future for students and the development of UHV. Testimonials from students I’d like to extend my sincere gratitude to SGCC Winning the UHV Scholarship has encouraged Staff’s volunteer service Donate via State Grid 2,200,000 10.6 Foundation for Public Welfare Chairman Liu Zhenya and the UHV Scholarship us to dedicate ourselves to the career of UHV Fund Council.Your endearment has given me and electric power with more enthusiasm. RMB million the courage to strive for new progress and the Moreover, it has imprinted us with the spirit person-times hope to pursue excellence. of UHV, inspiring us to create new and greater achievements. Zhang Peng, Class 14, Department of Electrical Engineering, Tsinghua University Jiang Zimin, Grade 2011, Shandong University 54 55 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility as Corporate Citizen Point-to-point assistance Edu-aid programs light up promotes local stable students’ dreams development Committed to the poverty-relief work and enhance local self-sufficiency capacity Investment in Tibet In Ningxia, SGCC Ningxia Electric Power Company h a s b e e n c o o p e r a t i n g w i t h N i n g x i a Yo u t h Care comes along with hope. Support Tibet.RMB5.04 billion has been invested in Tibet. The company started the construction of Sichuan-Tibet Innovate the methodology and enhance the strength to implement a solid work on poverty-relief in the new situation.Carried out 231 RMB 5.04 billion Development Foundation since 2007.Every year, the SGCC Beijing Electric Power Company held 95 “electric Interconnection Project and a bunch of key transmission and poverty alleviation projects and invested 36.56 million RMB in 2014. company sponsored “Achieving Goals” Program for power love” classes to popularize knowledge on safe transformation projects.Promote the electric construction in Investment in Xinjiang 13 underprivileged freshmen in the area as the biggest power consumption and conservation during semesters, areas without access to electricity.The coverage of the big grid social welfare program of the year.It has donated about holidays, or as the first lesson of the semester, which were has expanded to 51 counties, bringing electricity to 94,000 RMB billion taken by 3,000 junior high and primary school students. RMB10 million to help 1,650 freshmen from poor population in 26,000 households.The company allocated It cooperated with the education commission and the Sincere poverty alleviation for 20 years families. RMB25.5 million to support Coqen County, Ali Prefecture and children’s palace to construct classrooms, unify teaching prioritized to arrange projects that concern people’s life, such as Investment in fixed assets materials, teaching aids, teaching plans, and set up a team SGCC has organized poverty-relief work in Zigui County, In Qinghai, SGCC Qinghai Electric Power Company affordable housing for farmers and herdsmen, auxiliary projects in Qinghai of part-time lecturers.As of the end of 2014, the “electric 5.015 Changyang County, Badong County, and Shennongjia Forest of launched a public welfare program “Chinese Dream, power love” classes have covered all districts in the city. of junior high and primary schools, and disinfection room of Hubei province since 1995.A total of RMB2.518 billion has been SGCC Love: Edu-Aid Action to Realize Dreams” for 12 SGCC Fujian Electric Power Company has raised more the county hospital. RMB billion invested in the grid construction poverty relief, which attracted poor primary schools in 10 counties of the province. than RMB10 million through various means since 1995 RMB232 million local matching fund.It carried out 285 poverty It has been helping schools in poverty-stricken areas to donate 13 Hope primary schools of electric power, Support Xinjiang.The investment in Xinjiang was RMB13 alleviation projects to solve problems of access to electricity, and stay-at-home children for a long time by improving benefiting 28,000 students in mountainous areas billion.Put into operation a bunch of high-voltage transmission transportation and water, improve health care, sanitation and teaching facilities, setting up a third class for stay-atthroughout the province.To help dropouts or almostand transformation projects like Wubei-Wucaiwan 750kV school conditions, and proceed with industrial development, home children, soulful love and affection program, and dropouts from poor families continue their education, transmission and transformation project.Upgrade the rural enhance people’s skills to get rid of poverty.With its help, the it has carried out pairing aid actions in SGCC’s system, net income for peasants in Zigui County, Changyang County, one-to-one education sponsorship. grids in 81 counties from 13 prefectures throughout Xinjiang. like “Light up Hope; Aid Education with Love”, “One-toBadong County, and Shennongjia Forest has raised from Accelerate the power construction in areas without access one Assistance”, “Love Comes Along with Hope”, “Hand RMB669.8/(person·year) in 1995 to RMB5,300/(person·year) in In Hebei, SGCC Hebei Electric Power Company started to electricity and bring power to 428,600 population in in Hand”, and “Edu-Aid in Autumn”, assisting 2,700 2013.The GDP per capita reached RMB22,158.A total of 591,000 “Love: Hand in Hand 1+1” edu-aid program in Shunping underprivileged students in total from Hope primary 107,700 households.Implement the strategic layout of “One people overcame poverty. Leaders from the State Council County, Baoding City since 2009, donating over 4,000 schools. Belt And One Road” and the essence of the second Central Leading Group Office of Poverty Alleviation and Development books and 1,000 sets of stationary and office supplies.It Work Conference of Xinjiang.Come up with 20 suggestions to affirmed its efforts by acknowledging SGCC’s great emphasis teaches children about common knowledge on power support the stable development of Xinjiang grid. on and enormous efforts in point-to-point poverty-relief use and conservation on an irregular basis and pairs up assistance, which provided tremendous support to the masses with primary students for better interaction. Support Qinghai.RMB5.015 billion has been invested in fixed in these four counties to get rid of poverty and become better assets in Qinghai.RMB10.8 million was used to support Maduo off.SGCC shared its experience in this regard for many times in County, Golog Prefecture to construct outdoor drainage conferences held by the State Council Leading Group Office of system and auxiliary facilities of ethnic primary boarding Poverty Alleviation and Development and SASAC.It also won schools, renew public transformation facilities of counties, and the title of “Advanced Organisation for Point-to-point Poverty Alleviation Among Central State Organs”. electricify the residential communities for herdsmen. Areas for poverty-relief Major practices Achievements Mabian Plant 1.13 square kilometers’ industrial crops.Invest in 13,100 chicks County, and 670 pigs.Work out poverty-relief plan during 2014 and 2016 Help the locals’ average annual income reach Sichuan and implement assisting programs in industry, education, labor RMB8,000 in 2016 Province and transportation in Gaoshitou Village, Mabian County. Set up 11 agricultural cooperatives and establish standardized Xiangshui sheep breeding base.Help build modern agricultural Invest RMB6 million in 2014.The Jiangsu Provincial County, demonstration garden, industrial park, ecological farm, and Party Committee fully affirmed the project’s influence Jiangsu Province efficient vegetable base of approximately 7 square kilometers. on enhancing the local self-sufficiency capacity. Support the training class for new professional farmers. Lead 9 organizations in the province to establish a poverty-relief Yulin County, Invest RMB2.7 million in 27 point-to-point assistance group to engage a county and a township to help a village.Carry Shaanxi projects.Promote local economic growth by over Province out terrace and bank project, and construct facilities for solar RMB4 million. lighting, flood control and pumped irrigation. Implement free electricity policy for poor families.Purchase all Promote energy conservation and emission reduction surplus on-grid electricity in addition to self-used power generated Hefei, Anhui and benefit poor families at the same time.Till the end by distributed generation of the rural family.The project’s property Province of 2014, the poverty-relief project “PV in villages” has right and generation proceedings all belong to the underprivileged benefited 1,100 rural households. Young volunteers are with students from Hope primary schools family. 56 57 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility as Corporate Citizen Conduct employee volunteer service Volunteer services Luneng’s enthusiastic sport spirit within SGCC 2,220,000 Exert the function of Party Member Service Team.In volunteer service projects organized by SGCC’s Youth In 1998, commissioned by the Shandong provincial 2014, the SGCC Party Member Service Team offered League Committee stood out.5 projects including the government, SGCC Shandong Electric Power Company took man-times safe and reliable power supply for over 20,000 major “Red Cell” Project from SGCC Sichuan Electric Power over the provincial football team, establishing Shandong events, carried out 1,490,000 emergency repairs, and Company won the gold prize.4 projects including the Luneng Taishan Football Club.In 2000, the company took established 47,000 community service spots, directly “Small Kindness to Realize Dreams” Action from SGCC over the former Table Tennis Team of Shandong Province, serving 3,280,000 person-times, and volunteering Shandong Electric Power Company won the silver establishing Shangdong Luneng Table Tennis Club. 1,010,000 person-times.The central and provincial prize.3 units including SGCC Henan Electric Power Luneng Sports sticks to strict management, training and leaders have inspected or instructed the team for 206 Company won the prize of “Excellent Group”.SGCC competition.It dares to think, to try, and to succeed.It has times. Jiangsu Electric Power Company won the honor of achieved outstanding results in major contests home and “Loving Enterprise”. abroad. Deepen youth volunteer service.Conduct “Young In 2014, Luneng Football Team won the champion of FA Sunshine Action” for 12 consecutive years.Establish Cup and the Luneng Table Tennis Team won the men’s and women's team championships in China Table Tennis Super terms of the number of its cultivated football players, table tennis and improve over 500 places for caring activities, such League.Luneng Football Team has won four championships players and coaches selected in the national teams. as “Home for Stay-at-home Students”, “House of Spring of the National League of Level A , four championships of Luneng’s sport spirit includes the patriotic spirit of loyalty to serve the Seeding”, and “Bar of Coming Hope”, benefiting 700,000 Chinese Football Association Cup, and one championship country, the fighting spirit of scaling new heights, the indomitable people.In the First China Youth Volunteer Service of Chinese Super League Cup.The table tennis team has spirit, and the team spirit of faith and dedication.It is a vivid Competition co-organized by the Central Committee won 5 women’s team championships and 3 men’s team interpretation of SGCC’s corporate spirit of “In search of excellence; of China Communist Youth League, Ministry of Civil championships in China Table Tennis Super League.World in pursuit of outperformance”.The achievements Luneng Sports Affairs, and China Volunteer Service Federation, 9 champion Zhang Jike and Li Xiaoxia both came from Luneng has made so far are so profound and extensive that it has greatly Sports, who won 4 gold metals at the 2012 London Olympic enhanced the company’s brand value.“Luneng” was rated as “most Games.The club is leading among other clubs in China in recognizable trademark in China”. Volunteer service warms power customers Adhere to the law and operate SGCC Chongqing Electric Power Company began its youth volunteer service program “SGCC Houses of Spring business with integrity 13,385 Seeding” since 2009.It has built 100 SGCC Houses of job positions and businesses in the power supply service Spring Seeding” covering 33,000 stay-at-home children Fulfill the accountability for the construction of a clean sector.Solve the problem of “the Last Kilometer” for the in rural areas from 38 county-level districts (21 municipal government.Refine the penalty and prevention system public.Intensify moral complaints and reports.SGCC thorough investigations districts, 12 counties and 4 autonomous counties) of against corruption.All units within SGCC system have processed 3,273 pieces of moral complaints.264 of them by supervision Chongqing.A management mode consisting the company, established a penalty and prevention team whose main were verified or partly verified.Related people were departments the youth league, schools, and volunteers has been set up person in charge is the head of the unit.Leaders of the antiquestioned and held accountable.Organize normalized to build and nurture these houses with joint efforts. corruption teams will give regular reports.Innovate the thorough investigations.The supervision departments To better serve customers around the scenic spot of Yinghu Inspect 33,750 construction of collaborative supervision and formulate of all levels conducted 13,385 thorough investigations, Lake, SGCC Ankang Power Supply Company provided Opinions on Establishing Collaborative Supervision Mechanism checking 33,750 service counters, coming up with 18,469 non-stop services to 60,000 people from 68 administrative villages of 5 townships relying on a 3-dimensional service to Further Refine the Penalty and Prevention System. pieces of advice regarding work, and promptly correcting service counters system, that is, by water, on land, and in the air.Every Stick to the liaison meeting system for the supervision and punishing violating behaviors. month, the service team will drive the “Business Hall committee and deploy specific supervision and examination. on Water” into 10 villages on time to collect electricity Conduct efficiency supervision on key links, such as project Deepen “6 Unifications” contract management.Improve the fees, accept businesses, and promote knowledge on management, waste material disposal, meter reading and system of general contracts, which are practical, consistent, safe power use.Services are delivered to every island by fee collecting, and inventory clearance so as to discover and and feasible.Orderly advance the construction of unified water.On important occasions, such as the market day solve existing problems in operation and management in contract text and enhance the system of unified contract in the township, the company will provide temporary time. text.The first-level deployment of the whole-process power supply services in a simple tent.The team leader contract management system goes online.A corporatehas to receive visiting customers for no less than 4 days Strengthen moral rectification and construction.Combine level contract management IT platform basically comes in a month, which has been implemented as a working with the second wave of the Party’s mass line educational into being.All contracts of the company are reviewed from mechanism. practice.Strengthen the supervision and control in key a legal perspective. 58 59 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Become a Model of Green Development Responsibility on Environmental Protection and Promote electricity replacement Low Carbon Emission Replace coal with electricity to lower emission Replace oil with electricity to promote transportation electrification Conduct generation rights transaction to conserve energy ... ... Promote clean replacements Trans-regional clean energy accommodation 6,948,000 tons of standard coal saved by generation Boost social energy conservation in an all-round way Serve the integration of rights transaction in 2014 Conduct social energy-conservation service distributed generation Set up a power efficiency service team Promote bulk hydropower Construct power service management platform and bulk nuclear power ... ... ... ... Organize 118 Accommodate 921.8 of clean energy in TWh environmental training sessions in 2014 2014 Combat global climate change Urge for a resource-conserving and Promote energy conservation environmental-friendly development and emission reduction from the company Boost the EV industry development Encourage industrial energy conservation Promote comprehensive environmental management and emission reduction Construct a resource-conserving and Promote social energy conservation and environmentally-friendly project emission reduction ... ... ... ... 618 Energy conservation reconstruction projects in 2014 saved EV charging & battery swapping stations have been built 2.25 of electricity TWh 60 61 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility on Environmental Protection and Low Carbon Emission Promote the green transformation UHV transmission is included in Air Pollution Prevention of energy development and Control Action Plan.It has been widely agreed that UHV transmission plays an important role in guaranteeing energy Promote energy revolution by establishing a Global Energy safety, solving smog problem, improving efficiency, and Outlook.Insist on coordinated development of energy, supporting social-economic development.8 UHV projects politics, economy and environment.Insist on coordinated have been included in Air Pollution Prevention and Control development of centralized and distributed generation. Action Plan.In May 2015, the state approved to carry out Stick to clean replacement and electricity replacement. 12 key transmission channels as parts of Air Pollution Coordinate the development, allocation and utilization of Prevention and Control Action Plan.11 of them are in the global energy resources to guarantee safe, clean, efficient, business area of SGCC.Clean energy such as wind power and sustainable energy supply by constructing a Global Energy solar power can be accommodated in a wider range. Interconnection. Make the best effort to accommodate clean energy.Initiate new institution for coordinated development of wind Customers’ Topics choices on environmental protection power, PV generation and the grid.Optimize workflow and degree of and low carbon emission concern service standard with emphasis on new energy integration problem which is of great social concern.Guarantee projects that meet criteria can be fed into grid in time.Make the Promote clean Support the replacement best use of trans-regional and trans-provincial transmission development of distributed energy resources channels with the support of UHV technology.Improve Serve the EV industry accommodation of clean energy such as hydropower from development Encourage southwest and the wind power from the Three Norths. electricity replacement Minimize abandoned water, wind and solar energy. Help build Provide eco-civilized energy city conservation High service to the society Advance in emission Strengthen R&D reduction of environmental Advocate protection the concept technology Support the accommodation of clean energy such as of green wind power and PV power. development SGCC Qinghai Electric Power Company is conducting Low thorough research on key technologies such as integration of PV stations, electricity accommodation and grid’s safely Low High Effect degree on integrated operation.It provides “one-stop service” for grid integration value creation procedure, “tracking service” for project construction, allround service for technology support and personalized service for integration inspection.In 2014, It has ensured the integration, accommodation and transmission of over 1GW Integrated capacity of Integrated capacity of newly added installed PV capacity. wind power PV power SGCC Gansu Electric Power Company has strengthened its new energy integration service.It helped Gansu Energy 75.52 GW 21.92 GW Supervision Office with the publication of Provisions for Monitoring and Managing Newly Constructed Energy Integration into Power Grid in Gansu (trial), which illustrates the process of grid integration and time limit for each procedure to improve management of the whole process of Total accommodation Accomplish new energy integration service. of hydropower in 2014 SGCC Jibei Electric Power Company keeps promoting the 50.3 Actively promote green development, cyclic development and Focus on solving environmental problems which are harmful to construction of Phase 2 of the National Wind/PV/Energy 651.1 TWh low-carbon development.Explore a win-win scientific path for people’s health.Strengthen ecological environment protection Storage and Smart Transmission Demonstration Project. TWh the social-economic development and ecological environment with the implementation of the strictest regulation. The project will construct 0.4 GW of wind power, 0.06 GW of of electricity protection. Strengthen ecological construction with systematical PV generation and 0.05 GW of energy storage.In 2014, the replacement framework.Guarantee the “ecological red line” by institution PV stations in Phase 2 extension project were successfully construction.Comprehensively improve resource conservation. integrated into grid and started generating.All 98 wind turbines have been put into use. 62 63 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility on Environmental Protection and Low Carbon Emission Promote clean replacement Actively promote electricity Uphold ecological civilization replacement Total investment in Make the greatest effort to accommodate hydropower. Construct resource-saving and environment-friendly environmental protection Take advantage of the transmission channel to export project.In 2014, SGCC has invested RMB5.43 billion in 54.3 hydropower in Sichuan, increase trans-regional and transReplace coal by electricity to reduce direct environmental protection.All projects in planning scored New energy generation shows remarkable coal-fired emission.According to the state’s requirement province power transmission to maximize hydropower 100% in environmental impact evaluation.Biological RMB billion benefit on regulating the use of small coal-fired boiler and accommodation.Total hydropower accommodation diversity, noise control, water pollution prevention, reached 651.1 TWh in 2014, increased by 14.64% than last pursuing negative coal consumption growth, SGCC harmony among power supply facilities, urban landscape, year.The trans-regional hydropower accommodation from Beijing Lujiashan Waste-to-Energy (WTE) Power Plant prioritized 2,106 projects of replacing coal-fired boilers by residential environment and human settlement are all Sichuan accounted for 40% of the total amount. is the largest WTE project in Asia.It generated 420GWh electric boilers, and promoted 1,300 projects of electric considered in the process of planning and construction. of electricity annually, which saved 130,200 tons furnace renovation. The Sichuan-Tibet Interconnection Project is considered a Organize environmental Support wind/PV power integration. of standard coal each year.To support new energy good example in environmental protection.It constructed training sessions in 2014 Establish over 10 management systems and service development, SGCC Beijing Electric Power Company Replace oil by electricity and promote transportation an environment and water protection management 118 regulations to construct a comprehensive integration electrification.SGCC tries to promote electricity system, reasonably planned construction paths for forest has timely constructed integration infrastructure for 6 service system including working procedure, time limit, replacement in transportation.In coastal areas such as and grassland, and restored green vegetation. RMB188 biomass power generation projects including Lujiashan. service mode and regulation.Construct and promote Tianjin, Shandong, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, and Fujian, handling million has been invested in environment and water Meanwhile, it has promoted the integration process facilities fueled by oil have been replaced by electrical consulting service platforms such as 95598 call center, protection management. of 7 planned or under-construction projects such as equipment on dock.Over 900 projects have been carried website, and Wechat.Appoint personal customer Nangong in Daxing District.In 2014, electric generation out and 36,000 tons of fuel has been substituted. managers and provide service for wind/PV power Reduce the impact of grid operation on environment. technology consultancy and integration generation.In capacity of new energy like wind, PV, biomass power Reduce the impact of transmission and transformation 2014, the installed capacity of wind power within SGCC’s reached 512GWh in areas where new energy is fully Replace coal by surplus clean energy.During rainy season facilities on environment.Improve operation and service area is 87.9GW and that of PV generation was accommodated, which saved 158,700 tons of standard in Sichuan, replace coal by surplus hydropower to maintenance of environmental protection facility.Orderly 24.45GW. coal and reduced 415,700 tons of CO₂ emissions. generate self-used electricity in power plants.Shut down promote CDM project.Comprehensively reinforce the 480MW coal-fired-only self-owned generators, which construction of provincial-level SF6 recycling and disposal Xiamen Pioneer Park Roof PV Station is the first reduced 710,000 tons of coal consumption. Strengthen R&D and standardization system construction. centers.14 provincial-level centers have been put into use. megawatt-level PV station in Fujian Province.Its installed SGCC has invested RMB4 billion in conducting research They have recycled and disposed 46.6 tons of SF6, which is capacity reached 1.0082MW.The station covers 14,000 Unleash the potential of electricity replacement; promote on new energy integration, operation, and control equivalent of reducing 1.114 million tons of CO₂ emissions. technology.The Wind/PV/Battery Storage and Smart Grid square meters of roof area.It generates 1.03GWh of construction of eco-civilized city. Encourage replacing Demonstration Project which is the largest in the world electricity annually, which could help save 319 tons of traditional ways of energy consumption by using electric Advocate “green and low-carbon office” Video and tele has been constructed. World-leading National Energy R&D standard coal and reduce 795 tons of CO₂ and 279 tons cooker, electric water heater and decentralized electric conferences in SGCC have increased by 200%, which and test Center for Large-scale Wind Power Integration has of dust emissions each year.SGCC Xiamen Electric heater.Advocate a life style with “zero emission”. account for 50% in the total number of conferences.The been established. The company has led the compilation Power Supply Company provides a full chain of door-tocompany is also working on reduce paper consumption and revision of 53 enterprise standards, and participated in door services including policy consultancy, technology by using the internet to deal with official documents, the compilation or revision of 39 industrial standards and support, business process, procedure simplification, mails and faxes. 24 national standards.It published a series of regulations integration service, along with regular return visits and and standards, such as Technological regulation for Wind Strengthen management on waste and used material meter reading and checking to meet customer’s needs in Power Integration into Grid and Typical Design for Wind disposal.Standardize the process to recycle, hand over, an all-rounded way. Farm’s Electrical System. dispose, and sell waste and used material, and regulate the return of funds.The disposal of hazardous waste, chemical Support the industry and the society to carry and environmental pollutants are under the guide of out electric energy replacement project national laws and regulations such as Environmental Pollution Prevention and Control Law of Solid Wastes and SGCC Hebei Electric Power Company is constructing Hazardous Chemicals Control Ordinance. the demonstration project of “charging boat by shore power” on the dock of Huangye Port.3000 tonnage of the Strengthen environmental protection awareness and dock has been constructed as low-voltage shore power training.Compile and publish a brochure named “ABC of demonstration project.According to volume estimate, Grid Environmental Protection”.Organize a series of activities the project is expected to consume 624MWh of power annually, which might reduce 482 tons of CO₂ emissions. such as “June 5 World Environment Day” and publicity It is estimated that in 2020, the comprehensive Huangye program for grid environment protection.Organize Port can reduce 239,000 tons of CO₂ emissions by carrying a series of trainings about environmental protection out this project. for managements, operational staff, and environment SGCC Tongliao Electric Power Supply Company inspection staff.In 2014, SGCC has organized 118 training is actively promoting wind power heating project.In programs involving 4,730 employees. 2014, SGCC Tongliao Electric Power Supply Company invested RMB175 million in wind power heating project in Jarud Banner in Tongliao City.The project includes the construction of heating resource, power grid and transmission lines.The Phase 1 project that has been put Power supply employees are serving the PV sheds with the world’s largest installed capacity in single unit into use has provided clean, stable wind power heat to at Volkswagen’s Nanjing plant over 50,000 residents in Lubei County in Jarud Banner. 64 65 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility on Environmental Protection and Low Carbon Emission Serve the development of Promote comprehensive energy Deal with global climate change EV industry conservation in society It is roughly estimated that in 2014 SGCC has helped the industry and the society reduce over 800 million tons of CO₂ emissions. Process Support the construction of EV charging and battery Actively provide energy conservation service.Keep on 3,140 swapping facilities.According to the requirement of strengthening construction of energy conservation S e r ve t h e d e ve l o p m e nt o f c l e a n e n e rg y. Th e Conduct generation rights transaction and efficient national policy, which asks for a fully open EV charging/ service system centered on energy conservation service accommodation of clean energy reached 921.802 TWh, generation and dispatching. The promotion of generation swapping facility market and supports social capital to companies, energy efficiency assessment institutions equivalent to 300 million tons of standard coal, reducing rights transaction helped save 6,948,000 tons of standard coal. households’ applications for invest on construction, SGCC issued a series of principles and energy efficiency service network.SGCC has set up charging/swapping facility the emission of 740 million tons of CO₂. The pilot projects of efficient generation and dispatching in including Advice on Power Use Application for EV Charging/ State Grid Energy Conservation Service Co., Ltd.and 27 installation three provinces helped save 3,702,000 tons of standard coal. Swapping Facility Installation and SGCC’s guideline on provincial-level energy conservation companies.Until Procedure Simplification of Business Expansion to Improve the end of 2014, it has signed 433 contracts on energy They serve to reduce 26.55 million tons of CO₂ emissions in Signed contracts on energy conservation projects Efficiency and Better Serve the People.The Company conservation projects, which involved 192 energy total. simplified business procedure and shortened the management projects and a total investment of RMB1.25 433 application process for installation.The company has processed 3,140 households’ applications for charging/ swapping facility installation.The applied installed capacity billion.These projects are expected to save 2.25TWh of electricity annually. reached 113.9MW.2,826 households have been electrified Set up energy efficiency service group.Set up 659 with power connection capacity of 95.7MW. energy efficiency groups in prefecture and county Encourage energy conservation and level companies, which attracted 5834 members from Guarantee power supply for EV charging/swapping industrial enterprises to form an energy efficiency service emission reduction on the generation side facility. Strengthen unified planning of distribution grid. network covering SGCC’s business area.It organized 1,659 Ensure its coordination with the grid’s overall planning activities such as policy seminars and energy conservation and the construction of new urbanization.Ensure its exchanges.The energy conservation renovation projects adaption with the development of distributed power and carried out by enterprises in the society have helped save electric vehicle. 120 GWh of electricity. Improve the structure of distribution grid and eliminate Lower the line loss rate to save 17.1TWh of power, Boost cross-regional and inter-provincial power weaknesses. Establish electric power service management platform. According to the guideline of “two-level deployment and equivalent to 530,000 tons of standard coal and transaction.The cross-regional and inter-provincial Improve standardized system of charging/swapping multi-level application”, SGCC is constructing the electric reducing carbon dioxide emission by 13.21 million power transaction amounted to 725.216 TWh, of facility.Promote the revision of national standards on power service management platforms in the Headquarter tons. which 136.719TWh was transmitted by UHV projects. charging interface.Insist on popularizing the Chinese and 26 provincial-level companies, realizing the standard to raise China’s voice in standardization system, application of 7 function modules such as responsibility and benefit the national industry development.Until assessment in power demand-side management the end of 2014, SGCC has compiled 78 standards for objectives, energy conservation business management, Encourage grid-side energy conservation charging/swapping facilities, including 13 national customers and energy consumption management, and standards, 18 industrial standards and 47 enterprise energy collection management. and emission reduction standards. Push for standardized construction.The typical energyRecycle resources.A total of 46.6 tons of SF6 gas was saving and environmentally-friendly line design purified and recycled, which equals a reduction on with new technologies, materials and techniques emission of 1,114 thousand tons of carbon dioxide. saved 200 thousand tons of steel, equivalent to 120 thousand tons of standard coal, reducing carbon dioxide emission by 300 thousand tons. Serve the development of EV industry SGCC has accumulatively built 618 charging and battery swapping stations with 24,000 charging poles. The quick charge network covering Beijing-Shanghai Highway, Beijing-Hong Kong-Macao Highway, and Qinghai-Yinchuan Highway (two vertical and one horizontal) has basically been constructed. Promote user-side energy conservation It provided 4.88 million times of charging services with a quantity of 296GWh.Cars charged in the stations have driven 340 million and emission reduction kilometers, which helped reduce 81,200 tons of oil consumption Construct an energy-saving service system, which has Implement electricity replacement strategy.Substitute and 228,700 tons of CO₂ emissions.The 1,262km-long Beijingsaved 23.84TWh of power, equivalent to 7.39 million tons 50.3 TWh of power, which equals to reducing the direct Shanghai Highway became the first expressway with EV quick of standard coal, and reduced carbon dioxide emission burning of 21.83 million tons of coal in the load center.It charging service in China.There is a quick charging station Electric vehicles are driving between Beijing and by18.4242 million tons. also reduced CO₂ emission by 38.8733 million tons. available every 50km in one direction along the highway. Shanghai 66 67 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Develop Overseas Business with Responsibility Establish a global vision Advance internationalization Operate Australian assets with strategy with responsibility responsibility Coordinate energy development strategy with a Operates power grids safely and efficiently global vision Actively improve community environment Develop overseas business with responsibility Encourage stakeholders’ cooperation SGCC has won the bid of UHV transmission project ... ... in Brazil SGCC’s Australian assets serve ... ... SGCC’s overseas transmission lines in operation are 2.2 million people 106,608 km Operate State Grid Brazil Holding Jointly cope with the major global Co.(SGBH) with responsibility issues and challenges Stick to sustainable and harmonious development Initiate to establish a Global Energy Interconnection Boost cooperation among stakeholders Participate in the international standard formulation Continuously participate in social welfare Communicate and cooperate with international undertakings organizations ... ... ... ... SGBH supplies power to an area of Participate in the formulation of 2.9315 million international standards square kilometers 21 *The statistical cutoff ranges slightly varied by different countries’ fiscal year scope due to the various forms of company's overseas assets, including wholly-owned subsidiaries, holdings, joint–stock, and etc. 68 69 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility on Global Vision Advance internationalization strategy with responsibility Advance in global energy cooperation. On July 17th, 2014, the cooperation agreement on Brazil's Belo Coordinate energy development strategy with a global vision. Monte Hydropower UHV Transmission Project was signed by SGCC Ensuring safer, cleaner and more efficient energy supply is a Chairman Liu Zhenya and Eletrobras CEO Costa Carvalho Neto common challenge faced by human beings.SGCC has established a at the Brazilian presidential palace.The cooperation agreement Global Energy Outlook to exert its technological and management was signed under the witness of Chinese President Xi Jinping and advantages to import avant-garde technologies and talents and Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff.It is the first overseas UHV DC go global in a large scale.It extensively participates in global transmission project of SGCC. competition, strives to enhance communication and maintains operational transparency.While upgrading its value creation capability of the industrial chain, it also builds up a responsible, international corporate image. Degree of concern from the international Topic choices on global vision community Contribute to the local socioEstablish a economic Global Energy development Interconnection Ensure a safe, reliable operation of the power grid Guarantee the transparency of Increase major decisions the degree of localized On December 14, under the witness of Chinese Premier Li Keqiang Environmental High operation management and Kazakhstan Premier Massimov, SGCC Chairman Liu Zhenya and ecological protection Care for employees’ signed a strategic cooperation agreement with Mr.Umirzak Cooperate in safety, health and Shukeyev, Chairman of the Management Board of Samruk-Kazyna international projects of development (SK) Fund to promote the interconnection of the grids in two Participate in sustainable the formulation development countries and implement the One Belt And One Road (OBAOR) of international standards Strategy. Low Low High Effect on integrated value creation Australia Purchase a 60% stake in Singapore Power International (Australia) Assets (SPIAA) and 19.9% stake in SP AusNet. SGCC’s overseas assets SGCC’s overseas projects 29.8 435 Italy Acqure 35 percent stake of Italian state-owned lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti (CDP)’s energy grid holding company CDP Reti. billion US dollars Russia Supply 3.38TWh of power to China The overseas transmission Hong Kong, Purchase a 20% stake in Hong Kong Electric lines of State Grid Brazil NGCP built cooperative China Co.Ltd. Holding Co.(SGBH) are partnership with 6,748 278 Unleash technological and management advantages.Operate overseas Pakistan Sign the MOU on three ±600kV DC transmission Understand the synchronistic tendency of importing high-level lines business with responsibility and enhance the value creation capability km technologies and talents and going global in a large scale.Improve the of the industrial chain.Serve to establish win-win partnerships in Mozambique Sign a Joint Cooperation Agreement with electric power efficiency and quality of foreign investment, integrate infrastructure, and the context of new international relations.Promote a harmonious EDF, ELETROBRAS and ESKOM, which are customers promote competitive industries to go global in order to establish a new development with the community and the environment at where it stockholders of MPNK hydroelectric project. system of open economy. operates. 70 71 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility on Global Vision Operate State Grid Brazil Holding Operate SGCC’s Australian Co.(SGBH) with responsibility assets with responsibility Stick to sustainable and harmonious development.SGBH Founded in January 2014, SGSPIAA runs gas transmission cultural youth centre as well as Australian engineers without complies with local laws and regulations, respects local and distribution, power distribution, water supply and national boundaries. religious practices and national culture taking long-term infrastructure service for the States of Victoria, Queensland, localized development as its strategic objective.It’s oriented to New South Wales and Sydney area, covering more than 2.2 Cooperate with stakeholders to improve community people and strives to build an international team with mutual million people. environment.Under the emergency management integration, complementation and promotion among Chinese procedures, the emergency coordination center and an and Brazilian personnel.The company also protects employees’ Emphasize on safety-health-environment management. emergency management team have been established to interests, cares for their development and has completed the Departments and committees of health-safetyprofessionally conduct disaster warning, rescue and relief construction of production office building and the second environmental quality have been established to review and to protect personal and property safety of the local phase of integrated control center. the related system, plan and operational performance, residents.The company also has a long-term partnership On July 31, 2014, SGCC signed a contract with Italian stateto promote “Best Practices” and to recruit environmental with Landcare, an Australian environmental protection owned lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti (CDP), buying 35 Boost cooperation among stakeholders.The company has protection specialists from the staff. organization, to promote plant diversity.It has donated and percent stake of its energy grid holding company CDP Reti. strengthened the exchanges of visits with senior officials planted over 13,500 trees, and helped reconstruct the “green Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi attended the signing from the Brazilian Ministry of Mines and Energy, ANEEL, Promote measures of conserving and recycling.The corridors” in the urban area of Melbourne and Sydney. ceremony.Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, Chinese ONS, and EPE.The company has also promoted technical company has conducted strict safe processing and ambassador to Italy Li Ruiyu and SGCC Chairman Liu communication and cooperation with industrial counterparts recycling towards hazardous material generated in the Zhenya attended the signing ceremony held at Palazzo and participated in the bidding and construction of the operational process of the power grid.Moreover, green Chigi.This acquisition is SGCC’s largest single foreign transmission greenfield concession projects to take root in design has been applied to workplace in order to reduce investment as well as the largest single investment to Italy Brazil and stick to long-term development. energy consumption, increase recycling and get full among Chinese companies.The equity delivery has been accreditation of ISO 14001. formally completed on November 27. Participate in social welfare undertakings.The company Support the sustainable actively participates in social welfare activities and fulfills its Organize employees to participate in volunteer services and social welfare activities.The company organizes development of ElectraNet and social responsibility.Relying on the tax incentives policy, Operate NGCP with SGCC invested BRI3.4 million to sponsor social responsibility employees to participate in the environmental protection SP AusNet responsibility programs.The company serves the local community by and social welfare activities in Australian Capital Territory, organizing social welfare activities, including “Cultural New South Wales, Queensland, Tasmania, and Victoria. Support the sustainable development of ElectraNet. ExplorationSymphony of Male” program, Rio Tour of Meanwhile, the company also jointly organizes activities Investing in ElectraNet in December 2012, SGCC has been Improve the safe operation and management of power International Youth Table Tennis, “Sino-Brazil Culture Month”, with 11 NGOs and projects, including basketball games insisting on a mutually beneficial strategy of sustainable grid.Take full advantage of management experience, “Rio de Janeiro Four Seasons Long-distance Race”and so on. for the disabled, fire insurance service in rural areas, crossdevelopment to reduce the negative influence on society technical strength and R&D capability, the company exports power grid planning and construction, operates and environment by reasonably planning for power grid. and maintains advanced technology and experience to The company accelerates the development of renewable propel power grid’s development and upgrade.Meanwhile, generation and annually provides electricity worth of 150 throughout the Philippines, the company popularized million Australian dollars for South Australian residents. the knowledge on safe power transmission to residents in The company also actively protects the ecological communities covered by its 76 assets. environment and reduces the bad influence on native flora, fauna and river channels.Meanwhile, for the purpose of Enhance customer satisfaction.NGCP established employees’ cultural integration and a harmonious working cooperative partnerships with 278 electric power customers environment, SGCC has been committed to providing through partnership forums and regular interactive a healthy and safe workplace for the staff as well as communications.In total, it held 63 customer meetings, and organizing intercultural communications. visited about 50% clients nationwide. Support the sustainable development of SP AusNet. Continuously participate in social welfare undertakings. Since SGCC’s investment in SP AusNet in January 2014, The company actively carried out social assistance and the company has supported social welfare activities and built 44 schools while restoring power supply in the areas benefited local society and residents by setting up a trust affected by typhoons, and cooperating with University fund and participating in the activities of community of the Philippines to organize related seminars, establish development, education, and charity.Complying with local scholarships, provide internships, and share training NGCP subsidizes the dropout children from laws and regulations, the company recycles the wastes by a laboratories. Pendulunan Primary School variety of environmental protection measures. 72 73 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility on Global Vision Support the sustainable Jointly combat major global issues and challenges development of REN Propose to build a Global Energy Interconnection. Participate in international standard formulation. Establish overseas research institutions. On May 2014, SGCC Chairman Liu Zhenya came up with The microgrid project proposed in IEC was approved. The U.S.research institute Establish the U.S. branch Redes Energeticas Nacionais (REN), Portugal’s only the strategic concept of Global Energy Interconnection SGCC took the lead to establish the microgrid system of State Grid Smart Grid Research Institute at the national energy transmission company, is an energy at the 2014 GSEP Moscow Summit.In July, Chairman evaluation team. Silicon Valley to mainly conduct research on smart transmission operator providing comprehensive services, Liu Zhenya further pointed out at the 2014 IEEE PES The IEC White Paper “Internet of Things: Wireless Sensor chips, semiconductors, and power grid big data which includes electricity and natural gas.Since SGCC’s General Meeting held in the U.S.that the only way out Networks”, led by SGCC, was published. application.It is to develop important and original S&T investment in REN in 2012, it has been promoting REN for human society to tackle the challenges of energy Establish two international standards regarding EV achievements in the field of electric power and forge an to provide reliable, safe, efficient and economical public security, environmental pollution and climate change battery swapping in IEC. internationally renowned expert team in the industry services to Portugal and local customers.It pays attention was to promote clean replacement and electricity Submit two IEC standard proposals “EV charging to lead and guide the development of the power to innovation and environmental protection as an replacement.We need to establish a Global Energy stationsmonitoring system” and “EV conductive sector. important practitioner of sustainable energy development Outlook, construct a Global Energy Interconnection, charging system two way DC electric vehicle charging in the international market.It is actively involved in and coordinate the development, allocation and station”. European research institute.Establish the European social welfare activities to support the cause of health, utilization of global energy resources, so as to ensure a Publish three UHV AC international standards in IEEE, branch of State Grid Smart Grid Research Institute in family, environment, education and social aid.It won safe, clean, efficient and sustainable energy supply. such as “Overvoltage and Insulation Coordination of Berlin, Germany.Relying on rich talent pool in Europe, the Best Corporate Award for Social and Environmental Transmission Systems at 1000 kV AC and Above”, and the institute mainly conducts research on new energy Sustainability from International Best Business Award.REN “Guide for Voltage Regulation and Reactive Power storage, smart distribution, new energy integration, obtained a B+ rating for its sustainability performance Compensation at 1000 kV AC and Above”. smart metering, and common technology of largefrom OEKOM, one of the leading international rating CIGRE working committee of “Systematic Framework capacity converter, working on important and original agencies for the social responsibility field headquartered Design for Power System Stability Control” was officially S&T findings. in Germany. established. Won 2014 IEEE-SA Corporate Award. Global Energy Interconnection Strengthen the exchange and cooperation with international organizations Major participated international organizations Key international conferences in 2014 UN Climate Summit 2014: made a keynote speech of “Global UN Global Compact, business participant Energy Interconnection Promotes Green, Low-carbon Development” GSEP, member Europe G l o b a l S u s t a i n a b l e E l e c t r i c i t y Pa r t n e r s h i p (G S E P ) Moscow Summit: raised the concept of “Global Energy North America WBCSD, member Interconnection” Asia IEEE PES General Meeting: illustrated the concept of IEEE, member “Global Energy Interconnection” and the strategy of “Two Replacements” Africa CIGRE, member Luncheon of APEC Energy Ministers and Entrepreneurs: made a keynote speech “Global Energy Interconnection Good-neighborly and Friendly Cooperation Committee, Serves the Sustainability of Human Society” South America SCO, corporate member APEC China Business Council: made a speech at the subAPEC China Business Council, member forum “Accelerating trans-regional interconnection, Australia investment, infrastructure construction, and prioritized policies” ICOLD, corporate member IEC: organized and participated in senior management meetings for China to better participate in and exert its influence on IEC strategies and policies The Global Energy Interconnection includes cross-border interconnection, intercontinental interconnection and global interconnection. Africa Smart Grid Forum: participated and made a keynote The emphasis is to develop large energy bases at the North Pole and the Equator, construct global UHV backbone network, promote the speech extensive application of smart grid around the world, and enhance the technical innovation of energy and electric power.Construction of Global Energy Interconnection has significant implications of economies of scale and economies of network. CIGRE Session 2014: made technical presentations and released a number of high-level papers 74 75 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Guarantee Operation Transparency and Be Open to Public Supervision Implement Responsibility on Communication and Cooperation Continue giving advice on sustainable energy development Be open to social supervision Give advice on the National “Two Sessions” Accept the supervision from higher authorities Discuss on grid construction with all walks of life Be open to social supervision Strengthen the communication with government bodies Strictly implement corporate regulations according to the law ... ... ... ... The delegates and members of the National “Two Sessions” from SGCC brought up Hold 75 580 press conferences proposals in 2014 Strengthen social communication Encourage stakeholders’ participation Release annual CSR report Develop stakeholder engagement strategies Strengthen communication on topics of great public concern Improve managing mechanism for stakeholders’ participation Innovate communication methods Establish a long-term mechanism for stakeholders’ participation ... ... ... ... Be the first one to release CSR reports for 9 Open consecutive years 623 corporate Weibo accounts in SGCC system 76 77 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility on Communication and Cooperation Strengthen management in corporate Make suggestions on sustainable communication to ensure the energy development transparency of company’s operation Come up with energy proposals on the National “Two Sessions”. During the 2014 National “Two Sessions”, SGCC Chairman Liu Zhenya made a speech on the Second Session of the Integrate social responsibility into the communication with 12th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political stakeholders and adhere to the concept that trust built on Consultative Conference (CPPCC) and published a signed communication can enhance cooperation to create value.Explore and article on the newspaper, calling out to seize this opportunity establish a systematic and institutionalized social communication in the third industrial revolution, and promote the strategic mechanism.Enhance system construction and establish a long-term transformation of energy development.There were 75 proposals mechanism to ensure transparent and ethical corporate behaviors. and suggestions on UHV from the delegates of the two “Sessions”, Transform the ways to communicate and enhance the company’s including 16 from SGCC delegation.“The Development of UHV operation transparency to win the interest, emotion and value Grid” was listed as the key proposal of both the NPC and the recognition from stakeholders. CPPCC. Society’s degree Topic choice on guaranteeing operation transparency and Form a consensus on grid development.On May 15th, SGCC of concern being open to public supervision Chairman Liu Zhenya held discussions on “developing UHV transmission and optimizing electric power layout” with Be open to the supervision from relevant guests at the biweekly consultation meeting of the Be open the government to media and regulators National Committee of CPPCC, to illustrate the importance of and public Guarantee the supervision UHV on governing the smog and the significance of electricity openness and transparency of replacement. major decisions Respond to social concern Improve information timely Strengthen communication and reporting.SGCC strengthens transparency Make and enhance communication on the key obstacles of grid development.It suggestions on channels national energy has submitted 198 issues of SGCC Special Report to the General High development Office of the CPC and the General Office of the State Council.168 Jointly construct grids with local issues were adopted by higher authorities.12 issues were governments Step into SGCC Boost Activity commented by leadership from the central government and cooperation ministries. among stakeholders Deepen specific research.undertake over 30 research and Low consulting projects from the National Development and Reform Commission, the National Energy Administration, and the Low High Effect on integrated value creation SASAC.Accomplish the preliminary research on major problems like changes in energy demand and non-fossil energy source development for the Thirteenth Five-Year Plan of the national Hire Visits to SGCC website energy.Strengthen the policy research on distributed PV 21,195 social moral supervisors 12,810,000 generation and electricity replacement.Carry out specialized research on the Thirteenth Five-Year Plan for electric power companies, the internationalization strategy for SOEs and the scientific development strategy, and obtain a series of important achievements. Over 10 First Place Take transparency as an important strategic objective and million internal requirement for SGCC’s scientific development.Adhere followers of Top 500 Chinese Service to operation transparency and be open to public supervision. on SGCC’s official Weibos Enterprises Build trust, enhance consensus and boost cooperation by communication.Actively encourage stakeholders’ participation to promote sustainable development. 78 79 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility on Communication and Cooperation Intensify social communication Release CSR Report for 9 consecutive years.It is and use animation, posters, and artistic works to carry the first SOE to ever disclose concrete practices in out “Perceiving SGCC” series publicity campaign. Print UHV grid on the mind of the public implementing comprehensive CSR management and promoting CSR penetration, giving a more prominent The film “Perceiving Chinese Companies” sets UHV grid role to the requirements from the central government, as the only content for “Created by China”.The film was the spirit of the times and the CSR work deployment broadcast at New York’s Times Square as well as at major for SOEs.It also gives more weight to the substantiality, European airports for a month. comprehensiveness and comparability of the disclosed information in the report. Themed series promotion activities become the platform for communication with various Take the initiative to strengthen communication. parties Respond to social and media concerns in time.Conduct the research on the topic of KOLs’ operation and The series promotion activity “New urbanization and The first episode “Chinese Wonders Amaze the World” of maintenance.Build a database for media materials, First-class Distribution Grid” set up a communication CCTV’s National Day special program “China in 65 Years” p l a t fo r m t o p r o m o t e S G CC ’s a c h i e v e m e n t s i n gave an elaborated introduction on UHV grid. experts, and views.Hold seminars with renowned experts. constructing first-class distribution grids and making SGCC has been interviewed by the media and given the public better understand their importance in lectures at external forums for more than 50 times. serving the people’s livelihood.It created a favorable environment of public opinion to suppor t the The publicity for major topics gets remarkable results. development of distribution grid.Over 800 people from Deepen themed publicity.Invite various media to the government, power supply companies, research Economic Daily published a cartoon series “Mao report on SGCC’s key themes.The concepts of UHV, institutes, power clients, equipment manufacturers, Mao Explores UHV”, in which Mao Mao, the main Global Energy Interconnection, “Two Replacements” and mass media, participated in this event.Over 600 character, tells us about the history, the present and serving new energy development are rooting in pieces of news could be found online regarding this and the bright future of UHV grid. the public’s mind.Innovate communication methods event, including on Xinhuanet.cn and people.com.cn. On March 19th, CCTV News On June 12th, Topics in Focus did a report on Accelerated of CCTV did a program on Major Reports Power Grid Lights Up “Investigation: Is Power Journal of the CPPCC dedicated a four-page feature People’s Life in Tibetan Meter Accurate?”, answering report on “Strong and Smart Grid” illustrating the Areas, saying that the grid the social concern about achievements SGCC has made on UHV development construction was in a fast the accuracy of power and the significance of electricity replacement strategy. lane and the upgrade of meters.It cleared the rumors The report says, “Accelerating UHV development is a the power grid in Tibetan online and made the truth fundamental solution to the smog problem.China has areas lit up people’s life. surfaced. fully mastered the core technology of UHV and is able to On March 23rd, Dialogue of produce the full range of key equipment.It is created and CCTV did a feature on “Fierce led by China.Electricity replacement can greatly enhance On January 31, CCTV News Debate on UHV”, inviting our energy efficiency and will lead a revolution of end broadcast a piece of news Mr.XueYusheng, Academician energy consumption in the society.” of the first Spring Festival from the Chinese Academy with electricity access for of Engineering to analyze S&T Daily published two articles, namely, “Why SGCC villagers in Huangniba how smog came into being Leads” and “Replace Coal by Electricity, Right Now!”, Vi l l a g e, M u l i Co u nt y, and how it could be solved, emphasizing that UHV is the only thing that is publicly Sichuan Province.Villagers and finally getting to the acknowledged to be led by China in this industry in the were singing and dancing conclusion that UHV is the world so far and that it is a model of China’s innovationto show their gratitude to way out to mitigate the driven development. electric constructors. smog problem. 80 81 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Action Responsibility on Communication and Cooperation Govern the enterprise by law and Encourage stakeholders’ allbe open to social supervision round participation 1 1,203 Up to now, there are 623 official Weibos of official Weibo of Headquarters Implement the long-term mechanism construction Normalize press conference.The press conference different purposes, such as customer service requirements strictly according to the law. 43 audit normalization mechanism was applied to further or corporate activities, 20 of which belong economic responsibility audits groups were organized to continue the comprehensive communication between the company and media as to provincial companies and 491 to the 20 examination of the company’s 64 units.Major efforts well as the society, resolving their concerns.A four-tier Official Weibos of provincial companies prefecture-level ones.There are altogether 10 were made to complete the HR management special spokesman system consisting 2,032 persons has been 572 million followers.Two Wechat official accounts audit, the economic responsibility audit and the set up and over 580 various kinds of news conferences “Grid Pioneer” and “Your Power, Our Care” 623 internal and external audit and to rectify the related have been held. have already been put into operation. financial audits official Weibos of varies organizations within SGCC system problems.No major audit problem was detected in the whole year. B u i l d a n e w m e d i a p l a t fo r m t o f a c i l i t a t e t h e 2,595 stakeholders’ participation.Explore the dissemination Be open to social supervisions.By inviting media, laws of new media, such as Weibo (microblog) and industry supervisors and ordinary citizens and our Wechat, to enhance communication with all walks of profit audits customers to tour power plants, the activity was held life and to release information to the public, for example in many units to help people understand the power electricity supply services and common knowledge enterprise’s operation mode. on power use, and to promote the stakeholders’ Power Wechat provides fingertips’ platform for customers participation in the company’s management. Since its opening in August 2013, over 2 million users registered on the official Wechat of Jiangsu Electric Power Company SGCC.This platform is oriented Number of press conferences held in 2014 by SGCC to public service, providing one-stop services such as real-time check of March April May June January February consumption & tariff, as well as on-line rate payment, ultimately providing convenient, accurate and secure fingertip services to customers. 37 35 40 43 42 57 July August September October November December 50 57 67 42 60 58 Meet the needs of stakeholders and the public's right to know Heilongjiang Electric Power Company, SGCC, has established official Weibo matrix, which covered two-tier structure (provincial and prefecture level), consisting of 20 grass-root subsidiaries.This platform discloses power supply information regularly, answers customer consultation and popularizes ABCs of Main Associations and Organizations SGCC Participates energy consumption.20 thousand messages have been released, 400 customer Type Associations / Organizations SGCC’s Role consultation have been replied, and 240 thousand fans followed. National Organization China Enterprise Confederation Vice Chairman China Federation of Industrial Economics (CFIE) Chairman China Business Council for Sustainable Development Councilor China Association for the Promotion of Industrial Development Councilor China Association of Work Safety Vice Chairman Power Man publicizes positive energy through Weibo China Accounting Society Standing Councilor Since the establishment of official Weibo of Chongqing electric power company, Industrial Associations China Electricity Council President SGCC, more than 30 theme activities have been broadcasted such as power supply during summer peak period and power failure maintenance etc. Power China Society for Electrical Engineering Vice President Man is an animated image at the Weibo, to conduct themed activities, which China Electric Power Promotion Council Vice chairman has attracted more than 1.3 million times of on-net reviews and 11 thousand China Electric Equipment Management Association Vice Chairman message retransmissions or comments. China Society for Hydropower Engineering Vice President China Electric Power Construction Association Vice Chairman 82 83 http://csr.sgcc.com.cn Support SocioUHV in Economic Sustainability a Decade By 2014, SGCC’s UHV transmission has reduced The carbon dioxide emission by 217 million tons Performance Performance is the basics for sustainable development “Wind power, hydropower and the solar energy are all not stable, sometimes even intermittent.Only by using strong interconnection network and some energy storage technology can we better bring forth the potential of the renewable energy. Applying higher transmission voltage such as UHV can increase the electricity transmission capacity and decrease loss and the infrastructure investment.” —— CIGRE Secretary General Jean Kowal UHV transmission can bring noticeable economic benefits.The investment on UHV AC is only 70% of that of 500kV and the transmission loss is only 1/3 per unit transmission capacity.Assuming that 200TWh of electricity will be sent one year, UHV AC transmission can save electricity transmission loss by RMB56 billion. UHV transmission can bring noticeable environmental benefits.With 0.1TWh of electricity transmitted via UHV, the load center can reduce PM2.5 emission, PM 10, and NO x by 7 tons, 17 tons and 450 tons respectively.By expanding the capacity to accommodate clean energy through long-distance trans-regional interconnected transmission, the exploitable wind power will be doubled, surpassing 0.2TWh. UHV transmission can bring noticeable social benefits.Over 90% UHV AC/ DC equipment was domestically produced.China’s UHV AC voltage has become the international standard.Chinese electrical equipment manufacturers have broken the long-term monopoly of multi-national corporations. 85 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Performance Economic Performance Operation Efficiency 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Financial Performance 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Overall productivity(RMB yuan per person per year) 403000 493200 550600 609000 644000 Revenue (billion RMB) 1531.8 1675.4 1883 2049.8 2096.1 Total asset turnover period (Day) 468 462 444 439 474* Total assets (billion RMB) 2077.5 2211.6 2333.5 2570.1 2900.9 Line loss rate (%) 5.98 6.53 6.73 6.83 6.81 Total profits (billion RMB) 45.07 53.78 109.03 70.58 81.01 Transmission capacity upgrade over the years (GW) 188 200 213 241 266 Pre-tax profits (billion RMB) 130.87 137.11 210.15 173.96 203.48 Number of equipment accidents 20 9 0 0 0 Return on equity (%) 4.45 4.54 8.36 4.72 4.98 Number of power grid accidents 2 5 0 0 0 Asset-liability ratio (%) 61.83 60.02 57.02 57.00 56.20 *Affected by Australian assets M&A and added assets from National Bio Energy Co.Ltd., the total asset turnover period in 2014 is 35 days more than that of 2013. SASAC Evaluation on Operation Performances (Class) A A A A A Grid Capability 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Power Supply Performance 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Investment in power grid construction (billion RMB) 264.37 301.92 305.4 303.482 385.5 Electricity sales (TWh) 2689.1 3092.5 3253.9 3522.7 3469.4 Length of transmission lines (km) 619000 655000 713000 1045300 1095000 Maximum load within SGCC’s service area (MW) 484100 535500 561200 654000 659950 Transformation capacity **(kVA) 213000 239000 281000 324000 343000 Number of customers (millions) 258 286 309 343 378 Integrated capacity (GW) 744 818 880 962 1049 Reliability rate of urban power supply (%) 99.906 99.921 99.941 99.956 99.967 On-grid electricity of integrated capacity (TWh) 2880 3240 3390 3690 3650*** System average interruption duration 8.234 6.92 5.18 3.854 2.891 for urban users (Hour/ household) Technical R&D input (billion RMB) 6.129 6.452 7.940 5.787 7.08 Voltage qualification rate of urban users (% ) 99.498 99.759 99.824 99.949 99.999 Total patents 6528 10538 16399 28311 40646 Reliability rate of rural grid power supply (%) 99.636 99.665 99.735 99.852 99.878 Total National Science and Technology Awards 32 36 39 43 46 System average interruption duration 31.89 29.35 23.21 12.965 10.687 Annual UHV transmission volumn（TWh） 26.913 39.754 72.034 72.788 136.7 for rural users (Hour/ household) National and industrial standards led and compiled by SGCC 97 126 176 206 143 Voltage qualification rate for rural users (%) 97.477 97.688 98.074 98.567 98.808 Electricity Trading Volume in the 358.5 399.87 515.890 601.9 678.9 *Transmission lines of 110 (66) kV and above levels;**Transforming facilities of 110 (66) kV and above levels.***The on-grid electricity of National Power Market (TWh) integrated capacity in 2014 doesn’t include the capacity purchased and marketed by the state in a unified way from captive power plants.There Fulfillment rate for the “Ten Commitments” is an increase of 2.12% if calculating with the same diameter. 99.99 99.99 99.998 99.999 99.999 on power supply service (%) Note: The statistics for 2013 are final, which may differ from the ones in 2013 CSR Report. The statistics for 2014 financial performance are from the financial express reports, which may differ from the final statistics. 86 87 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance General Service 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Serve Clean Energy Development 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Investment in the rural grid (billion RMB) 70.0 73.0 80.74 50.73 46.45 Integrated capacity from clean energy generator units (GW) 175.85 202.60 240.04 274.26 316.81 Incremental number of households connected to 1340 1375 1490 1659 1873 Including integrated capacity of hydropower 144.58 156.17 168.16 185.37 198.82 electricity (Thousand) Integrated capacity of nuclear power 5.74 6.4 6.4 8.49 12.75 Incremental number of people connected to electricity 5090 5226 5720 6419 7285 in rural areas (Thousand) Integrated capacity from new energy generator units (MW) 25530 40030 65480 92470 120000 The average gap between urban and rural annual 23.66 22.43 18.03 9.11 7.796 Including integrated capacity of wind power 22140 35190 56760 59590 75520 interruption time (Hour/household) Integrated capacity of PV power 240 2320 3330 14290 21920 Public Donations 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 On-grid power from clean energy generator units (TWh) 490.3 594.3 717.7 767.9 896.2 Including on-grid hydropower 410.3 437.3 551.8 568.3 651.1 Donations (Million RMB) 230 108 147 116 114 On-grid nuclear power 30.8 41.6 47.5 60.6 73 Via State Grid Foundation for Public Welfare 21 33 64 8.5 10.6 On-grid power from new energy generator units 49.2 115.4 118.4 139.0 172.1 Staff's volunteer service (Person-times) 630000 640000 650000 713000 2200000 Win-win Partnership 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Comprehensive Power Conservation 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Centralized tendering volume (billion RMB) 175.12 230.6 322.96 334.3 369.0 Power saved by lowering the line loss (TWh) 4 2.310 1.05 1.89 17.1 Total Luban Awards 14 17 18 20 22 Generation rights transactions (TWh) 141.457 105.939 109.748 113.848 116.785 Electricity replacement capacity (TWh) 14.0 50.3 Transparent Operation 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 SGCC website’s traffic statistics (Visits) 5531000 5596000 5620000 8664000 12810000 EV Development 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Information reported to governments from SGCC 329 245 205 203 198 Headquarters (Piece) Total EV charging and battery swapping stations 87 243 353 400 618 Total EV charging and battery swapping poles 7000 13000 15000 19000 24000 Employee Development 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Direct investment in employees’ training (billion RMB) 1.78 1.823 2.125 2.262 2.467 Training coverage rate (%) 92 93 93.5 94 94.3 Carbon Dioxide Emission Reduction 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Employee training Person-times (Thousand) 3120 3280 3350 3400 3600 Emission reduced by clean energy accommodation 447000 442854 552649.3 668291.3 737700 Proportion of female employees 26.2 27.1 27.3 26.9 27.18 (Thousand tons) Labor unions 1175 1236 1252 1936 1965 Emission reduced by lowering the line loss (Thousand tons) 3300 1900.4 853.2 1500 13700 88 89 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Performance Comprehensive Analysis of Key Indicators Economic Performance Social Performance Revenue Growth (%) Power Consumption of Different Industries in 2014 (TWh) nd SGCC ranked 2 among the global top 10 energy and electric power companies of 2013. 3214.7 12.52 8.86 8.70 531.7 7.37 534.494 4.57 -0.91 -2.00 -3.53 -4.24 -8.02 -11.06 82.7 Primary Secondary Tertiary Residential KEPCO SGCC SSE EDF RWE Iberdrola ENEL Kansai E.ON TEPCO Chubu Industry Industry Industry Power Electric Electric Power Power Co. Co. Asset-Liability Ratio (%) Total Assets Turnover (Times) Power Source within SGCC’s Business Area in 2014 (GW) SGCC ranked 1st among the global top 10 energy and electric power companies of 2013. SGCC ranked 3rd among the global top 10 energy and electric power companies of 2013. 739.55 89.18 1.47 78.1 85.64 86.68 87.13 75.64 76.55 0.89 0.82 67.68 74.4 0.60 57.00 62.58 0.48 0.47 0.44 0.42 0.35 0.34 0.29 198.82 75.52 21.18 12.75 0.57 SGCC Iberdrola KEPCO E.ON SSE Chubu ENEL Kansai EDF RWE TEPCO SSE E.ON SGCC RWE Chubu ENEL TEPCO Kansai KEPCO Iberdrola EDF Thermal Wind Hydropower PV Nuclear Others Electric Electric Electric Electric Power Power Power Power Power Power Power Co. Co. Co. Co. Revenue Growth (%) Company 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Average annual growth rate between 2009 and 2013 Environmental Performance SGCC 10.28 21.76 9.37 12.39 8.86 12.53 KEPCO -7.22 28.04 15.2 10.99 12.52 9.34 Ratio of Trans-regional and Trans-national Power Transmission (%) Integrated Capacity of Clean Energy (GW) E.ON -10.52 9.85 25.58 8.09 -4.24 4.17 Kansai Electric Power Co. 1.1 15.19 10.11 -3.31 -3.53 3.03 SGCC’s trans-regional and trans-national power transmission reached 647.3TWh in 2013, SGCC’s integrated capacity of clean energy (excluding nuclear power) reached 286GW, accounting for 15.24% of the total power consumption at 4,246.8TWh. topping the world. ENEL -0.75 8.79 13.76 -1.33 -2 2.91 Iberdrola -7.44 18.07 9.18 -0.12 -0.91 2.81 Chubu Electric Power Co. -3.5 12.88 13.99 2.83 -11.06 2.14 19.36 286 SSE -19.83 28.23 14.88 -11.68 8.7 2.11 15.24 178.26 12.7 5.56 71.7 69.36 TEPCO -7.81 16.02 8.09 6.22 -8.02 2.05 2.07 1.66 52.28 51.4 0.55 39.36 19.44 0 EDF -2 -6.39 5.21 2.93 7.37 1.08 RWE -9.82 3.68 1.72 -4.52 4.57 -0.86 Germany SGCC France The UK Russia The US India Japan SGCC The US Germany India Japan Russia France The UK Grid Grid Grid Grid Grid Grid Grid Grid Grid Grid Grid Grid Grid Grid 90 91 http://csr.sgcc.com.cn Experience “UHV Blue” UHV in a Decade By 2017, we will complete the key transmission channels of the National Air Pollution Prevention and Control Action Plan. At that time, the UHV AC grid of North China Branch would be preliminarily formed, which adds a bearing capacity of 32GW in Beijing, Tianjin, Hebei and Shandong. A UHV AC loop will be formed in East China to increase a bearing capacity of 35GW in Yangtza Delta region. In addition, By reducing 520 thousand tons of SO2, 600 thousand tons of SO2 NOx and 100 thousand of smoke and dust emission every year, we plan to lower the PM2.5 density in East and Central China by 4%～5%. The By 2020, over 650GW of clean energy will be accommodated by our UHV Commitment grid, and the Four Vertical and Seven Horizontal UHV AC backbone grids and the 19 loops of UHV DC projects will be completed. By then, the cross-provincial power transmission capacity will reach 380GW to ensure that 650GW of clean energy will be sent out. Moreover, instead of using 714 million Never stop improving tons of standard coal, 2,100TWh of clean energy will be accommodated every year to eliminate the emission of 1.78 billion tons of CO2 and 840 thousand tons of SO2. By 2050, grids will be internationally interconnected and the Global Energy Interconnection will come into being. We will develop large energy bases at the North Pole and the Equator, construct global UHV backbone network, and promote the application of smart grid worldwide. By replacing fossil energy that equals to 24 billion tons of standard coal, we aim to make renewable energy consumption account for 80% of the global total, thus reducing emission of 66.7 billion tons of CO2 and 580 million tons of SO2 and then effectively control the Greenhouse Effect. “Talking about UHV, IEC is convinced that this kind of electricity transmission technology, to a large extent, is able to solve the future energy crisis. The reason is that it can transmit electricity in large capacity over long distances with high efficiency, which are the key of solving this problem.” —— Enno Liess, IEC Vice-President In 2020, UHV project will transmit 650GW of clean energy 93 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Commitment Note: Accomplished Unaccomplished Commitments for 2015 Commitments for 2014 Fulfilled commitments for 2014 Economic Performance Economic Performance Economic Performance Return on equity (%) is no less than 2013 Return on equity (%) is no less than 2013 Keep the asset-liability ratio under 56.7% Urban distribution automation reaches over 50% in key cities Keep the asset-liability ratio under 60% The asset-liability ratio is 56.2% Invest over RMB400 billion in power grid construction Invest RMB7.08 billion in R&D Invest over RMB380 billion in power grid construction Grid investment was RMB385.5 billion Invest over RMB80 billion in smart grid construction and upgrade Overall productivity exceeds RMB690,000 per person·year, Invest over RMB75 billion in smart grid construction and upgrade Investment in smart grid construction and upgrade was RMB77.5 billion Build 50 new-generation smart substations Line loss is no more than 6.9% Invest over RMB150 billion in distribution grid construction and upgrade Investment in distribution grid construction and upgrade is RMB85.85 billion Put into operation 46,000km AC lines of 110(66) kV (and above) with a transformation Electricity sales reach 3,635TWh Upgrade 100 smart substations Upgrade 200 smart substations capacity of 240GVA Complete power trade of 720TWh in the National Power Market Put into operation 50,000km AC lines of 110(66) kV (and above) Put into operation 52,000km AC lines of 110(66) kV (and above). Improve 750kV backbone grid construction in Northwest Install 60.6 million smart meters Put 1,570km DC lines into operation Put 1,653km DC lines into operation Kickoff two 500kV projects for Air Pollution Prevention and Control Action Plan Speed up the construction of 750kV Put into operation Wubei-Wucaiwan and Fenghuang-Xishan-Dongjiao (Dabancheng) 750kV Enhance the reliability and improve management in 30 key cities and 30 non-key cities transmission and transformation projects Main Grid in Northwest Construct and upgrade the power grids in 30 municipal downtown areas Lower the average household interruption time in 30 municipal downtown areas to 4.8 minutes Solve isolated operation of 5 grids and the weak links between 38 county-level grids Solve isolated operation of 10 grids and the weak links between 38 county-level grids with the with the main grid main grid Invest RMB7 billion in R&D Invest RMB7.08 billion in R&D Overall productivity exceeds RMB660,000 per person·year, Overall productivity exceeds RMB644,000 per person·year Line loss is no more than 6.96% Line loss was 6.81% Launch the electric power market platforms of 20 provincial companies within the Complete the construction of the market platforms of the Headquarters, branches and 20 year provincial companies Accomplish the business conglomeration of 95598 Call Center Accomplish the business conglomeration of 95598 Call Center Social Performance Electricity sales reach 3,600TWh Electricity sales reach 3,469.4TWh Complete power trade of 600TWh in the National Power Market Complete power trade of 678.9TWh in the National Power Market Install 60 million smart meters throughout the year Install 66 million smart meters throughout the year Prevent massive blackouts and accidents and reduce security incidents. Solve the weak links between 21 county-level grids and the main grid. Provide electricity to 450 thousand households and 188 thousand people without Accomplish 330 thousand tasks with power uninterrupted on the distribution grid. Social Performance Social Performance access to electricity. Speed up the construction of 41 smart grid innovation demonstration projects of 6 Reliability rate of urban power supply reaches 99.975%. categories. Prevent massive blackouts No massive blackouts throughout the year Reliability rate of rural power supply reaches 99.90%. Employees' volunteer service is no less than 2,500,000 person-times. Provide electricity to 260 thousand households and 1.04 million people without Provide electricity to 210 thousand households and 870 thousand people without access to access to electricity electricity The average gap between urban and rural annual interruption time is reduced to 6.57 Staff training coverage rate is over 94.5%. hours per household. Conduct lean evaluation on 249 330kV (and above) substations and carry out the Reliability rate of urban power supply reaches 99.966% Reliability rate of urban power supply reaches 99.967% Solve the undervoltage problem for 5.05 million rural households within the year. second round of lean evaluation on 29 converter stations. Reliability rate of rural power supply reaches 99.875% Reliability rate of rural power supply reaches 99.878% The average gap between urban and rural annual interruption time is reduced to 8 The average gap between urban and rural annual interruption time is reduced to 7.796 hours per hours per household household The donation budget is over RMB100 million Donate RMB 114 million Solve the lowvoltage problem for 1.6 million rural households within the year Invest RMB13.03 billion in rural undervoltage upgrade and solve this problem for 3.36 million Employees' volunteer service is no less than 700,000 person-times households Invest RMB2.32 billion in staff training Employees' volunteer service is 2,200,000 person-times Invest RMB2.467 billion in staff training Environmental Performance Environmental Performance Prioritize wind power and PV power grid integration and realize purchase in full Prioritize the integration of wind and PV power and realize purchase in full amount amount. Accomplish 50.3TWh of electricity substitution Environmental Performance Accomplish 30TWh electricity substitution Build 218 EV charging and battery swapping stations within the year Build 167 EV charging and battery swapping stations within the year Put Xiangjiaba-Shanghai, JinpingSunan, Haminan-Zhengzhou, and Xiluodu-Zhexi 4 UHV DC Accomplish 65TWh of electricity substitution Accelerate the construction of pumped storage power stations in Xianju of Zhejiang, Accelerate the construction of transmission channels for Southwest hydropower transmission projects into operation to deliver the hydropower from Southwest China. Put and Wendeng and Yimeng of Shandong. Build three lines and one circle of inter-city highway quick charge network (Beijing-Taipei and new energy bases. Haminan-Zhengzhou ± 800kV UHV DC project into operation. Start constructing NindongHighway, Shanghai-Chengdu Highway, Shenyang-Haikou Highway, and Yangtze-River Complete the acceptance of provincial SF6 recycling centers. Zhejiang UHV DC project as a new transmission channel for new energy bases Delta region). Speed up the construction of transmission channels for hydropower from Southwest China and from new energy bases. *Affected by the fact that power supply companies were transferred up. **Affected by the adjustment in national investment plan. 94 95 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Commitment CSR fulfillment in 2014 and SGCC CSR Commitment and Fulfillment Zhejiang Electric Power Company, SGCC Anhui Electric Power Company, SGCC commitment for 2015 from provincial 2014 2015 2014 2015 companies Suppor t the development of new Promote the plan of “PV Generation Featured CSR Fulfillment Featured CSR energy and distributed generation and Build 15 EV charging and battery in Rural Areas” and intend to ensure all integrated new energy to be Finish the rural power line upgrade in swapping stations and 2,405 implement this program in 1,100 From Provincial Commitment From accommodated 12,900 villages in the province charging poles households Companies In 2014 Provincial Companies For 2015 100 % 12,900 15 1,100 households Beijing Electric Power Company, SGCC Tianjin Electric Power Company, SGCC Fujian Electric Power Company, SGCC Hubei Electric Power Company, SGCC 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Accommodate a total of 48.2TWh of Accomplish 6 auxiliary transmission and Improve the reliability of distribution hydropower within the province or Invest at least RMB4 billion Implement Beijing Clean Air Action transformation projects for 4 thermoelectric Launch installation application services Employees’ volunteer service grid at medium and low voltage. Achieve power purchased outside the province, in rural distribution grid Plan and replace coal by electricity in centers. Reduce annual coal consumption 2 smart substations have begun for individual new energy vehicle exceeds 31,000 person-times power supply in 10kV double-circuit accounting for 37.8% of the total construction, benefit 700 296.5 thousand households by 9.2 million tons in the capital their civil construction charge in 112 business halls in the city throughout the year lines covered all villages and towns power consumption thousand households 296.5 thousand households 9.2 million tons 2 112 31,000 person-times 100 % 48.2 TWh 700 thousand households Hebei Electric Power Company, SGCC Jibei Electric Power Company, SGCC Hunan Electric Power Company, SGCC Henan Electric Power Company, SGCC 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Construct 34 EV quick charge stations Support the development of new on highways, covering Beijing-Shanghai energy. Integrate over 10GW of Solve undervoltage problem for Construct 4 smart grid projects and Electrify 211,000 rural agricultural Accomplish the upgrade of power Highway, Beijing-Hong Kong-Macao Highway, Integrate over 9GW of installed installed capacity of new energy in over 370,000 rural households reduce environmental pollution in wells and benefit 8,400-squaresupply facilities in 1,549 key villages and Qinghai-Yinchuan Highway capacity of new energy in the region the region and benefit 1,295,000 people production and maintenance kilometer farmland Deploy 4.5 million smart meters 1,549 34 9 GW 10 GW 1,295,000 4 people 211,000 RMB 4.5 million Shanxi Electric Power Company, SGCC Shandong Electric Power Company, SGCC Jiangxi Electric Power Company, SGCC Sichuan Electric Power Company, SGCC 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Obtain the preliminary land clearance Accelerate the roof-top PV Generation Construct power facilities in areas documents for 3 UHV stations, namely, Upgrade distribution grid and Accomplish the investment of project on urban and rural residential without electricity and supply Make public all the affairs of the Jingbei converter station, Jingbei AC station, Import over 50TWh of electricity into improve rural grids in 25 thousand RMB2.7 billion in electric power buildings. Strive to install this project for Export over 70TWh of power to 44,140 addition rural enterprise and Jingzhong AC station Shandong administrative villages infrastructure 10,000 households in three years hydropower out of Sichuan households 100 % 3 50 TWh 25 thousand RMB 2.7 billion 10,000 households 70 TWh 44,140 households Shanghai Electric Power Company, SGCC Jiangsu Electric Power Company, SGCC Chongqing Electric Power Company, SGCC Liaoning Electric Power Company, SGCC 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Maintain world-level reliability rate Accomplish the maintenance and upgrade Invest RMB4.5 billion in Serve the development of new of power supply. Keep the average of power supply facilities before power Improve marketing and interactive Upgrade and transfer power distribution grid and enhance energy and integrate over 9.2GW interruption duration for urban users meters in more than 6,500 old residential The overall productivity is RMB1.29 services. 90% residential customers facilities in 702 neighborhoods Solved undervoltage problem for the power supply reliability of of installed capacity of new under 0.986 hours communities million per person per year pay in means other than cash without proper management 6,000 districts urban and rural grids energy in the region 0.986 hours 6,500 RMB1.29 million per person per year 90 % 702 6,000 RMB 4.5 billion 9.2 GW 96 97 SGCC CSR Report 2014·The Commitment Jilin Electric Power Company, SGCC Heilongjiang Electric Power Company, SGCC CSR Fulfillment in 2014 and Commitment for 2015 from Affiliates 2014 2015 2014 2015 Directly Managed by SGCC Fulfillment in 2014 Commitment for 2015 Ensure power supply for heating system of 3,838,000 households and guarantee Solve the undervoltage problem for rural Accommodate 7TWh of wind power, The accuracy rate of test reports issued for the third party reaches safe power consumption for 12,206,200 areas and the investment in upgrading accounting for 10.5% of the total electricity China Electric Power Research Institute The accuracy rate of test reports issued for the third party reaches 100%. 100%. households in the province. rural grid reached RMB268 million. Purchase 3.6TWh of power overseas. sales. 12,206,200 268 households RMB million 3.6 TWh 7 TWh State Power Economic Research Institute Construct a nationally leading planning and consulting agency to serve the construction of the Strong and Smart Grid. Construct a nationally leading planning and consulting agency to serve the construction of the Strong and Smart Grid. Release at least 8 fundamental research annual reports on energy and Release at least 8 fundamental research annual reports on energy and State Grid Energy Research Institute electricity. power. East Inner Mongolia Electric Power Company, SGCC Shaanxi Electric Power Company, SGCC SGCC Advanced Training Center Organize trainings of 15,000 person-times. Organize trainings of 100,000 person-day. 2014 2015 2014 2015 State Grid Institute of Technology (Youth The satisfaction rate of training quality is 98.95%. The satisfaction rate of training quality is over 90%. League School) Accommodate 12.8TWh of wind power, Accommodate 15TWh of wind power, Support the relocation of Shaanxi The forced energy unavailability of UHV DC transmission is lowered to State Grid Operation Company The forced energy of UHV DC transmission is zero. accounting for 48.5% of the total accounting for 49% of the total immigrants and provide electric power under 0.08%. electricity sales. electricity sales. Install over 2 million smart meters. to over 1,000 relocation settlements. 12.8 15 2 1,000 Plan to construct 4 UHV DC transmission projects, three of which, such State Grid DC Engineering Construction Accumulatively accomplish construction of 4 ±800kV UHV DC projects. as Shanghaimiao-Shandong UHV DC project, were listed in the Air Company TWh TWh million Pollution Prevention and Control Action Plan. Build two new UHV substations and upgrade two UHV substations. State Grid AC Engineering Construction Accumulatively accomplish 39GVA UHV transformation capacity from Comprehensively support the construction of four UHV projects and Company directly managed projects. Construct 1,937.4km UHV lines in total. accumulatively accomplish UHV transformation capacity of 75GVA and 6,408.6km UHV lines. Gansu Electric Power Company, SGCC Qinghai Electric Power Company, SGCC SGCC Call Center Accessibility rate of 95598 call center service is no less than that in 2013. Ensure customer satisfaction rate is over 98%. 2014 2015 2014 2015 NARI Group Corporation Supply 1,415 equipment sets for wind and PV power integration. Supply 2,400 equipment sets for wind and PV power integration. Implement the reconstruction of “One Serve the development of new energy Household, One Meter” project that China Electric Power Equipment and Accommodate 16TWh of electricity and integrate over 17GW of installed Integrate over 1GW of PV generation benefits the people. Finish this task for Technology Co., Ltd. (State Grid Project International EPC projects amount to 25. 8 incremental EPC projects throughout the year. fueled by new energy. capacity of new energy in the region. throughout the year. 40,000 households with high quality. Management Company) 16 TWh 17 GW 1 GW 40,000 households State Grid Xinyuan Co., Ltd. (State Grid Xinyuan Hydropower Co., Ltd.) Installed capacity in operation or under construction reaches 25.43GW. Controllable installed capacity reaches 32.03GW. Process 218 patents, including 160 patents for invention. Acquire Process 220 patents, including 26 patents for invention. Acquire State Grid Smart Grid Research Institute authorization of 99 patents and apply for 8 international patents. authorization of 100 patents and apply for 10 international patents. Ningxia Electric Power Company, SGCC Xinjiang Electric Power Company, SGCC State Grid International Development The equipment operation availability exceeds 99% for SGBH. The system The equipment operation availability exceeds 99% for SGBH. The Limited availability on Luzon Island in the Philippines exceeds 99%. system availability on Luzon Island in the Philippines exceeds 99%. 2014 2015 2014 2015 Inspect over 110,000km power lines. Safe flight for over 8,000 hours. Set time limit for customer’s installation State Grid General Aviation Co., Ltd Carry out 3-D laser scans on the power grid by helicopters for 7,000km. Take off and land for a total of 2,500 times. Installed capacity of wind and PV application and electricity access. generation accounts for 20.88% of the Undervoltage residential customers will Answer the questions raised by suppliers as soon as possible, with a Answer the questions raised by suppliers as soon as possible, with a State Grid Materials Supply Co., Ltd. total integrated installed capacity in get electricity access within two working Export 16.8TWh of electricity out of Export 32.5TWh of electricity out of maximum gap of 5 working days since the day they are received. maximum gap of 5 working days since the day they are received. Ningxia. days since the day they apply for service. Xinjiang. Xinjiang. 20.88 2 16.8 32.5 Advance in digitalization transformation and upgrade and develop a Enhance communication capability and media operation, and speed up Yingda Media Investment Group Co., Ltd. series of digital media products. Hold branding events and enhance % TWh TWh digitalization. brand influence. working days State Grid XJ Group Corporation Complete 50 S&T innovation projects. Carry out 60 S&T innovation projects. State Grid Pinggao Group Further improve management and increase productivity by 10%. Ensure 100% high quality supply according to the milestone plan. Tibet Electric Power Company, SGCC Provide quality products and services and ensure all UHV and key Provide quality products and services and ensure all UHV and key Shandong Power Equipment Co., Ltd. 2014 2015 projects can be put into operation at their first try. projects can be put into operation at their first try. Fully exert its function as a finance company with a fund accumulation Fully exert its function as a finance company with a fund accumulation China Power Finance Co., Ltd. rate of 99.96%. rate of 99.96%. Provide electricity access for 270,000 The main grid supplies power to 524,800 people. households in 58 counties. 270,000 524,800 Accomplish 5.52TWh of biomass power generation. Reduce the burning Accomplish 6.5TWh of biomass power generation. Reduce the burning State Grid Energy Conservation Service Co., of 7.916 million tons of straw in open space, and save 2.366 million tons of 9.32 million tons of straw in open space, and save 2.78 million tons Ltd. of standard coal. of standard coal. people households Note: The commitments for 2014 from State Grid Management Academy, State Grid Information & Telecommunication Technology Company, SGCC International Service Company, State Grid Zhongxing Co., Ltd., State Grid Yingda International Holdings Group Ltd., Yingda Taihe Property Insurance Co., Ltd., Yingda Taihe Life Insurance Co., Ltd., Yingda Chang’an Insurance Brokers Co., Ltd., Yingda International Trust Co., Ltd., and Yingda Security Corporation Ltd., have been included in SGCC’s overall commitment for 2014. 98 99 http://csr.sgcc.com.cn Cast A Monument UHV in of The Times a Decade 2,500 5,000km UHV’s effective transmission distance can reach In 2014, SGCC Chairman Liu Zhenya advocated and initiated the establishment of UHV Scholarship Fund together with 19 electric power companies and industrial organizations. SGCC donated RMB3 million. The scholarship has promoted “UHV Performing spirit” to become an important intangible heritage in the industry and for all walks of life. Subject In search of excellence Great career makes a strong team. UHV construction has cultivated a very holistic, responsible, combative, hardy and dedicated team which highlights In pursuit of outperformance the enterprise spirit of “in search of excellence; in pursuit of outperformance” and promotes the core value of “integrity, commitment, innovation and dedication”. Great career cultivates lofty spirit. UHV spirit means to be responsible to repay the country with supreme loyalty, be scientific to seek truth from facts, be innovative to dare to be the first, be perseverant, and be cooperative to have team spirit. Great career needs hard work. SGCC Staff are sticking to and striving for value and significance of the cause of power grid, making contribution to the state and people by creation, and gaining the world’s respect and national dignity. 101 SGCC CSR Report 2014·Performing Subject Safeguard employees’ legitimate rights Corporate Responsibility to Ensure decent labor. Ensure staff’s health and safety. Number of employees in SGCC Employees stick to equality in employment. By the end of 2014, SGCC’s total employees account to 1,867,300. There are 424,400 retirees and 260,800 female employees. 21,200 Strengthen safety education for staff. Raise their awareness and safety skills. Create a standardized, clear and safe operating environment and prevent them 1867300 people people began to work for SGCC in 2014. Staff turnover from being injured during operation. rate is less than 0.7%. The company implements the Care for employees’ physical and psychological health. Employees’ Investment on staff policy of equal pay for equal work to men and women. Salary level is defined by job positions, performance Carry out regular health checks for the staff and establish health archives. Ensure all employees can 100 % social insurances coverage for degree of Topics on corporate responsibility to employees training and capability. All employees participate in the Labor get health check once a year at least. Analyze staff’s all employees 2.467 concern Union. ideological dynamics through questionnaires, group RMB billion Fully implement welfare guarantee system. Establish discussions, targeted interviews, and field visits. Get Stick to fair a sound, scientific, standardized, reasonable and to know the working conditions and mainstream Ensure employment employees’ transparent employee welfare guarantee system under claims of staff at the production line. Implement EAP safety and Be humanhealth the law. Pay the pension, medical care, employment psychological support plan, unify thoughts, raise oriented and care about injury insurance, maternity insurance, unemployment awareness and ensure their mental health. employees Safeguard employees’ insurance and housing fund for all employees in time Deliver special care to the staff. Promote labor unions basic rights Staff’s and benefits Overall productivity and in full amount. Ensure all staff have social insurance of all levels to build up “Staff Home” trusted by the staff. growth and 644,000 Maintain employees’ development and sign labor contract. During New Year's Day and Spring Festival of 2014, the legal rights in mechanism RMB Establish a reasonable paid leave system: 5 working company paid a visit to 48,930 employees from the High reform Staff work /(person·year) days of annual paid leave for employees who production line or in difficulty. Carry out style have ser ved over 1 year but less than 10 years Care for the retirees. Enrich their spiritual and cultural surveys on staff’s ideological accumulatively; 10 working days if they have served lives. SGCC has built 2,192 event venues and 56 retiree Care for the dynamics retirees over 10 years but less than 20 years; and 15 working universities. The average daily number of participants days for 20 years’ employment or longer. Protect reaches nearly 54,800. Staff training employees’ rights for maternity leave/paternity leave. 3.6 Protect staff ’s privacy. Improve and implement Low confidentiality management. Low High Effect on integrated value creation million man-times It’s the company ’s most important Lin Zhongliang Xu Qijin economic and social contribution to ensure its employees to improve their SGCC Fujian Transformation/ SGCC Suzhou Power Supply Company living standards through safeguarded Transmission Co. Line worker and decent job. Corporate responsibility Staff of the 2nd Operation and to employees is the basic guarantee for Inspection Branch employees’ responsibility to the society. Good fulfillment of responsibility on employee development is the He’s been working at the frontline of electricity production for He takes his ordinary post as a platform to realize and premise and foundation for other over 30 years. He has climbed electric poles and built electric demonstrate his value of life. Known as a diligent person to social responsibilities, as well as the lines. After all these years’ efforts, he has fought his way up from serve the people wholeheartedly in this new era, he has won key for SGCC to promote sustainable an ordinary worker to a grass-root expert. Now he’s become a many honors, such as the National Labor Award, SGCC Special development and create maximized live-work expert of the company, known as “the most beautiful Model Worker and Expert of skills, Model Worker of Anhui economic, social and environment value. worker at the production line”. He was given the honor of Province. Master of Skills of Fujian Province. 102 103 SGCC CSR Report 2014·Performing Subject Deepen staff democratic management Reinforce the construction of Staff Congress. EAP psychological support plan help staffs build Continuously strengthen democratic management and right and positive mindset the construction of Staff Congress, and form an integral, standardized and effective democratic management system, The customer representatives from SGCC Call Center are mostly young people born after 1985. As the team gets to eventually ensure employees’ rights and interests. younger and customer requests get varied, they tend Enhance the work to handle proposals from staff to be more subject to negative emotions. In 2014, SGCC representatives. Call Center conducted psychological health survey on Finish replying 200 proposals. All proposals have been 3,764 employees, had 112 man-times talks, and 153 manresponded to. Carry out 2 inspections for staff representatives times one-on-one consulting. It also held 23 lectures to ensure key tasks of the company are completed. themed at emotional release, psychological health and Strengthen the construction of democratic management self-cognition, etc. 58 group activities were carried out system. for team cooperation, inter-personal communication, Draft Procedures for Employee Directors and Supervisors, and sand table experience. SGCC Call Center effectively and Staff Congress Proposal Procedures. Promote relieved work pressure for staffs and guided them to the implementation of the Outline of Democratic build a positive mindset by psychological health survey and analysis, EAP publicity, psychological consulting, Management in grass-root level, and the establishment psychological improvement training, group guidance, of democratic management system in which democratic and the team building of EAP specialists. management standard is promoted by institutional guarantee, democratic management is orderly deployed by organizational guarantee, and democratic management is driven by cultural guarantee. All these will be achieved through Staff Congress and operational transparency. Conduct staffs’ satisfaction survey. Collect, analyze and respond to major claims of the staff via Ensure employees’ development Build an excellent corporate field investigations and questionnaire surveys, to ensure smooth communication channel. culture Proportion of senior Advocate the strategy of vitalizing the company by Attach importance to employees’ career growth. female managers human resource development. Construct a unified, efficient online university of the Construct and promote outstanding (bureau-level and above) Promote innovative practices for corporate culture corporate culture In 2014, the company recruited 14 national talents, company, which consists of 13 colleges covering such 6.5 % project management. Execute the program of One principal line including 1 S&T top-notch innovative talent from fields as operation, management, technology, skill and “implementing the socialist core valuesOutperformance Unification is the basis. “Ten Thousand Talent Program”, 3 talents from the others. There are 3,194 subjects, 230 thousand test Practice” to promote the penetration of outstanding Outperformance is the goal. Recruitment Program of Global Experts, 3 candidates questions, 58 training books and 66 training materials. from National Excellent Talent Project, and 3 young All these materials will be launched for application in the corporate culture. Two Principles Select and recommend Communication Project 33 and middle-aged S&T innovative banner-bearers from Headquarters, branches and all divisions. Implementation Project “Innovative Talent Promotion Program”, 1 winner of Skills Build up a platform for management exchange and Evaluation Project Awards of China and 3 winners of the title “National training. The 8th and 9th batches of leaders and leader Three Projects talents for the country Technical Master-Hand”. The company also selected and candidates (totally 9 people) from West China haven Evaluation on Integration Into key work recommended 33 candidates to be national talents. been appointed to take a temporary post for 3 months corporate culture Integration Into operation management 95% It selected 10 S&T top-notch talents, 506 professional in East China. The company launched the 3rd batch of recognition Integration Into regulatory standards banner-bearers, and cultivated and imported 1,000 exchange program for 22 managers to take a temporary Integration Into staff behavior Four Integration talents in special fields, such as UHV and smart grid. 12 post in Tibet, Xinjiang, and Inner Mongolia. Unify values and concepts units and 8 individuals gained the honor of model group Carry out training for all employees. In 2014, SGCC Unify development strategy and individual in the national campaign “Dream and organized training of 3.6 million man-times. The training The staff recognition rate is over 95% according to a Unify system standard Contribution”. 2 units and 1 individual were awarded coverage reached 94.3%. It also organized relevant professional survey on corporate culture. Unify behavior standard National Talent of Skills Cultivation Organization with divisions to carry out various kinds of on-site trainings. Five Unification Unify corporate brand Outstanding Contribution and National Talent of Skills 14,000 new employees participated in a unified with Outstanding Contribution. orientation training. 104 105 SGCC CSR Report 2014·Performing Subject Enhance the organizational vitality of grassroots employees Build Construct the team of CSR penetration Eventually reduce burden of teams and groups. 1,100 model worker SGCC Shandong Electric Power Company started Study and formulate the Instructions of Strengthening Team Construction, and Reducing Their Burden and put forward 30 key requirements. Further reduce 1 with basic teams, to incorporate team construction innovation labs into professional management scope. The company burdens of technology, management, equipment and separated irrelevant management work from the team so quality. Eliminate 4,360 self-built information systems, that the team could complete core tasks at full strength cancel 6,028 assessment indexes, and simplify, clear Collect 240,000 and were well relieved from their burden. The number and optimize more than 23,000 records. All these of innovation achievements of the staff at production efforts have practically eased the burden for grassline grew like a rocket, including 2,820 patents. 389 pieces of reasonable root organizations. outstanding technical innovation achievements are advice in the program of vigorously promoted and applied in the company. “Make a Suggestion for Encourage the majorit y of the staff to make the Company”. SGCC Jiangsu Electric Power Company carried out contributions. CSR open classes for team leaders and directors during Labor contests can motivate employees to work. “the CSR Week” in the provincial and prefecture Organize meritorious competitions during the level companies. It modified and optimized business construction of Northern Zhejiang-Fuzhou UHV AC National Demonstration process and work procedures for marketing and power project and Sichuan-Tibet Interconnection Project, to Model Worker Innovation distribution by means of the mini-film of CSR fulfillment, integrate contests into major project management Labs of SGCC open class, expert analysis, responsibility discussion, and throughout all processes, such as construction, group discussion, and practical deduction, so as to 1. Zhang Wenxin Model Worker Innovation Lab, SGCC Beijing 10. Xu Qijin Model Worker Innovation Lab, SGCC Suzhou Electric supervision, equipment installation, and logistics. Electric Power Company Power Company promote thorough CSR penetration into the basic level Collect suggestions in the campaign of ““Make a 2. Shan Dongyang Model Worker Innovation Lab, SGCC 11. Lou Xianyi Model Worker Innovation Lab, SGCC Xiangyang and businesses. The company compiled typical teaching Suggestion for the Company”. 618,000 employees Shijiazhuang Electric Power Company Electric Power Company materials to be distributed in the province. took part in this activity and offered more than 3. Liang Jianzhi Model Worker Innovation Lab, SGCC Cangzhou 12. Zou Dehua Model Worker Innovation Lab, SGCC Loudi Electric Electric Power Company Power Company S G CC H e i l o n g j i a n g E l e c t r i c Po we r Co m p a ny 240,000 suggestions which have helped enhance 4. Fan Chunyan Model Worker Innovation Lab, SGCC Taiyuan 13. Zhang Yi Model Worker Innovation Lab, SGCC Chongqing established a social responsibility training system company management. Electric Power Company Nan’an Electric Power Company covering teams and groups. The PR department and 5. Gao Peng Model Worker Innovation Lab, SGCC Zibo Electric 14. Jin Weizhi Model Worker Innovation Lab, SGCC Harbin Electric relevant business departments organized CSR trainings, Exert the effect of model worker innovation labs. Power Company Power Company lectures and seminars for prefecture-level companies Bring the conglomerate, radiating and branding 6. Li Hongxin Model Worker Innovation Lab, SGCC Yantai Electric 15. Qian Jianhua Model Worker Innovation Lab, SGCC Qinghai to strengthen social responsibility awareness of teams, effec ts of model workers into play. Establish Power Company Electric Power Company promote associated combination of CSR management model worker innovation offices, and promote 16. Jin Shuling Model Worker Innovation Lab, SGCC Ningxia and business, and create a working environment to 7. Yang Qinghua Model Worker Innovation Lab, SGCC Shanghai their standardization, institutionalization and Electric Power Company Electric Power Company internalize external work. 17. Aibi Bule Model Worker Innovation Lab, SGCC Urumqi Electric normalization. The company has established 1,100 8. Xu Xintao Model Worker Innovation Lab, SGCC Taizhou Electric Power Company model worker innovation offices in total, 76 of SGCC Gansu Electric Power Company takes improving Power Company employees’ CSR fulfillment awareness as a key point which were nominated as pilots, 5 were awarded as 9. Ye Meng Model Worker Innovation Lab, SGCC Ningbo Electric for team construction. It organized the activities of “Demonstration Model Worker Innovation Office of Power Company “CSR Week”, “Be a Pioneer in the Promotion Project”, China’s Energy Chemistry Industries”, and 17 were “Outstanding Team Building”, “Footprint of Staff from honored as “National Demonstration Model Worker SGCC Gansu Electric Power Company”, “Inspirations Innovation Office”. Around You” and “Who’s the Most Beautiful Person in the Company” to promote CSR management achievements, Enrich cultural construction for employees. such as the CSR Management Manual for Electricity Organize singing, calligraphy, painting, photography Conduct campaigns on excellent songs and mini Supply Enterprises in Townships. activities for the staff in construction sites together with dramas among the staff. These art works showcase the grass-root teams so that workers can also enjoy cultural features of the power grid and also cater to employees’ activities. taste, satisfying their spiritual and cultural needs. Hold exhibition of staff’s literature and art works, on the Strengthen the IT construction of staff library. Hold theme of “Voice of SGCC”. training classes for staff cultural construction and Co-organize the 7th SOE “SGCC Cup” table tennis managers in the Labor Union to enhance their expertise competition, and delegation of the company has been and business performance. the collective winner for the 6th time. 106 107 SGCC CSR Report 2014·Performing Subject Employees’ Responsibility Be the company’s new to the Society Be staff’s new working method Require employees to have the view of development mode C o nv e r t e n t e r p r i s e m a n a g e m e n t comprehensive value and stakeholder, goal from profit maximization into and the concept of transparent operation comprehensive value maximization. and green development. Convert internal Change management objec t from 46 Social Topics on employees’ responsibility to the society work into social contributions and social internal part to external part and natural concern expectation into work requirement, so as to environment. Management mechanism Comprehensive CSR realize “externalization of internal work and shifts from optimized allocation of Encourage Management pilots internalization of external expectations”. corporate resources to social resources. Enhance the responsibility fulfillment capability of the stakeholders’ participation Four “Be” In Practicing CSR Promote and company and employees implement CSR to all staff Intensify social Training coverage Be the company’s new Be the company’s new communication rate in CSR pilot Conduct CSR communication method management mode companies is over 85 pilots Improve % Require the company to convert work According to requirement to maximize CSR work High mechanism Establish CSR communication into value communication. the company’s contribution to sustainable performance It used to only pay attention to reporting development, develop and improve the Integrate CSR management management system to higher authorities and media publicity. corporate value, development strategy, into company’s Improve operation Now, the company has to carry out overall governance mechanism, institutional CSR work institution communication with stakeholders and system, management process, and media. The old method of information assessment mechanism. Build a harmonious Over 100 output has to give way to the concept that relation with stakeholders and become an Low trust built on communication can enhance excellent organization pursuing maximized Low High Effect on integrated value CSR integration projects cooperation to create value. integrated value. creation Actively explore and practice a scientific Σ（Business+Improvement）Re=Work ∪ Value outlook on CSR, which combines s u p e r i o r d e s i gn w i t h gra s s ro o t s Σ Σ（Business+Improvement）Re innovation, pilot exploration with refers to every business and improvement. refers to rethink every business and improvement with the demonstration promotion, benchmark concept of CSR to recollect and improve again and again. motivation with spontaneous advance, Re key breakthrough with comprehensive is the abbreviation of Responsibility and elevation, and coordinated planning Rethink. Work ∪ Value with creation. Thoroughly penetrate means that business is employees’ work from the internal CSR in every aspect of the company U perspective and employees’ work is to create integrated and enhance the employees’ fulfillment is the logic operator meaning “and”. value for the society and implement CSR from the external awareness and ability. perspective. 108 109 SGCC CSR Report 2014·Performing Subject CSR Practice is employees’ new working style CSR practice is the enterprise’s new development mode Change the development mode for the power grid Promote two transformations, build two world-class CSR Practice requires them to =realize the maximized integrated value of grid =Purse maximization of comprehensive value+ form Discover value: take the initiative to turn work into Enhance value: Upgrade work’s competence and development + form a consensus on grid’s scientific scientific development cosensus economic, social and environmental value. quality of integrated value creation. =fully implement social responsibility management+ Popularize value: Advocate work’s contribution to development contribute to sustained development Add value: Expand work from its financial dimension stakeholders and the society. Change the development mode for the company =promote sustained development of the company to the dimension of integrated value. =realize the maximized integrated value of company and society development + form a consensus on company’s scientific development. SGCC Beijing Electric Power Company published the white SGCC Zhejiang Electric Power Company prepared and paper Electricity Action For Clean Air in Beijing to disclose key published Whiter Paper on Serving the Socio-Economic “Hundred, Thousand, deployment for the capital’s clean air action, for which totally Development in Zhejiang. It also guided SGCC Yiwu Electric and Ten Thousand” Power Supply Company to publish the first white paper on Based on industrial characteristics, regional realities and 200 reports have been released on media. Action industrial features, SGCC Chaoyang Electric Power With the guidance from SGCC Tianjin Electric Power CSR fulfillment for county-level power supply companies. Its Respond to 100 practice and performance was recognized by the provincial Supply Company developed “Hundred, Thousand, and set up 1,000 CSR Serve 10,000 facility Company, Binhai Power Supply Company released The White key projects in contact points rural households government. Ten Thousand” CSR fulfillment action to respond to 100 the city Paper on Serving the Socio-Economic Development in Binhai New District to target at regional development, and push the SGCC Anhui Electric Power Company published Whiter key projects in the city, set up 1,000 CSR contact points, government to set up compensation fund for electric power Paper On Serving the Construction of a Beautiful Anhui to and serve 10,000 facility rural households to accelerate Systematically Expand the communication Promote rural power channel between electric management by construction. match the development strategy and key work of Zhejiang integrate various industrialization, urbanization and agricultural services power companies and urban/ constructing CSR practice Government. rural customers. demonstration areas SGCC Shanxi Electric Power Company published Shanxi modernization. In 2014, 21 social responsibility practice SGCC Hubei Electric Power Company held a press conference Electric Power with Responsibility to present the achievements demonstration areas were established, including 13 Promote economic Facilitate social Serve people’s livelihood and of the company in fulfilling its social response regarding to release White Paper of SGCC Hubei Electric Power Company agricultural areas, 5 cultivation bases, 2 flower planting development harmony Agriculture, Countryside and delivering electricity from Shanxi via UHV and actively Serving the Provincial Socio-Economic Development at the Farmers bases, 1 integrated agricultural cultivation area, which implementing its corporate citizen’s responsibility. media office of the provincial government. service totally 21 thousand farmers. SGCC Jiangsu Electric Power Company published White S G CC L i a o n i n g E l e c t r i c Powe r Co m p a ny p re p a re d Happy Chaoyang, Culutral Chaoyang, Credible Paper on Serving “Double Leads” (taking the lead in building and published White Paper on Green Development to Chaoyang, Ecological Chaoyang a well-off society and achieving modernization) and Lighting comprehensively demonstrate its actions and performance Up a Beautiful Life at the provincial and prefecture level. It in fulfilling its social responsibility and promoting green held informal meetings to serve the local economic and development. Provincial leaders and experts, as well as KOLs social development, and invited key stakeholders such as the were invited to the event. government, media, VIP clients, power generation enterprises SGCC Nanjing Electric Power Supply Company SGCC Zhangzhou Electric Power Supply Company to offer advice and suggestions on providing better service for innovatively used “responsibility leverage” to fulfill established a work mode to improve internal work by the local development. its responsibility, and stakeholder management external feedbacks. All connection dots were sorted Sustainable Development Strategy of SGCC Shandong Electric Power Company mechanism of “responsibility 1+N” to conduct CSR out between the company and all stakeholders to initiative “Provide Clean Energy with Responsibility; diagnose the current situation of social responsibility. Build Our Beautiful Homeland Together”. The company The company also did research on and interviewed Economic development is Create The strategy of “importing more scientific. signed the initiative together with 49 stakeholder with 7,015 people from village committees and economic electricity into Shandong” via Rural and urban development value the Strong and Smart Grid is more coordinated. Shandong representatives from the government, communities, regional Party committees and governments, 320 customers and partners, including Nanjing municipal residential districts , 436 on-grid power stations, Province Light up Create has built a government, Sinopec Yangzi Petrochemical Co., and 62 outsourced construction teams. By scoring The ecological environment is Efficient clean energy Shandong with environmental more livable. moderately Ltd., and Nanjing Affordable Housing Construction satisfaction and expectation, the company evaluated responsibility value prosperous &Development Co., Ltd. They promised to create current situation of social responsibility and found The society is more harmonious society in comprehensive value and make efforts for Nanjing’s the weak ness in current practices. It prepared Model corporate citizen Create social Excellent power supply and stable. advance. development jointly by focusing on substantive issues Diagnostic Analysis Report of Current Situation of Social quality value Outstanding corporate People can live a more affluent life. like improving power supply quality, supporting the Responsibility Management as a guideline for the culture Culture is more prosperous. development of new energy industry, and building a enterprise to improve management. beautiful and harmonious Nanjing. 110 111 SGCC CSR Report 2014·Performing Subject CSR practice is the company’s new communication method CSR practice is the company’s new management mode Actively explore a systematic, standardized, structured and institutionalized communication mode. Sort out Comprehensive CSR Management is a brand new management mode to ensure full consideration of social and different communication requests, purposes and orientations from the government, community, media and staff. environmental factors, requirements for sustainable development, and to pursue maximized integrated value in Determine the frequency and timing for communication, design differentiated processes, contents and methods, the course of the corporate development. and formulate result evaluation process and indicators. Form a standardized and structured communication package targeting at different audiences and institutionalize it into a communication mechanism. SGCC Jiangsu Elec tric Power Supply Company Interpret and explain Design the flow established a CSR index system to strengthen its Basis: grassAcceptable Simple Understandable root companies’ connection with development layout and objectives performance CSR A-class CSR dominance indicators Interactive Respectable Interesting SGCC Chongqing Electric Power Company laid emphasis of the company and the region. It discovered the CSR evaluation indicators Compare and on socialization of expression, methods and contents. connotation in staff’s work, systematically manage core select Benchmark one Interpret It shifted its corporate strategy into the work concept performances, and selected 37 A-class CSR indicators. by one CSR indicator system Benchmark: Sort out and add B-class Based on external perception and internal evaluation, for SGCC Jiangsu suitable for the local economic and social development. CSR non-covered CSR Electric Power Socialized the company filled in the blank of selected A-class standards indicators indicators Company Its implementation practice was changed into topics Assist and expression indicators, and established 11 B-class CSR indicators. supplement Decipher of high public concern. The company business was Summarize changed into social, economic and environmental Based on CSR promotion requirement, the company Indicators Starting point: further established 10 C-class CSR indicators according required by benefit. Technical terms were replaced by language documented C-class CSR indicators documents to the logic of CSR work. requirements for CSR understandable to the people. All these efforts have Socialized Socialized Analyze and Interpret and illustrate methods contents boost the social understanding, trust and support to the refine company. Multi-faceted Carry positive energy Convenient Deliver values Friendly Respond to quests SGCC Zhejiang Electric Power Company focuses on SGCC Yichang Electric Power Supply Company explores building CSR organizational institution including the construction of the village and power grid together, six systems of capability construction, operation and promotes standardized services on rural grid. It has SGCC Beijing Electric Power Company carried out management, communication, indicators, and built grid staff’s job responsibilities, work standards, “CSR Promotion Month” for three consecutive years. It Three Prefecture-level company assessment to solve electric power suppliers’ problems management system, assessment methods to form improved employees’ awareness on CSR management levels County-level company in how to place themselves, assign jobs, advance and a scientific grid management system. The annual ProjectPower supply station and their motivation to fulfill the responsibilities, oriented implement work, and finally evaluate the performance in assessment on grid staff is based on their fulfillment expanded the communication methods and channels CSR. Based on ISO 26000: Social Responsibility Guide and surveys, which are filled out by village leaders, key Multiwith key stakeholders. The company formulated the characteristics of power supply companies, the company households, and business representatives within the grid dimensionally Action Plan of CSR Promotion Month at the beginning Three Management exploration interactive pinned down 53 topics of 14 core subjects, and built a to serve as a reference for the assessment. The company Interactive implementation of every year to set the time, content, procedures, and modules comprehensive CSR indicator pool of 276 detailed index has regulated grid staff ’s detailed ledger, built Responsible publicity coordination among grassroots organizations. While Brand-driven to identify relevant quality and quantity and make the standardization work manual for grid staff in rural area popularizing the CSR concept, it also realized intensive Social system operate in a more effective way. to keep a record of their daily job, which will be reported communication with stakeholders. Concept introduction expression to the electrician team every week for a unified ledger. Three platform Besides, it has also strengthened training for grid staff Achievement presentation platforms on service process, responsibility scope, work standard, platform Brand publicity platform and communication ability to improve their service capability. 112 113 SGCC CSR Report 2014·Action performance Guidelines Index Sustainability Reporting Guidelines index Note: the index can be found on UN Global Compact: http://csr.sgcc.com.cn. Initiatives and Performance G4 G3.1 Index G4 G3.1 Index G4 G3.1 Index Analysis 我们支持全球契约 G4-1 1.1 P4~ P5 and P62~P67/P94~P95 G4-PR1 PR1 P38~P43/P45~P49 Performance Indicators G4-2 1.2 P4~ P5 G4-EN1 EN1 Strategy P62~P67/P94~P95 G4-PR2 PR2 N/A G4-EN2 EN2 G4-PR3 PR3 P38~P43/P45~P49 P62~P67/P94~P95 G4-EN3 EN3/EN4 G4-PR4 PR4 N/A G4-3 2.1 Cover/Statement/ P6 N/A G4-EN4 G4-PR5 PR5 P40/P72 G4-4 2.2 Cover/Statement/ P6 P62~P67/P94~P95 Product Responsibility Ten principles of the UN P6 G4-EN5 G4-PR6 PR6 N/A Action performance G4-5 2.4 G4-EN6 EN5 P62~P67/P94~P95 Global Compact G4-6 2.3/2.5 P6~ P7 /P68~P75 P62~P67/P94~P95 G4-PR7 PR7 N/A Organizational Profile P6~P7 /P10~P11 G4-EN7 EN6 G4-PR8 PR8 N/A G4-7 2.6 N/A P6~P7 /P66~P73 /P86/P91 G4-EN8 EN8 G4-PR9 PR9 N/A Abide by the international conventions, international practices signed or acknowledged by G4-8 2.7 G4-EN9 EN9 N/A P6~P7 /P66~P73 /P86/P91 Human Rights the Chinese government, follow the laws and regulations of the host countries, respect human G4-9 2.8 P6~P7 /P88/P102~P107 G4-EN10 EN10 N/A G4-10 LA1 P65/P72~P73 rights in its operation, and promote human rights protection among stakeholders with its P6~P7 /P88/P102~P107 G4-EN11 EN11 Principle 1: Businesses should G4-11 LA4 P65/P72~P73 Environmental Performance Indicators P52~P53 G4-EN12 EN12 support and respect the influence. G4-12 P6~P7 /P66~P73 /P86/P91 P65/P72~P73 GRI* Index G4-EN13 EN13 Make sure that SGCC is not complicit in human rights abuses. G4-13 2.9 P51/P53/P59 P65/P72~P73 protection of internationally G4-14 4.11 G4-EN14 EN15 P62~P67/P89 Improve power construction projects in areas without electricity access, and solve the power P75/P110/P114~P115 G4-EN15 EN16 P62/P63/P64/ proclaimed human rights; and G4-15 4.12 P75/P82 P62~P67/P89 1 EU1 problem for 210,000 households and 870,000 people without electricity. G4-EN16 EN16 P86/P89/P91/P95~P99 G4-16 4.13 P62~P67/P89 Principle 2: make sure that G4-EN17 EN17 Integrate rural and urban power supply and accumulatively solve the undervoltage problem G4-EN18 P62~P67/P89 2 EU2 P6/P91 they are not complicit in P62~P67/P89 human rights abuses. for 3.36 million households. Report Overview/P6~P7 / G4-EN19 EN18 G4-17 3.8 P65/P67/P95 3 EU3 P6/P19/P22/P26/P86 and Boundaries Provide barrier-free service to the disabled at business premises to ensure their rights. P66~P73 G4-EN20 EN19 G4-18 3.5 N/A Report Overview G4-EN21 EN20 4 EU4 P24/P64/P65~P67/P85/P89 G4-19 N/A P2/P22/P38/P44/P50/P54/P62/ G4-EN22 EN21 P65/P73 Labour G4-20 3.7 P70/P78/P102/P108 G4-EN23 G4-EN24 EN22 EN23 N/A 5 EU5 P22~P29/P34/P94~P99 P2/P22/P38/P44/P50/P54/P62/ N/A Identified Material Aspects Principle 3: Businesses should Promote frequent and normalized democratic management through the Staff Congress, P70/P78/P102/P108 G4-EN25 EN24 P65/P72~P73 6 EU6 P39/P66~P67 G4-21 3.7 G4-EN26 EN25 uphold the freedom of President’s Liaison Meeting, and seminars to make public the affairs of the company. All 200 P2/P22/P38/P44/P50/P54/P62/ P62~P67/P73/P89 7 EU7 P35/P52/P64 P70/P78/P102/P108 G4-EN27 EN26 association and the effective pieces of rational advice from employees have been processed and replied. G4-22 3.10 G4-EN28 EN27 N/A G4-23 3.11 Report Overview N/A 8 EU8 N/A recognition of the right to Eliminate forced labor and child labor. Report Overview G4-EN29 EN28 P62~P67 collective bargaining; Reject discrimination by nationality, gender, sex orientation, age, disease, race or religion, pay G4-EN30 EN29 P65 9 EU9 P86/P89/P91/P95~P99 Engagement G4-EN31 EN30 Principle 4: the elimination staff on their performance and their position, and implement of the principle of equal pay for G4-24 4.14 P2/P16 P51~P53 G4-25 4.15 Report Overview/ P2/P16 G4-EN32 10 EU10 P66~P67 of all forms of forced and equal work to men and women. G4-EN33 P51~P53/P66~P67 Stakeholder G4-26 4.16 P16/P72/P78~P83/P110/P112 N/A compulsory labour; Ensure decent work, provide payment and treatment in line with the national and the G4-27 4.17 P16/P72/P78~P83/P110/P112 G4-EN34 11 EU11 P66~P67 Principle 5: the effective company’s conditions, pay attention to the balance of employees’ life and work, establish a 12 EU12 N/A abolition of child labour; and reasonable paid-leave system, pay the pension, medical care, unemployment insurance and G4-28 3.1 Report Overview Report Profile Principle 6: the elimination of other social insurances for all employees. G4-29 3.2 Report Overview G4-LA1 LA2 P103 13 EU13 P22~P29/P86 discrimination in respect of G4-30 3.3 Report Overview G4-LA2 LA3 P103 employment and occupation. G4-31 3.4 Report Overview G4-LA3 LA15 N/A 14 EU14 P65/P72~P73 G4-32 3.13 Report Overview/P115~P117 G4-LA4 LA5 P102~P107 Work Performance Indicators G4-33 3.13 P115~P117 G4-LA5 LA6 N/A 15 EU15 P103~P104/P106 G4-LA6 LA7 N/A 16 EU16 N/A Environment Report Overview/P4~P5/P6~P7 G4-LA7 N/A Installed capacity of wind power within SGCC’s business area is 87.9GW, realizing a leapfrog G4-34 4.1 Report Overview/P4~P5/P6~P7 G4-LA8 LA9 P103 17 EU17 P103 Principle 7: Businesses should development. Promote large-scale development of PV generation with an installed capacity of G4-35 Report Overview/P4~P5/P6~P7 G4-LA9 LA10 P102~P107 support a precautionar y G4-36 Report Overview/P4~P5/P6~P7 G4-LA10 LA11 P104~P107 P16/P72/P78~P83/ 24.45GW. G4-LA11 LA12 N/A 18 EU18 P110/P112 approach to environmental Give full play to trans-regional and trans-provincial transmission channels based on UHV G4-37 4.17 Report Overview/P4~P5/P6~P7 G4-38 4.3 Report Overview/P4~P5/P6~P7 G4-LA12 LA13 P88/P104 challenges; LA14 P103 19 EU19 P55~P59 technology. Depend on big grid and the big market to accommodate clean energy, such as the G4-39 4.2 Report Overview/P4~P5/P6~P7 G4-LA13 Principle 8: under take Report Overview/P4~P5/P6~P7 G4-LA14 P51~P53 hydropower from Southeast China and the wind power from Three North Regions, to minimize G4-40 4.7 20 EU20 P34/P47/P73 initiatives to promote greater G4-41 4.6 P4~P5/P6~P7 G4-LA15 P51~P53 surplus hydropower, wind power and solar power. Corporate Governance environmental responsibility; G4-42 P4~P5/P6~P7 G4-LA16 N/A 21 EU21 N/A and Continuously strengthen the construction of energy conservation system centered on energy G4-43 P4~P5/P86~P94 Principle 9: encourage the conservation service company, power efficiency assessment institute, and power efficiency G4-44 4.10 P4~P5/P6~P7/P16/P72/ 22 EU22 P95/P96~P98 Human Rights Performance Indicators service network. Now SGCC has established State Grid Energy Conservation Service Co., Ltd. G4-45 4.9 P78~P83/P110/P112 N/A development and diffusion Report Overview/P4~P5/P6~P7 G4-HR1 HR1 23 EU23 P58 of environmentally friendly and 27 provincial energy conservation companies. P102~P103 G4-46 Report Overview/P4~P5/P6~P7 G4-HR2 HR3 N/A 24 EU24 N/A technologies. G4-47 Report Overview G4-HR3 HR4 N/A G4-48 Report Overview/P16/ G4-HR4 HR5 N/A 25 EU25 P5/P49/P57/P94~P95 G4-49 4.4 P103~P105 G4-HR5 HR6 N/A Refine the penalty and prevention system against corruption. All units within SGCC system G4-50 P4~P5/P6~P7 G4-HR6 HR7 P102~P103 26 EU26 N/A G4-51 4.5 P4~P5/P6~P7 G4-HR7 HR8 have established a penalty and prevention steering team whose main person in charge is the N/A G4-52 4.5 P4~P5/P6~P7 G4-HR8 HR9 head of the unit. Leaders of the anti-corruption teams will give regular reports. N/A P6/P29/P39/P44/P47/ G4-HR9 HR10 Anti-Corruption Carry out anti-corruption education among all employees, and establish a diligent and clean G4-53 G4-54 4.5 P4~P5/P6~P7 N/A G4-HR10 HR2 P52~P53 27 EU27 P87/P88/P94~P95 P52~P53 G4-55 N/A G4-HR11 Principle 10: Businesses should corporate culture. N/A P6/P29/P39/P44/P47/ G4-HR12 HR11 work against corruption in all its Normalize thorough investigation. All discipline and anti-corruption departments have 28 EU28 P87/P88/P94~P95 forms, including extortion and conducted 13,385 thorough investigations, checked 33,750 service counters, and come up with Integrity G4-56 P10~P17 bribery. 18,469 pieces of advice to rectify and deal with violations in time. and G4-57 4.8 P51/P53/P59 G4-SO1 P55~P59 Social Performance Indicators SO1 P55~P59 29 EU29 N/A Promote transparent and fair operation. Be open to social supervision. Guard against the risk of Ethics G4-58 P51/P53/P59 G4-SO2 SO9 N/A corruption. G4-SO3 *Electric utility supplement GRI index SO2 P59/P114 P86/P90 G4-SO4 G4-EC1 EC1 SO3 N/A G4-SO5 Indicators P4/P74 SO4 P54/P88 G4-EC2 EC2 G4-SO6 P103 SO6 N/A G4-EC3 EC3 G4-SO7 P42/P47~P49/P57/P110~P111 SO7 N/A G4-EC4 EC4 G4-SO8 N/A SO8 P52~P53 G4-EC5 EC5 G4-SO9 Economic Performance P72/P104 SO11 P52~P53 G4-EC6 EC6 G4-SO10 P5/P55~P59/P72~ P73/P88 SO10 N/A G4-EC7 EC7 G4-SO11 P55~P59/P72~ P73 G4-EC8 EC8 P52~P53 G4-EC9 EC9 114 115 SGCC CSR Report 2014·Assurance Statement 116 117
