PULMUONE 2014 ANNUAL REPORT / About this Report Contents Pulmuone Annual Report 02 06 38 2014 INTRO PULMUONE SUSTAINABILITY 5 ISSUES IN 2014 02 Report Overview MANAGEMENT 35 CSV 04 CEO Message 06 Company Overview 41 Authentic Wholesome Food 12 2014 Business Performance 45 Product Safety & Quality Control 26 Governance 48 Customer Satisfaction / 28 TISO Management Communication 32 Stakeholder Communication 54 Environment Impact Reduction 33 Material Issues 2014 Report Overview 68 105 Pulmuone hereby presents ‘2014 Pulmuone Annual Report’, the 9th of its kind since the release of its 1st sustainability report in 2006. The annual report 2014 represents a comprehensive group-wide perspective capturing performances CSR APPENDIX of all of its subsidiaries and affiliates. Since 2008, Pulmuone has taken a holistic approach to show its efforts PERFORMANCE for sustainable management and the resulting Group-level performances as a LOHAS (Lifestyles of Health and 61 Social Performance Employees Sustainability) company that deeply cares for both humans and nature. 78 Social Performance Partners 84 Social Performance Communities [Reporting principles] GRI(Global Reporting Initiative) [Reporting period ] January 1 – December 31, 2014 88 Environmental Performance G4 Guidelines BEST Sustainability Reporting Guideline For the time series analysis, the past 3-year data (2012 to 2014) has been included in this report. (5 years for [Reporting scope] Pulmuone subsidiaries (Pulmuone some of the environmental performances) Foods, Foodmerce, ECMD, Pulmuone Health & Living, Pulmuone Waters, Exofresh Logistics, Pulmuone [Reporting cycle] Annual Duskin), and affiliates (ORGA Whole Foods) [Report validation] Reviewed by the Pulmuone management and validated by an independent 3rd party, IPS (Institute for Industrial Policy Studies). Improvements from 2013 Report [Detailed financial reporting] Detailed financial data of [More proactive CSV initiatives] In response to the bigger each subsidiary has been added to sustainability reporting, emphasis placed by society on corporate commitment to seeking a balance between financial and non-financial shared value, the company has reinforced its CSV(Creating activities of the Group. Shared Value) initiatives. Annual Report produced by | Business Administration Team Illustration Design By CD’S ASSOCIATES 280, Gwangpyeong-ro, Gangnam-Gu, Seoul, Korea ©2015 Pulmuone All Rights Reserved (photos copyrighted by Pulmuone, illustrations by CD’S ASSOCIATES No photos and illustrations in the report may be reproduced, copied, modified or distributed without a prior written consent of Tel 02-2040-4400 Fax 02-6499-0137 Annual Report Website www.pulmuone.com the manager of Pulmuone Sustainability Report. INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 4 5 CEO Message Dear valued stakeholders, Pulmuone’s LOHAS Academy Passive House in Goesan, North Chungcheong, was named as Best Energy Winner for its eco-friendly architecture that reduces carbon emissions to the It gives me great pleasure to see the outcome of our hard work for the past year nicely minimum level. Responsible management based on ‘Love for Nature, Respect for Life’ is evolving summarized in the Annual Report and communicated to stakeholders. It seems fitting into various CSV initiatives to generate both social and economic values. CSV initiatives of to publish the report in spring when life and nature come into bloom all again. Pulmuone revolving around the TISO campaign received the 1st Porter Prize for Excellence in CSV from Harvard University Professor Michael Porter himself who created the CSV concept. Pulmuone has consistently practiced sustainability management based on fair, Pulmuone also had the honor of ranking No. 1 food company in KSI(Korea Sustainability transparent, eco-friendly and socially responsible business principles since 1984 Index) for 5 years in a row, being included in the lists of ‘Korea’s most repected companies’ for 9 and published annual sustainability reports that describe its achievements in those consecutive years, ‘top 100 GWP(Great Work Place) in Korea’ for 5 years in a row. areas since 2006. Starting from this year, the sustainability report is consolidated with the business report on financial performances of its subsidiaries and affiliates Marking the 30th anniversary of the corporate foundation, Pulmuone opened ‘Won KyungSun to be published as the ‘Annual Report’ that offers a comprehensive view toward the Memorial Hall’ in LOHAS Academy in memory of its founder. The hall is dedicated to Director Group’s activities for the year. I hope this integrated report can serve as a bridge for Won KyungSun who developed the LOHAS values based on ‘Love for Neighbor’ and ‘Respect our stakeholders to understand and communicate both financial and non-financial for Life’. This spring, Kimchi Museum with 28 years of history will be re-opened in Insa-dong performances of the Group and gain a comprehensive insight toward the overall as ‘Museum Kimchi-Gan(間)’ after renovation. The newly upgraded museum will attract people business of Pulmuone. from all across the world to experience and understand LOHAS values of Pulmuone while spreading the most representative dish in the culinary culture of Korea by showcasing various Despite the drawn-out economic recession aggravated by sluggish domestic demand types of Kimchi and Kimchi-making culture. and weak investment, Pulmuone recorded KRW 1.68 trillion in sales and KRW 53 billion in operating profit. In Japan, the successful M&A completion with Asahi Respected stakeholders! Foods has provided the company with a sound platform to operate businesses in top 3 tofu markets including the US and China. By actively tapping into the achievement, Thanks to your support, Pulmuone has grown into the most loved and respected brand in Pulmuone is evolving into a truly global company that promotes sustainability Korea. Our people will fully commit themselves with passion to developing Pulmuone further management and spreads its TISO and LOHAS values across the globe. into a global brand which successfully carves out its place around the globe. Please join us and send your encouragement and support to our journey toward a truly global LOHAS company Pulmuone is driving fair and transparent management for sustainability. Across its business activities, Pulmuone is further developing and applying the TISO(Trust, Integrity, Solidarity, Openness) principles, which serve as the code of conduct for all its employees. As this year marks the 10th anniversary of announcing the TISO Charter as the company’s ethical code and core values, Pulmuone plans to reinforce TISO education for its employees. It is also waging various initiatives to champion and uphold the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption as well as values and spirit of the UN. Pulmuone also leads eco-friendly management for sustainability. It has defined mid-term targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 50% and water consumption by 40% with zero wastes by the year of 2017. For instance, 2 of Pulmuone Foods’ organic tofu have been recognized as carbon-neutral for the 1st time in the food March 2015 Nam, Seung-Woo industry. Wood pellet boilers, powered only by the new renewable energy and deployed Chairman & CEO of Pulmuone in the Eumseong tofu plant last year, will be installed in the Uiryeong plant. Signing an ‘MOU on Low-Carbon Agricultural/Livestock Products Accreditation-Green Card’ with the government, ORGA Whole Foods is at the forefront of the efforts to lower carbon emissions. INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX Company Overview 6 7 Governance TISO Compliance Stakeholder Communication Material Issues Company Overview Mission LOHAS company caring for both humans and nature Pulmuone Vision Core Value Global DP5 TISO Pulmuone Sustainability Management Mission, Vision, Core Values Mission LOHAS(Lifestyles Of Health And Sustainability) represents a lifestyle that strives for human health and sustainability of society and environment. It shows what Pulmuone is all about and what it aspires to in the long term. Vision | Global | DP5 Attain KRW ~1.5 trillion in overseas sales by 2017 in Increase its revenue to KRW ~5 trillion to establish itself the Pan Pacific area that encompasses the US, China, as global small giant by innovating products/services/ Southeast Asia, India, Oceania and even South America. process and expanding captive geographies/categories As the LOHAS leader, Grow into a ‘knowledge company’ to have a secure Contribute to the communities through business Pulmuone champions healthy footing on the global market by building qualified R&D activities and fulfill its responsibility for environment/ workforce/capability and reinforcing quality control life·society·environment for health/safety to lead as a true LOHAS company capacity that measures up to global leaders sustainability. Pulmuone’s Core Values LOHAS values that care for nature and humans are essential principles for Trust Integrity Solidarity Openness for abiding for professional for alignment of one’s for cooperation with an sustainable management. by promises and honesty for the proper goal with the goal of the open mind. rules performance of one’s duty company INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 8 9 HQ address 730-27 Samyang-ro, Pulmuone History Daeso-myun, EumseongGrowth driven by Estavlishment of gun, Choongbuk advancement of Growth through business foothold to be a global Health functional food-centered growth diversification distribution channel player Worksite address 280 Gwangpyeong-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul KRW 0.1 trillion (’92) KRW 0.5 trillion (’03) KRW 0.7 trillion (’06) KRW 0.9 trillion (’08) KRW 1.27 trillion (’10) KRW 1.36 trillion (’11) KRW 1.46 trillion (’12) KRW 1.52 trillion (’13) KRW 1.68 trillion (’14) Pulmuone ￦ ’81 ’82 ’84 ’86 ’91 ’95 ’00 ’03 ’04 ’08 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 CEO Number of Date of Pulmuone Pulmuone (listed) Foodmerce Nam, Seung Woo employees establishment Health & Restructured Shifted to 5,629 people Living Launched Acquired May 12, 1984 Established into an Acquired the pure Acquired Organic Pulmuone Entered Diversified Business Japan tofu Pulmuone Pulmuone Green Juice operating the US holding the US grocery Waters ECMD China through JVs Asahi Pulmuone business USA holding acquired CM company Wildwood company MGF Foods Enzyme structure Development Foods Exofresh Logistics Annual Report Team General CEO Head Holdings Strategy Officer Governance Manager Head of Financial Management Pulmuone has a governance structure as follows: Staff Business Administration Team Compliance Financial Environmental Pulmuone Introduction Social Performance Management Performance Performance · Financial Management Consumers Employees Partners Communities · ES/QTM · Compliance · CS Center · Human · Strategic · Public Department Pulmuone Pulmuone/ Pulmuone Foods ECMD Foodmerce · Corporate Technology Office · Corporate Resources Purchasing Relations Health & Living Pulmuone Foods/ · Internal Audit & Consulting Team Technology Division Division Foodmerce · Risk Management Committee Office · Brand Management Committee Pulmuone (China) ECMD Business Support Pulmuone food Pulmuone Beijing Pulmuone Shanghai Pulmuone Pulmuone production subsidiary Exofresh Logistics Asahi Foods Health & Living Business Support U.S.A.2) Green Foods Foods group1) ORGA Whole Foods Business Support 1) PPEC Chuncheon, PPEC Eumseong Sprouts, PPEC Uiryeong, PPEC Eumseong Noodles, Myungga Food and Shinsunatto.’ Pulmuone 2) Subsidiary : Pulmuone Foods USA. Waters HR&GA, Marketing/Purchase Team INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 10 11 Major Businesses & Brands Growing itself to provide organic, functional and fresh foods to consumers, Pulmuone wants to expand its business presence in the US, China and Japan to make great strides as global player. NFB Natural Foods & Beverage DTC Direct To Consumer Pulmuone Foods Produce and sell fresh foods Pulmuone Produce and sell health supplements, functional foods/drinks, baby meals, designed meals Provide cold chain logistics service (China) for adults and pet foods Foodmerce Offer food ingredients through diverse channels Pumeiduo 2) Produce and sell health supplements in China Health & Living Pulmuone Duskin Offer dust particle cleaning service in partnership with Duskin of Japan Pumeiduo Foods1) Produce and sell fresh foods in China Pulmuone Waters Produce and sell drinking water in partnership with Nestle Waters ORGA Whole Foods Offer organic, eco-friendly foods and health functional foods Pulmuone Danone Produce and sell fermented milk products in partnership with Danone ECMD Pulmuone U.S.A Produce and sell fresh foods in the US ECMD Operate contract meal service, concession and restaurants at resting stops along highways as specialized food service provider 1) Pumeiduo Foods : Beijing Pulmuone Green Foods, Shanghai Pulmuone Foods 2) Pumeiduo Health & Living : Pulmuone China INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 12 13 2014 Major Business & Financial Performance [3-year sales growth] [Unit: KRW 100 mil.] [3-year operating income growth] [Unit: KRW 100 mil.] Business Global DP5 3-year growth: 7.3% Pulmuone’s vision is Global DP5(DP: Defining Pulmuone). It aims to attain a sales Performance revenue of KRW 5 trillion from its domestic and overseas businesses with a focus on 2014 the US, China and Japan by redefining its LOHAS business. Pulmuone plans to firmly 2013 entrench itself as a global LOHAS company and No. 1 food company in Korea with 3-year growth: 14.0% 2012 all of its products deeply trusted by consumers and its brand recognized across the globe as a leading LOHAS brand. 2014 2013 2012 14,579 15,217 16,780 Financial performance Overcoming adverse domestic and overseas market conditions, Pulmuone has 409 464 533 increased its sales 10% to KRW 1.7 trillion and EBIT 14% from the previous year to record KRW 53 billion. Pulmuone had been ruled to pay KRW 38 billion in penalty ￦ imposed on the accusation of evasion of duties for organic bean imports in 2010. [3-year major financial performances] [Unit: %] Sales | KRW 1.7 trillion 10% Refusing the unfair ruling, the company filed for an injunction against the decision and Category 2012 2013 2014 Operating Income finally, the upper court overruled the decision, cancelling the penalty. As a result, KRW Quick ratio 116.8 86.6 85.7 | KRW 53 billion 14% 38 billion of paid penalty and KRW 5 billion in its interest were returned to Pulmuone. Debt ratio 254.7 260.4 214.8 Current ratio 147.0 105.8 104.6 [Statement of Financial Position] [Unit: KRW] Operating profit rate 2.8 3.1 3.2 Category 2012 2013 2014 1.Current assets 477,913,136,111 447,658,482,460 496,920,338,707 R&D expense 2.Non-current assets 547,596,392,304 533,713,383,275 556,647,249,931 Pulmuone carries out R&D to study consumer needs and trends, and provide true Total assets 1,025,509,528,415 981,371,865,735 1,053,567,588,638 authentic wholesome foods of higher quality by thinking outside the box to develop 1.Current liabilities 325,031,415,126 423,143,218,015 474,960,472,403 creative and innovative products. Its R&D expenditure in 2014 reached KRW 16.7 2.Non-current liabilities 411,318,772,383 285,909,776,426 243,913,879,782 billion, a 13% increase year on year with the share of R&D expense in sales revenue Total liabilities 736,350,187,509 709,052,994,441 718,874,352,185 increasing 0.02%p against the previous year. 1.Total equity attributable to owners of parent 226,341,350,666 213,206,731,156 261,311,956,581 Capital stock 19,045,475,000 19,045,475,000 19,045,475,000 [R&D expense] [Unit: KRW] Other paid-in capital 18,980,207,537 18,661,291,979 23,124,780,020 Others -704,901,929 -1,348,237,479 228,233,024 Retained earnings 189,020,570,058 176,848,201,656 218,913,468,537 Non-controlling interests 62,817,990,240 59,112,140,138 73,381,279,872 2012 2013 2014 Total Equity 289,159,340,906 272,318,871,294 334,693,236,453 13,949,682,184 14,735,613,456 16,664,849,676 0.96% 0.97% 0.99% [Comprehensive Income Statement] [Unit: KRW] Category 2012 2013 2014 Net Sales 1,457,884,335,534 1,521,708,340,199 1,678,094,349,996 Income from operation 40,949,445,897 46,434,724,889 53,264,332,095 Net income[loss] for the year 10,071,235,810 -12,027,982,812 50,537,783,298 Comprehensive income[loss] 4,161,241,907 -14,979,694,101 41,384,986,492 INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 14 15 Business Pulmuone Foods Foodmerce Performance Tofu Vegetable kids SL(School) | No. 1 in tofu market | Vegetable mix for stir-fry Combine brands and services customized to Business to establish a secure footing in school Products to eat vegetables simple and infants and toddlers, and distribute them in meal service by offering brand-based services Domestic | New market development by launching new products convenient kindergartens and childcare centers to primary/secondary schools, and widen its Beyond offering simple food materials to Beyond selling one type of vegetable (e.g. bean | No. 1 market share market entry by further developing distribution designing new diets or green been sprounts) to letting consumers | Sales growth by increasing market share channels Simple, convenient cooking with new product enjoy dishes made up of various vegetables among public/private childcare centers | Sales growth driven by new product launches in | Deliver the value of authentic wholesome foods Barunsun tofu, noodle/dumpling, beverage/dessert, by offering opportunities to experience Pul’s etc Kitchen | Safety assurance for food materials by reinforcing marine products quality control, etc | Low & healthy concept development and clear labeling for allergy-inducing ingredients Egg Noodle Others | Differentiated quality / process control | Sales growth through consistent new product B&I(Business&Indutry) H&C(Health&Care) Dumpling, juice, fish Maximum freshness guaranteed with the expiry launches Comprehensive food materials distribution Business to grow into a leader in silver and meat, sauce, etc date set based on egg-laying dates Buckwheat noodles, Thai stir-fried rice noodle business that offers healthy and safe food welfare market capitalizing on its distinct Tracking from the growth of chicks to product dish Pad Thai, Nature Is Delicious, etc materials tailored to individual customers in commercialization capability for silver food packaging for accurate product identification | Products based on the authentic wholesome efficient manners materials industry | R&D development food concept | Build sales organization dedicated to small and | Food ingredients for silver customers Launching ‘Egg with Lutein’ for eye health Dongchimi Pyeongyang cold noodles with 19% medium-sized companies, and take more orders | Nutrition/cooking class for seniors less sodium compared to other traditional from new companies through value-based sales noodles proposition Pulmuone Foods 3-year sales Business Foodmerce 3-year sales Business (Unit: KRW 100 mil.) (Unit: KRW 100 mil.) O v e r v i e w P u l m u o n e Fo o d s h a s b e e n determined to fulfill the changing consumer Overview Foodmerce is a total food service strict food safety management, LOHAS-based 3-year growth: 8.6% maintaining No. 1 in its existing product needs by introducing new products that reinforce 2-year growth: 0.5% business that provides authentic wholesome products and stronger sales capability. categories (i.e. tofu, vegetable, egg and noodle) functions and strengths of existing products. It food brands, general food materials and while expanding its business scope by releasing will also have a rigorous ingredient selection 2012 services based on the concept of ‘Safety, Health, Future direction Going forward, Foodmerce 2014 a range of new products in dumpling, fermented process in place to offer healthy and good foods Nutrition, Convenience, Taste’ throughout the aims to reinforce its food materials safety by milk, juice fish meat. It is also making sustained that can assure consumers of higher quality 2013 2014 customer lifecycle from kids to silver. In 2014, building preemptive food safety system and 2013 2012 efforts to create healthy dietary lifestyle for while at the same time extending the types Foodmerce cut its partnership with some boosting its analysis capacity. It also plans to consumers by introducing low-sodium and lowof authentic wholesome foods by adding low of its partner companies strategically for its invest in logistics center expansion to better calorie products for nutritional balance. GL foods in its portfolio. In order to grow into financial adequacy. As a consequence, its 2013 its logistics capacity. In parallel with this, a global player, the company plans to secure revenue declined against the previous year, but Foodmerce will work consistently to identify 4112 6,591 7,211 outstanding overseas experts and capabilities. 4,271 3,865 3,883 the company worked hard to make up for the and develop new growth engines by expanding Future direction Pulmuone Foods is decline by releasing unique brand products. business to accommodate rapid changes of the Notably remarkable growth has been achieved global market. in SL(school) and Kids businesses by leveraging INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 16 17 ECMD Pulmuone Health & Living Group meal service Concession FD(Fresh Delivery) FD DS *HPG Food service business to provide Business to offer products and services Delivery of healthy fresh | Successful launches of new categories (e.g. | Enhancing competitiveness through product ‘LOHAS Food Culture’ monopolistically and oligopolistically in spaces juice squeezed every day by fermented green juice, chia seed drinks rich segmentation and core product renewal Hygiene where customers are bound to come in crowds MS(Morning Staff) across in plant-origin lactic acid bacteria, and etc) Process Guide | LOHAS diets and premium meal services | For skin care, defining brand philosophy for the country introduced in more client companies | Entry into the business hotel category | Higher customer retention through CRM Issiln and securing competitiveness | Menus tailored to training centers, sports | New brand releases such as Nature Is DS(Direct Sales) | Growth platform by gradually increasing centers and golf courses, and set-up of the Delicious, NSK(Natural Soul Kitchen) Door-to-door sales of health investment standard operation guideline supplements and cosmetics | HPG* regime for sanitation and safety products by HA(Health | New value added creation by combining new Advisors) across the country items (e.g. café, canteen, etc) DM(Designed Meal) Fresh delivery of baby food and Eat Slim CAF (Companion Animal Foods) Production and online/offline sales of premium foods for companion pets based on their lifestyle Rest areas service Total service business that provide a range of shopping opportunities in consideration of customer needs as well as healthy and safe foods, and a comfortable rest in complex facilities facing highways. DM CAF | Higher profit per unit space by redesigning brands and supporting | ‘Baby Meal’ ready to grow into Kids Meal for | Online distribution channel establishment underperforming sites wider targets | Offline channel utilization for brand | Higher customer satisfaction through specialty services | For diet meal ‘Eat Slim’, secure business promotion (e.g. pet parks, tofu-experiencing shops) base to hit diet market with the new facilities | Carbon/energy reduction activities ECMD 3-year sales Business Pulmuone Health & Living 3-year sales Business (Unit: KRW 100 mil.) (Unit: KRW 100 mil.) Overview Started off with group meal service along highways to offer foods, shopping and Overview Pulmuone Health & Living is a LOHAS Future direction Going forward, Pulmuone 3-year growth: 15.7% business, ECMD has gradually expanded its rests for customers. 3-year growth 7.8% life company that helps customers and their Health & Living will further develop the directly business presence into concession, convention families eat a good diet and maintain healthy managed store model and bolster their growth and restaurant businesses to firmly establish Future direction ECMD aims to spread lifestyle through its products and services. In program for better distribution. New products itself as total service company. Through LOHASdistinct values based on LOHAS by increasing 2014, the company geared itself for a new big will be developed to increase competitiveness 2014 oriented services, ECMD is promoting customer food service sites, developing specialty menus 2014 growth of its existing business while at the same of priority products in the market. Aligned with 2013 2013 2012 health and good culinary culture. The group and enhancing sanitary management of the 2012 time, developing new categories. It implemented this, brand marketing and promotion will receive meal service business provides clients with service sites. In concession business, it wants new automated facilities, streamlined existing much support from the company to better foods for nutritional balance and health to lead to secure sustained growth engine by extending channels and further built a range of online product quality. Online and mobile activities will customers into LOHAS lifestyle. Concession brands, developing new brands and attracting channels and its own online mall to advance into be also increased to maximize impact. Online 2,968 3,658 3,972 business is renting a space in places where large-scale clients. In rest area business, 1,102 1,246 1,281 a LOHAS lifestyle company. All of these efforts and mobile tools such as customer malls, lots of customers are bound to visit and offer competitiveness will be reinforced further by led to profit improvement. blogs, SNS for corporate collaboration will be foods and services customers want. Rest area increasing the customer inflow and advancing actively tapped into for customer attraction and business is operating complex facilities located sales planning capabilities. communication. INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 18 19 ORGA Whole Foods Business China Directly managed stores SPAW(Specialty retailer Private label of Authentic Wholesome foods) Performance 1. Pulmuone China 2. Beijing Pulmuone Green Foods Shanghai Pulmuone Foods *ETF(Easy-toA range of PB(Private Brand: own brand), NB | Established in 2011 with focus on health Transform) Store design based (National Brand) products and ORGA bakery are directly managed by the company as core business. Develop and sell more than 500 PB(Private Band: own brand), products of eco-friendly Overseas supplements and skin care products | Established in 2010 with noodle and rice cake as core business on location and target (A total of 64 directly managed stores including materials | Increasing its market presence by launching customer profile SIS(Shop in Shop) with ETF stores newly new products (e.g. processed egg products, etc) opened in Yatap and Seohyeon during 2014) 2 Beijing 3 ORGA shopping mall Franchisee store Shanghai Products sold at ORGA offline stores and Store layout and size can be varied Sichuan 1 other brand products can be also purchased depending on location and customer at online ORGA mall characteristics of the geography (24 franchisee stores in total with 5 new ‘By ORGA’ stores opened in Gimhae Naeoe, Daejeon Expo, etc during 2014) ORGA 3-year sales Business 3-year sales in China Business (Unit: KRW 100 mil.) (Unit : RMB 1 mil.) Overview ORGA Whole Foods distributes and Future direction Keeping up with the latest Overview Pulmuone operates fresh food and health Future direction Beijing Pulmuone Green Foods and 3-year growth 13.8% sells eco-friendly foods. It has offered authentic trends such as increase in 1~2 person(s) 3-year growth 84.5% supplement businesses in China, building its bases in Shanghai Pulmuone Foods plan to develop fresh food organic foods for the past 31 years since its households, lifestyle changes, preference for Chongqing, Beijing and Shanghai. Beijing Pulmuone brands and expand fresh categories (e.g. tofu, juice inception in 1981 under the slogan ‘Love for high-quality foods and high-end desserts, ORGA Green Foods and Shanghai Pulmuone Foods the 2 and sauce) going forward. Neighbor, Respect for Life’. It has 12 directly Whole Foods is driving innovations in products, subsidiaries of Pulmuone Foods, have cold noodles, As the Chinese authorities tighten regulations for 2014 managed stores of about 925~990 ㎡ and 52 channels and profit management while at the stir-fried rice cakes, Kimchi and egg as their core food safety, they also want to differentiate themselves 2013 2012 SIS(Shop In Shop) stores in various venues same time delivering more customer values. products with a presence in Beijing, Shanghai and from other food companies by communicating safe 2014 including Lotte Department Store and By ORGA The company will develop new PB products to South China. Pulmuone China a Chinese subsidiary and healthy properties of their products, playing to the franchised stores to reach out to customers this end and add more criteria on animal welfare 2013 of Pulmuone Health & Living, is a membership-based strengths of Pulmuone. To stabilize its membershipconscious of environmental footprints of the for meat products to respond to the customer 2012 business to help customers maintain LOHAS lifestyle based business, Pulmuone China will launch high-end products they consume and prefer eco-friendly requests. Going forward, ORGA will seek to go by offering necessary information and services on a lifestyle products for repeat purchase. 762 846 987 producers. By distributing only the products beyond its traditional business boundary of ‘eco12 24 40 sustained basis while producing and selling LOHAS produced through sustainable agriculture, the friendly foods supermarket’ by opening sales products designed for healthy and happy life. company is making a contribution to biodiversity stores of various formats and styles. and ecosystem preservation. INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 20 21 USA Japan Pulmuone entered the US market by establishing Pulmuone U.S.A in Los Angeles Business in 1991. In 2004, the company acquired Wildwood Natural Foods, a organic soy food Asahi Foods is a leading tofu and fried tofu company, which has joined Pulmuone company, which resulted in a successful entry to the mainstream market. In 2009, it family in June 2014. Since Japan owns advanced tofu production techniques, acquired Monterey Gourmet Foods to make inroads into pasta and sauce market of Pulmuone wants to create synergy effects by applying the superior skills of Japan to the US. Pulmuone U.S.A has production facilities in Gilroy, Tappan and Fullerton, and markets like US and China while securing distribution channels in Japan to extend provides tofu, pasta, sauce products to customers. its business scope in the country. The acquisition will help Pulmuone combine its Healthy alternative traditional strengths in marketing and logistics with superb production capability of Asahi to establish itself successfully in Japan. Tofu / Meat Alternatives Dips and spreads Dairy Alternative 1. Head office 4. Omachi plant Vacuum pack Flavored Aioli Milk Creamer Water pack Veggie burger 埼玉県さいたま市中央区新都心11番地2 長野県大町市常盤９７２６-２ 明治安田生命さいたま新都心ビル 9726-2, Tokiwa, Omachi-shi, Nagano, ランド・アクシス・タワー 22階 398-0004, Japan 22F, L.A.TOWER, Shintoshin, Chuo-ku Saitama-shi, Saitama, 330-6022, Japan 5. Tsukiyono plant 群馬県利根郡みなかみ町大字政所１００７ 2. Gyoda plant 1007, Mandokoro, Minakami-machi Tone-gun, 埼玉県行田市持田２-１７-８ Gumma, Entrees / Friends of snack 2-17-8, Mochida, Gyoda-shi, Saitama, 379-1307, Japan 361-0056, Japan Pastas / Ready meal Sauces Spreads / Dips 6. Kanagawa plant Ravioli Ready meal Cream sauce Pesto Bean dip Salsa 3. Azumino plant 神奈川県綾瀬市小園1090番地 〒252-1121 Dumplings Tapenade Hummus 長野県北安曇郡池田町大字池田２７０９-3 1090, Kozono, Ayase-shi, Kanagawa, 2709-3, Ikeda, Ikeda-machi Kitaazumi-gun, 252-1121, Japan Nagano, 399-8601, Japan Production plants in US 5 1 1.Tappan, NY 1 3 4 2 Water pack tofu New york 6 2. Fullerton, CA 3 2 Flavored, vacuum, water pack tofu Distribution Center/Head Office California 3. Gilroy, CA Ravioli, Cheese, Dumpling, Ready Meal, Bean Dips, Hummus, etc INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 22 23 Risk Management Risks: Levels & stepwise approach Pulmuone takes a 3-step approach to risks and takes actions accordingly by Risks: definition & categories classifying them into 3 groups. And in Step 2 where an actual crisis is materialized, Pulmuone defines ‘risk’ as an unpredictable incident that can threaten health the company makes a different response to the situation by segmenting the and safety of consumers or employees and by extension, Pulmuone brands, and situation further into Level 1 (response on the division level) and Level 2 (response corporate image and values. Such risks inherently have the potential to severely on the business unit level) for a tailored solution. undermine the organization and the company itself. Pulmuone classifies risks into product/distribution risk, field risk and other risks. 1) Product/distribution 2) Field risks 3) Other risks Step 1 : Potential risk Step 2 Materialized risk Step 3 Risk proliferation 〉 risks Field accidents that Natural disasters, can cause severe loss and investigation or The Group-wide Risk (initial~later-stage crisis) severe level Defects in products Management Committee 1) Level 1 ⇒ Light to Severe crisis that may or their packagings and serious injury of new measures by the identifies potential risk moderate level deal a heavy blow to the that may undermine workers government, consumer factors across the Group at Risk likely to develop into corporate/brand image consumer safety Fire, explosion, damage groups and other its regular meeting and takes a crisis – The division – A Group-wide Risk Product recall, claims to major facilities groups/entities preemptive measures. where the risk has been Management Committee Product collection Breaches of food Incidents that The 24-hour monitoring materialized forms a crisis convenes a meeting for a by public/consumer sanitation, the may happen when (media, SNS, etc) system is management cell for an prompt response. agencies for a market environment law, the undertaking business run and crisis scenarios are effective response withdrawal to prevent labor law, etc (e.g. rumors, employee reviewed. its further usage misdeeds, industrial relations dispute, and 2) Level 2 ⇒ Material level Injury of sales lawsuits/complaints Risk likely to develop into employees, collective filed by stakeholders, an actual crisis and spread contract withdrawals by etc) to other divisions – A crisis franchisees or their visit Breaches of the management cell is formed to the headquarters in fair trade law, and on a business unit level. protest legal disputes with The cell decides whether to suppliers/franchisees escalate the issue to Step 3 (the Group-wide crisis response cell). Risk Management Committee Pulmuone holds monthly Risk Management Committee meeting on the Group or each business unit level with an aim to identify, prevent and manage potential risks. Innovation & Creation In the event of certain risk being materialized, an initial response is promptly made on the field right after detecting a potential crisis, and depending on the severity of Bottom-up innovation driven by proactive employee engagement the risk and the response level a situation calls for, small risks are escalated to the Irumi is a corporate channel for innovation through which employees can propose division level, material risks reported on the business unit level, and severe risks to creative ideas to further develop Pulmuone. The ideas proposed through Irumi the Group level for a further response. If it is escalated to the Group level, a Groupare collected and reflected in the corporate policies for practice improvement. wide Risk Management Committee meeting is convened to make a decision. Such Born in March 2007, Irumi has continued its growth and development to achieve 3-layer response mechanism based on the risk level has been designed to develop the corporate mission of ‘LOHAS company that loves both humans and nature’ timely and effective solutions by securing ‘the golden time’, the most important and the ‘Global DP5’ vision. Irumi has been designed to facilitate ideas for 3 major element in crisis response, and to minimize any negative impact on business and innovation goals (product/service innovation, quality innovation and process society. innovation), laying the foundation to develop into a sustainable company. Thanks to INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 24 25 the upgraded UI, the process got much simpler: Employees can just log on to the into actual initiatives for implementation. After a review by the CBI committee and groupware and click the banner of Irumi Expedition to propose an idea on the main the innovation support committee, 22 ideas were finalized as CBI initiatives for website. Field employees who cannot use PCs in their workplaces are also allowed Green Meeting. a wider access to Irumi with the available mobile Irumi application. (m.irumi. pulmuone.co.kr) [Ideas submitted to Irumi Expedition] Year Total submissions YoY growth Ideas turned into Selection rate 1) Ideas for actual work improvement initiatives ‘Implementation first, making proposal report later’ – Improving one’s work practice is 2012 10,213 125% 1,218 12% the ultimate objective of proposing an idea in the first place. 2013 14,463 42% 2,534 18% 2014 20,637 43% 1,485 7% 2) Reward with mileage Employees with good ideas are rewarded with mileage points. Their character in the mileage game can be promoted to a higher ranking based on the accumulated points for employee motivation and fun. Platform to grow into a sustainable company Irumi is determined to continue its growth, making contribution to corporate value 3) Mobile platform for proposal & deliberation and profit. It is working hard to enhance satisfaction of idea proposers and judges, Event promoters, dieticians, production staff can also engage in the process via the and lead development and innovation of Pulmuone in the process. Additional mobile platform without the constraints of time or place. functions will be added to the platform in 2015 such as whistleblowing on corruption, employee opinion, request, VOF(Voice of Field) and IT improvement to 4) Aligned management of innovation initiatives (Green meeting, Q/W (Quick Win), further enhance the system. The new system will be opened in 2015 with a simpler CR(Cost Reduction)) 1) Initiatives that can interface to guide users more effectively. It will offer more convenient information The ideas collected through Irumi are reviewed against CBI(Critical Business Issues) to be generate deliverables driven as enterprise-wide innovation initiatives such as Green Meeting, Q/W(Quick Win)1) integration and layout for users to facilitate the usage of the system. relatively fast in 2-3 meetings and CR(Cost Reduction). The deliberation result is notified to the idea proposer. Excellent ideas or high-grade proposals selected by the division head are closely supervised and Interactive communication for all employees tracked for effective execution. The idea proposer and the person in charge of execution get to receive welfare benefit points they can use freely for themselves as reward. Through General CEO has a meeting with all employees (not managers or senior executives) rigorous review and monitoring, overlapping or simple ideas that don’t hold significant 9 times per year for better communication. Its name was changed from ‘Meeting value for the company are screened out to ensure objective selection and rewards. In with General CEO’ to ‘General CEO TalkTalkTalk’ to emphasize engagement, addition to the basic points, additional points are given when a game character assigned understanding and communication. The meeting consists of 3 components to each employee when (s)he joined Irumi Expedition grows and is promoted to the next (Engagement Talk, Understanding Talk and Communication Talk). In Engagement level. Additional points are also given when employees engage more proactively (e.g. Talk, participants can play a simple and exciting game to feel the meaning of the leaving a comment, logging on to the site every day, clicking the Like button and etc). gathering. In Understanding Talk, General CEO delivers a special lecture on the topic he wants to discuss with employees. In 2014, the special lecture topic was ‘CSR and CSV’ in consideration of the strong commitment of General CEO to lead Higher work efficiency & performance through ‘Irumi Expedition’ business growth based on CSV(Creating Shared Value). Lastly in Communication Talk, two-way communication is fully facilitated by changing the format from The idea proposal channel once confined to the holding company and Pulmuone ‘employees just asking questions’ to ‘employees and CEO exchanging questions Foods was extended to cover the entire Group in 2011 to create synergy through and remarks’. Interacting with General CEO helps the consensus-building process idea exchanges between different units and functions. To facilitate the process, and enhances employee satisfaction, which in turn, betters both the product and Irumi managers across the Group are invited to the quarterly workshop. Lectures corporate image. This ultimately leads to fair and transparent business practices, on creativity are provided by outside experts and field employees receive internal creating growth and sustainability as a consequence. trainings every two months. To encourage more engagement, various types of events is offered every quarter. Making a range of efforts paid off: A total of 20,637 innovation ideas were submitted throughout 2014, which is a 43% growth from 14,463 ideas in 2013. About 1,485 ideas (7%) of the total were selected to be turned INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 26 27 Pulmuone’s fair trade guideline disclosed [Process] at vendor portals for compliance To encourage compliance with fair trade, Pulmuone discloses the pledges of sourcing managers, the vendor guideline, CP(Compliance Program) and other fair trade information at the vendor websites to be viewed by vendor employees. 1) A sales employee collects orders 2) The business unit communicates from stores of direct delivery and make with the order response center for the ‘Talk to General CEO’ on the corporate intranet an inquiry (sales employee > order finalized information (e.g. a vehicle unit, a Pulmuone runs 2 communities, ‘CEO NOW’ and ‘Pulmuone Value Scheme’, under response center, each business unit) transport route and a production site) the gadget named ‘Talk to General CEO’ in its groupware KWP. They have been built around the theme ‘bridging(通)’ for communication. Major business decisions, opinions of senior executives, corporate mission, vision and core values are all shared with employees via the 2 communities. Instead of the top-down delivery of commands, the channels promote two-way communication which deeply involves 3) Order response center shares the 4) The production plant checks the all employees, contributing greatly to a positive performance-oriented corporate received order information with sales order volume after confirming the order culture. employees information uploaded to the system and ship out the volume 1. ‘CEO NOW’ community billboard In these days when ‘leadership of communication’ is increasingly more valued, Pulmuone opened a billboard to generate passion, devotion and performanceOne-day delivery from online food malls oriented communication of employees. Pulmuone firmly believes interactive Pulmuone knows delayed delivery is the biggest culprit of negative feedbacks. To ‘emotional communication’ would drive sustainable growth of the company. address the issue, Pulmuone has changed the practice into replenishing products (chilled·frozen·dry) before the inventory runs out. 2. ‘Pulmuone Value Scheme’ bulletin board The value scheme bulletin board aims to build an organization culture centering Change from SMS to messenger service around Pulmuone mission, vision and core values, facilitating consensus building Pulmuone used to send out SMS to alert logistics centers to urgent information for powerful performance. such as order generation/close. But as the number of SMS increases consistently, it changed the system from using SMS to the company’s own messenger service Direct delivery from the production sites to cut cost and prevent any message delivery failure due to disruption to the In most cases, products are gathered in the Eumseong central logistics center communications network. before being shipped to each regional logistics hub. But when a production site is closer to a customer and fully-loaded shipping is possible in an area, delivery from the production plant directly to the client can be opted through newly developed logistics system and process of Pulmuone. INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 28 29 Governance Pulmuone Governance Board of directors: rights The board of directors is the top decision-making body of the company besides As listed company, Pulmuone shares are owned by a major shareholder(57.3%), the general shareholders’ meeting. Pulmuone’s board of directors abides by the institutions and foreign investors(24.3%) and minority shareholders(18.4%). Capital Market Consolidation Act on listed companies and the Commercial Law on Outstanding shares are 3,809,095 in total with KRW 19,045 million in capital stock. public companies. For major management issues, it makes decisions based on the Shareholders exercise their voting rights, share information on business performance agreement of a majority. For other issues, decisions are left to the Management and future vision of the company, and voice their opinions at general shareholders’ Committee. meeting. Roles & operations Board of directors: composition From January to December 2014, the board of director convened meetings for 7 times Pulmuone has 4 executive directors and 6 outside directors in its board of where 11 issues were put to a debate. Under the board of directors, 5 committees directors. Outside directors account for 60% of the 10-member board to guarantee (Audit Committee, Outside Director Recommendation Committee, Compensation independence. Four top executives including General CEO Nam, Seung-Woo are Committee, Outside Director Assessment Committee, and Management Committee) serving as executive directors and 6 experts such as professional managers and are operated. Economic performances of Pulmuone are reported at the quarterly professors serve as non-executive directors. Directors appointed at the general meeting of board of directors for evaluation. shareholders’ meeting have deep management experience and expertise, working hard to advocate stakeholder interest and increase shareholder value. For objective evaluation of outside director candidates, Pulmuone has Outside Director Decision-making structure Recommendation Committee in place and guarantees its independence to find good Pulmuone makes decisions by reporting to and receiving an approval from the board candidates for directorship based on their expertise and capabilities. of directors. As holding company, Pulmuone closely monitors and mediates business issues of each subsidiary. Management issues at the Group or holding company level [Board of directors: composition] are discussed at business meetings. Material issues have to be reported to the board of directors, which then approves and makes a decision. Chairman Non-executive director Nam, Seung-Woo(male) Chairman & CEO Park, Jong-Won(male) Outside Director| Korea University Professor Executive director Shin, Hyun-Woo(male) Outside Director| Vice Chairman of Bullsone Co,. Ltd Pulmuone CEO Board of directors Report and nominate Report, keep · Review and report Hwang, Lee-Seok(male) Outside Director| Seoul Lee, Kyu-Suk(male) Director| Monitor and mediate each other items on the agenda National University Professor in check · Make major business DTC1) Region Secretary Youn, Jang-Bae(male) Outside Director| Chonbuk Report major decisions Kwon, Hyuk-Hee(male) Director| National University Professor issues and make Report ECMD CEO decisions Won, Cheoroo(male) Outside Director| Advisor to Share info on 1) Direct To Consumers Lee, Hyo-Yul(male) Director| General shareholders’ SME Management Advisory Commission, Korea management status meeting 2) 2) Natural Foods&Beverage NFB Region CEO Chamber of Commerce and Industry · Review the agenda Sung, Yung-Hoon(male) Outside Director| BKL llc and report · Make major business decisions Each subsidiary Business meeting Audit Committee Discuss major issues Share Conduct accounting/ in finance, HR, etc at business work inspection the Group level info INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 30 31 Compliance Introduction to implement TISO practices. In 2014, those who successfully completed their works practicing Pulmuone values based on TISO principles and became good examples Dedicated organization for Compliance to others as a result were awarded as ‘Champion of Best Practices’. All of these Pulmuone has its Compliance organization in place for effective TISO planning efforts are expected to help Pulmuone build a positive corporate culture and create and execution by business unit. The Compliance organization is dedicated to meaningful outcomes. Pulmuone will continue to select and award employees and implementing fair and transparent management across the Group. It engages in a workplaces with good practices. range of activities to make the corporate culture aligned with the TISO principles and the corporate value scheme(mission, vision and core values). Pulmuone’s TISO Management Pulmuone promulgated TISO Charter that describes how, to whom, through which Initiatives & Outcomes TISO principles have to be practiced in March 2005. Marking its 10th anniversary in Compliance internalized through ongoing education 2015, the charter offers a sweeping view toward the TISO concept, extending its target Pulmuone provides TISO education to its employees on a regular basis to reinforce to include customers, stakeholders, communities as well as employees based on the their commitment to TISO. New entrants have to receive the POP (Pride of Pulmuone) core values (Trust, Integrity, Solidarity, Openness). training for value sharing. It is also engaging efforts to provide tailored trainings to TISO charter field workers (production workers, event promoters, dieticians, cooks) who have TISO Code of Conduct relatively less exposure to TISO education so that they can internalize and establish Pulmuone has developed ‘TISO Code of Conduct’ as a core guideline for employees the TISO culture on the field. For more effective operation of trainings, the company to comply with the charter. The code of conduct consists of 15 provisions concerning started to develop online training courses in 2014 whose results were adopted as ways to respond to directions that may undermine fair handling of work, elimination mandatory course for employees in all business units at the cyber learning center of privileges, prohibition of collusion with competitors, influence peddling, unjust (Knowledge Work Center) starting from January 2015. profit or bribery, inappropriate conduct with stakeholders, any act that can harm the company’s interest and using classified information for personal interest, nonBest TISO practices promoted to encourage consistent implementation compete agreement, prohibition of forging documents or numbers, external activities, personal data protection, and etc. The code of conduct is available at the Pulmuone Born in 2011, the Best TISO Practice Contest for all employees marked its 4th year groupware(KWP) for all employees to see. It helps employees clearly understand in 2014. The contest has given an opportunity for employees to build the consensus what should be refrained and which action must be taken in conflict situations they about what TISO means in their everyday business, not just an abstract concept are bound to face either internally or externally in the course of undertaking their existing only in paper. The best TISO practices not only serve as good examples work. but also can be leveraged as contents for internal TISO education. In 2015, the awarded best examples will be compiled in a book and shared via various media (e.g. interviews, video clips, etc) with employees, utilized as a valuable tool to create the Code of Practice Handbook desired corporate culture. ‘Code of Practic Handbook’ has been prepared to help employees better understand ‘TISO Code of Conduct’ by offering more detailed explanation on fair and transparent Values shared to create a positive corporate culture work process, prohibition of using one’s authority at work for personal gain, work discipline, what should be refrained between employees, making accurate and & meaningful outcomes faithful reports, company/customer information protection, whistleblowing and The gadget named ‘Talk to General CEO’ was opened at the groupware(KWP) in 2013 rewards. It defines all kinds of misconduct that can be committed unawares as to enable two-way communication between the top management and employees well as material breaches like bribe or corruption as factors that undermine TISO instead of the usual top-down delivery of commands. The gadget has served as a principles and thus, places such misconducts under supervision by clearly informing channel to share internal/external business activities based on the value scheme rules and procedures employees have to comply with in each situation. Pulmuone which includes Pulmuone mission, vision and core values. Implementation practices has distributed the handbooks to make the information more easily available to of TISO principles have been also shared through the gadget to motivate employees employees. INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 32 33 TISO by Pulmuone Anti-Corruption Policy Pulmuone believes TISO is first and foremost ‘a caring mind to offer good foods to my TISO, the value scheme aspired by Pulmuone family’. It is about assuring food safety and taking care of foods to maintain its values. Second, it embodies ‘commitment to understanding the values Pulmuone provides to Pulmuone has established its Compliance organization dedicated to banning all consumers and delivering such values without any distortion or overstatement’. types of corruption including inappropriate acquisition of favors, bribery, and etc Pulmuone TISO is a framework of the corporate culture as well as business Monitoring channels by having TISO principles as core values of its business. The division is developing philosophy. It is traced back to the company motto set in 1982, ‘Right Mind(正心), Right Whistleblowing, relevant policies and institutions for effective implementation, and reinforcing Farming(正農), Right Eating(正食)’. TISO, which stands for Trust, Integrity, Solidarity Cyber Audit, periodic education and monitoring activities for preemption of any unethical conduct. and Openness, is based on Right Mind(正心) to state the mindset every Pulmuone Irumi System It has also opened Whistleblowing Channel to encourage employees disclose any employee should internalize. wrongdoings for a healthy corporate culture with strict disciplinary measure enforced for any breaches of TISO compliance rules. Rules and policies regarding TISO compliance are shared across the enterprise via TISO compliance by Pulmuone the internal groupware bulletin board. Pulmuone has opened Cyber Audit and Irumi TISO compliance refers to business practices in accordance with TISO. It is driving “fair System at its official website to monitor and audit internal/external wrongdoing, and transparent business activities for healthy life of customers and sustainability of misconduct and corruption committed by subsidiaries, affiliates or overseas offices. the earth” based on the universal values represented by TISO. Anti-corruption & integrity contract policy Revision of TISO comliance rules ‘TISO Code of Conduct’ has been developed to strictly ban employees from receiving, Pulmuone revised rules and provisions regarding TISO compliance. ‘TISO Code of promoting or condoning inappropriate favors including gifts, entertainment, treats Conduct’ went through a partial revision to incorporate recent changes in business or conveniences directly or indirectly offered by other stakeholders. Employees who environment and was simplified by removing some declaratory provisions to contain turn out to be involved in such indecent behavior are subjected to disciplinary actions only the core principles employees have to follow. Code of Practice Handbook in accordance with relevant regulations. Furthermore, to encourage employees to provides details on Code of Conduct and guides employees with more concrete implement anti-corruption principles more proactively, procurement managers in examples for implementation in the form of a handbook so that employees can refer charge of goods, service, and construction or service provision agreements have to it whenever necessary. In addition, ‘TISO Compliance Provisions’ went through a been required to include ‘Integrity Contract’ provisions in their contracts before revision to include ‘TISO Guideline on Report & Reward’ which had been published signing a purchase contract since March 2005, and if it is not possible to include such separately. provisions in contracts, they are required to prepare additional ‘Pledge for Integrity Contract’ before signing a deal. In 2014, there was not a single workplace accused of TISO Pledge committing corruption or carrying material risks, and thus, no disciplinary measures Every year, Pulmuone people write a pledge that states they understand what TISO were taken. There was no penalty fee or non-monetary restrictions imposed as a aspires to and will do their best to faithfully abide by company provisions for TISO consequence of breaches of law or regulation. values. As a constant reminder of TISO values, executives working in corner offices hang the framed TISO Charter and TISO Pledge on the wall, and employees carry a Holiday gift return business card-sized printout of TISO Charter with them all the time. With the determination to eradicate the gift-giving practice between stakeholders TISO Pledge is written and signed around March 7 every year, and upon signing a new before big holidays, Pulmuone has communicated an official notice from General CEO pledge for the coming year, employees are advised to look back on the past year for stating the gift banning policy since 2004. Gifts delivered against the notice are all any breaches. Online submission of the pledge was made available in 2007. returned and those that cannot be returned are put on an auction at less than 50% of their market price whose proceeds go to the ‘Love for Neighbor Fund’. The gift return policy has been fully entrenched as distinct corporate culture of Pulmuone that has to be observed not only around holidays but also in everyday practice. Employees now report to the office in charge without hesitation if they receive gifts from stakeholders. INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 34 35 2014 donation to ‘Love for Neighbor Fund’ According to the internal survey conducted by the Compliance organization based on direct interviews with stakeholders, respondents were confirmed to fully understand Stakeholder Stakeholder Categories & Communication the intent and content of the no-gift provision. In 2014, a total of 22 unreturned gifts Communication Pulmuone stakeholders are grouped into shareholders, employees, customers, were donated to the fund, raising KRW 1,041,650. partner companies, and local communities. Stakeholders are partners throughout the journey embarked by Pulmuone to achieve sustainability management. Pulmuone [Holiday gift return: reports & value] seeks their feedbacks and insights, and share results with them. KRW 1,041,650 Year Reports Value 2012 28 cases KRW 1,165,000 2013 31 cases KRW 1,194,000 Shareholders Employees Consumers 2014 22 cases KRW 1,041,650 Lawsuit status Pulmuone was prosecuted in 2012 by Seoul Central District Prosecutor’s office for its alleged violation of the Customs law concerning its purchase of organic beans from Those who share Pulmuone 5,692 internal partners Those who use products China and was found not guilty both at the first(ruled by the Seoul Central District values by purchasing working together to and services offered by Court on December 10, 2013) and the second trial(ruled by the Seoul High Court on Pulmuone stocks accomplish Pulmuone Pulmuone November 6, 2014). — mission and vision — After the decision, the prosecutor appealed and the ruling is being reviewed by the Open shareholders’ meeting, — CS Center, E-fresh monitoring, Supreme Court. Pulmuone sourced the Chinese organic beans through a legitimate IR(Investor Relations), Knowledge Worker Platform, Housewives monitoring, Annual Report Labor-management council Customer satisfaction survey, route in the domestic market sold by an authorized importer, and therefore, will meetings, Informal gatherings ‘One Big Bowl Full of Nature’ faithfully go through the legal process to ultimately prove its innocence at the with CEO, Company newsletters, (company PR magazine), Supreme Court. Grievance redress mechanism, Annual Report HR communication, Employee Assistance Program, C-cubic, Annual Report Partner Communities Companies Partners involved in procurement, Public entities including production, sales, delivery and the government agencies, local For more information, please facilities required to produce goods communities, volunteer groups, etc visit www.pulmuone.com and services — — Periodic meetings with social volunteer Meetings with partner companies, groups, Annual Report Annual Report INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 36 37 29 Material Material Issue Identification Process Threshold 4 Stackeholder Interest **The GRI G4 Guidelines advise companies 27 10 Issues of should cover aspects reflecting significance of 14 The materiality assessment for 2014 Pulmuone Annual Report was completed (Threshold) economic, environmental and social impacts, 17 (4,4) with 3-stage material issue identification process of ‘Issue Gathering’, ‘Analysis of 5 Pulmuone and influence on stakeholder assessment and 28 31 Business Impact and Stakeholder Interest’, ‘Material Issue Identification’. decisions by including relevant issues in those 13 18 7 areas, located at and above the materiality 21 3 15 6 threshold. 25 9 23 20 22 11 1 32 12 16 30 2 24 19 Materiality assessment process 8 26 Business Impact Issue Analysis of business impact Material issue Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 gathering and stakeholder interest identification High Medium Low [Relevant issue gathering] [Business impact estimation] [Issue prioritization] -Global guidelines (GRI G4) -Internal corporate policy review -Comprehensive evaluation Significance Category Sub-category Business Impact Stakeholder Interest -Existing issues of Pulmuone 3 General Governance 7.5 4.0 -Benchmarking analysis of tests 4 General TISO Management 10.0 10.0 -Matrix generated [Issue review] 5 General Stakeholder engagement 5.5 6.7 -Threshold defined -Annual Report [Stakeholder interest survey] 6 General Authentic wholesome foods 7.5 4.0 -Media research 15 Customer Product quality & safety control 10.0 4.0 -Internal/external stakeholder survey [Selection of material 17 Customer Customer communication 5.5 7.0 [Issue selection] -Media analysis issues to report] 31 Environment Less environmental footprint 5.5 6.7 -32 final issue pools -Material issues in 2014 1 General Vision & CEO leadership 5.5 3.3 2 General Sustainability management strategy & performance management 5.5 2.3 7 General Creating shared value 3.0 5.0 10 Economy Brand management 0.5 8.3 11 Economy Financial performance 5.5 3.3 13 Economy Creating new market 0.5 5.3 Material Issues for Sustainability Management in 2014 14 Customer Information provision 3.0 8.3 18 Employee Fair personnel & compensation policy 1.0 5.0 Pulmuone first set the reporting threshold** at (4,4) after prioritizing the 32 issue 20 Employee Talent development & growth 5.5 3.7 pools screened through a materiality assessment test to see their business impact 21 Employee Work life balance 1.0 5.0 and stakeholder interest in the issues. The assessment test categorized the 32 issues 22 Employee Human rights & diversity 7.5 3.7 into 7 High Issues, 18 Medium Issues and 7 Low Issues. Those placed above the 23 Employee Win-win industrial relations 5.0 3.7 threshold are Governance, TISO Management, Stakeholder Engagement, Authentic 24 Employee Workplace safety & employee health 10.0 2.0 27 Partner Companies Inclusive growth & win-win collaboration 3.0 8.3 Wholesome Food, Product Quality & Safety Control, Customer Communication, and 28 Community Social responsibility 1.0 8.3 Environment Footprint Reduction. 29 Community Community development 2.5 10.0 30 Environment Environmental management 5.0 2.3 32 Environment Response to climate change 7.5 3.3 8 Economy Innovative & creative management 3.0 0.3 9 Economy Risk management 3.0 3.3 12 Economy New product & technology development 3.0 3.3 16 Customer Customer marketing 3.0 3.3 19 Employee Talent recruiting 1.0 1.7 25 Partner Companies Fair selection 3.0 3.7 26 Partner Companies Fair transaction 3.0 3.7 INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX CSV 38 Authentic Wholesome Food 39 Product Safety & Quality Control Customer Satisfaction / Customer Communication DMA Environment Footprint Reduction CSV (Creating Shared Value) 2014 ISSUE 5 Pulmuone classifies major issues in 2014 into 5 categories described in this section. Significance | Activity Every year, a 2-hour session of ‘Talk to General CEO’ is held Pulmuone further develops the strategic concept of CSR to 9 times based on the issues the employees have jointly prioritize CSV initiatives, incorporating LOHAS values into its selected. During the session, a relevant lecture is delivered business and product development while at the same time to attending employees. In 2014, General CEO delivered a basing its process design and organization on the concept of special lecture on ‘CSR & CSV’. Outside experts are also CSV. Pulmuone will continue to refine its CSV model to create invited for a lecture. For example, in September 2013, both social and economic values for wider society. Emeritus Professor of Seoul National University Cho, DongSung was invited to talk about ‘Capitalism 5.0 & CSV’ to Management enhance employee understanding on CSV and incorporate CSV into corporate strategy. | Policy CSV Department serves as control tower for all types of CSV initiatives. The Department works to develop and establish Milestone CSV initiatives through planning-support-evaluation on CSV Winning Porter Prize Excellence in CSV for an medium endeavors to create shared economic and social values. company in the Process section at the 1st holding of the In parallel with this, each business unit has in place ‘CSV award sponsored by the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies, Working Committee’ to champion efforts to develop and Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy, Dong-A Daily, Korea execute relevant business models. Federation of SMEs, Korea CEO’s Association of Multinational Corporations, Korea Standards Association INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 40 41 Pulmuone’s CSV Milestones Having its roots in authentic wholesome foods, Pulmuone has extended its business 1. Low GL Diet Authentic Wholesome Food Campaign (ingredients shown in the label, education on to LOHAS dietary life and LOHAS lifestyle. Building on its existing CSR campaigns for : Diets consist of wholegrains healthy taste, nutritional balance and job experience, etc) rich in dietary fiber, Concept product development based on the 10 principles of authentic wholesome contribution to communities and stakeholder satisfaction, Pulmuone aspires to CSV phytochemical, vitamin in its 3 core areas, which are ‘LOHAS dietary life’, ‘5S practicing’ and ‘industrial cluster foods (trust, healthy ingredients, no additives, Pulmuone nutrition guide, packaging and minerals, beans, fruits development’. and vegetables to prevent criteria, complete labeling of food ingredients) excessive insulin secretion Less sodium product development & campaign and fat accumulation, and Zero Zero Metabolic Syndrome Campaign Authentic LOHAS Life achieve nutritional balance Low GL Diet Eat Slim Wholesome LOHAS Life (health & ECMD Smart Kitchen(Low GL diet) Foods (diet) environment) (product) Low GL product development for ORGA bakery & deli (food ingredients rich in dietary fiber and wholegrains) Safety/Reliability, Low GL1), Fine Dust Removal/ LOHAS Nutritional Balance LOHAS diet Lifestyle Market/ Healthy Foods for Pet Dog/ LOHAS Kitchen 2) 5S campaign Background Pulmuone CSV has been extended to include ‘LOHAS dietary Pulmuone Health & Living Pulmuone Health & Living life’ and ‘LOHAS lifestyle’ building on its authentic wholesome food campaign. 5S ORGA Whole Foods ORGA Whole Foods activities(Sort, Set, Shine, Standardization and Sustain) have been defined as essential Pulmuone Foods ECMD Pulmuone Duskin elements to practice the LOHAS lifestyle in daily life. To spread the campaign, storytelling-type educational materials have been distributed through various events [Pulmuone CSV Strategic Framework] along with producing 5S Implementation Cards. The campaign has been introduced in offices and production plants as well as partner companies to create a safer and CSV for Society more pleasant environment. LOHAS Dietary Life – Core Areas [Authentic Wholesome Foods & Low GL] Milestone 5S Implementation Campaign Pulmuone 5S concept concretization Stakeholder Satisfaction The 5S evaluation scheme designed Industrial Cluster Development 5S experts (license for Sort & Set consulting) training The 5th day of each month designated as the enterprise-wide 5S Day Community Contribution 5S activities implemented to improve the office environment Quarterly inpection on the production sites to ensure 5S implementation and improvement The 5S campaign extended to ECMD, ORGA Whole Foods, Pulmuone Duskin and 1) LOHAS dietary life when designing products, nutritional balance is also partner companies Background P u l m u o n e ’ s m i s s i o n , ‘ LO H A S considered as one major factor since the lack of it is Company’, has been derived from its brand aspiration, related to chronic lifestyle diseases and other health 3) Industrial cluster development which is ‘Love for Neighbor’ and ‘Respect for Life’. risks. Background In order to provide authentic wholesome foods to consumers as it Dietary life is at the heart of the LOHAS values, and Pulmuone has designed the low GL(Glycemic Load) has promised, it is pivotal for Pulmuone to secure safe and quality food materials. authentic wholesome foods are essential to maintain criteria and a healthy diet to address health risks Pulmuone, therefore, applies standards more rigorous than domestic laws to the LOHAS dietary. Thus, Pulmuone defines ‘LOHAS associated with nutritional imbalance and to consider secure food safety, and has signed food purchasing agreements with local farming dietary life’ as the core element of its CSV. Since hygiene the criteria when developing its products. The low communities for direct transaction. It offers technology transfer and training on quality and safety are prerequisites for authentic wholesome GL criteria were developed to measure social value control and productivity improvement while providing quality seeds to food producers. foods, organic and eco-friendly food is defined as one of foods related to their health impact. The company Signing direct purchase agreements with food producers contributes greatly to major principle of LOHAS. Afterwards, rules for food is building its expertise and knowledge concerning farmers’ income as it helps them secure sustainable income source. To be supplied additives have been added as the company expands metabolism and how living organisms work to deliver with quality and safe food materials, Pulmuone nurtures and supports honest and its business to cover processed foods. More recently, the values to consumers more clearly. hard-working organic farmers and GAP(Good Agricultural Practices) farmers. INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 42 43 As Pulmuone’s business grows, it becomes increasingly important to have long-term partnerships with partner 2) Taste description companies and ensure higher productivity and safety of products based on its superior technological capability For renewed packages of the existing/new products, Pulmuone uses carefully and higher quality. Pulmuone transfers its technology and SCM system to partner companies for inclusive growth selected and combined words that can express tastes of the used ingredients and and win-win collaboration with a dedicated organization in place to manage product quality, technology, hygiene flavor of the nature in order to communicate the distinct taste of products. management of partner companies. ▶ Generic words for the Ramyun category have been replaced with more concrete words that can accurately express the taste of nature and connect the taste with Milestone natural ingredients in the product. Technology training, R&D support and quality control office for partners Potential to build industrial cluster by relocating the OEM tofu plant to Eumseong 3) Package communication reinforced for authentic wholesome foods Trainings on bean faming techniques for farming communities (technology transfer and purchasing agreement Pulmuone has developed new products which contain ingredients, additives and with the 80-acre farm in Munkyung, North Gyeongsang) nutrition more faithful to the concept valued by consumers, and communicated the Business model developed for inclusive growth by helping Woori Village in Ganghwa Island to launch bean sprout concept by placing the Authentic Wholesome Food tag for all of the new products. products (collaboration cluster to help technology support, quality control and sales agreement signing) Bean tofu production in Yeoncheon after signing an MOU with Yeoncheon, Gyeonggi, ORGA animal welfare concept Acid-free seaweed production after signing an MOU with Jangheung,South Jeolla Increase in GAP farmers for Pulmuone Health & Living and Foodmerce ORGA Whole Foods has acquired the government’s animal welfare accreditation Trainings for organic green juice ingredient producers with technology transfer and long-term procurement contracts for its pig farm in Icheon. It has also established 5-Step Rating System to apply the ORGA Meister (ORGA’s accreditation regime to evaluate premium organic producers based on the rigorous criteria animal welfare concept to more livestock products. and designate those who pass the high standards as Green Meister in order to offer only the highest-quality [ORGA 5-Step Rating] products to customers and respect hard-working and honest producers) STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 STEP 5 Non-antibiotics HACCP Animal welfare Free-range animal Organic livestock 2014 CSV Activities husbandry product Better package communication to consumers Pulmuone worked to deliver more accurate information on product properties to consumers through the authentic wholesome foods principles, product concept emblem and taste description. Sufficient space for Farms that have Farms that have Farms with the Livestock products animal farming (i.e. acquired the HACCP received the animal animal welfare grown on organic 1) Package communication principles low stocking density) accreditation and welfare accreditation accreditation for its feeds in accredited 1. Use of ingredients free from harmful substances 7. Compliance with Pulmuone Food Safety and cages safe from recognized to use no from the government free-range farming free-range farms antibiotics antibiotics practice and with clear information on the places of origin Management System 2. Exclusion of GMO(Genetically Modified Organism) 8. Environmentally safe packaging materials free from and irradiated materials environmental hormone 3. Ingredients free from antibiotics or growth hormones (e.g. bisphenol A, phthalates) Zero Zero Metabolic Syndrome Campaign 4. No hydrogenated oil containing trans fat 9. Compliance with Pulmuone’s strict temperature Pulmuone joined hands with apartment management offices of Jungrang district when rolling out its ‘Zero Apartment’ 5. No synthetic preservatives, coloring, flavoring, management criteria from production to delivery project to make its Zero Zero Metabolic Syndrome Campaign stay relevant. It launched various programs to encourage sweeteners or MSG 10. Disclosure of all ingredients of a product and engagement of residents through semi-annual health clinic check-up and events (e.g. brown rice taste, replacing 6. Compliance with the Pulmuone nutrition criteria on their usage plastic bottles with glass bottles, stress release, etc) in parallel with the awareness raising campaigns that offer calorie, sodium, sugar, saturated fat, etc information on metabolic syndrome to residents. Pulmuone also offered ‘Health Class Coming to Meet You’ that pays visits to the underprivileged and low-income families in the apartment complexes to give a lecture on the healthy lifestyle that helps prevent the metabolic syndrome in partnership with the local rehabilitation centers. Using the partnership, Pulmuone has also operated health classes under the themes selected by the rehabilitation centers along with the shorter-term educational programs on dietary habit and immunity building habits. INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 44 45 In October 9, Pulmuone held ‘the 2nd Zero Zero Metabolic Syndrome Festival for Familiies’ in Children’s Grand Park where various booths were installed to advise DMA participants about healthy lifestyle to overcome the metabolic syndrome. Activities organized by the booths include finding environmental hormones that induce obesity, measuring environmental hormones in beverages, designing a diet on brown rice and vegetables, relieving stress and walking right. Participants who visited 5 of the booths Authentic or more were offered brown rice as prize. Approximately 700~800 people came to the festival and among them, 400 people received the brown rice as reward for active Wholesome participation. Mothers Support Network donated 100kg of brown rice for the festival. Foods Happiness Project by ECMD ECMD launched Happiness Project in partnership with Songpa district. It distributed authentic wholesome foods at the Songpa Food Market welfare recipients and donated Pulmuone food products on a quarterly basis. It also delivers nutritious and healthy meals freshly cooked and packaged by Pulmuone once per month to 130 low-income households in the district suffering from malnutrition. In addition to this, various activities were organized including Happy Meal Truck, which distributes free meals to seniors on welfare in various locations and Kimchi Making Event rolled out with the assistance of 30 employees. Significance 2. Authentic wholesome food champions Each business Good Cleaning Class unit becomes the champions of the authentic wholesome As a leading LOHAS company that cares for both humans With the increasing health risk coming from ever-present fine dust in the air, food campaign to develop and execute business models. and nature, Pulmuone strives to offer authentic wholesome Pulmuone Duskin expanded the target audience of its Good Cleaning Class at Lotte foods to consumers based on its ‘Love for Neighbors’ and Mart Culture Center launched in winter of 2013 from children to include adults by adding classes for cleaning up the house(5S). Adults who attended the class were ‘Respect for Life’. It will exert its best to provide only the best Milestone foods in consideration of health, nutrition and the environment, taught various cleaning tips optimal for different spaces in the house and how to 1. CSV through product & market safe from additives and harmful ingredients for health and implement the tips in daily lives. (1) Authentic wholesome product launch : Products with less happiness of families. sodium (15%↓ sodium vs. existing products), Low GL products (2) Consumer communication : Messages for good eating habits Management communicated through package and campaign (‘don’t drink | Policy salty soup too much’ message inserted on front & back side of Stakeholder Interview Aspiring to create a society that deeply considers both noodle product packages) humans and nature by engaging more customers in (3) Education : Good food campaigns and cooking classes for Where should the Authentic Wholesome Food Campaign be headed the LOHAS lifestyle, Pulmuone has aligned its ‘ Love kids, trainings for cooks at childcare centers, etc to create more shared values? for Neighbor’ and ‘Respect for Life’ with the principles In terms of CSV, the campaign is working very effectively. According to our survey, advocated by the UN Global Compact. 2. CSV in the value chain those who have participated in the Authentic Wholesome Food Campaign showed (1) Farms encouraged to produce cage-free eggs for animal more positive perception toward Pulmuone’s social responsibility, corporate image, | Activity welfare : ‘Animal Welfare Certification’ approved by Animal and product reliability. To make the campaign more sustainable instead of one-off 1. Session D Pulmuone opens Session D to identify, and Plant Quarantine Agency event, I think it would be more effective and efficient to have a separate education monitor and improve areas important for management center to carry out the campaign in the longer term. beyond business as usual. Session D’s agenda includes (2) GAP-certified farm products launched (5 items including | Song, Hae-Deok, Professor of Chung-Ang University authentic wholesome food and sustainability management winter grown cabbage) INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 46 47 Authentic Wholesome Foods Good Food School at KidZania Pulmuone has opened a vocation experience center at Kidzania, a role-playing theme Consistent expansion park for children, where children can be exposed to the authentic wholesome food Pulmuone continues to carry out the campaign by using ‘Good Foods Song’ as a culture. Approximately 40,000 children attend Pulmuone’s Good Foods School every major tool to spread the message. year. [Taste of Nature, Authentic Wholesome Foods] EBSe English cooking class EBSe has aired Pulmuone’s English cooking class since February 2013. In the program, Pulmuone introduces recipes based on the company’s authentic wholesome foods products to make healthy and delicious dishes for families. The program leads viewers to naturally learn about good foods and good eating habits while making dishes together with their families. Pulmuone co-produced 24 episodes of English cooking class with EBSe in 2014 and plans to further expand the efforts in 2015. 2012 2013 2014 Good Foods Song Good Foods Tasted Make Friends through 5 Senses with Good Foods Taste preference developed in childhood last lifetime. Authentic Wholesome Foods Products The campaign rolled out in 2014 titled ‘Make Friends with Good Foods’ proposes No-flour dumpling, enjoy the bite-size pieces! concrete and practical ways to get accustomed to the taste of nature by growing No-flour dumpling skin made of sticky rice and potato starch gives a smooth and vegetables or cooking for oneself. Children who avoid eating cabbage have an chewy texture. It is very tasty and also comfortable for the stomach coming in cute opportunity to see how cabbage is grown and children who just hate beans get mini-size, which is just loved by children who tend to feel uncomfortable to eating big to cook beans. Through the positive experience, children naturally feel familiar to dumplings. vegetables they didn’t love and gradually come to like their natural tastes. Healthy vegetable rice ‘Food for Change’ to lead the authentic wholesome foods campaign Pulmuone has become the 1st food company to introduce frozen ready-made rice ‘Food for Change’ is a non-profit social enterprise dedicated to establishing a good mix product which contains rice polished less than 7 days before made into product dietary life and providing education on authentic wholesome foods. Pulmuone has and mixed with various grains including barley, brown rice, sticky rice, sunflower rendered support in partnership with the Hope Institute by serving as incubator for seeds, thistle plant and seasoned aster, all of which are known to be good for health. the enterprise since October 2011. Pulmuone has delegated the role to lead ‘Authentic The ready-made rice steamed with other grains and vegetables is produced based on Wholesome Foods Campaign’, one of its mid-to long-term campaigns, to Food for Pulmuone’s distinct rice-cooking techniques. Now, consumers can get to eat healthy Change. It trains Fuducators(Food+Educators) to be deployed in classrooms teaching vegetable rice, which is very difficult to cook at home. the concept of authentic wholesome foods and how to choose such foods based on information on food additives, nutrients and the shelf life. Stew condiments with no artificial additives Liquid dishes such as stew tend to be highly seasoned for taste. Wishing to offer Authentic Wholesome Food Campaign: 5-year performances healthy condiments made only of natural ingredients without using any artificial additives, Pulmuone has found natural ingredients and extracts for a deeper and Campaign period 2014 10,713 people 2014 441 sessions richer taste without relying on artificial additives used for almost all processed foods : 2010 ~ present 2013 9,113 people 2013 387 sessions in Korea. 1,339 training sessions 2012 5,436 people 2012 254 sessions producing 30,365 educators 2011 4,843 people 2011 245 sessions for the past 5 years 2010 260 people 2010 12 sessions Trainees Training sessions 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 12,000 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 48 49 Green juice meets with lactic acid ‘Organic Fermentation & Enzyme Green Juice’ of Pulmuone is the first green juice DMA product to be certified as organic processed food in Korea. It has 6 organic vegetables fermented by L. Fermentum extracted from beans and mixed with fresh kale juice containing enzyme to increase the contents of active ingredients and their absorption rate. ‘Fermented Fruit & Enzyme Green Juice’, which has apple, pear, strawberry fermented with L. Fermentum and mixed with pineapple, carrot and tangerine, is Product Safety & Quality Control healthy and easy to drink, offering fruits and vegetables (10 types in total) of various colors to help consumers achieve nutritional balance. Chia seed with great texture to chew on Important as a food crop in Ancient Mayan time as suggested by historians, chia seeds are rich in omega-3 fatty acids. Pulmuone has launched ‘Plant-based Lactic Acid Chia Seed’, the 1st of its kind with 750 mg omega-3 fatty acids, produced through its distinct hydration process to retain the chewy and smooth texture of chia seeds while at the same time evenly spreading the high moisture contained in the seeds. Eco-friendly packaging Packaging materials used in food products largely use an adhesive to glue together 2 layers of film. Using a solvent-based adhesive is not technically illegal in Korea but Significance relevant home/abroad regulation and is ensuring product/ ingredient safety through periodic monitoring. It studies Pulmuone has jointly developed water-based adhesive for its packaging materials Food safety is the first and foremost issue of interest not only various analysis methods for new harmful substances with Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute in consideration of in Korea but also across the world. Pulmuone has a strict consumer health and environment. to preempt any food safety issues. As for food poisoning Water-based adhesive used policy of offering ‘authentic wholesome foods customers can The eco-friendly packing material has been used in Pulmuone tofu products starting prevention, Pulmuone continues to develop a method for fast in packaging materials for the be reassured to buy and cook for their loved ones’. To this end, environment sustainability from October 2013 and its application has been extended to cover condiments, ice, detection combining IT with BT while deploying preemptive Pulmuone has developed safety standards stricter than the sauce pouches since 2014. management system to control food poisoning. government standards, which have been applied throughout the entire process from ingredient sourcing and production to distribution, and are improved every year, incorporating the Milestone latest research results. Stakeholder Interview 1. Special biomarkers(substances that boost certain characteristics of DNA to indicate the existence of a living What’s the positive outcome and room for improvement Management organism) Clear criteria to tell unsafe products and more of Authentic Wholesome Foods Campaign? rigorous test criteria to detect residual pesticides to ensure | Policy safe ingredients sourcing While evaluating the campaign outcome, my understanding on Pulmuone foods has Pulmuone is committed to establishing a preemptive deepened and now I have stronger trust and faith in Pulmuone. I believe Pulmuone regime to prevent or stop any accident/incident at its source 2. Pulmuone Allergen Management System A new is strategically making a progress on sustainable management by joining hands with to ensure food safety and quality control. paradigm for food safety various institutions for structured trainings on authentic wholesome foods, a tool for sharing the healthy and good dietary habit with people and society. However, there |Activity 3. Safe food materials sourcing system (GAP certification) should be more efforts to raise awareness of the campaign and Pulmuone may Pulmuone monitors food safety information on an ongoing The HACCP system deployed in the company and partners, consider starting partnership with other educational programs and entities to boost basis for prevention after identifying potential safety issues. and safe food ingredients sourcing to upgrade sanitation in participation by both adults and children. The prevention efforts are reviewed at the monthly meeting. the production stage | Song, Hae-Deok, Professor of Chung-Ang University It has also defined internal standards in accordance with INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 50 51 Detection of unhealthy food materials deployed the HACCP system in its plants and partner companies to control food Unhealthy foods, defined as foods made of cheap or fake food materials or foods with safety more thoroughly. In 2014 alone, 7 Pulmuone plants as well as 21 vendor plants false information on its contents, are increasingly detected in the market nowadays. received the HACCP accreditation. Starting from 2015, products coming from new Analysis of Not only its number is growing but the method is also getting sophisticated every vendors will be subjected to HACCP, and existing supply chain partners that have yet special plant year. To solidify consumer trust, Pulmuone has identified materials likely to be used to be certified with HACCP will receive technological support from Pulmuone. DNA markers in unhealthy foods to find the right method to detect such materials. Its specially developed food DNA analysis method has been used to identify unproven oriental Strict control of residual pesticides herbs and fisheries highly likely to be used in unhealthy foods with false claims. Pulmuone invests tremendous time and cost in managing residual pesticides. It is Thanks to the efforts, now Pulmuone is able to accurately tell 10 unhealthy Oriental absolutely essential for a food company that has to process agricultural produce in a herbs including fake ginseng, licorice, Korean angelica root, and verify fishery large scale. Materials especially sensitive to the residual pesticide (e.g. organic green ingredients and their contents in fish pastes with scientific data to offer only the juice and eco-friendly produce sold by ORGA) have to go through inspection even accurate information to consumers. Pulmuone has also developed an analysis before being stocked. Pulmuone had conducted the residual pesticide inspection method to identify biomarkers of spices as well as a plant biomarker analysis method to screen out upwards of 240 chemical substances. More recently, it has expanded using chloroplast DNA markers. Pulmuone will never cease its efforts to further the inspection scope to cover more than 390 substances by advancing analysis develop its biomarker analysis for more ingredients to screen out unhealthy foods equipments and improving test methods for better safety. Pulmuone is determined to and provide only the accurate product information to consumers. go further: It will continue its R&D endeavor to secure the capacity to analyze more than 500 chemical substances by 2015. This will enable the company to manage GAP supply chain chemical substances that have yet to be registered in Korea, ensuring more thorough GAP(Good Agricultural Practices) products refer to those produced with farming safety management of imported produce, and to control chemical elements whose techniques that block out all risk factors arising from crop cultivation to sales in residual limit has been defined. order to ensure a safe and hygienic production. The GAP system has been facilitated by Codex(Codex Alimentarius Commission) and widely used in advanced agricultural Pulmuone Allergen Management System countries. Pulmuone started to implement GAP on a full scale to assure safer Food allergens are increasingly becoming a global issue, changing the paradigm for and healthier foods to consumers. It has been refining GAP product management global food safety, not just an issue confined to certain countries or groups. Food process, and generating safety indicators along with management manuals, all of industry and authorities are also stressing the need for more rigorous control of which are applied in parallel with the government’s accreditation criteria to have a allergens. Recognizing the shift in paradigm, Pulmuone has defined the allergen more rigorous management practice in place. In combination with such structured analysis method for high-risk foods including gluten, egg, peanut, shell, milk and management, Pulmuone works to communicate with consumers based on accurate, etc, and scientifically verified an unintentional inhale of allergens in the production scientic data by showing safety indicators for residual pesticides, heavy metals, toxic process. In doing so, Pulmuone has implemented preemptive management system to mold, and pathogenic microorganism. Pulmuone’s most representative GAP product, include allergen information on the product label for consumers to make an informed ‘Pulmuone Tasty Rice’, is available in retail stores across the country and some of decision. Pulmuone is determined to expand scientific verification of allergens based the vegetables used in food service business are also sourced from GAP producers. on more accurate and detailed data generated through a DNA test on 13 registerd Pulmuone plans to increase GAP produce in its portfolio going forward to offer only allergens. the safe and healthy products to consumers. HACCP system deployed HACCP(Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point) is a sanitary management system to prevent any biological, chemical or physical risk factors from coming in or contaminating the food production process, which starts with materials production and ends with consumption by end consumers. In Korea, the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety is witnessed to strengthen the HACCP management criteria and add products subjected to the criteria. In response to this, Pulmuone has proactively INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 52 53 Stakeholder Interview DMA What do you think is a priority to achieve product quality and safety management in 2014? We rolled out the PI(Process Innovation) project and standardized the quality Customer management system, which starts from sourcing of fresh ingredients and clean production in accordance with GMP and HACCP, and ends with monitoring of market Satisfaction distribution and addressing consumer complaints to remove the root cause of an issue. The project, launched at Pulmuone foods and Foodmerce in 2014, will be / Customer extended to include subsidiaries and affiliates going forward. | Cho, Sang-Woo, Head of Food Safety office of Pulmuone Corporate Technology office Communication What is the response process in the event of a food safety issue? Pulmuone understands that food business is inherently delicate to manage since it can have a great impact on consumer health. The company, therefore, places the first and foremost priority on consumer safety by making the utmost efforts to thoroughly manage the issue. In 2013, Pulmuone established a food safety system to review and address any potential risks in workplaces on an ongoing basis and report them to a monthly meeting of the Crisis Management Committee where a materialized crisis Significance to production sites. ‘After’ a compliant is received, it is first is categorized into one of the 3 stages (1~3) based on its severity. If the materialized reported to the counseling office (1st layer) and the CS Center crisis is defined as the most severe and categorized into Stage 3 as a consequence, As CCM(Consumer Centered Management) is gaining more afterwards for a phone and face-to-face interview with the its status is reported to the Crisis Management Committee led by General CEO, a importance, Pulmuone has acquired the CCM certification customer to handle the case promptly in accordance with relevant department head, Holdings Technology officer, Head of Public Relations and for proactive management of consumer feedbacks. consumer dispute settlement criteria. For maintaining and put to a discussion to find the optimum response. If a safety issue still arises despite Pulmuone promptly responds to any VOC, focusing on improvement, Pulmuone pushes for customer information such preemptive efforts, Pulmuone works hard to drill down to the roots of a problem customer communication and immediately sharing the integration, better institution for faster VOC handling, Groupand address the concerns of customers. feedbacks internally. wide e-CS upgrade, and CCM re-certification. | Cho, Sang-Woo, Head of Food Safety office of Pulmuone Coporate Technology office Management Milestone | Policy 1. CSI(Customer Satisfaction Index) Pulmuone received Pulmuone has worked strenuously to analyze underlying 90.7 CSI score in 2014, 7.6 points increase from 83.1 in customer needs through VOC(Voice of Customers) 2013. For QA(Quality Assurance), Pulmuone conducts both and applied the learned lessons into the organization. internal/external evaluation to improve counseling capability Pulmuone bases its CCM on VOC to attain CSM(Customer of the CS Center on a quarterly basis and offers individual Satisfaction Management). Pulmuone is working with coaching based on the results. partner companies for ‘preemptive’ management before consumer feedbacks, prompt customer communication 2. Monitoring survey(MI) The MI score of the CS Center ‘after’ negative VOC received, and ‘maintaining’ of the CCM was 95.9 points in 2014, which is 1.9 points higher than the process. previous year (94.0). It is an index to show how compliant a center employee is with the counseling evaluation criteria. | Activity The center was evaluated to have an ‘excellent’ level. For ‘preemption’, received VOC and VOE(Voice of Employee) are promptly shared with relevant departments and communicated INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 54 55 Customer Communication Senior executives also have an opportunity to listen to the recorded VOC calls through the periodic SCS(Strategic Customer Satisfaction) session. They get to know what Consumer opinion collection customers really feel and think about Pulmuone by listening to the unabridged, Pulmuone CS Center has deployed e-CS(Electronic Customer Satisfaction) system unedited recordings. as a tool to manage VOC. The system was upgraded in July 2013 to integrate VOC By listening to VOCs, the management identifies issues, plans improvement initiatives databases of all affiliates and subsidiaries. New functions were added in 2014 to and offers feedbacks to make Pulmuone more tuned into its customers and improve collect and incorporate consumer feedbacks for better management. its product and service quality. Pulmuone CS Center has A primary channel for VOC collection is the consultation office of the CS Center. Other deployed e-CS[Electronic Customer Satisfaction] as a channels include the company website, SNS channel and customer contact points 2) ECMD VOC management tool. on the frontline. At the CS Center, professional counseling staff has a session with ECMD operates 8 channels to collect real-time customer opinions anytime and customers to listen to their feedbacks, classifies VOCs and records them in detail to anywhere to maximize customer satisfaction. It has also deployed the VOC system be saved in e-CS. VOC saved as raw data is afterwards analyzed on a periodic basis that can expedite the process that starts with VOC receiving, making a response by CIS(Customer Information Satisfaction) to make it easily available and utilizable in and monitoring an improvement, and ends with managing Happy Calls. Collected relevant meetings and departments. Especially in 2014, CBDCs(Customer Behavior customer opinions are shared and reviewed on a daily/weekly/monthly basis to be Data Consultant) were designated and received trainings following the direction from reported to relevant councils. General CEO. The training was to improve their capability to analyze and process a massive amount of VOC big data. All of the activities demonstrate Pulmuone’s 1) CSMS : Customer ▷ Online channel strong commitment to CSM that can be achieved only when incorporating consumer Satisfaction Monitoring Website : Measures are taken in less than 10 hours upon receiving VOC via the feedbacks into its products and services. System The CS Center handles VOC for Pulmuone Foods, Pulmuone Health & Living, and website. Follow-up measures are also taken to prevent any recurrence of the Pulmuone Waters. As of the end of December 2014, a total of 134,885 VOCs have situation that had led to the VOC. been received, a 0.6% increase from 134,131 feedbacks in 2013. Looked in detail, CSMS1) : An online monitoring survey was introduced for the 1st time in the industry. distribution inquiries went down by 0.8% with complaints about distribution declining The company conducts a satisfaction survey on 1,200 panelists from client companies by 9.8%, inquiries about products were reduced by 4.5% but complaints about products every 2 months and takes follow-up measures by introducing improvement initiatives increased by 6.4%. Only a slight change was detected in distribution inquiries but and sending mails on the survey results to individual panelists. complaints about distribution showed a decreasing trend. After discovering a majority 080 call : VOC received and responded via a phone call. Operated by CS Team of distribution complaints were related to the franchisee stores of Green Juice or Tablet PC survey : Tablet PC-based survey to see the results on the spot, Greenche, Pulmuone’s training team has offered trainings via regular sessions or enabling immediate response for improvements. video clips. Also, CSM Part in charge of distribution has been changed into CCM Team to spread the CCM practices across the enterprise. Starting from the end of 2014, the CS Center has taken on the responsibility to take care of VOCs related to distribution, ▷ Offline channel which means customers can expect a more prompt and considerate response to their feedbacks. VOC post box : Receives feedbacks and suggestions via VOC postcards written by restaurant visitors on the spot. 1) Pulmuone Foods CSI paper survey: Survey results and the long-term customer management plan based on Pulmuone CS Center has been highly proactive in collecting VOCs by holding a the results are disclosed in the hall using POP for proactive improvement activities. periodic session listening to customer voice as part of the efforts to enhance the Mystery shopping: Monitoring agents acting as customers visit stores and watch organization’s sensitivity to consumers and nurture a market-oriented mindset. how sales staff responds and the store atmosphere. This is largely used to identify Pulmuone employees are dispatched to the CS Center to talk with consumers via issues in concession stores or rest stop malls. Initiatives are implemented to better phone, and listen to recorded or real-time calls. In the 1st half of 2014, heads of all the service quality. business units paid a visit to the center to listen to recorded consumer calls, and HQ customer monitoring: Used for a field visit by HQ CS Team. It collects customer in the 2nd half, participation was extended to include product planners and quality managers to make Pulmuone people more responsive to VOCs. opinions through 1:1 customer monitoring. INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 56 57 Customer data security & compliance Consumer Satisfaction Policy Pulmuone deems customer data protection highly important, and strictly abides by the Pulmuone Health & Living, Foodmerce and ORGA Whole Foods received the CCM Standard Guideline on Personal Information Protection offered by the Ministry of Security certification at the ‘CCM certification ceremony and best practice sharing for the 2nd and Public Administration and the personal information protection provision under the Act half of 2014’ held by the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry on December 11, on Promotion of Information and Communications Network Utilization and Information 2014. After Pulmuone Foods became the 1st food company to be certified with CCM Protection. In accordance with its customer data security protocol, Pulmuone informs in 2007, Pulmuone Health & Living, Foodmerce and ORGA Whole Foods followed suit customers about the purpose and method of the personal information utilization and the in 2010. ECMD soon followed by becoming the 1st food service company certified with measures the company takes to protect the personal information CCM in 2012. It is a remarkable feat to have all of its subsidiaries and affiliates be certified with CCM. Customer Satisfaction Survey 1. Pulmuone Foods CSI (Customer Satisfaction Index) The existing VOC process collected feedbacks from customers who had purchased The CSI score for 2014 recorded 90.7 points, 7.6 points higher than 83.1 in 2013. This products and used the staff services, and analyzed the VOCs to turn them into is the result of conducting both internal and external QA evaluation, and repeating business assets. But more recently, Pulmuone Foods has changed the process by evaluation and individual coaching on a quarterly basis in order to improve the looking at the underlying needs of the customers who are not voicing their opinions counseling capacity of the CS Center. The decision, made in early 2014, has bettered out loud. It also examined whether the collected VOCs are really aligned with those of the overall consulting capability of the CS Center. Better counseling service, in turn, the silent majority by measuring the accuracy and volume of the VOC data to solidify boosted customer satisfaction. The overall satisfaction score remained high across the loyal customer base and increase the corporate profit. To sustain high business various sectors and areas for 2014, but rooms for improvement were discovered in performance, Pulmuone CS Center has changed the title of VOC managers into ‘efficient work handling by the staff’, ‘prompt response’ and ‘accurate answer for CBDCs(Customer Behavior Data Consultant), signifying they are not just managers customers’. Since the counseling staff’s capability for efficient work handling is the playing only a reactive role in the VOC gathering process but consultants who most crucial factor to determine the service quality of the center, Pulmuone plans to strategically leverage VOCs to actually improve business. In 2014, the VOC education work on the issue by focusing on the CS training session for 2015. and big data project was rolled out to grow competent CBDCs. The company will continue to increase the capability to design initiatives based on VOC and carry out MI(Monitoring Index) improvement efforts. The MI score of Pulmuone CS Center increased 1.9 points from 94.0 in 2013 to 2. Foodmerce reach 95.9 in 2014. MI is an index to measure the compliance level of the center’s counseling staff with the evaluation criteria. According to the survey, the compliance Having introduced CCM in 2010, Foodmerce has established a system and a dedicated level has been confirmed to be excellent with a slight room for improvement identified team for preemptive management of consumer complaints and prompt response. in the area of ‘attentive listening’, which was the result of the service management Foodmerce received the CCM certification in 2011 for the 1st time in the food priority placed on the response rate. Realizing this, Pulmuone will come up with a distribution industry and received a commendation from the Fair Trade Commission methodology to evenly manage both the response rate and the counseling quality for its sustained maintenance and improvement on the 17th ‘Day of Consumers’ while at the same time rolling out a training program to enhance the staff’s capability in 2012. Starting from 2014, Foodmerce reinforced its regular CCM training for to listen closely to customers who want to receive a consultation from the center. employees and has worked to create consumer-oriented corporate culture by issuing CCM reports, which enabled the company to be re-certified with CCM in the 2nd half [CSI ] [Monitoring] of 2014. The recertification led CCM to take a firm root within the company. 2010 87.4 2010 95.2 3. Pulmuone Health & Living 2011 83.9 2011 95.2 Pulmuone Health & Living was certified with CCM in 2010, recertified in 2012 2012 84.5 2012 96.3 and acquired the recertification again in 2014. For the 2nd recertification in 2014, 2013 83.1 2013 94.0 Pulmuone Health & Living established basic principles of CCM and a CCM team for 2014 90.7 2014 95.9 INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 58 59 operation, and analyzed VOCs on a daily/weekly/monthly basis, placing customer 2. Pulmuone Health & Living satisfaction at the center of all its business decisions and activities. It helped the Pulmuone Health & Living sets a voluntary withdrawal process in motion when company find out the hidden customer needs that could go neglected and incorporate 3 or more customer complaints are submitted for products manufactured on them into marketing and business activities. The company changed the secretariat the same date. There were 4 cases of voluntary withdrawal in 2014: (1) The name into CCM Team for customer relations and response as part of its efforts to company distributed for free to buyers Eat Slim A La Carte (expiry date: Feb 12, enhance product and service quality from the consumer/customer perspective. 2014) which turned out to have less-than-standard product weight and sent out a notice to consumers. (2) ‘Plant-based Lactic Acid Rice’ (expiry date: Feb 14-17, 4. ECMD 2014) not satisfying the company’s quality standards were replaced with other ECMD acquired the CCM certification in January 2012 and recertification in products at franchisees before being delivered to consumers. (3) ‘I-Bogam’ was December 2013 after named as Good Practice Company. As reward, ECMD withdrawn from franchisee after detecting an expiry date mismatch between received incentives such as having the CCM mark on its products, opportunities the box and packets inside the box. (4) ‘Black Therapy ’ shampoo that failed for corporate promotion, voluntary report of consumer complaints, and less to meet the viscosity standard was stopped shipping out and those who were severe punishment in the event of violation for 2 years until December 31, 2015. already placed in franchisee were removed or exchanged with other products for consumers. 5. Exofresh Logistics Exofresh conducts the SQI(Service Quality Index) survey every year to measure customer satisfaction, and leverage the results as KPI. It also has Customer Support Team in place to better customer satisfaction. Voluntary Market Withdrawal 1. Pulmuone Foods Pulmuone Foods have removed products on its own initiative when they were found to have the potential to cause a problem or pose a risk to consumer safety in manufacturing or distribution process. Such voluntary withdrawals have Stakeholder Interview occurred 24 times in total throughout 2014. The company also monitors and updates its voluntary withdrawal process on an ongoing basis to promptly carry How do you see Pulmuone initiatives to enhance consumer satisfaction? out the removal work without making any errors. Pulmuone CS Center boasts an excellent customer satisfaction level, the highest in the food industry. It offers counseling services for customers, more superb [Number of market withdrawals by year] than those of other leading companies in electronics, communications and airline Voluntary industry. Pulmuone never ceases its efforts to provide better services, and continue Reasons for withdrawals Major to challenge itself by regularly monitoring its counseling service quality and defining withdrawal (# of cases) factors 2012 2013 2014 new strategic initiatives, which is leading to higher CSI scores. | Bae, Ji-Yeon, Deputy Dept Head of Gallup Korea No or inaccurate expiry dates, damaged Inaccurate labels 10 9 10 labels, etc Where should Pulmuone do more to improve customer satisfaction? Missing products, strange odor, sensory Defects 8 4 8 Our customers obtain information from digital media and become media themselves detection of defects, etc Products contaminated 2 2 3 Microorganisms exceeding the limit by spreading information they have. In other words, customers are building their Foreign substances 1 1 1 Foreign substances getting into products, etc power by leveraging digital media. In response to this, I believe Pulmuone CS Center Other 2 1 0 Errors in reading bar codes should not limit its communication channel to ARS calls and diversify its channels for real-time communication with customers to promptly redress their complaints. Total 23 17 22 | Bae, Ji-Yeon, Deputy Dept Head of Gallup Korea INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 60 61 DMA Economic impact of climate change Even though Pulmuone is not categorized as high energy consumer to be managed by the government’s greenhouse gas reduction target under ETS that comes into effect in 2015, the company has been involved in various efforts (i.e. high-efficiency Environment equipment deployment, production process improvement, usage of new boiler fuels with less emissions) to reduce greenhouse gas emissions for the past few years, Impact and registered itself as KVER(Korea Voluntary Emission Reduction) business under Reduction KEMCO(Korea Energy Management Corporation) to sell its emission credits to the government. Businesses obligated to meet the government’s reduction targets in 2015 must buy carbon credits at the Korea Exchange if their emissions exceed the quotas assigned by the government. Pulmuone plans to sell to the government or the Korea Exchange its credits acquired by reducing its emissions through various green initiatives. To minimize its environmental footprint, Pulmuone is also working to reduce its net emissions into ‘zero’ by operating open general shareholders’ meetings and plant tour programs as carbon neutral programs, planting trees to offset their emissions. [Emissions reduction & profit from emission credit sales] Significance wide environment safety committee makes decisions on Greenhouse gas Profit from emission credit environment strategy and policies to meet the targets. Initiatives reduction (tCO2/yr) sales to government (KRW) Pulmuone’s mission for environment safety is to ‘become In addition, ES workshops and ES working-level council a LOHAS company which puts the 1st priority on the serve as channels to communicate with working-level Replaced the steam boiler LNG fuel (2007 ~ 2012) 6,168 56,559,529 environment safety in every aspect of the entire business’. employees in each workplace. To achieve its mission, Pulmuone produces indexes regarding energy, water, greenhouse gases and wastes | Activity Reused wastewater and waste heat Pulmuone has not been named as one of the companies that discharged from the 1st and 2nd plants of for sustained monitoring on business activities that may are obligated to follow the government’s targets in ETS. But it Eumseong tofu to heat up the CIP process 1,056 11,950,752 impact the surrounding environment. ETS(Emission water, which helped reduce LNG usage Trading Scheme) introduced in Korea starting from 2015, has introduced strict criteria of its own accord to minimize air/ (2011 ~ 2013) serves as an opportunity for Pulmuone to create new water pollutant discharge throughout its production process values. Even though Pulmuone is not one of the companies while working to reduce energy consumption and greenhouse Wood pellet boilers installed at the gas emissions from its buildings, products, services and 27,520(expected) 343,174,400(expected) named to comply with TMS(Target Management Scheme), Eumseong tofu plant (2013 ~ 2018) the company is actively pursuing greenhouse gas supply chains. reduction initiatives to have its workplaces registered as KVER(Korea Voluntary Emission Reduction) businesses Policies to reduce environment impact and purchasing emission rights. Milestone To minimize a discharge of air/water pollutants in its production process, Pulmuone 1. LOHAS Academy won Grand Prize(Prime Minister has lowered its pollutant discharge limit to a half of the country’s legal threshold. Award) at the 18th Energy Winner Awards of the year and When wastewater is processed in the company’s treatment facilities without going Management another Grand Prize in the private sector at the Korea through a public wastewater treatment area before discharged into river, Pulmuone | Policy Architecture Award in 2014. applies more rigorous water quality standards to make it qualified for agricultural For environment safety management, Pulmuone plans to water. Such strict standards are also applied to overseas business sites in China, 2. ORGA Whole Foods won awards at the 1st Green reduce its energy basic unit by 25% and water basic unit by Japan and etc. Store Contest for 2014 ORGA Bang-i store[Grand Prize] 40%. General CEO leads Session E under the topic, ‘Zero in small and medium-sized store sector, ORGA Dogok Waste’ from its products and services, and the Groupstore[Excellence Award]. INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 62 63 [Pulmuone environment impact based on indexes] The passive house building can be found in Pulmuone’s training center complex, LOHAS Academy, located in Pyeongdan-ri, Cheongcheon-myeon, Goesan, North Category Sub-category Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Chungcheong. The certified 3-story building (2 floors over ground, 1 floor under Yield rate of bean products Materials usage efficiency % 367.6 373.3 380.2 360.9 401.3 414.3 321.0 ground) was completed in last December on the plot of 3,251㎡. It has been used as (Produced volume/ bean input) a ‘healing center for better lifestyle’ for the youth and Pulmuone people. A passive Direct usage kgOE/product ton 43.6 39.2 34.9 30.6 29.4 25.2 23.4 Energy house refers to a building very passive in using external energy sources, following Indirect usage kgOE/product ton 60.2 54.3 49.4 43.8 42.8 39.7 38.4 rigorous and voluntary energy efficiency standards to reduce its ecological footprint Water Consumption m³/product ton 19 15 14 12 11 9 8 by minimizing energy waste and blocking heat from leaking out. The passive house Total emissions 1,000tCO2/yr 57.5 61.5 66.2 78.0 81.7 82.1 73.7 of LOHAS Academy has strengthened air-tightness and insulation, and installed an Emissions in production 1,000tCO2/yr 34.1 36.1 37.5 38.5 38.3 35.0 32.7 automatic ventilation system to minimize carbon emissions and lower energy usage Emissions in logistics 1,000tCO2/yr 22.7 23.9 26.7 31.4 35.0 34.8 35.5 by 80~90% compared to conventional buildings. Greenhouse gases Emissions in service 1,000tCO2/yr 0.7 1.5 2.1 8.2 8.4 12.2 5.5 The passive house has passed the rigorous criteria of the German PHI(Passive House CO2 basic unit of production tCO2/product ton 0.232 0.203 0.183 0.161 0.156 0.130 0.108 Institute), receiving both the preliminary and the main accreditations. The building’s CO2 basic unit of logistics tCO2/KRW 1 mil. 0.058 0.052 0.056 0.065 0.067 0.073 0.074 Primary Energy use is 113.3kwh/㎡·a (*Primary Energy use in kwh/㎡·a: energy use per CO2 basic unit of service tCO2/KRW 1mil. 0.036 0.026 0.032 0.045 0.100 0.129 0.055 unit area including energy for heating, cooling, hot water supply, lighting and ventilation Discharge to river m³/product ton 7.2 7.4 8.7 5.4 5.1 3.9 4.8 in addition to the energy required to obtain, process, transport, convert fuel, and even Volume Ton/product ton 0.108 0.089 0.066 0.053 0.049 0.031 0.035 losses of fuel in the process of supply), which is lower than 120kwh/㎡·a, the criteria Recycling % 99 99 98 98 98 96 99 stipulated by the German PHI, clearly showing the high energy efficiency of Pulmuone Landfill % 1 1 2 1 2 % 1 passive house. It has received the energy efficiency rating of 1++ in Korea. Korea has an Waste Incineration % 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 energy efficiency system for dwellings that has 10 ratings starting from 1+++ and going Environment investment & down to 1++, 1+, and 1~7 classes. The Primary Energy usage for each rating is 80kwh/ KRW 100mil. 57.19 56.86 35.18 50.78 37.73 58.94 45.74 management expense ㎡·a, 140kwh/㎡·a, 200kwh/㎡·a, 260kwh/㎡·a, and 320~700kwh/㎡·a respectively. Energy efficiency is deemed to be higher as the Primary Energy use gets lowered. There are various reasons that helped Pulmuone passive house increase its energy efficiency: Emissions reduction in service First and foremost, Pulmuone passive house has deployed highly effective airtight and ORGA Whole Foods signed an ‘MOU on Low-Carbon Agricultural/Livestock Products insulation technologies that block energy leakage to minimize the building’s energy Accreditation-Green Card’ with the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of usage. To increase its insulation, 3-layered low-emissivity glass has been used along Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs on October 31, 2014. The MOU was signed based with airtight, insulated windows and doors certified by the German PHI. Eco-friendly on the agreement by the 2 ministries, 4 food distributors including ORGA and a cellulose insulation recycled from newspapers was used as external insulation credit card company to work together to spread the green consumption habit across materials with the thickness of 300mm for floors and ceilings to minimize energy loss. society. It aligns the low-carbon accreditation for agricultural/livestock products by In addition to all this, a rooftop garden has been created to further reduce heat loss the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs with the green card scheme by and make the building blended into the surrounding nature. the Ministry of Environment, and serves as a joint agreement by the food distributors Second, an automatic ventilation system has been deployed. The German PHIincluding ORGA to encourage production and consumption of low-carbon products, certified air conditioning system has enhanced the heat reuse rate to 87% by and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions for green consumption. recovering heat that might be lost in ventilation. LED lightings with high energy efficiency were installed in combination with the radiation heating/cooling leveraging the traditional floor heating technology of Korea for ceilings and floors. The passive Energy saving and greenhouse gas emission reduction by buildings house is regarded highly especially for Pulmuone’s effort to keep its natural 2LOHAS Academy certified as Passive House by the German Passivhaus won surroundings in tact (e.g. natural trails for a stroll, etc) and make it blended with the Grand Prize at the 18th Energy Winner Award of the Year (organized by Consumers nature. Korea) and another Grand Prize for the private sector at 2014 Korea Architecture Award (hosted by Korea Institute of Registered Architects, and organized by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transportation, and Seoul Economic Daily). INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 64 65 Emissions reduction in product aspect [Methods to offset greenhouse gas emissions from carbon-neutral products] (Unit:tCO2e/yr) Greenhouse 2,755 954 Product gas emission Pulmuone Organic Firm Tofu for Fries(340g) Pulmuone Organic Soft Tofu certifications for Stews(340g) on carbon Low-carbon agriculture/ Stage 1: Carbon emissions Stage 2: Low-carbon product Stage 3: Carbon-neutral product emissions Offset livestock products certification (Dec, 2008~) certification (Nov, 2011~) certification (Dec, 2014~) 3,209 500 Purchasing emission credits Fundraising for forestry Low-carbon technology Greenhouse gas emissions Stage 1-certified products Low-carbon certified initiatives applied to the production throughout the production with carbon emissions less products whose emission is Meaning stage to reduce emissions process translated into CO2 than the average of the same reduced to zero(0) through Environment impact reduction emissions for certification product group emission credit purchase or Pulmuone has obtained the carbon emission label certification for its ‘Pulmuone other reduction activities Local Bean Tofu for Fries 300g’, ‘Pulmuone Organic Soft Tofu 300g’, ‘ Pulmuone Organic Firm Tofu 300g’, ‘Pulmuone Local Bean Tofu for Stews 300g’ and ‘Pulmuone Primary agriculture/fishery/ Local Bean Two Cup Tofu for Stews 320g’. Products manufactured in Pulmuone Eco-friendly or GAP-certified livestock products, all Products certified as lowTarget Products certified in Stage 1 Eumseong tofu plant will be certified as low-carbon products as they are produced in farms products excluding medical carbon products in Stage 2 products and drugs the plant with wood pellet boilers powered by renewable energy, significantly reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the production process. Yeoju Polished Rice, Pulmuone Local bean Tofu Pulmuone Organic Two Cups Pulmuone Organic Firm Tofu [Carbon emissions of certified products in 2014] Cheorwon Milky Queen, for Fries [300g], Pulmuone Tofu for Stews & Fries [320g], for Fries [340g], Pulmuone Meister Peach/Strawberry/ Local Bean Tofu for Stew Pulmuone Organic Two Cups Organic Soft Tofu for Stews 266.04 263.16 Tomato, Chungju Apple, [300g], Pulmuone Organic Raw Tofu [320g] Pulmuone [340g] Uiseong Peach, Seongju Tofu with Silky Texture [300g], Saemmeul by NATURE [2L], 260.61 Oriental Melon, Uiseong Pulmuone Organic Tofu Pulmuone Saemmeul by 249.16 217.36 88.68 Certified Sweet Apple, Gongju Totato, with Firm Texture [300g], NATURE [500ml] 188.43 87.72 Pulmuone Gongju Sweet Potato, Carrot/ Pulmuone Local Bean Two 83.05 81.44 72.45 62.81 products Onion/Cabbage/Radish/ Cups Tofu for Stew [320g] Chinese Cabbage/Sweet Potato from Shincheonji Pulmuone Local Pulmuone Organic Pulmuone Organic Pulmuone Local Pulmuone Local Low-carbon Farming Association, Bean Tofu for Fries Soft Tofu 300g Firm Tofu 300g Bean Tofu for Stews Bean Two Cup Tofu certification criteria Vegetables from Eunhwa/ 300g 300g for Stews 320g Sandelmok Farming gCO2/Per product gCO2/Per 100g Association Energy·greenhouse gas reduction in logistics Pulmuone has joined the low-carbon agriculture/livestock product certification [Before eco-driving To make a proper response to climate change, Pulmuone is making efforts to scheme and the carbon emissions certification scheme to reduce greenhouse gas / After eco-driving] lower greenhouse gas emissions in its logistics. Exofresh logistics, for example, emission in the product aspect. has reduced its annual carbon emission by 3.34 tons by introducing the eco-friendly 5.16 The carbon emission label certification scheme is managed by the government. It dimmable LED lamps of high efficiency that minimizes heat generation and power consists of 3 stages: carbon emissions certification (Stage 1), low-carbon product waste by turning on the lights only when needed and maintaining the illumination certification (Stage 2), and carbon-neutral product certification (Stage 3). The carbon4.96 at the lowest level possible during waits. To reduce environment footprint of its neutral certification is given to low-carbon certified products whose emissions are After eco-driving logistics vehicles, the eco-driving practice has been consistently implemented since reduced to zero through various activities. ‘Pulmuone Organic Soft Tofu for Stews Before eco-driving September 2013. This has improved the fuel efficiency by 3.2% from 4.96km/L to 340g’ and ‘Pulmuone Organic Firm Tofu for Fries 340g’ have received the carbonAverage fuel efficiency of 5.16km/L on average. The thermal storage refrigeration/freeze system has been also neutral certification for the 1st time in Korea’s food industry. These carbon-neutral delivery vehicles(km/L) installed to control discharge of air pollutants to the indoor air including basement, products emit 3,709 tons of carbon throughout the production process, which is and air spoilers are distributed to cut fossil fuel consumption by enhancing the fuel planned to be offset by planting trees and buying emission credits. efficiency of cargo vehicles. INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 66 67 ORGA Whole Foods winning at Green Store Contest ORGA Whole Foods is a retailer of Pulmuone eco-friendly products. At the 1st ‘Green Store Contest ’ hosted by the KEITI(Korean Environmental Industry & Stakeholder Interview Technology Institute) in 2014, ORGA Bang-i and ORGA Dogok stores received Grand Prize(Environment Minister Award) and Excellence Prize(KEITI Award) How do you rate Pulmuone’s endeavor to lessen respectively. ORGA Whole Foods runs ‘ Green Zone ’ within its stores which its environment impact? displays and sells a collection of products certified with the eco-friendly mark, Pulmuone LOHAS Academy was named as Energy Winner at the award ceremony in gives extra benefit points when customers use the Green Card, rolls out ‘Eco 2014. Pulmuone should be highly commended for its efforts and heavy investment Bag Campaign ’ and offers ‘ LOHAS lectures ’ where attendees can visit ecoto develop methods, technologies and equipment for the passive house with the best friendly farms and learn eco-friendly lifestyle so that customers can lead more energy efficiency in Korea, a country where any efforts to enhance energy efficiency environment-friendly lifestyle for themselves. of buildings has been mostly led by the government, not private businesses. Since ORGA is practicing a range of green management practices: It sells upwards of pollutants are emitted throughout the entire product cycle from production and 5,000 eco-friendly products with the eco label and best recycling certification, transportation to usage and disposal, Pulmuone needs to go beyond energy-saving reduces greenhouse gas emissions by installing LED lightings in the stores and to minimizing the usage and emission of pollutants throughout its supply chain. It monitoring the energy usage, and uses eco-friendly packages including shopping is also well advised to cut the travel distance of food materials by sourcing as much bags made of sugar cane extracts to minimize its footprints on the environment. local food materials as possible for processed foods. | Lee, Eun-Young, Secretary General of Consumers Korea Waste reduction Pulmuone Waters is engaged in persistent efforts to reduce its environmental footprint and save cost as much as possible by minimizing the preform weight, a material for a PET bottle. Starting from 2009, the plant has continued its endeavor to reduce the preform weight. Thanks to the effort, it succeeded in reducing the weight of a bottle cap from 2g to 1.35g when it started the operation of its Idong plant. Recognized for the progress, Pulmuone Waters received a certification of ‘Low Carbon Product’ and ‘Green Packaging’ in 2013, and acknowledged as being compliant in the follow-up inspections on carbon emission label afterwards. Ozone depleting substance control Pulmuone has introduced the ammonia industrial refrigeration system, which is known to have virtually no impact on the ozone layer, in a bid to cut back on the usage of ozone-depleting substances. It is also using eco-friendly refrigerants for new facilities while managing the refrigerant charges for existing refrigeration systems. [Ozone depleting substance emissions] Year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Emission(kg) 1,339 3,695 3,239 3,572 3,888 4,224 3,237 4,408 INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX Social Performance 68 -Employees 69 -Partner Companies -Communities Environmental Performance Social Employment Policy Performance Employment status & policy Employees Pulmuone, guided by its fair and equal employment principle, does not discriminate against women or the physically challenged in its recruitment, hiring or treatment of employees, and endeavors to protect human rights for its managers and employees alike. The company has instituted a communication system to create mutual benefits for its labor-management relationship while promoting the work-life balance for employment stability. It also provides systematic support for its employees to lead a LOHAS way of life by giving them opportunities to directly try out a LOHAS valueoriented program. LOHAS CSR Equal Human rights Employee LOHAS value employment protection communication promotion PERFORMANCE Personnel recruiting in principal business regions Pulmuone recruits talents through the recruiting website or search firms for its offices in China and Japan. Applicants should be Chinese or Chinese-speaking Koreans, and Japanese or Japanese-speaking Koreans respectively. Applicants who pass the preliminary screening based on their resumes are invited to a job interview with the company. New hires who receive grades higher than the company criteria become candidates for Regular full-time employment after a probation period. Once qualified with the grades, they can be signed on as regular employees. Employment composition As of end of 2014, the total number of employees stood at 5,629 people. Aside from the Managerial/operational positions, the general HR structure centers around sales frontline, logistics/production, sales offices and cook/dietician. Out of 5,629 employees in total, 2,535 are male and 3,094 are females. Women make up 55% of the total headcount and 36% of office workers and researchers, evenly spread across all job functions. Pulmuone offers only the best products with deep affection for humans and nature. Here is the overview of what Pulmuone has achieved for the past year Females on the payroll while taking the path of a LOHAS company. Total employees(end of 2014) 55% 5,629people INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 70 71 [Employment status] Employee composition by job category/gender * Turnover rate: (monthly Year 2012 2013 2014 As of the end of 2014, Pulmuone had 2,535 male employees and 3,094 female average turnover ÷ monthly average number of Total headcount (people) 4,968 5,175 5,629 employees. The ratio of females is especially higher in event promotion(1,046 women) employees) X 100 Managerial (%) 0.70 0.77 0.73 and cook/dietician(1,148 women). Event promoters and cooks/dieticians take up Employment Years in service (years) 5.3 5.4 5.3 70.9% of the total female employees. * Job creation rate: Job creation rate(%) 4.5 4.2 8.8 (employees for the year – Temporary employment rate(%) 11.1 10.2 11.8 [Employee composition by job category/gender] employees for the previous year) ÷ employees for the Regular (%) 1.7 1.8 1.4 Job category Gender 2012 2013 2014 previous year X 100 Turnover Temporary (%) 11.1 19.6 17.1 Male 571 626 560 Operation/Managerial/ Work Support Total (%) 2.74 3.61 3.29 Female 416 371 350 Share in total headcount (%) 56 54 55 Subtotal 987 997 910 Female Office/research positions (%) 34 34 36 Male 459 430 476 Sales Above managers (%) 18 21 23 Female 103 161 219 Physically Subtotal 562 591 695 Share in total headcount (%) 0.5 0.5 0.5 challenged Male 90 96 121 R&D Employees on maternity leave (people) 72 94 101 Female 68 61 94 Maternity leave Maternity leave usage (%) 100 100 100 Subtotal 158 157 215 Post-maternity leave return (%) 97 98 96 Male 34 35 39 Logistics(Exofresh Logistics) Employees on childcare leave (people) 88 90 92 Female 6 6 6 Childcare leave Childcare leave usage (%) 122 96 91 Subtotal 40 41 45 Post-childcare leave return (%) 92 92 95 Male 435 477 519 Production Female 214 210 231 Subtotal 649 687 750 Male 33 17 6 Promotion/Store Floor [Employment by geography/gender] Female 1,291 1,223 1,046 Subtotal 1,324 1,240 1,052 Year 2014 Male 578 701 814 male 1,459 Cook/Dietician Seoul, Gyeonggi Female 670 761 1,148 female 1,745 Subtotal 1,248 1,462 1,962 male 61 Busan Male 2,200 2,382 2,535 female 178 Total Female 2,768 2,793 3,094 male 44 Daegu Grand total 4,968 5,175 5,629 female 176 male 187 North/South Gyeongsang Headcount by geography female 290 male 174 Jeolla/Gwangju female 246 male 575 North/South Chungcheong female 347 male 56 Daejeon female 91 Total 5,629 INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 72 73 Executive-employee status New hires & employee attrition by gender As of the end of 2014, Pulmuone has 42 senior executives(41 males, 1 females) and In 2014, Pulmuone newly hired 1,117 regular employees and 1,200 temporary 794 middle managers(636 males, 148 females). workers, creating jobs for 2,317 people in total. New hires now account for 41.2% of the total payroll. Broken down by age group, those in 20s and 30s account for the Year 2012 2013 2014 bigger proportion with 590 new hires in their 20s and 375 new hires in their 30s. But Regular 4,417 4,646 4,965 in 2014, 2,221 people in total left Pulmuone (859 regular workers and 1,362 temporary Headcount(employment type) Temporary 551 529 664 workers). The employee attrition rate for temporary jobs increased compared to the Total 4,968 5,175 5,629 previous year as promoter jobs started to be outsourced. Regular 5.8 5.9 5.9 Years in service Temporary 1.2 1.1 1.1 Year 2012 2013 2014 Total 5.3 5.4 5.3 Male 494 584 623 Male 35 40 41 New hires (Regular) Female 484 468 494 Management(executives) Female 1 1 1 Subtotal 978 1,052 1,117 Total 36 41 42 Male 89 86 128 Male 615 623 646 New hires (temporary) Female 563 626 1,072 Middle management Female 112 130 148 Subtotal 652 712 1,200 Total 727 753 794 Total new hires 1,630 1,764 2,317 Hiring rate (%) 32.8% 34.1% 41.2% Average male-female pay by job type 20s 508 525 590 The average pay of Regular workers with 14 years in service stands at KRW 30s 325 353 375 New hires by age (Regular) 45,535,000 for males and KRW 36,764,000 for females, which takes up 55.3% and 40s 117 129 104 44.7% of the total payroll expense respectively. 50s and older 28 45 48 The average pay for male workers stands higher compared to the pay for females Subtotal 978 1,052 1,117 since women account for a higher portion in frontline jobs (i.e. cook/dietician) and 20s 118 91 157 the pay structure and grade differs depending on job type within the company. For 30s 167 169 101 example, there is no noticeable difference in the average pay between men and New hires by age (temporary) 40s 286 324 383 women when it comes to office workers in managerial or operation functions. 50s and older 81 128 559 Subtotal 652 712 1,200 Job creation & turnover Male 400 468 427 The job creation rate for 2014 reached 8.8% with 3.3% monthly turnover rate, a slight Number of attrition (Regular) Female 369 415 432 decline from the previous year. Average years in service stood at 5.3 years, and the Subtotal 769 883 859 management accounted for 0.7% of the total headcount as of the end of 2014. Number of attrition Male 72 130 111 Year 2012 2013 2014 (temporary) Female 366 593 1,251 Total headcount (people) 4,968 5,175 5,629 Subtotal 438 723 1,362 Management (%) 0.70 0.77 0.73 Total attrition 1,207 1,606 2,221 Employment Years in service (years) 5.3 5.4 5.3 Male-Regular 0.8% 0.8% 0.7% Job creation rate (%) 4.5 4.2 8.8 Female-Regular 0.7% 0.7% 0.7% Temporary employment rate (%) 11.1 10.2 11.8 Attrition rate(%) [monthly] Male-temporary 1.1% 2.0% 1.4% Female-temporary 5.5% 9.3% 15.7% Total attrition rate 2.0% 2.6% 3.3% INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 74 75 20s 310 325 334 When planning training programs, Pulmuone offers tailored curriculum to leaders, taking 30s 311 350 316 into account their positions in the organization hierarchy and responsibilities. Among the Attrition by age (Regular) leadership qualities the company deems necessary for its leaders, more important ones 40s 126 167 134 50s 43 48 75 are selected to match the job type of each leader so that they can learn what they need to 20s 65 104 120 perform their jobs. The leadership training in 2014 was done in workshop or discussion to 30s 90 110 130 motivate employees to take part in actively. A relevant task was assigned to each trainee Attrition by age (temporary) along with an opportunity to deliver a presentation on their assignment. Trainings were 40s 189 354 485 structured into preliminary, main and follow-up phases in order to change it from one-off 50s 73 148 627 event to a more systemic and sustained opportunity. Leadership Growth and Leadership Advanced programs especially focused on the main phase, placing 4 sessions and 8 Average years in service sessions respectively for the main stage. To remind trainees of what has been learned The average years of employment were 5.9 years for regular workers and 1.1 years during the session and continuously develop their leadership capability, Pulmuone sent for temporary workers in 2014. out leadership letters to the attendees for 8 times after the training is over. Year 2012 2013 2014 Mentoring program Regular 5.8 5.9 5.9 Years in As part of the on-boarding endeavor for new hires, Pulmuone holds a quarterly Temporary 1.2 1.1 1.1 employment mentoring session. It is an open scheme where mentees can get to choose their Total 5.3 5.4 5.3 own mentors. In order to release the burden on new employees when they have their direct superiors as their mentors and facilitate effective communication, Pulmuone makes it a rule for mentees to choose only those at different organizations as their Talent Development & Growth mentors. For ongoing interaction, Mentoring Day(semi-monthly) and Mentoring Workshop are held with monthly activity grants paid to mentees. The year 2014 saw Pulmuone put a focus on growing Pulmuone people as ‘knowledge workers’ and 48 employees actively participating in mentoring activities up until the 4th quarter. developing their global business capacity in 2014. It first renewed and distributed Thanks to the mentoring program, new hires were able to comfortably settle the training contents via various channels so that employees can better understand themselves into the organization by taking part in various club activities. the capabilities and work know-how required to grow as ‘knowledge worker’ while teaching concrete ways of implementation. It went on to add Chinese and Japanese Knowledge worker program extended to all business units courses to employee foreign language programs which had had only the English to boost core capabilities course before. Pulmuone also offered action learning-based programs to further develop business capability and leadership quality of HIPO(High-Performer). Since 2011, Pulmuone has offered the knowledge worker program with the aim of maximizing employee capability to implement corporate vision and aspiration. The audience was extended in 2014 to include field workers so that they can also understand Pulmuone mission and vision along with the purpose of the assigned work. By putting up a poster on knowledge workers, Pulmuone increased employees’ exposure to the concept and helped them learn about core capabilities in their own workplaces. In 2015 and onwards, the online course for knowledge worker training will be ready and available to all employees across the Group. Leadership training Foreign language class Pulmuone holds leadership training every year for employees to be promoted to a higher Pulmuone has opened foreign language classes to develop global business capability job grade as part of the company’s efforts to better the capacity of leaders. In 2014, of employees as the company expands its business overseas. The language class Leadership Basics, Leadership Growth, Leadership Advanced and Executive Leadership proceeds in small groups of 4~8 people. In the 1st half of 2014, 38 employees from 4 programs were offered for employees expected to be promoted for a higher job grade. classes completed the 5-month course from March to July. In the 2nd half, the course INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 76 77 lasted 4 months from September to December, producing 45 graduates in 7 classes. infants and young children, and to offer better working environments for female During the 2nd half, each class was ruled to have no more than 8 people to maximize employees. The company will continue to enhance and expand its employee benefits its effectiveness, and courses became more diversified with the addition of Chinese further, and develop unique welfare system of LOHAS lifestyle for all its employees. and Japanese to English. [Primary welfare programs] Program Description Work-Life Balance Pulmuone provides selective welfare system so employees can choose from various welfare options according to their own needs. The program offers fixed amount of welfare points per year to allow Zero Zero Metabolic Syndrome Campaign for Employees employees to use the points for options of their choices such as books, performances, travels, theme In March 2014, Pulmuone rolled out ‘Zero Zero Metabolic Syndrome Campaign for Cafeteria benefit plan parks, health check-ups within the given limit. In addition, as a leading LOHAS company, it provides Employees’. In partnership with the Gangnam district health clinic, Pulmuone waged LOHAS points to its employees to promote healthy lifestyle, and allow a better access to purchase the campaign for 6 months during which 236 employees received the 1st round of various health supplements, cosmetics, ORGA Whole Foods products at a discount. health checkup to exam their metabolism. The campaign confirmed 45 employees to have the metabolic syndrome and 123 employees at risk. After the 6-month campaign When employees purchase fresh raw foods, green juice, spring water, health supplements, Pulmuone Support for purchasing was over, risk factors in employees’ daily lives were reduced to 1.6~2.3 on average. contributes a set amount (30~40% of the price) to let employees and their families enjoy an array of Pulmuone products Pulmuone products inexpensively. Risk factors When employees form clubs in pursuit of sports, hobbies, culture or volunteer work, they are reduced Support for club activities supported with expenses to establish and operate a club. As of end of 2014, 50 clubs are in operation to have more than 1,000 employees as active members. Waist Blood Blood Neutral measurement pressure sugar fat When there are injuries or deaths of employees on the job or outside of the job, KRW 100 million is Group insurance policy paid. Depending on individual contract or insurance riders, medical bills for cancer diagnosis and 2 (life/accidents) LOHAS nutrition program major diseases (stroke, heart attack) can be supported or subsidized. Pulmuone invites clinical dieticians every Thursday to offer consultation on nutrition. By opening up around 20 recreational facilities across the country, Pulmuone is funding holidays for It is a health management program to prevent or treat chronic lifestyle diseases Access to resort facilities its employees and their families. The company also allows employees an access to LOHAS Academy including obesity, hypertension, diabetes and dyslipidemia. Employees can receive and LOHAS Academy in Goesan, North Chungcheong, to try out LOHAS lifestyle. a total of 5 sessions of tailored consultations for their nutrient intake and health regimen. In 2014, 103 employees participated in the program to receive health advice. Professional consultation for lifestyle and diet plans is available from nutrition specialist to all The participants reported some notable health improvements such as body fat loss(Nutrition consultation employees, similar to the services provided by hospitals and some private companies that aim to 1kg~ 9.4kg at maximum) and improvement in diabetes or dyslipidemia control. manage health of their executives and employees. Welfare benefits Pulmuone provides financial aid for EAP(Employee Assistance Program: professional counseling Pulmuone offers a range of employee benefits to imbue employees with a sense program), major life events and school tuitions. It also awards long-serving employees, supports of pride for the company and to cultivate a good working environment. Since 2012, Others infant and young children care allowances, extends loan system through mutual cooperatives, Pulmuone has instituted congratulatory gifts for employees with more than 2 supports self-development and health check-ups, assists in housing lease for employees assigned to childbirths, childcare support for employees who have children with disabilities, the workplace far away from their own hometown. and support for the 70th birthday celebration expense in addition to the existing support for major life events (expenses for weddings and funerals), health check-up Integrated internal Pulmuone; Daewoong Pharmaceutical WONANDONE Bullsone; Kooksoondang brewery; Sempio for employees aged 40 and over. To top it off, the company has added new support sales mall, Foods products are on offering through a new concept known as ‘welfare mall’ where products are system for benefit riders on group insurance. Furthermore, the company has built Zero Shop(Oshop mall) available at 15~50% discounts for internal sales to employees. Pulmuone daycare center to lessen the burden of the employees caring for their INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 78 79 Retirement pension plan Inform what LOHAS life means by showing a diet nutritionally balanced with authentic Diet wholesome foods that can prevent obesity or other metabolic diseases prevalent in modern life. Pay into the Provide a Teach a range of ways (counseling, meditation, yoga, etc) to understand and control one’s mind, pension fund Mindset stream of conducive to maintain a peace of mind. and control income after its operation Body Offer easy exercise tips in daily spaces (living room, bedroom, bathroom, office space, outdoors) retirement Share good practices to save energy and preserve the environment, and teach the importance of Company Financial entity Retiree Environment cleaning and the right cleaning habits to remove fine dust and other health risks in daily environment November 2011, Pulmuone introduced the corporate retirement pension Family camp at LOHAS Academy program to assist employees in building their own assets to prepare for life after LOHAS Academy, serving as a lifestyle healing center for its employees, has extended retirement. It was a decision to improve employee welfare, recognizing their its 4-element program(diet, mindset, body, environment) to cover family members needs to have income security in old age. Pulmuone has bought the DB(Defined of employees as well. It supports not just employees but also their families to take Benefit) plan to assure employees the same amount of money to the existing up the desirable lifestyle habits. The camping program tries to involve all family severance payment. members, exposing them to the beauty of nature as a refreshing rest. After the program is over, employees can practice Pulmuone values more easily at their home Pulmuone daycare center with the help of their family members. Pulmuone opened its 1st daycare center in the headquarters building on March 10, 2014. It takes care of children of employees not just of the parent company but also of subsidiaries. The daycare center in the size of 510㎡ uses ecoHuman Rights & Diversity friendly materials and paints in consideration of health and safety of children. It is walled with Japanese cypress materials known to exude phytoncide, and No discrimination: prevention & monitoring colored with eco-friendly paints. It also features the moss wall which naturally Signing the UN Global Compact, Pulmuone has aligned its business strategy in controls humidity of indoor air, and spacious indoor playground. Opening of a human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption with the 10 principles of the daycare center in the company building has relieved the heavy childcare burden Global Compact, and is fully committed to eradicating discrimination in employment on employees, helping them focus on their work. As of end of 2014, the center is and occupation following Principle 6(“Businesses should uphold the elimination of taking care of 32 children (maximum capacity: 74 children). discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.”). In compliance with the Labor Standards Act, Pulmuone expressly stipulates in its corporate policy (refer to LOHAS lifestyle program Article 5. Rules for Employment) prohibition of any discriminatory treatment based on race, gender, age, religion, social status, hometown, academic background, marriage Aspiring to become a leading LOHAS company, Pulmuone encourages its status·pregnancy·childbirth, medical history, nationality and disability in areas from employees to practice the healthy LOHAS lifestyle, and doesn’t spare any efforts hiring and training to compensation and promotion. Thanks to the strenuous efforts to support LOHAS life. The LOHAS lifestyle program consists of 4 major aspects: to root out all discriminatory practices, there has not been one single case of violation diet, mindset, body and environment. The program guides employees and their for the past 3 years. families to lead healthy life based on the LOHAS diet along with an access to On the working level, Pulmuone holds a workshop attended by HR managers, LOHAS Academy more than once per year as a refreshing respite from hectic business support team leaders, production managers and plant managers across days in the city. the enterprise every 2 months where they examine any occurrence of discriminatory treatments or practices toward employees. For monitoring, it carries out periodic or ad-hoc labor inspection more than once a year (15 times in 2014) across its workplaces. Especially, right after the Act on the Protection of etc., of Fixed-Term and Part-Time Employees and the Act on the Protection of etc., of Dispatched Workers were revised by the government to extend the area of non-discrimination from ‘wage and other working conditions’ to ‘wage, incentives, welfare benefits and other working conditions’ for temporary workers, Pulmuone established a TFT to INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 80 81 abolish discriminatory practices, if any, by re-examining the issue and focusing its of 2014 confirmed Pulmuone has no child or juvenile worker aged 18 or younger. As efforts on filling the loopholes in institution or operation that can lead to any type of of 2014, no partner companies of Pulmuone were involved with child labor and as discrimination. In the regular labor inspection for 2014, Pulmuone reviewed all labor Pulmuone strictly follows relevant regulations, it has made a firm principle not to contracts of its employees to see whether there is any discriminatory treatment in the transact with companies using child labor. employment contract. Female leadership development No forced labor policy & monitoring Female-friendly corporate culture is essential to help female workers continue their ‘No forced labor’ is one of the crucial elements in the Labor Standards Act. Pulmuone careers after marriage while taking care of their children, the future of our country. doesn’t permit or condone any types of forced labor. This is expressly stipulated in Pulmuone recognizes the high value of female talents and strives to create the Global Compact Principle 4(“Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of institutional and cultural environment where women can maintain balance between forced and compulsory labor.”), and during its annual labor inspection, the company their work and family. Pulmuone is seen to have successfully established a femalealso goes out to detect any violation of this firm principle, especially forced labor of friendly culture thanks to its impartial and performance-based evaluation system the vulnerable (e.g. women, underage, migrant workers, etc). Regarding maternity irrespective of gender. It goes beyond just offering some benefits to female employees protection, for example, Pulmuone always seeks consent for overtime work from a to empowering women, which results in stronger competitiveness of the company. female worker in accordance with the Labor Standards Act when it has been less Thanks to such endeavor, Pulmuone’s female employee ratio is higher than other than a year since she gave birth to her child, prohibits pregnant workers from working companies, and the ratio of female managers or executives is steadily increasing overtime, at late night or holidays and lowers their workload during pregnancy. This every year. In 2013, a special lecture on work-life balance for career women was held is all part of its efforts to strictly abide by all relevant regulations to protect socially or for female workers. In 2014, Pulmuone revised its evaluation scheme for those on physically disadvantaged people. Pulmuone also took one step further to guarantee childcare leave, which is not to place female workers at disadvantage when they are the right of female workers in September 2014 by mandating workplaces to reduce rated for promotion. It was part of the efforts to increase the ratio of female executives work hours of female workers in less than 12 weeks or more than 36 weeks of to 30%. Pulmuone plans to add more institutions to develop female leadership in the pregnancy by 2 hours without cutting their salary. The less-workhour benefit used to company going forward. be given only when it was requested by the person in question, but now the company Pulmuone sometimes places has made it mandatory for all workplaces, spearheading the initiative for maternity [Female-friendly work environment] high school graduates at one of its business sites upon the protection. Objective Description request of high schools or Furthermore, Pulmuone stipulates in its employment policy and collective agreement Female worker empowerment Increase female employee engagement in the employee council to develop their leadership qualities relevant authorities. Some of that the company should allow menstrual leave, pre/post-childbirth leave(miscarriage these trainees are younger Guarantee an equitable treatment (i.e. promotion, compensation, etc) for the same job description or stillbirth included), paternity leave and less workhours when employees have to No discrimination than 18 years old if they got and hierarchical rank into primary school at 7 years raise babies. They also define the criteria for application, grant and period of family old and became high school care leave. There has not been a single breach of these policies for the past 3 years. Counseling on child raising Offer 1:1 counseling with a specialist seniors at 17 years of age. But Pulmuone willingly goes beyond just abiding by its ‘no forced labor policy’ to granting and education these cases are not viewed up to 6-month leave every 2 years for unspecified but justifiable personal reasons in Lounge for female workers Provide a cozy rest place with the heating floor and a lactation room for female employees as Pulmuone employing child labor since the company addition to the conditions defined by the relevant law. As long as there is a justifiable Pregnancy checkup leave Provide 1-day monthly paid leave to examine the fetal health had no choice but to give an reason, employees can take their time off whenever and however long (up to 6 Strongly encourage taking a half-day off for childcare and offer reduced work hours when opportunity to these students months) they want, and return to their work as guaranteed by the company policy. More days off for childcare employees have to take care of their babies to experience field work upon the request of public offices or Flexible work regime Allow employees to come to or leave work at different times to support their childcare high schools, and employing No child labor policy & monitoring Childcare allowance the high school graduates Abiding by Global Compact Principle 5(“Businesses should uphold the effective Offer childcare allowance up to 24 months to support those on childcare leave for those on childcare leave is unavoidable to help the abolition of child labour.”), Pulmuone works to eradicate child labor and remains in schools and public offices Pregnant employees are guaranteed to work less hours. The benefit is mandated and therefore full compliance with the Labor Standards Act and no child or forced labor policy of Less work hours train skilled technicians. To be automatically given; women don’t have to submit an application if they got pregnant. sure, Pulmuone always pays ILO(International Labor Organization). Pulmuone does not operate any business with for pregnant employees (2-hour reduction per day in less than 12 weeks or more than 36 weeks of pregnancy) appropriate wage to these field high risk of employing child labor. The periodic labor inspection conducted at the end interns. INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 82 83 Win-Win Industrial Relations Union member status Each labor union defines its own qualifications and conditions for membership Freedom of association according to its own provisions, and those entitled to labor unions are free to join any As stipulated in Global Compact Principle 3(“Businesses should uphold the freedom unions of their choosing to carry out activities as members. In addition, in accordance of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.”), with the Labor Union and Labor Relations Adjustment Act, those who are recognized Pulmuone guarantees the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. as the company’s employees, are allowed to establish a labor union themselves. In accordance with the Constitution, and the Trade Union and Labor Relations As of end of 2014, the agreed collective bargaining was directly applied to only 361 Adjustment Act, Pulmuone fully guarantees its employees the right to establish a labor out of more than 5,600 employees across the Group, which is a mere 6.4% of the total union or another form of body to represent employees. This means every employee workforce. However, Pulmuone applies the collective bargaining negotiated with the is entitled to joining a labor union based on the aforementioned act and the collective labor union of each workplace equitably to all employees in that workplace, which labor agreement of the company. Pulmuone has shown stellar performance in this area means it is applied to more than 560 workers entitled to join the labor union, around as it has recorded not a single violation of the freedom of assembly and association, 10% of the total workforce. and not a single complaint from employees. Plus, it has never been accused of having Furthermore, when new welfare benefits are introduced as agreed upon by the unfair labor practices which run counter to the freedom of association for the past 3 collective agreement with labor unions, Pulmuone extends the scope of recipients to years. ECMD, one of the subsidiaries operating the service business, also completed a include those working in the sites with no labor union organized yet. This means the collective bargaining in good faith with its new labor union founded in 2014. collective agreement can be applied to as much as 100% of all employees depending Thanks to all these efforts, Pulmuone is successfully establishing a more advanced on specific cases. When the retirement age was raised to 60 years old, for example, labor-management relations across the Group. PPEC Eumseong Noodles, which through a collective bargaining agreement, Pulmuone made sure all employees are has the largest labor union among Pulmuone affiliates and subsidiaries (116 union subject to the new retirement age. members and 100% participation among qualified employees), received the ‘Win-Win (As of end of 2014) Cooperation’ certificate from the Ministry of Employment and Labor in 2011. Pulmuone Pulmuone Health&Living is convinced there’s not a single business at risk of violating the freedom of association PPEC ECMD PPEC and collective bargaining. Even though Pulmuone is refraining itself from demanding the Eumseong PPEC PPEC Pulmuone (Dongsan Site Eumseong Green Health fresh Chuncheon Uiryeong Waters Medical same preventive practices for its partner companies since it can be seen as interference sprouts juice functional noodle Center) of business toward its partners standing on an equitable footing, it tries hard not to have any transaction with those who don’t recognize the freedom of association. Company-level/ Industry-level/ FKCWU CTIU Total Labor union structure (Federation of (Chemical and CompanyCompanyCompanyIndustryIndustryPulmuone has 8 labor unions across the Group as of end of December 2014. A total of Korean Chemical Textile Industry CompanyUnion type/ level/ level/ level/ level/ level/ KCTU, Worker’s Union) Union) level/ 67.8% of the employees have joined the unions. There may be some minor differences Head union FKCWU of FKCWU of FKCWU of CTIU of Medical of FKTU of KCTU FKTU in organizational structure of the labor union but in general, labor organizations are FKTU FKTU FKTU KCTU Solidarity (Federation of (Korean structured as described in the following chart. Korean Trade Confederation of Unions) Trade Unions) [Labor union organization chart] Members Total (people) 101 79 154 53 86 96 123 33 692 (Representatives) Qualified people) 81 79 116 42 77 75 87 25 557 Union members (people) 79 78 116 12 25 20 31 15 361 Chairperson Membership rate (%) 97.5 98.7 100.0 28.6 32.5 26.7 35.6 60.0 64.8 Deputy Accounting/Audit Chairperson Head of Head of Head of General Head of Head of Organization Dispute Affairs Welfare Education INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 84 85 Policy & process to communicate with employees As mentioned above in corporate communication channels, the prior notice regarding operational changes period varies depending on scale or importance of a planned change. If an The retirement age was Common understanding and cooperation from employees are crucial in order operational change is material (e.g. an introduction of the job-based pay), it is raised to 60 or older for important policies and structural changes to succeed within an organization. notified at least 1 year before the expected occurrence but other changes are just Bearing this in mind, Pulmuone engages its union representatives to share noticed on a daily basis. information through the Labor Management Council and takes appropriate 1)KWP(Knowledge Worker Communication channel Cycle Description consultation processes whenever there is a major change in its operation. Platform): Pulmuone Likewise, for sites where there are established unions, the company consults Intranet Yearly, Every year : Changes in major working condition such as wage Collective bargaining with the labor unions to set basic direction for personnel policies based on the Ongoing Ongoing : Items that require labor-management discussion collective agreement. When it comes to any material changes in the company’s Share management status, discuss important issues operation such as partial outsourcing, or split, merger and acquisition, Pulmuone Labor Management Quarterly between labor-management, handle grievances for consults with its labor unions as part of the ongoing effort for employment (employees) Council employees stability. CEO round-table Bimonthly Conversation with the CEO In addition, Pulmuone’s labor-management engages in collective negotiations every year to agree on wage and working conditions through periodic meetings. Communication with Bimonthly Provide material information for all employees Since the Act on Prohibition of Age Discrimination in Employment and Aged employees Employment Promotion is scheduled to take effect in 2016, raising the legal Environmental Bimonthly Discuss all topics related to occupational safety retirement age to 60 years old or higher, Pulmuone signed in 2014 a collective Safety Commission bargaining agreement with its labor unions to raise the corporate retirement age from 55 to 60 before the law comes into effect. And afterwards, the company held Annual Report Yearly Report major policies, performance, plans a workshop on the new retirement age and its consequences to gather opinions of employees. Gathering opinions and building a consensus as part of proactive Handle employee grievance redress and preparation certainly helped implementation of the change across the Group Irumi proposal system Ongoing proposal processing through internal system before the law is implemented. As for the job-based pay system scheduled to Better remedy grievances and improve policy take effect in 2015, Pulmuone spent as long as 2 years from the 2nd half of 2013 to 2014 for preparation alone, holding employee workshops dozens of times where employees offered ideas and opinions, and distributing materials with Performance Jan~Feb: Goal-setting | Apr: 1Q progress check management Interview Semiannually | Jul: 1H progress check | Oct: 3Q progress check detailed information to enhance employees understanding on the new payment (Communication for Success) | Following Jan: Performance evaluation system after its implementation. Pulmuone is improving its communication with employees across the company by providing information and consistently Grievance redress, reinforcing its negotiation process. ER(Employee Relations) Ongoing Handle grievances of employees, and etc face-to-face talk Furthermore, the company uses its internal communication channels to share information with employees. Announcing daily sales, holding regular laborDaily, Deliver daily sales report, important external Intranet system (KWP1)) management council and round-table meetings with the CEO, providing Ongoing / internal information weekly updates of internal/external information via Intranet(KWP), publishing Publish Pulmuone’s e-company magazine ‘Pulstory’ company magazines(monthly), conducting Occupational Safety & Health Publish internal newsletter Monthly Introduce company-related information and activities Committee(quarterly), institutionalizing the grievance redress system, publishing SNS Voice of Customers, Voice of Employees, the annual report(yearly), and communicating with employees are all part of Ongoing (Facebook, Twitter), blog other information, etc. Pulmuone’s endeavor to provide comprehensive information about management across the organization. By sharing visions and aspirations of the company with employees, Pulmuone encourages and enhances a sense of ownership and engagement of its employees as stakeholders. INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 86 87 Unfair labor practice alert process & its status the sudden collective action, based on Global Compact Principle 3(“Businesses Pulmuone stipulates and complies with the Rules of Employment for the should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right establishment and management of Internal Disciplinary Committee to address to collective bargaining.”) by having in-dept negotiation with the Cargo Truckers’ unjust disciplinary action and unfair labor practice. Furthermore, Pulmuone places Solidarity Division. Since then, Pulmuone has held monthly meetings with the labor a human-resources and labor-management director in each of the business sites union division to exchange opinions and have negotiations if necessary on an equal to examine unjust disciplinary actions and unfair labor practices. Also, employees footing. are encouraged to report individual grievances to the Grievance Redress Committee. The company conducts internal inspection to preempt unjust disciplinary action Grievances resolved through official redress mechanisms and unfair labor practice during the course of regular labor inspections and issue Pulmuone operates Labor-Management Council and Grievance Redress Channel as handling. For the past 3 years, the company operated without any incidents of unjust official mechanisms to handle employee grievances. In 2014, 88 cases of employee disciplinary action or unfair labor practice. complaints and 33 cases were resolved by the council and the redress channel respectively. Compliance status in employment Pulmuone declares ‘Trust for abiding by promises and rules’ as one of its core values, Pulmuone workplaces subjected to human rights which is the overarching framework to be applied to both internal and external inspection & evaluation stakeholders. Thus, Pulmuone strictly complies with all relevant laws that govern the All of the 21 business sites of Pulmuone (overseas sites excluded) go through a labor relations, and works hard to always improve its labor practices by thoroughly human rights inspection every year. As of end of 2014, all of Pulmuone’s domestic examining its compliance status during its annual labor inspection. In 2014, the workplaces (100%) completed human rights and labor examinations and evaluations. company reviewed compliance with all 84 rules based on the voluntary checklist distributed by the Ministry of Employment and Labor, and conducted more intensive inspection on 13 primary rules on labor contract, employment condition, collective bargaining, union member list generation and management, wage and severance Workplace Safety & Employee Health pay, document management in accordance with relevant laws, maternity protection Labor-management agreement over occupational safety & health measures, employee vacation records, discrimination in recruiting and employment, Providing authentic wholesome foods to consumers is the ultimate goal of Pulmuone. sexual harassment prevention effort, employee grievance redress status, and Internally, the company aims to make a safe and sound workplace for its employees, outsourced contract management system. and makes double assurance when it comes to issues related to occupational safety and health. To this end, Pulmuone has established ES (Environment & Labor dispute status Safety)/QTM(Quality & Technology Management) Department to oversee issues In 2014, Pulmuone carried out labor-management negotiations regarding wage of environment safety, and occupational safety and health while at the same time and an amendment of the collective agreement at 8 of its business sites which have installing a working group in charge of the same issues at each subsidiary and formed their own labor unions. Thanks to the increased mutual understanding affiliate. In addition, the company actively confers with the 8 labor unions on issues of between the two sides, all negotiations were settled without a single incident of occupational safety and health as agreed upon during the collective agreement. labor strike or collective action. Such outcome comes from the constant effort to For example, in the case of a health supplement plant located in Jeungpyeong, North maintain communication channel between labor and management through systems Chungcheong, its labor and management have agreed that as many as 5 articles such as Labor-Management Council and Grievance Redress in addition to efforts out of 84 articles -including additional clausesfrom the collective agreement, to to promote further consensus. Pulmuone does not plan to stop its effort here but be about occupational safety and health. The 5 articles including additional clauses plans to continuously strengthen cooperative labor management relations going are as follows: ‘the company shall take necessary steps to prevent disaster and forward. In November 2014, however, Pulmuone employees who are members of disease, and to promote health and safety for its employees(Article 54)’, ‘creation the Eumseong/Jincheon branch of the Cargo Truckers’ Solidarity Division under and operation of Occupational Safety and Health Committee shall comply with Safety the Korean Confederation of Trade Unions had a collective action similar to labor and Health Committee’s regulations, and items agreed upon in this committee strike for 6 hours. It just happened without having any negotiation or attempts for must be duly complied with(Article 55)’, ‘the company shall provide safety and negotiation with the management. Pulmuone resolved the issue smoothly after health equipment to its employees when the nature of job calls for such equipment INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 88 89 (Article 56)’, ‘the company must allow employees to have another medical checkup at other medical institutions when employees object to the medical examination Social Fair Trade & Win-Win Growth result conducted based on the company’s regulation (Article 57), ‘when employees Performance Fair trade are physically injured while on duty, the company shall try to provide compensation through labor-management agreement in addition to the compensation payments Partner Pulmuone introduced CP(Compliance Program) for fair trade in December 2006 to be more proactive in implementing TISO practices and take the initiative in driving accorded by the Occupational Health and Safety Act (Article 58). Companies business activities in a fair and transparent manner as advised by the Fair Trading Lastly, PPEC Uiryeong which produces Pulmuone tofu reaffirmed the laborAct. By doing so, Pulmuone is creating a corporate culture and business practice to management commitment to occupational safety and health by signing “Joint comply with transaction regulations, and prevent breaches against relevant laws to Declaration by Labor and Management to Create Production Fields and Society measure up to the leading global companies in a market environment as envisioned Safe from Harmful Substances” with Pulmuone Uiryeong branch of Busan, South in the Fair Trading Act. Kyungsang Office of CTIU(Chemical and Textile Industry Union) under KCTU(Korean Confederation of Trade Unions). Injury, illness & absence rate Pulmuone puts in a great deal of effort across the Group when it comes to the occupational safety and health but unfortunately, in 2014, 5 employees in total were Socially Fair/ Eco-friendly Innovative Creative injured by accidents. The average number of days injured employees took off from responsible transparent management management management work for treatment was 88.8 days. Assuming 250 working days as the annual average management management The absence rate for more than 5,600 workers including both regular and temporary workers, the due to injury stood at absence rate from occupational injuries across the Group is 0.0317%. Fair trade status 0.0317%. When CPs of many businesses were deliberated by the Fair Trade Commission, Efforts to improve working environment Pulmuone’s CP was highly recognized for its excellence, receiving the AA grade for Pulmuone spares no effort to make the company into a GWP (Great Work Place), Pulmuone Foods, and the A grade for Foodmerce. CP, which stands for Compliance and in a bid to create a GWP across all of its business sites, it is actively pursuing Program, is a compliance system to encourage businesses to voluntarily abide by fair programs to improve the working environment for its employees. It carried out trade regulations. CP serves as a clear compliance guideline to prevent a breach in C-Cubic activities to enhance employee satisfaction while regularly campaigning the early stage. for ‘leave work on-time’ to promote work-life balance. In addition, Pulmuone is conducting regular and random inspection to take preventive measures and to Fair trade compliance pledge proactively improve employees’ working condition. Thanks to the efforts, Pulmuone Every year, Pulmuone employees write a pledge to comply with fair trade when has been named as one of the ‘100 GWPs in Korea’ by GWP Korea for 5 consecutive they undertake their work and submit the document to the ERP HR system of the years, contributing greatly to advancing the corporate culture in Korea by spreading company as a token of their understanding of the fair trade compliance program to the belief that ‘a good company should create a good workplace for employees’ and engage in fair and transparent business activities. ‘human resources are the best competitive edge of a company’. Disclosure of fair trade compliance program status Pulmuone disclosed its fair trade operation performances during the 1st half of 2014 and future plans at the electronic disclosure system of the Financial Supervisory Service. It is to provide information on its fair trade CP to stakeholders and bolster the capacity to implement the program. INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 90 91 Compliance council 60 partner companies of Pulmuone Foods and Foodmerce, and representatives Pulmuone holds a compliance council every quarter attended by compliance of Pulmuone and Pulmuone Foods attended the 2-day event. council members, leaders and CP managers across the Group to share fair trade The event was received very well, viewed as an opportunity to demonstrate issues and internalize the compliance culture. Pulmuone’s commitment to fair trade compliance, inclusive growth and winwin collaboration, showcasing Pulmuone CP as the best example for other companies. Revision of fair trade compliance e-book In a bid to offer an easy access to fair trade compliance manual to its Partner company selection process stakeholders, Pulmuone has produced an online compliance book and uploaded it at its website. The book also features cartoons and relevant case examples Pulmuone provides only the fresh and safe agricultural produce to consumers by to help readers more easily understand fair trade, franchise business and the building GAP clusters within the 30km radius of the Foodmerce logistics center Fair Transactions in Subcontract Act, important topics in its business. The fair located in Yongin, Gyeonggi Province in a bid to spearhead provision of authentic trade compliance e-book is continuously being updated to reflect changes in the wholesome foods. Foodmerce provides consulting services to farmers on how to relevant laws and the company’s management status in 2014. grow GAP products, which has boosted productivity of farmers and as a result, offers quality agricultural products to consumers. Pulmuone also tests the farming soil and products before and after harvest for product safety. As for vendors of packaging Fair trade law e-book materials, Pulmuone Waters measures quality and timely delivery of products as Pulmuone has produced a guidebook on the Fair Trading Act, the Fair major criteria when selecting, evaluating and inspecting partner companies. Since Transactions in Subcontract Act and the Franchise Act. The e-book has been the 2nd half of 2012, the company has used Nestlé VAP(Vendor Approval Process) for published to inform Pulmuone people of information and work principles an external inspection on vendors which produce resin, preform, cap and etc. VAP is necessary for compliance with relevant laws. The book primarily covers ① major a system to select, evaluate and manage good vendors based on the global Nestlé laws and regulations concerning fair trade closely related to Pulmuone busines standards, and to share the information with global Nestlé. It validates aspects like ② the compliance checklist for fair trade ③ fair trade compliance Q&A ④ the fair safety(environment), responsible sourcing(social responsibility) and labour(labor, trade self-check guideline, the self-check system and the response scheme in human right) as well as quality and technical aspects. The validation, however, is not case of a violation. about social performance of vendors but about whether they are fulfilling their social responsibility without violating environmental or social regulations. Self-assessment of fair trade compliance The compliance council members and leaders of relevant departments assess the compliance status based on the checklist to examine fair trade violation risk semiEach partner company fills out the questionnaire in advance. annually, and correct practices at risk of breaching fair trade. Combined with this, enactments and amendments of relevant laws are monitored every month to be Based on the information of the filled-out questionnaire, each partner company is registered to Global Sedex1) reported to the Crisis Management Committee and incorporated into the selfPlatform which calculates a pre-evaluation score of each partner company. assessment checklist. Self-assessment items based on the latest fair trade laws (Evaluation consists of various aspects such as Labour, Health and Safety, Environment, and Business Integrity.) are included in the checklist of the internal accounting management system, which was established for internal control and reviewed by a 3rd party, to be disclosed in an audit report to stakeholders. The audit agency certified by Nestlé assesses each of the production plants operated by vendors based on the information registered to Sedex. The assessment period differs depending on the size (i.e. the headcount) of a partner company. Pulmuone Best Partners’ Day 2014 Pulmuone Best Partners’ Day took place to facilitate fair trade compliance, inclusive growth and win-win collaboration with the attendance of its partner The audit agency uploads an assessment report on Sedex, and then Nestlé registers the vendor 1) Sedex(Supplier Ethical Data reports at VAP(Vendor Approval Process) for evaluation. companies. The event was held at the Pulmuone LOHAS Academy located in Exchange) : An association to Goesan, North Chungcheong for 2 days from March 13 to 14, 2014. It featured manage and share sourcing lectures on inclusive growth and value creation, and discussion on win-win Vendors can pass the audit if there’s no issue in each aspect. In the event of finding major issues reports and data of vendors in any of the evaluation aspects, they have to be re-assessed 6 months later. growth between Pulmuone and partner companies. Upwards of 110 people from across the world INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 92 93 Evaluation process (social/environmental performance) from the list of approved facilities due to the copper level exceeding the threshold, Pulmuone Waters assessing 9 out of 15 packaging material vendors Pullmuone notified the partner companies of the fact afterwards. In the 2nd half of 2012, Pulmuone Waters assessed 4 of its partner companies of pet resin, preform and cap on aspects like environment, human right, labor and ethical responsibility. The assessment was extended to include additional 4 partners Supply Chain supplying shrink films and labels in 2013 and 1 company supplying inner paper in 2014. Issues disclosed by the assessment are communicated to the sourcing Partner status team as feedback. The company plans to add 3 packaging materials vendors to the When selecting partner companies, the company and the QTM(Quality & assessment in 2015. Technology Management) Department closely examine vendors that have passed the preliminary screening based on their financial health, price competitiveness, Support for partner companies to improve quality competitiveness, deadline observance, and CEO evaluation (i.e. management their social/environmental performance capability and mindset, etc). The partner selection process has been designed rigorously to minimize the risk they may pose to the Pulmuone supply chain. Regular Since the launch of bean sprout products produced by Woori Village, a non-profit job sanitation monitoring is also carried out in partnership with the ES/QTM Department, rehabilitation center in the Ganghwa island in 2012, Pulmuone has been sustaining and the QA(Quality Assurance) Team assesses quality of partner companies while its inclusive growth endeavor to create social value. In July 2014, Pulmuone conducting preventive activites. supported the budget for automatic packaging equipment for the production site in Woori village, boosting the morale of the intellectually challenged people living in (Unit: No. of Companies) the village and increasing job opportunities. After installing the automatic packaging equipment with support from Pulmuone, the daily production capacity of eco-friendly Product type Company Product category 2014년 bean sprout products has increased from 4,000 bags to 7,000 bags on average. Pulmuone Foods Manufactured foods 48 Agricultural produce 21 Partner company grievance redress & handling Brand Fishery products 7 Foodmerce Manufactured foods 99 Pulmuone conducts onsite inspections on its partner companies as part of fair trade Livestock products 6 compliance monitoring. In 2014, Pulmuone selected 23 partner companies with large Subtotal 181 transaction volumes or long transaction records for an onsite inspection from Feb 25 to Mar 28, 2014. The inspection closely looked at any occurrence of unfair trade Agricultural produce 75 or fraud activities in its relationship with partner companies. During the inspection, Fishery products 18 Non-brand Foodmerce Pulmuone also had interviews with partner companies to check their awareness of Manufactured foods 178 Pulmuone, feedbacks or complaints they have toward the company. The improvement Livestock products 19 requests confirmed through onsite inspection are communicated to relevant Subtotal 290 departments immediately to generate highly efficient improvement measures. Pulmuone Health & Living 256 Raw materials Pulmuone is also working hard to enhance mutual trust with partner companies Pulmuone Foods 139 while maintaining a channel for win-win growth and collaboration. Pulmuone Health & Living 52 Packing materials Pulmuone Health & Living has been closely monitoring its partner companies to Pulmuone Foods 35 prevent any harmful substances from affecting water quality in their wastewater Finished goods Pulmuone Health & Living 12 since 2013. As for 2 partner companies where copper, one of the harmful substances Processed goods Pulmuone Health & Living 6 specified for affecting water quality, was detected in wastewater, the company has Products for market entry Pulmuone Health & Living 5 conducted a water quality test on a sustained basis. On November 24, 2014, the Subtotal 505 Ministry of Environment promulgated the revised enforcement regulation and decree Total 976 of the Water Quality and Ecosystem Conservation Act after a prior announcement of enactment. The revised enforcement decree defines the threshold of copper and its compound at 0.1mg/L. After the 2 partner companies were confirmed to be excluded INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 94 95 Pulmuone Waters Social Mission & strategy Pulmuone Waters sources materials from a total of 15 partner companies. The ‘Social responsibility aligned with corporate business’, ‘growth of local communities’ company selects, evaluates and inspects materials vendors every year, measuring Performance and ‘community outreach campaigns integrated into the corporate culture’ are their performances in product quality and deadline observance. Starting from 2012, excellent performances in safety(environment), responsible sourcing(social Communities objectives defined by Pulmuone when it makes efforts to contribute to communities. With these 3 aims in mind, Pulmuone works to identify new opportunities and plans responsibility) and labour(labor, human right) were added into the partner community services to be aligned with its business scope. assessment criteria with those recording outstanding evaluation result selected as ‘good partners’. More information on its partners is as follows. Work process [Partner status] First and foremost, demands and needs of communities are studied to be incorporated into the projects relevant for Pulmuone business. In this stage, Pulmuone selects an Materials type Number of partners NGO group as its partner to define a detailed project plan. After executing the project, Preform 2 an assessment is undertaken to find any room for improvement. Findings and lessons PET Resin 1 are reflected to complement and upgrade the business plan for the next year. PC Bottles 2 Film/label 5 Major milestones in 2014 Cap 3 Priority initiatives Others 5 Details in 2014 Milestones WET education sessions to 2,632 people for 112 times as of December 1) Extend Project WET WET video clip for promotion ORGA Whole Foods 1. Facilitate environment 2) Operate employee programs Tree-planting event for next generations: attended by 35 people (employees and family members) On Apr 19 ORGA Whole Foods purchased products and raw materials from a total of 541 partner / community outreach for carbon reduction PulBaram club’s volunteering to clean the Noeul Park (monthly from Sep to Nov) projects companies in 2014. The company selects its partners based on the impartial sourcing 3) Run programs to support financial Community outreach programs led by the PR organization’s volunteering club to drive cultural procedure and policies, and applies rigorous standards to eco-friendly products independence of the disadvantaged youths exchange for disadvantaged youths at Wildflower Youth Center (1 time) and Kimchi making (1 time) and additives in order to provide consumers with safe and clean products produced and processed in compliance with high sanitation standards. It maintains win-win 1) Increase education opportunities for parents and 100 sessions attended by 3,000 people as of December 2. Extend networks students in partnership with the Ministry of Education relationship with its partners, upholding the principles stipulated in TISO Charter. with the government 2) Extend the range of ‘Authentic Wholesome 50 sessions of authentic wholesome foods education for 1,000 people and external entities [Partner status] (Unit: No. of Companies) Foods Campaign’ in partnership with at Homeplus Lifelong Education Center Homeplus and Yeowon Media Yeowon Media donated 4,392 books to authentic wholesome foods education institutes Category 2014 1) Raise more money for Love for Neighbor Fund Raised KRW 117 mil. from 1,569 employees across the Group up until December 3. Stabilize the operation Vegetable 32 system of Pulmuone 2) Secure financial stability through Love for Earth Fund Fruit 37 Foundation 3) Bolster promotion of the foundation 33 promotion activities as of December Meat 23 Grain 22 Fishery 20 2015 Business Objectives Stockfish 16 Priority initiatives Details Processed foods 134 • Nutritional balance project for low-income 1. Nutrition education Foods with nutritional balance supported along with nutrition education for kids family children led by child centers of each region Chilled foods 47 Multi-cultural families come to understand Korea’s culinary culture through Kimchi Frozen foods 31 • Education project for multi-cultural families and learns about foods to understand various different cultures across the world 2. Kimchi School Health supplements 43 • Kimchi Master Project for kids Taste education using 5 senses, other food education based on Kimchi Lifestyle goods 110 (i.e. science of Kimchi, making Kimchi together) Home meal/bakery 49 3. Operation system • More money raised by employees for Love for Neighbor Fund building for Pulmuone • External communication facilitated Foundation newsletter Total 541 Foundation Promotion of Pulmuone Foundation through the media, SNS, webzine, etc INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 96 97 Pulmuone Foundation leading CSR initiatives of Pulmuone Environment preservation through CO₂ reduction Pulmuone established ‘Pulmuone Foundation’ in 2012 to further extend and bolster Pulmuone is actively participating in the zero carbon initiatives. It has been driving its CSR initiatives. The foundation is a non-profit entity promoting public interests ‘Tree Planting for Next Generations’ to offset carbon emissions from plant tours established for the company to organize CSR activities in a more professional and and general shareholder meeting. In 2014, 35 employees and their family members structured manner, respecting the spirit of ‘Love for Neighbor’ and ‘Respect for Life’, planted trees in Noeul Park. The environment club within the company is also in memory of the good deeds of Won, Kyung-Sun, the founder of Pulmuone who participating in an environment protection activity every month. dedicated his life to organic farming, environment preservation and peace. Pulmuone Foundation is driving social contribution programs for public interest External partnership project and extending its project scope with focus on good foods, environment, social As part of its good consumption campaign, Pulmuone is rolling out joint social responsibility and cultural programs. In order to support initiatives of the foundation, service projects with retail stores. ‘Shopping Cart of Life’ Campaign waged jointly Pulmuone gives 0.1% of the sales revenue of ‘Love for Earth Mark’ products to be with Homeplue in 2012 donated 1% of the sales revenue of specified products of donated to Love for Earth Fund, and its employees voluntarily donate a certain portion Pulmuone to Homeplus e-Blue Foundation with Homeplus matching the amount, of their salary every month to Love for Neighbor Fund. which increases the donated money to 2% of the sales revenue. The money was spent for surgery of child cancer patients. In 2013 and 2014, Pulmuone provided the Future Forum authentic wholesome foods education at 50 stores of Homeplus Lifelong Education Pulmuone is a corporate member of Future Forum, participating in open forums Center. With e-mart, Pulmuone signed an agreement to jointly undertake Authentic and operation committee meetings hosted by the forumn. In 2014, Pulmuone has Wholesome Foods Campaign on June 1, 2012. Pulmuone has also donated 1% of the backed the R&D project on ‘Using Big Data to Identify Megatrends in Korea Society sales revenue of its event products to Food for Change, which has led the healthy diet in the 2030s’ led by the research team of Kim, Mun-Jo, Sociology Professor of Korea campaign in partnership with regional child centers. University since last March. The research project has been undertaken to go beyond uncertainties of the future to define a role of the current generation and creative Pulmuone Kimchi Museum alternatives by forecasting what the future holds for Korea in the 2030. Since the early days of 1986, Pulmuone has been committed to inheriting and further developing the country’s rich culinary legacy. Kimchi Museum has been leveraged as [Statistics in 2014 vs. 2013] Project WET major tool to research Kimchi, the most representative dish of Korea with rich history, Pulmuone has been waging Project WET(Water Education for Teachers) to enhance in order to promote Kimchi to people both home and abroad. The museum exhibits 112 2,643 understanding on the environment and the importance of water. Project WET has been traditional cooking tools and utensils to make Kimchi, and displays records and supported by Pulmuone Foundation as one of its priority environment projects since 2013. paintings about Kimchi to give a comprehensive glance to its history. It also offers a 61 1,496 120% 130% In 2014, Pulmuone Foundation provided 112 educational sessions to 2,643 children. range of educational programs not just for the public and foreigners but also for multi51 cultural families and grandparents-children families, serving as the life-long education 1,147 [Project WET] center for society. Various programs have been designed and offered to promote understanding on the traditional culinary culture through Kimchi, targeting kids(‘Exciting 2013 2014 2013 2014 Program name Description Education Students V’, ‘Kimchi Kids’, ‘Quiz Quiz for Special Unit Kimchi’), multi-cultural families(‘Do’) and sessions Students guess how much of the earth surface is covered with water while adults(‘Come to Make Kimchi’) along with creative theaters(‘Here Comes Kimchi, the Green Planet playing the game of throwing and receiving a globe-shaped balloon Health Fighter’). Check their guestimates through a simple statistical sample extrapolation Pulmuone Kimchi Museum, which is currently under renovation, is scheduled to reopen Treasure Students guess how much water they can drink in earth to understand that water in Insa-dong, in April 2015. in the Bucket is a limited resource and therefore should not be wasted but preserved. Students learn the essential 4 elements to sustain life based on Box of Life thought-provoking curriculum. Power of One Showcase to students how people pollute river following, and teach how to lessen pollution. INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 98 99 LOHAS Designer Social outreach events organized by employees In July 2009, Pulmuone established ‘ LOHAS Designer ’ , an enterprise-wide Nearing year-end, Pulmluone employees hosts fund-raising events for the social contribution club to wage social service campaigns in a more structured underprivileged instead of a year-end party. Various events are organized in way. Under the vision of ‘people committed to sustainable health for society the party: Executives and employees are dressed up as Santas to help children and neighbors ’ , 58 volunteering teams were formed across the Group to with intractable diseases, raise funds for African children, sell the authentic undertake volunteering activities in communities or social welfare centers for wholesome foods kits to employees, and throw a Jazz concert or a bazaar to raise the underprivileged. A total of 2,729 employees participated in 202 volunteering money for communities. Whenever there is an emergency situation in need of activities, which amounted to 14,000 hours in total. help, Pulmuone people always reach out by making both monetary and in-kind At Exofresh Logistics, the facility maintenance team members donated their contribution. talent, repairing dilapidated facilities with their expertise in electricity, fire prevention, environment and automation. In parallel with this, other volunteering Marathon groups have been formed by employees themselves to plant trees, help Pulmuone people participate in ‘Smile Marathon’ for those with oral cancer or farmhouses, protect the environment and provide lunch to the underprivileged facial deformities. The event has been organized by the Korean Dental Association children and others on a regular basis. Pulmuone people are reaching out to to give hope to struggling neighbors. Its proceeds go to the fund for patients with others to spread warmth and love across society. oral cancer or facial deformities. [Employee fundraising status] (Unit : people) Year 2012 2013 2014 ‘Charity Marathon’ to fight hunger Volunteers 3,126 2,518 2,729 Pulmuone donates bottled water of Pulmuone Waters to ‘ Charity Marathon ’ organized by Korea Food for the Hungry International where its employees are Support for Korean traditional music performance actively participating in with their families to relieve hunger across the globe. Pulmuone hosts the national traditional music performance every year to Outreach for women, children & elderly revive cultural heritage of Korea jointly with other companies who agree to the cause since 2004 and invites employees’ families to the concert. In 2014, 4 food Pulmuone people volunteer to visit seniors living alone to help their chores. companies such as Samyang, DongA one and Sempio hosted the performance Volunteers take care of the seniors, making a meal and talking with them. When together. holidays come, Pulmuone also throws an event for underprivileged communities to enjoy traditional games together. In 2013, Pulmuone started another social ‘Love for Earth Mark’ & ‘Love for Earth Fund outreach program for the disadvantaged youths, donating KRW 12 million to Wildflower Youth Center, an organization to support homeless youths for their Pulmuone products have ‘Love for Earth Mark’ on the package, which means 0.1% independence and growth, and providing ‘Authentic Wholesome Foods Cooking of their revenue goes to ‘Love for Earth Fund’. The initiative to leverage the fund Class’ as a vocation training and cooking experiences. Cultural exchanges and for improving the environment of communities, planting trees and giving back to Kimchi-making events have been organized in connection with the employee social society, has been waged for a long time since 1993. service programs. ‘Love for Neighbor Fund’ raised by employees Pulmuone executives and employees donate certain portion of their salary to neighbors in need every month. The fund raised from their donation is transferred to Pulmuone Foundation to be spent for its 4 major initiatives (i.e. Authentic Wholesome Foods, Environment, Social Responsibility, Mecenat). [Employee social outreach campaigns] (Unit : KRW) Year 2012 2013 2014 Raised fund 91,540,000 103,246,000 117,000,000 INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 100 101 Environmental Quantified target setting & meeting [Energy savings] Pulmuone is determined to reduce its footprint on the environment. It aims to reduce Direct Performance 120% Total the energy basic unit by 25%, the water basic unit by 40%, the greenhouse gas basic Direct unit by 50% and wastes from products and services to zero(0). To achieve the targets, 107% 103% Pulmuone plans to develop low-energy production process for wider application, 100% 100% 98% 96% 93% introduce renewable energy to lower greenhouse gas emissions and a new production 89% 88% process to save water while increasing water reuse. In addition, Pulmuone is working 84% 80% 79% 78% to consider ways to reduce wastes in the product design stage, extend the scope of 74% 76% 75% 72% 71% organic products and animal welfare products for food sustainability and reduce the 69% 66% 68% 65% net wastes from the the production lifecycle into zero. 60% 57% 58% Energy 15%→25% Product/service Water 30% → 40% Greenhouse gas 50% Waste Zero 0% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 · Need to enhance energy · Save water by improving · Recycle 98% of production efficiency the process waste The basic unit of energy has increased 1%p in the production sector against 2013. · Need to reduce throughout · Recycle water · Design eco-friendly product It was mainly due to the plant relocation of Pulmuone Waters, and new facility the value chain introduction and increase in capacity utilization for the product, ‘Nature is Delicious’. (production 46%/ logistics 43%/ service 11%) Effluent impact on streams & ecosystem Pulmuone uses water for a range of purposes including utility, product packaging · Introduce new renewable · Apply the standards of Food Sustainability and manufacturing in the production stage. Pulmuone is generating water-saving energy agricultural water(BOD · Improve energy efficiency 8ppm) to water effluent initiatives, taking into account various factors since the company has to satisfy the (wastewater) product hygiene and quality standards while reducing water consumption at the same time. Investment & cost for environment [Basic unit of water in production] (Unit: ㎥/product ton) Pulmuone is making sustained investment to achieve its mission in environment 19.0 20.0 safety. In 2013, the company introduced wood pellet boilers in its production plant, which drove up investment expense against 2012. In 2014, its investment in 18.0 15.2 environment increased approximately 25%p against 2012. 16.0 14.0 14.0 [Environment investment & management expense ratio against 2007] 12.5 11.3 12.0 179% 178% 184% 9.2 10.0 159% 8.3 143% 8.0 118% 110% 100% 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 102 103 [Groundwater/water supply system usage & water usage by river] Air pollutant emissions measurement Year 2012 2013 2014 Pulmuone periodically measures air pollutant emissions (e.g. NOx, SOx, dust) Total usage(㎥) 2,761,765 2,488,759 2,457,289 after deploying pollutant prevention facilities and the wood pellet boilers that burn Groundwater(%) 24 30 36 renewable energy, and then registering its facilities to the relevant authorities. The Water supply system(%) 76 70 64 average emissions for 2014 are 140ppm for carbon monoxide, 67ppm for nitrogen Eumseong tofu, Eumseong bean sprout, Eumseong oxides and 2.9ppm for dust. Keum river(㎥) fresh noodle, Shinsun Natto Pulmuone,Health&Living, 2,400,827 2,112,218 2,075,592 Pulmuone Waters(Munkwang) Wastes by final treatment method Nakdong river (㎥) Uiryeong tofu 139,844 177,188 180,789 Pulmuone works to prevent waste generation at the source by minimizing its waste Han river (㎥) Chuncheon tofu, Ice, Pulmuone Waters(Idong) 221,094 382,251 200,908 discharge from as early as the production stage. Wastes are handled in full compliance with laws, and materials are recycled as much as possible. Thanks to the efforts, Greenhouse gas emissions wastes from the production sites are on the decline every year to reach 0.031ton/ product ton in 2014. [Greenhouse gas(CO2,CH4,N2O,HFCs,PFCs,SF6) emissions in production] 100% 100% [Waste discharge by year] 90% (Unit: ton) (Unit: ton/product ton) 79% 77% 18,000 0.120 50% 64% 53% 0.114 16,000 0.108 0.100 0.089 14,000 0.080 0% 12,000 0.066 0.060 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 0.053 0.035 0.049 10,000 0.031 0.040 15,831 15,646 15,589 13,296 12,520 11,662 10,235 The wood pellet boilers installed in the Eumseong tofu plant is fuelled by wood pellets, 8,000 0.020 8,112 the renewable energy, instead of LNG, the fossil fuel. Wood pellets are made by 6,000 0.000 shredding, drying and compressing wood whose carbon emissions is not categorized 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 as greenhouse gas since it all comes from nature. This means businesses that use Incineration 87 72 39 17 153 53 47 75 wood pellet boilers can be registered as Greenhouse Gas Reducing Business. The Landfill 112 165 182 285 103 227 252 64 wood pellet boilers of the Eumseong tofu plant and the underlying technology to Recycle 15,831 15,646 15,589 13,296 12,520 11,662 8,112 10,235 lower greenhouse gas emissions is the 1st in Korea recognized by the KEMCO. The Basic unit 0.114 0.108 0.089 0.065 0.053 0.049 0.031 0.035 company is expected to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 27,520tCO2e for 5 years, which means its annual average to be 5,504tCO2e, only a half of 11,080tCO2e, the annual average in 2010~2013. Impact of water intake on water resources & biodiversity [Greenhouse gas emissions before vs. after wood pellet boilers in Eumseong tofu] (Unit: tCO2e) Pulmuone Waters takes groundwater from the bedrock as it has rigorous quality standards for its drinking water. Therefore, it is strongly committed to preserving 11,080 Greenhouse gas the precious water resources and preempting any negative impacts on the emissions ecosystem brought by an excessive water intake. Every 5 years, the company 5,504 lowered conducts an environment impact study which looks at the groundwater reserve, 4,578 by 50% output status, underground geological survey, appropriate intake for sustainability, scope of environmental impact, damage to the environment, water quality and others. Its assessment result is reviewed and approved by the Ministry of 3-year averages Expected emissions Emissions Environment. Based on the environment impact survey and assessment result, (2010~2013) reduction after wood pellet in 2014 INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 104 105 Pulmuone Waters makes it a rule to take less than 1,297 tons of water per day. APPENDIX It always receives an approval from the Gyeonggi provincial government before extracting water to assure sustainability of the groundwater resources protected from threats like depletion, quality degradation or damage to the surrounding environment. Pulmuone Annual Report 2014 Restoring lenoks in the river Pulmuone Chuncheon plant launched an initiative to restore the lenok population on the verge of extinction in Pyeongchang, Gangwon as part of its efforts to preserve the ecosystem. The lenok restoration program was launched to promote eco-friendly image and pristine nature of Pyeongchang across the globe before its hosting of the Winter Olympics. It is jointly financed by the Chuncheon plant and the Wonju Environment Office, and researched and implemented by the fish research center at Kangwon National University. As part of the program, 500 oneyear-old lenoks were released into the river. Waste generation, transport, import, export and handling in accordance with the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII ECMD, one of the subsidiaries of Pulmuone, is operating the Yeongsan resting stop, which has been subcontracted by the Korea Expressway Corporation. The resting stop was found to have a waste automatic section switch known to have PCB(Polychlorinated Biphenyls) through an environment inspection. After consulting with the Korea Expressway Corporation who owned the automatic section switch, ECMD plans to take care of it in compliance with the legal procedure. INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 106 107 Third Party To the Management of the “2014 Pulmuone Annual Report”, 1) AA1000AS is a sustainability assurance standard developed by the UK-based Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability (AccountAbility) in November 1999 to assure organization-wide sustainability Assurance The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (hereafter “Auditor”) was engaged to performance and accountability by improving the quality of accounting, auditing and reporting practices in the social and business ethics domain. The revised 2008 version has been in effect since 2010. undertake a review of Pulmuone’s “2014 Annual Report” (hereafter “Report”) to provide independent third-party assurance on its contents. On the basis of the above, 2) The GRI G4 Guideline was established by the GRI, convened by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies (CERES) and UNEP in 1997. After the first universal GRI sustainability reporting the Auditor presents the following third-party statement of assurance. guidelines for multinationals was released in 2000, the latest G4 version was introduced in May 2013, with enhancements in supply chain, governance, ethics & integrity, anti-corruption, GHG emissions & energy disclosures. 3) The B.E.S.T Guideline was jointly developed by the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Energy (MOCIE), Responsibility and Objective the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), and the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) in 2006 as a sustainability reporting and assurance guideline, and provides for five levels of reporting rigor (Level Pulmuone is responsible for all information and claims contained in the Report 1 ~ 5). regarding the establishment of its sustainability management goals, performance management etc. The responsibility of the Auditor is to deliver the findings from its assurance undertaking to the management of Pulmuone. The key objective of the assurance is to check whether there are any material bias or errors present in the Work Undertaken and Scope Report; assess whether the underlying data collection system is in proper working The Auditor confirmed 1) the inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness of the order; while undertaking in an overall review of the Company’s process for identifying reported content; 2) the reliability of the reported performance data; 3) level of issues of material importance to sustainability management as well as the produced compliance against GRI’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines; and 4) level of results so that the Auditor may deliver recommendations that can help improve the compliance relative to the B.E.S.T Reporting Guidelines through the process outlined quality of future reporting. below. Interviews with persons responsible for different dimensions of sustainability performance and individuals responsible for performance data collection to determine the adequacy of the reported content Assurance Type and Level Review of Pulmuone’s materiality identification processes and outcomes The Report was reviewed against the following criteria and guidelines: Review of available stakeholder engagement processes (1) AA1000 Assurance Standards (2008)1; On-site review of the system and processes in place for the collection and reporting (2) Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines2; and of raw performance data (3) B.E.S.T Sustainability Reporting Guidelines3 Review of underlying reference data for economic, social, and environmental performance Sample testing to determine the completeness and accuracy of Assurance Scope Contents of the “Pulmuone 2014 Annual Report” by Pulmuone information contained in the Report Assurance Type & Level Type II, Moderate · “IPS Assurance Manual” to verify compliance against AA1000AS (2008) standard’s three core principles Assurance Criteria · “IPS Performance Indicators Assurance Criteria” to assess the reliability imitations of performance indicators The scope of this undertaking was limited to: · GRI G4 Guideline ‘Option’ and B.E.S.T Guideline’s “reporting level” Interviews with individuals responsible for different performance dimensions and the collection of performance data; review of the adequacy of the reported data On-site review of Pulmuone ‘s Head Office Assurance based on relevant data and information available for the relevant reporting period Review of the reliability of reported performance data INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 108 109 Assurance Findings [Responsiveness] Does the Report provide an adequate response to stakeholder demands and The Auditor did not find any material misstatements or bias contained in the Report. interests? The Auditor found Pulmuone to be providing an adequate response to issues of [Inclusivity] interest and concern to its stakeholders. In the interest of greater responsiveness, a variety of communication channels specific to relevant stakeholder groups have been Are the stakeholder engagement strategy setting and related processes at Pulmuone established, accompanied by efforts to share its response outcomes in its reports adequate? as well as on-going work to develop and utilize communication channels tailored It is the Auditor’s view that Pulmuone has defined an adequate strategy for to specific stakeholders, all in line with the principle of responsiveness. Concrete stakeholder engagement, while establishing a process for stakeholder engagement recommendations on providing a more adequate response to stakeholder requests with the goal of incorporating key findings into its business management activities. and issues of interest have been provided to Pulmuone management. The Auditor noted efforts by the Company to better assess the views of its stakeholders shareholders, executives and staff, customers, business partners, and the local community by putting in place various engagement channels. The [GRI Reporting Guidelines Method of Compliance] Auditor took particular note of the Company’s work to ensure that engagement The Auditor confirmed that the Report corresponds to the “in accordance” criteria findings are better reflected in its business management activities by introducing relative to GRI G4 guidelines under the “comprehensive option”, as it reports on diverse stakeholder-specific engagement channels (ex. Open General Shareholder’s General Standard Disclosures and Additional Disclosures (materiality aspects, DMA, Meeting, Risk Management Committee (phased), e-cs, SNS channels, Talk Talk Talk, performance indicators) as indicated in the G4 Guidelines. Business Partner Portal etc.), while also seeking out expert views on key issues as part of an ongoing effort to strengthen its relevant channels and processes, which is in keeping with the principle of inclusivity. Concrete recommendations on stakeholder engagement strategies and processes, emphasizing greater appreciation for the [Reliability of Performance Indicators] importance of stakeholder participation and ways to better reflect engagement After reviewing the performance data stated in the Report, the Auditor found the findings in the Company’s management activities etc., have been separately underlying data collection system to be adequate and failed to find any material submitted to Pulmuone. errors that can either bias the Company’s judgment or compromise the reliability of its data. The following performance indicators were reviewed for the purpose of this assurance. [Materiality] Material Issues Performance Indicators and Outcomes Does the Report contain information of the highest material importance to Pulmuone CSV (Creating Shared LOHAS dietary lifestyle, animal welfare, stakeholders across the economic, social, and environmental dimensions? Reviewed Value) collaborative cluster development It is the Auditor’s view that the Report does not omit or exclude issues of importance Authentic wholesome No. of training sessions on authentic to the sustainability management activities of the Company. The Auditor confirmed 411 sessions food wholesome food activities by Pulmuone to identify and report on issues of material importance, including compiling an “issue pool”, analyzing business impact and level of Product safety and 7 self-owned factories, 21 HACCP certification stakeholder interest, and a three-step materiality testing process. Notably, the quality management production partners Auditor found the Report to be in compliance with the principle of materiality as it Customer satisfaction 90.7 pts. provides a concrete and detailed account of the top seven issues identified to be of Customer satisfaction survey and communication (increase of 7.6 pts. vs. 2013) material importance centered on the Company’s “reference point” criteria. Concrete recommendations on how to better report on issues of material stakeholder Efforts to decrease 73.7K tCO₂ CO₂ emissions environmental impact (82.1K tCO₂, 2013) importance i.e. materiality testing, management, reporting etc., have been provided separately to management. INTRO SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 2014 ISSUE 5 CSR APPENDIX 110 111 [Level of B.E.S.T Guideline Application] Qualifications of the Auditor In view of the coverage and reliability of the information provided, the Auditor finds the Commissioned by Pulmuone as the Auditor for this assurance undertaking, the Report to fulfill 99.8% of the reporting requirements necessary to qualify for a Level 5 Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) was established in 1993 and has since Report (on a scale of Level 1 to 5) relative to the B.E.S.T Guidelines, which is indicative developed into a specialized institution with broad expertise in the areas of business of sustainability reporting achieving a “mature” phase. (Over the last three years, ethics, CSR, and sustainability management since 2002. Sustainability Reports by Pulmuone have maintained a “Level 5” 99.8% application rate relative B.E.S.T Guidelines in view of the coverage and reliability of reported information.) March 06, 2015 Lee, Yoon-Cheol Chairman, The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies Recommendations The Auditor found the “2014 Annual Report” by Pulmuone commendable in the following respects. The Report (1) provides a detailed account of the financial performance of respective subsidiaries mindful of the value of utilizing existing sustainability reports as business reports; (2) is composed around the top five (5) most-important issues for Pulmuone (CSV, authentic wholesome food, product safety and quality management, customer satisfaction and communication, efforts to reduce environmental impact) while reflecting stakeholder engagement activities (interviews); and (3) provides for a higher level of DMA disclosure, offering a more detailed account of the materiality of respective issues identified to be of material concern, while outlining how specific issues are being managed (policies and activities), key performance outcomes etc. For future reports, the Auditor recommends considering the following. Compose future reports and provide disclosure centered around key issues rather than indicators Strengthen response to stakeholder views Strengthen management and reporting on quantitative performance indicators Independence Apart from this independent assurance undertaking, the Auditor was not involved in the preparation of any part of the Report, and has no commercial affiliation with Pulmuone that might compromise our independence. Pulmuone Co., Ltd. www.pulmuone.co.kr 280, Gwangpyeong-ro, Gangnam-Gu, Seoul, Korea Tel 02-2040-4400
