Novitag Beirut 21/10/2015 As the CEO of Novitag, I am hereby declaring my commitment, me and my organization to the ten principles of the UN global compact covering the four areas; Human Rights, Labor, Environment, & anticorruption. In Novitag, we deeply believe that the private sector as well as individuals by themselves are subject to questioning when it comes to social, environmental, and humanitarian responsibility. We live in a scarcity, resources we waste need hundreds and some of them millions of years to reproduce. People we discriminate based on color, religion, gender, and many more critical characteristics didn’t have the option to choose it, neither do us to act with superiority or with a discriminatory manner. Therefore, we strongly forbid any kind of discrimination in our workplace. In addition we try to cooperate as much as possible in order to save energy, help people and guide them with the process. Sincerely yours, Mohamad Masri CEO Novitag, Lebanon, cop for 2015 I. Human rights principles A. Assessment, policy, & goals As always, our employees were, they are still, and will always be, our valuable resources; we continue with providing them with all what it takes to make them feel respected, motivated, and comfortable with their job. B. Implementation This year, things were different. As we all know, there is an annual assessment of the employees of each department by the head of the department. This assessment is followed usually by bonus distribution, training sessions, and internal relocation for individuals. The new idea that took place this year was asking the employees to assess their head departments. Even the director was assessed by the head of the departments. C. Measurement of outcomes This was funny and somehow crazy for most of them but in fact it helped a lot breaking the glass ceiling between the levels of management and made it go with less tension this year, in addition managers now are now more responsible, acting like leaders and not like bosses. This assessment made that tiny little employee who is starting his/her career with us feel that HIS VOICE COUNTS, HE EXISTS, and, HE HAS THE FREEDOM OF SPEECH. II. Labor principles A. Assessment, policy & goals The Syrian refugee crisis has overcome the potential of the Lebanese public sectors to handle, that’s why private sector including both profit and nonprofit organizations had to interfere to help as much as possible these jobless, homeless, and desperate people who lost everything and found themselves in the middle of nowhere unwanted by the majority and people who discriminate them and treat them with superiority. B. Implementation We couldn’t stand still in front of this crisis, but on the other hand, there are several industries who is taking advantage of their situation and offer them work with less than the minimum wages and they are accepting the jobs. This factor led to diminishing the price per hour as for labors and kicked lots of Lebanese out of their jobs being competed with people who are willing to accept way less than the Lebanese are willing to accept to perform a particular job. Our plan was to help these people without taking advantage of their poverty or circumstances and with also putting a priority in mind; the Lebanese labor situation. We kept all Lebanese workers, and opened new job vacancies specified for the refugees. We were able to provide 2 families with full support starting by shelter ending with schools fees for their younger children. C. Measurement of outcomes Lebanese labor in Novitag were not affected by the Syrian crisis at all, in addition we were able to take action regarding the crisis, even if it was on a small scale. We believe that if each individual gave away whatever he is able to, to help these people, this small donation will sure make a difference and have a greater positive impact on the overall situation. III. Environmental principles A. Assessment, policy & goals Scarcity, resources, energy, these are terms that we are hearing a lot recently because we are becoming close to totally being engaged with the ways that save the early stated terms. Petrol will evanish one day. Wasted water going to the oceans we will punish ourselves for letting it go, waste of energy in all kinds, we will sure regret it one day. But the common sentence we hear “what?! Am I the only one doing it on the globe? – No you’re not but there are millions like you saying the same sentence. B. Implementation After assessing the situation, the CEO suggested that we do informative sessions like the previous year, to educate our team members on how they can save energy and act environment responsible – moreover to remind them with the importance and the necessity of doing so. This year our contribution to this particular area was somehow bigger. We provided small loans that can cover installing a solar system for employees who are willing to make this shift, with payments facilities and zero interest rate. C. Measurement of outcomes 10 houses were added to the solar system plan list, they are now spending less on electricity, polluting less and they are now equipped with a more reliable, energy saving system that made them think of how to use the resources that we see everyday and let it go as waste. IV. Anti-corruption principles Due to the strategy adopted last year that studies the reason behind going to the bribery or any other unethical behavior providing any type of benefit to the employee; and provides what it takes to overcome this kind of things, we are fully protected and safe from this side and all the credit goes to our HR team that is monitoring all our employees, monitoring their behavior, trying to always fulfill their needs and work on making them integrate more with the job they are doing.
