KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report About This Report What is more important than putting talk into action is thinking. KDB Daewoo Securities thinks from diverse stakeholders’ perspectives. This is the fifth KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report since 2006, Third Party Assurance when the company became the first Korean securities firm to publish a To ensure the internal and external credibility of this report, we requested sustainability report. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 an independent assurance statement from the Business Institute for will look back on the sustainability activities that have taken place during Sustainable Development (BISD) of the Korea Chamber of Commerce the period covered, based on our mission of “Dream with us”, and we will KDB Daewoo neither rests on its laurels nor fears and Industry, which is a professional assurance organization. The also report on the outcomes of our activities, as part of our commitment to disclose information to our stakeholders in a transparent way. BISD’s detailed opinion is on page 89 of this report. challenges to come. By seeing first what’s looming Major Characteristics of the Report on the horizon, touching all the bases, and constantly Reporting Guidelines This report was compiled based on the Core option of the G4 Guidelines KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 was derived from renewing our constitution, we will build a better world, of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are global guidelines for selecting issues that have the most influence on stakeholders, in a sustainable future through finance. sustainability reports, and on the Financial Services Sector Supplement accordance with the requirements set forth in the amended GRI G4 Guidelines (FSSS). It is also based on the ten major principles of the UN Guidelines. We provide details on the current state of and management Global Compact, which the company has embraced since 2006. approach to each issue, through the disclosure on management approach (DMA), and stakeholder interviews are included in the Reporting Period Magazine Section to share stakeholder opinions on all relevant issues. All information in this report is based on the three years from 2012 Information on initiatives related to sustainability strategies and their to 2014 inclusive. Financial information is given according to the outcomes in the “Sustainability Framework” section offers extensive company’s fiscal years, and non-financial information uses calendar detail on the company’s sustainability management performance. years, with footnotes added for information where necessary. Information deemed important from the first half of 2015 has also been Additional Information of the Report included. For further information or any suggestions on the report, please contact: Reporting Scope The scope of information included in this report encompasses the company headquarters, the Human Resources Development Center, the IT Center, our domestic branch network, and our overseas subsidiaries Address and offices. This covers most of where KDB Daewoo Securities KDB Daewoo Securities Bldg., 56, Gukjegeumyung-ro, performs actual business activities; however, where data collection was Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea difficult owing to physical limitations in relation to material management and assessment, the scope of reporting has been limited to business Tel: +82-2-768-2130 sites solely in Korea, excluding overseas business sites such as Fax: +82-2-768-2119 overseas subsidiaries, offices, etc. E-mail: irteam@dwsec.com KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Contents T 06 52 hink is the key word for the company’s brand communications strategy. It is also the slogan 04 for the KDB Daewoo Sustainability 05 CEO Message Performance Securities Sustainability Report 08 2015, embodying our philosophy of thinking first about our 54 Customers stakeholders at all times. 60 Shareholders/Investors 66 Employees 72 Local Communities KDB Daewoo Securities Highlight 10 Overview 78 Appendix 28 E This report has been published in Korean and English to promote more efficient communication with stakeholders at home and abroad. Strategic Focus 32 Corporate Governance The PDF version of this report can be downloaded from 35 Risk Management the company web site at http://english.kdbdw.com. 40 Global Financial Expert 45 Multicultural Society 48 Social Contribution through Finance KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report CEO Message CEO Message We will continue to create This year marks the 45th anniversary of KDB Daewoo Securities. Over the years the company has been growing together with the Korean capital markets, persevering in study, enduring economic, social and environmental the pains of innovation, and reaping many firsts: the nation’s first ‘Korea Fund’, the nation’s values, and to stay ahead of first private economic research institute, the industry’s first overseas business presence, the industry’s first research forum, and Asia’s first listing of a Special Purpose Acquisition Company the competition in thinking clearly, (SPAC), to name but some more significant. The path that KDB Daewoo Securities has taken all to bring to reality bigger dreams mirrors the history of the Korean securities market. These accomplishments have been made possible with the help of our stakeholders, whom I would like to take this opportunity to thank together with all stakeholders. from the bottom of my heart for your unwavering trust in and support. It has been a decade since we became Korea’s first securities firm to issue a sustainability report, and a great deal of change has taken place since then. For one, investors’ view and understanding of sustainability management has improved to a degree unimaginable before. As a result, corporate sustainability now plays a very important role in investor decisions as well as in corporate valuation. 06 07 In fact, sustainability is the most important factor to financial consumers in search of financial institutions to trust with their assets. As for financial companies, since customer assets are the CEO & Chairman of Board of Directors, primary sources of sustainable growth, sustainability has become the fundamental source of KDB Daewoo Securities corporate competitiveness. Sungguk Hong As a member of its local communities, KDB Daewoo Securities has recognized, long before its peers, the need for and the importance of sustainability management and made continued efforts to put such awareness into action. In the process, the company in 2015 made the Dow Jones Sustainability World (DJSI) Index for a fourth consecutive year. Another milestone was set in the same year when we were chosen as the Carbon Management Sector (Finance) Winner for the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Korea, which attest to our competitiveness as a global sustainable company. The KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 is the fifth one we have published. The report illuminates some of the activities and subsequent results that we carried out after a long deliberation, in pursuit of sustainable economic, social, and environmental values. With the continued trust of our stakeholders, all of us will remain focused on fortifying the creative and caring sustainability management culture we have been known for. We also will continue our study to help all stakeholders realize their financial goals. Thank you. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report KDB DAEWOO SECURITIES Highlight KDB Daewoo Securities Highlight Established the ‘PB Academy’ to foster premier private Listed in the DJSI bankers World Index for a fourth As the competencies of private bankers Improving understanding Total client assets exceed consecutive year (PBs), who directly manage customer of multiculturalism KRW 135 trillion The Dow Jones Sustainability Index assets, are essential to its goal of Launched ‘Do Dream’, (DJSI) evaluates the sustainability becoming a ‘Premier PB House’, an internal bulletin board Together with KBS, Global Village of Love, KDB Daewoo Securities has engaged in management of companies around the KDB Daewoo Securities has established for suggestions and the Seoul National University of Education, a variety of sales activities to offer the best KDB Daewoo Securities created an animation world in economic, environmental, and ‘PB Academy’ as one of its innovative KDB Daewoo Securities listens to financial services to customers. In the last that improves people’s understanding of social categories. In September 2015, human resources development programs. its employees through an internal few years marked by low interest rates and multiculturalism. We also developed teaching KDB Daewoo Securities was listed in New graduates enroll at the eight-month communication channel dubbed slowing growth in particular, the company materials that boost elementary school the DJSI World Index, the highest grade, training camp and receive a systematic ‘Do Dream’. Through ‘Do Dream’ has focused on developing viable investment students’ understanding of multiculturalism, for a fourth consecutive year. After training unparalleled in the Korean employees share ideas and find ways alternatives by enhancing product and supplied them to around 4,500 elementary being listed in the DJSI Asia Pacific for securities industry. By producing PBs to makes business operations more competitiveness. In 2014 the company schools across the nation. This will help children the first time in 2010, the company has worthy of customer trust and respect, efficient and creative. The collected set its all-time record of KRW 135 trillion in learn about living with people coming from continually listed itself in the DJSI World we will build a premier reputation in the ideas are actively used for the total client assets with differentiated branch different cultural backgrounds. as well. This has further reinforced our area of wealth management. company’s development. operation and asset management. reputation as a sustainable company. 08 09 2013 2014 2015 Published an ‘Easy-to-Understand Received a ‘Certificate of Merit Financial Terminology’ booklet for Contributing to Capital Market Development’ in Mongolia KDB Daewoo Securities published a booklet entitled ‘Easy-to-Understand Financial Terminology’, In 2013, KDB Daewoo Securities became the first written by 3,000 people at the company with the securities firm in Korea to establish a Mongolian goal of providing easy-to-understand explanations subsidiary; this has enabled us to share the of financial terminologies. The booklet was the result financial know-how that we have built in Korea, of gathering ideas from ‘Think you very MATCH’, and has contributed to the development of an internal contest about explaining financial Mongolian financial markets. These efforts were terminology in easy terms that was held from April recognized in June 2015, when KDB Daewoo to June 2014. Customers who found finance difficult Securities was awarded a ‘Certificate of Merit and were more likely to be indifferent to it, are thus for Contributing to Capital Market Development’ Issued the Chinese Environmental encouraged to see finance as something that they by the Mongolian Stock Exchange. We plan to Protection Company Report can understand, and that they need, with the aim that improve our competitiveness in Mongolia based they will become more interested in it. on our strong network in the market. In response to China’s enforcement of a new Environmental Protection Law, revised for the first Designated Financial Consumer time in 25 years, KDB Daewoo Securities issued Protection Day a report on China’s environmental protection KDB Daewoo Securities has designated the first policies and an outline summary of 20 relevant Wednesday of each quarter as the ‘Financial companies listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange Consumer Protection Day’, a day on which the and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange. This report ‘Think you’ Charter of the KDB Daewoo Securities’ helps readers to better understand environmental financial consumer protection principles is shared protection industry on which the Chines government with all staff. We are aware of the importance of puts emphasis, and reviews relevant companies. protecting financial consumer rights and interests, We plan to release a series of industry analyses in and are taking the lead in establishing China by selecting issues that reflect midto longa consumer-oriented organizational culture. term trends. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report 1 Over the past 45 years KDB Daewoo Securities has continued to progress, shoring up its position as Korea’s leading financial company. Staying a few steps ahead, 10 the company will expand its business sphere overseas and lead the industry in pursuit of advanced finance. At the center of its successes lies the by-the-book, responsible management the company has steadfastly adhere to. Overview 11 Going forward, KDB Daewoo Securities will continue to grow upright, invest thus-generated financial fruits in creating social value, and open a new path to sustainable finance. Company Profile 12 Vision & Strategies 16 Sustainability Framework 18 Ethical Management 20 Creating and Sharing Economic Value 23 Stakeholder Communication 24 Materiality Assessment 26 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Company Profile • Vision & Strategies • Sustainability Framework • Ethical Management Creating and Sharing Economic Value • Stakeholder Communication • Materiality Assessment Company Profile As a leading financial investment company in Korea, KDB Daewoo Securities has been achieving continued growth by creating new opportunities and leading the market. Global Network Company Overview Key Information Beijing, China New York, USA Founded in 1970, KDB Daewoo · Beijing Representative Office · Daewoo Securities (America) Inc. Securities is a comprehensive financial · Daewoo Investment Advisory (Beijing) Co., Ltd. Name KDB Daewoo Securities Co., Ltd. investment company that is celebrating Shanghai, China its 45th anniversary this year. Its major Headquarters KDB Daewoo Securities Bldg. · Shanghai Representative Office business areas include brokerage, 56, Gukjegeumyung-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea wealth management, sales & trading, Establishment September 23, 1970 Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia Tokyo, Japan and investment banking, and the company CEO Sungguk Hong · Daewoo Securities (Mongolia) LLC · Tokyo Branch offers a wide array of financial products and services to customers in Korea and 99 Branches, 3 Stores London, UK Domestic Network abroad. · Daewoo Securities (Europe) Ltd. Overseas Network 8 Overseas Subsidiaries, 1 Branch, 3 Representative Offices Size and Status No. of Employees 2,968 12 13 KDB Daewoo Securities is a Key Business Areas Brokerage, Wealth Management, Sales & Trading, Investment Banking comprehensive financial investment Share Ownership KDB Bank 43%, Individuals 29%, Foreigners 17%, Institutions 10%, company, with 102 domestic branches (As of December 31, 2014) Treasury Stock 1% as well as eight subsidiaries, one branch, and three representative offices overseas. * As of the end of September 2015 Headquartered in Yeouido, Seoul, KDB Daewoo Securities’ 2,968 employees are striving to offer top-quality financial Organization Chart Hong Kong services to customers in Korea and abroad. · Daewoo Securities (Hong Kong) Ltd. · KDB Daewoo Investment Asia Ltd. BOD BOD Secretariat Audit Committee CEO Business Unit Prime Brokerage Service Unit Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Singapore · Hochiminh Representative Office financial product Business Division development & trading unit · Daewoo Securities (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. business support unit risk management unit Jakarta, Indonesia compliance unit · PT. Daewoo Securities Indonesia research center Wealth Management Investment Banking Sales & Trading Wholesale Strategic Planning Business Division Business Division Business Division Business Division Division information technology center * As of the end of September 2015 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Company Profile • Vision & Strategies • Sustainability Framework • Ethical Management Creating and Sharing Economic Value • Stakeholder Communication • Materiality Assessment Milestones Sustainability Milestones Since its establishment in 1970, KDB Daewoo Securities has been performing a pivotal role in the development of 2000s 2010s 2015 Korean capital markets. The company has grown in partnership with its stakeholders, Apr. 15, 2003 Jul. 21, 2010 Oct. 30, 2013 Oct. 16, 2014 Apr. 21, 2015 and has opened up new paths for the Received the Grand Prize at the ‘Outstanding Chosen by Korea Management Association Listed in the DJSI World Index for Listed in the DJSI World Index for KDB Daewoo Securities’ CMA chosen Korean financial markets. KDB Daewoo Case of Corporate Innovation Conference’ Consulting (KMAC) to receive the Grand 2013/2014 2014/2015 as an outstanding product on the Securities continues to pursue strong hosted by Mercer HR Consulting Prize at the ‘2010 the Proud Customer Value’ ‘Korea Financial Investors Protection and honest growth. Nov. 04, 2013 Nov. 19, 2014 Foundation’s Investors List’ Sep. 01, 2003 Sep. 08, 2010 Received the Carbon Management Ranked first in the securities category Chosen as Korea’s No. 1 securities firm Received a Prime Minister’s Citation on the Special Awards at the CDP Korea Awards at the ‘2014 KS-CQI Call Center Quality Apr. 30, 2015 (21st globally) in ‘Outstanding Corporate 11th Social Welfare Day Index’ Chosen as the No. 1 securities firm at the Nov. 20, 2013 Governance in Emerging Markets’ by ‘2015 K-CSBI’ Management Milestones Oct. 07, 2011 Ranked first in the securities category Dec. 04, 2014 Britain’s Euromoney magazine Received the Minister of Gender Equality & at the ‘2013 KS-CQI Call Center Quality Received a Seoul City Mayor Special May 26, 2015 Jun. 20, 2004 Family’s Citation for supporting multicultural Index’ Award for contributing to the settlement of Received the Grand Prize in the personal Sep. 23, 1970 Ranked first in the securities industry chosen families North Korean defectors pension and securities category at the Nov. 26, 2013 Establishment of Dong Yang Securities from among the ‘30 Most Respected ‘2nd Korea Pension Awards’ Dec. 15, 2011 Received the Best CEO Award and the Dec. 17, 2014 Co., Ltd., former Daewoo Securities Companies’ selected by Dong-A Ilbo Received the Business Innovation Grand Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy Received the Grand Prize in the common Jun. 26, 2015 14 Newspaper and IBM BCS Korea 15 Sep. 01, 1973 Prize at the ‘2011 Aju Business Daily’s Award at the ‘20th Corporate Innovation benefit development category at the Received Certificate of Merit by Mongolia Merged with Daewoo Corporation Aug. 01, 2005 Finance and Securities Awards’ Awards’ ‘2014 Aju Business Daily’s Finance and Stock Exchange for Capital Market Chosen as a leading brand in the securities Securities Awards’ Development contribution Sep. 30, 1975 Sep. 10, 2012 Dec. 11, 2013 sector at the ‘Economic Review 2005 Initial Public Offering: paid-in capital Received a Presidential Citation for Received a Special Grand Prize at the Dec. 24, 2014 Jul. 20, 2015 Consumer Love’ increased to KRW 2 billion supporting multicultural families at the ‘10th Web Awards Korea’ Received a Minister’s Citation for Chosen as the No. 1 in the securities Dec. 13, 2005 ‘2012 Nationwide Multicultural Family Best Public-Private Partnership CSR category at the ‘Second Quarter of 2015 Oct. 20, 1983 Apr. 25, 2014 Ranked first in the securities sector of ‘2005 Support Contest’ Corporation by the Ministry of Gender BSTI’ Renamed Daewoo Securities Co., Ltd. National Customer Satisfaction index (NCSI)’ Chosen as the No. 1 securities firm at the Equality & Family Oct. 09, 2012 ‘2014 Korea Customer Surprise Brand Oct. 28, 2015 Oct. 01, 1999 Nov. 07, 2006 Listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (K-CSBI)’ Listed in the DJSI World Index for Spun off from the Daewoo Group Received the Grand Prize in customer World Index for 2012/2013 2015/2016 Apr. 28, 2014 Oct. 28, 2009 satisfaction category at the ‘Seoul Dec. 06, 2012 Received the Grand Prize in Customer Nov. 05, 2015 Economy’s 2006 Korea Securities Award’ Launch of the KDB Financial Group, with Received the Grand Prize in the securities Satisfaction at the ‘2014 Herald Business Selected as the Carbon Management the majority shareholder of KDB Daewoo Nov. 09, 2006 category at the ‘9th Web Awards Korea’ Capital Market Awards’ Sector (Finance) Winner at the CDP Securities changed from KDB Bank to Received the Grand Prize in the culture Korea Awards KDB Financial Group Jan. 23, 2013 Jul. 02, 2014 and arts category at the ‘2006 Social Contribution Company Awards’ Received the Grand Prize in the on-line Received the Grand Prize in the consumer Dec. 31, 2014 category at the ‘2013 Consumer Best evaluation category at the ‘Korea KoFC and KDB Bank merged, with the Nov. 24, 2006 Brand Awards’ Economic Daily’s 2014 Korea Mobile majority shareholder of KDB Daewoo Received the Grand Prize (Presidential Trading System Evaluation Awards’ Securities changed from KDB Financial Oct. 22, 2013 Award) at the ‘13th Corporate Innovation Group to KDB Bank Ranked first in the securities sector of Sep. 30, 2014 Awards’ ‘2013 Korea Highest Brand Awards’ Chosen as the No. 1 in the securities Feb. 14, 2008 category at the ‘Third Quarter of 2014 Oct. 29, 2013 Received the Grand Prize at the ‘2008 Brand Stock Top Index (BSTI)’ Korea Ethical Management Awards’ Chosen as the best company in the risk management category at the ‘2013 Asia Dec. 04, 2008 Today Finance Awards’ Received the Grand Prize in the customer satisfaction category at the ‘Seoul Economy’s 2008 Korea Securities Award’ KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Company Profile • Vision & Strategies • Sustainability Framework • Ethical Management Creating and Sharing Economic Value • Stakeholder Communication • Materiality Assessment Vision & Strategies KDB Daewoo Securities operates from a long-term perspective to become a ‘Premier PB House’, with our mission ‘Dream with us’. Vision Strategies KDB Daewoo Securities dreams of To realize its vision into reality, creating a better world through finance, KDB Daewoo Securities has targeted Dream with us in partnership with all its stakeholders, Mission 2015 as a year for building the foundations including customers, shareholders, and KDB Daewoo Securities will create opportunities for sustainable growth. We established for better living, stronger growth, and a brighter future, Achieving balanced growth by becoming local communities. Our financial experts strategies in three major areas, a ‘Premier PB House’ in WM through unlimited possibilities of finance. focus their abilities on offering best-quality and defined a long-term growth direction products optimal to all customer needs for the next decade. with outstanding contents in every wealth First, we will foster Korea’s most skilled management-related area, creating PBs and bolster our Wealth Management opportunities for a better future. (WM), competencies to offer distinctive products with optimal contents for Balanced Vitalizing venture capital exploring new business Premier our customers. To this end, we set and Private Equity Fund Growth opportunities in S&T, IB, 16 vision slogan up the ‘Premier PB House Task Force (PEF) investment overseas business, and WM 17 PB House Team’, and established a system to enforce collaboration between different business divisions in product and service development, as well as content supply. For Sales & Trading (S&T), Investment Premier PB House Banking (IB), and overseas business, Eyeing Korea’s In every wealth With all the competencies Creative New Revenue we will concentrate on creating new top spot management-related area the company can muster Finance Sources business to develop new sources of revenue. To achieve this goal, we are creating synergy, developing new hybrid products, and expanding into new markets, such as emerging markets. We are also looking into various ways to generate opportunities from Creative Finance*. For example, we will provide the financial services that are needed to foster small giants by leveraging our Strategies wide relationship management (RM) Contents Products network, and will also build other types Outstanding, best contents Best-quality products of financial models that promote win-win Build the foundation developed by first-rate optimal to all customer needs relationships. experts for KDB Daewoo Securities’ These efforts will enable us to share sustainable growth in 2015 a healthy investment culture, and to export Passion Korean financial models, thus taking Unwavering can-do spirit, a lead in advancing Korea’s finance strong ownership and leadership, industry. and dynamic teamwork * Creative Finance is one of the government’s measures, in order to link financial investors to companies which have great ideas yet lacking in funds. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Company Profile • Vision & Strategies • Sustainability Framework • Ethical Management Creating and Sharing Economic Value • Stakeholder Communication • Materiality Assessment Sustainability Framework KDB Daewoo Securities has set up collaborative sustainability management systems to help with sustainable growth for all of its stakeholders. Sustainability Framework Our Approach to Sustainability Sustainability Performance Achievements in Sustainability Overview To ensure transparent reporting, KDB Daewoo Securities’ sustainability KDB Daewoo Securities has organized Stakeholder Initiatives Goals Achievements approach is closely aligned with the Dream with us data concerning the performance of its MISSION • Enhance customers • Ensure objectivity in • Reformed customer satisfaction company’s business strategies. initiatives from 2013 to 2014, as well as on satisfaction customer satisfaction measuring system With the adoption of a new vision, the performance of some major initiatives • Strengthen employees’ results • Developed the SelfMotivation we have redefined initiatives based vision Premier PB House in 2015 that fall within the reporting CS skills • Strengthen Course on six core values, and re-established period. This data was focused on the • Build brand training for face• Opened three ‘Stores’, innovative to-face customer our organizational systems. The new execution of plans based on the new Customers communication communications new concept of sales point sustainability strategy. We will continue to strategies sustainability framework reflects the • Improve accessibility • Launched ‘Let’s Talk about Finance needs of our four major stakeholders and engage in practical initiatives that reflect for customers the Easy Way’ and ‘Personal Pension Sustainability stakeholder needs. Fitness’ brand communications the company’s future direction, based on Strategy • Increase brand which we identified areas and tasks with preference and Shareholders/ Local strategic focus. Stakeholder Customers Employees awareness Investors Communities 18 • Improve employees’ • Plan and execute • 14 PBs completed the first PB 19 Strategic Create customer Hire and foster Maximize Fulfill social Focus value talent shareholder value responsibilities expertise in finance the PB Academy Academy program program Sustainability Governance • Promote employee • Operated ‘Do Dream’, an employee • Improve customer • Enhance financial • Manage risks • Spread a culture welfare • Expand the ‘Family suggestion system The CEO of KDB Daewoo Securities satisfaction (CS) expertise • Generate of sharing Employees Day’ is in charge of decision-making Initiatives • Strengthen • Promote welfare sustainable • Foster small giants • Innovate work, system • Expanded the ‘Family Day’ to twice CS capabilities returns and culture • Establish a culture a month for its sustainability management • Address to climate that promotes change activities. The Head of the Strategic open employee Planning Unit formulates, adjusts, and communications evaluates corporate-wide sustainability • Manage risk • Strengthen expertise • Created the Finance Assessment management plans. Each department, in risk management and Investment Management Teams Sustainability Governance • Establish a foundation including the Strategy & Planning, for sustainable growth • Develop new revenue • Set up the Premier PB House Task HR, and General Affairs Departments, sources and promote Force Team • Publish sustainability balanced growth suggests, reviews, and implements Shareholders/ reports across all business • Abolished progressive retirement sustainability management missions. BOD Investors sectors benefits plan to secure cost efficiency In the area of social contributions, CEO • Address to the CSR Steering Committee, which sustainability • Listed in the DJSI World Index for a CSR Steering Committee fourth consecutive year consists of five executives designated by initiatives Strategic Planning Unit •Monitor social contribution strategies and activities • Published the Sustainability Report the CEO, deliberates strategies, evaluates Donation Beneficiary Selection Committee 2015 the appropriateness of project budgets, •Determines donation beneficiaries, and in what amounts • Initiate social • Undertake consistent • Developed content that improves and inspects project execution. In terms contribution programs strategies for social people’s understanding of of donations, the Donation Beneficiary based on joint growth contributions multiculturalism Selection Committee determines which Strategy & Planning CSR Heads at Department Department Each Division • Promote global social • Look for • Carried out social contribution organizations are to be supported, and contribution activities environmental programs and volunteer activities in in what amounts. The social contribution •Responsible for overall •Corporate-wide •Suggest, confirm, execute, and review missions of in line with overseas business Indonesia and the Philippines sustainability strategy control tower of social each department Local expansion strategies opportunities activity plan and performance are on the economic and contributions Communities • Continued to implement the reported to the Board of Directors (BOD) environmental aspects • Develop society • Devise projects that Jump Up project to foster young •Responsible for social Each Department Auditor and contributable products address to climate social entrepreneurs twice a year. •Engages in contribution project and Part Compliance Officer change sustainability initiatives strategies •Execute individual •Monitor activities in relation • Address to • Financed power plant projects, missions to ethics and compliance climate change including a biomass project in Fiji •Issues sustainability reports • Improved our CDP score KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Company Profile • Vision & Strategies • Sustainability Framework • Ethical Management Creating and Sharing Economic Value • Stakeholder Communication • Materiality Assessment Ethical Management KDB Daewoo Securities has built a transparent corporate culture based on ethical management and strategic priority shared by the entire company, to earn customer trust. Ethical Management System The Code of Ethics 2014 Oath of Ethics and Compliance ethical management execution system. Ethical Management Organization It helps staff to gain a full understanding KDB Daewoo Securities regards ethical The Code of Ethics refers to vocational An annual oath is held to raise staff of the Code of Ethics, and to put it into management as a top priority for the ethics standards that help employees BOD awareness of the importance of ethics practice. financial industry, and has enacted a Code engage in appropriate behavior and of Ethics so that ethical management can make proper value judgments. It is based and compliance. In 2014, KDB Daewoo CEO Audit Committee be fully reflected in our work environment. on principles and trust, and reflects KDB Securities celebrated the 44th anniversary There is also a Code of Conduct to Daewoo Securities’ resolve to maximize of its founding, and the ethics oath was Ethics and Compliance Statutory Auditor improve staff understanding of the corporate value by practicing customer, held jointly with a ceremony to celebrate Training importance of ethical behavior. company, shareholder, and societythe company’s founding on September KDB Daewoo Securities strives to Compliance Officer Audit Department centered ethical management, and to 23. A representative of the company’s strengthen the ethical and compliance contribute to the sound development of staff read and signed the ‘Pledge of mindset of its employees through Compliance Department Financial Consumer Protection Department financial markets. All employees have the Ethics and Compliance’, and all staff regular training. The Compliance responsibility and duty to comply with the participated through TOSS, an integrated Department provided a total of 142 Compliance Consulting Part Financial Consumer Protection Part Code of Ethics. Every year, a ceremony groupware system. The commitment ethics and compliance training sessions Establish an ethics and compliance culture Screen investment advertisements 20 is held for employees to take an oath on requires staff to perform their duties in 2014; these included on-line training, Build and support the compliance monitoring system Build and support the consumer protection system 21 ethics and compliance to fully establish according to the highest standards of dissemination of information on Protect information assets a culture of ethics. ethical conduct, to abide by the letter and compliance issues, employee securities Advise on compliance issues spirit of all relevant laws, not to infringe transaction training, and education on upon customer interests, to protect the the prevention of unfair transaction. Compliance Monitoring Part Complaints Part rights and interests of shareholders The Financial Consumer Protection Operate the money laundering prevention system Investigate complaints and other matters KDB Daewoo Securities Code of Ethics through efficient and faithful business Department provided training to prevent Monitor unfair transactions activities, and to avoid anything that improper sales of financial investment Monitor any other matters Total of 23 Persons Stakeholder Principles is counter to social development and products, and also implemented internal the company’s goals. In addition to mystery shoppers. All the officers and employees of KDB Daewoo Securities always think and behave from a customer’s point of view with a belief that customers are the very these four elements that are common foundation on which KDB Daewoo Securities stands and the reason for KDB for all employees, the written oath puts internal reports, and the Audit Department Ethics and Compliance Training Customers Ethics and Compliance Day receives reports on corruption and Daewoo Securities’ businesses. We create and provide a full range of valuable forth missions and detailed matters by services by fair and active methods to fulfill the needs of our valued customers KDB Daewoo Securities has designated irregularities. To encourage employee 274.5 and take it as our top-prioritized mission. business division or type of work and duties. The ceremony was held for all the first Wednesday of each month as the participation in the reporting system, employees and provided opportunities ‘Ethics and Compliance Day’ and once a incentives and protection of anonymity All the officers and employees of KDB Daewoo Securities clearly understand and share the business objective to enhance prestige and trustworthiness of KDB to remind them of the importance of quarter, in March, June, September, and are provided to employees who submit 229.5 Company Daewoo Securities, and actively practice management philosophy to accomplish ethical management, and they pledged December, there is a ‘Financial Consumer such reports. our duties. We consider honesty and trustworthiness as our highest virtues and to do their utmost in order to maximize Protection Day’. Each department and implement properly the businesses of KDB Daewoo Securities. customer value based on integrity and branch provides ethics and compliance Financial Irregularities & Corruption Shareholders All officers and employees of KDB Daewoo Securities shall protect sincerely trust. training to all employees, and conducts Reporting Center 207 143.0 shareholders’ interests by realizing sound profits through efficient management. self inspections to prevent financial The Voice of Customer (VOC) system Training hours* (Hour) irregularities. at our Customer Center, the homepage All officers and employees of KDB Daewoo Securities provide valuable services Ethics and Governance 166 No. of trainings provided to the society and citizen. By employing information, knowledge, human KDB Daewoo Securities appoints the complaints section run by Financial (Case) Society Ethics and Compliance Reporting resources, and technology rationally, efficiently and ethically, we contribute to the development of the state and to the enhancement of the national’s quality of life. Compliance Officer for the independent Systems Consumer Protection Department, and the Corruption Reporting Center of the 142 supervision of corporate-wide ethics and KDB Daewoo Securities receives reports Audit Department for our customers to compliance. The Compliance Unit takes on ethics and compliance violations report matters related to any employee charge of the systematic supervision of through various channels, including the financial irregularities and corruption. 2012 2013 2014 our ethics management. The Compliance company intranet, telephone, and e-mail. Department is responsible for establishing The Compliance Department receives * Total training hours were determined by multiplying training and managing the company’s overall hours by each case of training KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Company Profile • Vision & Strategies • Sustainability Framework • Ethical Management Creating and Sharing Economic Value • Stakeholder Communication • Materiality Assessment Creating and Sharing Economic Value Because sustainable growth can only be achieved when all stakeholders work in unison, KDB Daewoo Securities Occurrences of Corruption Mandatory Training on the Prevention of Internal Check Lists creates and shares economic value with our stakeholders. Money Laundering To build an effective internal control 3 system, KDB Daewoo Securities has an To promote employee understanding internal inspection check list for each of the importance of preventing money Sharing Economic Value Distribution of Economic Value by Stakeholders department and branch. The check lists laundering, KDB Daewoo Securities note what needs to be inspected on a A company’s sustainable growth cannot provides mandatory annual training on (Unit: KRW billion) 2 money laundering prevention, differentiated daily, weekly, monthly, and half-yearly basis, and each one reflects the individual happen through the company’s efforts FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 alone. KDB Daewoo Securities seeks Violations of ethics for each duty and work. This training is Generated and compliance characteristics of the department or to enhance stakeholder value through economic Operating Revenues 3,273.9 2,468.4 4,013.8 2 part of the company’s efforts to establish a (Case) branch. the distribution of economic value. value sound basis for all its financial transactions. In 2014, KDB Daewoo Securities recorded Customers Interest expenses 264.2 201.8 264.3 2012 2013 2014 operating revenues of KRW 4,013.8 billion, Shareholders/ Dividends 40.3 0 84.1 TMS System which were returned to support the Investors Distributed * The number of violations is determined by a company’s major stakeholders, including economic Employees Salaries and employee welfare 349.7 243.5 341.9 case resulting in a reprimand or worse, having come about due to illegal conduct in pursuit of customers, shareholders and investors, value personal interests Local Communities Donations and social employees, and local communities. and NGOs contribution expenses 2.7 1.7 1.7 Government Income taxes and other taxes 57.9 6.4 84.9 22 Internal Control System * Based on Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS) consolidated financial statements 23 KDB Daewoo Securities has set up 1) KYC : Customer management obligations, risk evaluation management, watch lists company-wide internal control system Obligation to confirm management, CTR2) report, etc. as part of its continued efforts to hold in customers & database ETL3): Organize KYC materials, transaction high degree in ethics and transparency. integration materials, account materials, etc. in a data The company prohibits employees warehouse from engaging in political activities, and assesses exposure to the risk of Data extraction corruption at all company premises, Behavior detection engine: Scenario 1.7 341.9 which will help the company to fulfill its management, behavior detection, management Local Communities and NGOs Employees of extraction threshold for each scenario social responsibilities. Money laundering Suspicious transaction investigation: Suspicious Preventing the Inflow of Illegal Funds prevention transaction management, alert management FY2014 84.1 FY2014 STR4) report status management: Organization Shareholders/Investors KDB Daewoo Securities has an internal of reports and relevant information, Korea Financial Generated Distributed economic value economic value system in place that is designed to root Intelligence Unit (KoFIU) on-line reports, report file 4,013.8 776.9 out illegal financial transactions such encryption management as money laundering and the financing of terrorism. Staff training also helps Internal interface: STR program KRW billion 84.9 KRW billion in business integrity. Government Internal and external External interface: KoFIU receives reports and system interface provides feedback Money Laundering Monitoring KDB Daewoo Securities has been operating its Transaction Monitoring System, to block the inflow and outflow of illegal funds since 2009. This system is designed to ensure the active and 264.3 Customers effective prevention of financial crimes by 1) KYC: Know Your Customer undertaking scenario analyses concerning 2) CTR: Currency Transaction Report money laundering, and by undertaking 3) ETL: Extract, Transformation, Loading mandatory customer-checking functions. 4) STR: Suspicious Transaction Report KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Company Profile • Vision & Strategies • Sustainability Framework • Ethical Management Creating and Sharing Economic Value • Stakeholder Communication • Materiality Assessment Stakeholder Communication KDB Daewoo Securities actively communicates with stakeholders through diverse channels, to generate distinctive value and become a socially respected company. Definition of Stakeholders Stakeholder Communication Stakeholder Communications A company’s stakeholders are the Channels in 2014 Interviewee Major Issues Report Page individuals or groups that have an KDB Daewoo Securities has established In advance to publish the Sustainability influence on the company and vice versa. various communication channels to listen Report 2015, KDB Daewoo Securities Sungwon Chang • Increase active communications M1) 06 Prudent management of stakeholders is to stakeholder opinions and expectations. conducted interviews with stakeholders with customers Customers Manager, TONYMOLY required for the sustainable growth of KDB The company undertakes stakeholder to hear their opinions and to make • Conduct social contribution Daewoo Securities, and the company interviews and surveys to establish what sure that we reflected major issues in activities through finance has defined four major stakeholders they believe is important, and uses the report. Representative figures from – customers, shareholders/investors, the results to determine major issues. each stakeholder group were invited Daejin Lim • Facilitate communications with M 09 employees, and local communities – and various stakeholders Information on these is also disclosed for in-depth, face-to-face, one-on-one Portfolio Manager, manages its relationships with all of them in the sustainability report. interviews for around four weeks from Teachers’ Pension • Make investments that reflect the company’s vision and values on a systematic basis. August 4 through August 26, 2015. Shareholders/ Investors Miji Son • Build a systematic risk M 10 Senior Analyst, management system 24 Shinhan Investment Corp. • Establish a clear corporate 25 vision and disclose relevant performance Retail Customers, Consumer Organizations Shareholders, Evaluation Organizations Customers Shareholders/Investors Youngcheol Bae • Senior management M 13 Executive Managing commitment to sustainability Director, Compliance Unit management Customer Service Improvement Council, Annual General Meeting, Disclosure, • Foster experts through Voice Of Customer (VOC), Website, Investment Forums Company Forums, Investor Relations systematic human resources These stakeholders purchase and use KDB Daewoo These stakeholders own shares of KDB Daewoo Securities management Securities’ financial products and services by engaging in and take part in the company’s decision-making process. transactions with the company. KDB Daewoo Securities KDB Daewoo Securities strives to maximize shareholder and Jeongyun Kim • Enhance customer satisfaction M 14 makes efforts to leverage its expertise in which financial investor value by generating competitive financial returns. Employees Deputy Manager, • Provide training to foster consumers can undertake convenient and safe Fixed Income Product financial talent Department transactions. Jihye Ko • Offer services that generate M 15 Senior Associate, customer value Operations & Settlement • Offer employee welfare Department and benefits for greater job satisfaction CSR Steering Committee, Company Newsletter ‘KDB Daewoo Securities People’, Minjung Yang • Conduct social contribution M 18 Director, Hankuk activities using expertise and Social Contribution Agencies Do-Dream, Labor-Management Council, WM Community University of Foreign experiences in finance KDB Daewoo Securities conducts its social contributions Earning trust from customers requires complete integrity Studies Center for • Create synergy by promoting by collaborating with various organizations, including and expertise from our employees. KDB Daewoo Securities Multicultural Education social contributions based on NGOs, and thus strives to fulfill its role as a member of is strengthening employee competencies to build a ‘Premier Local private-public cooperation local communities and deliver positive social impact. PB House’, and engages in diverse activities to build a healthy Communities corporate culture. Myungsook Cho • Conduct distinctive social M 20 Vice-President contributions considering Yeomyung School special circumstance of Korea Local Communities Employees • Develop social contribution programs in partnership with Agencies, Beneficiaries Staff, Executives NGOs 1) M: Magazine Section KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Company Profile • Vision & Strategies • Sustainability Framework • Ethical Management Creating and Sharing Economic Value • Stakeholder Communication • Materiality Assessment Materiality Assessment KDB Daewoo Securities identifies issues that matter to our stakeholders and report in a balanced way, in order to ensure in-depth communications with stakeholders. Materiality Assessment Process Materiality Assessment Results 100.00 Social Interest To carry out a materiality assessment for The materiality analysis led to the selection 90.00 I 1 the KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability of five major issues – strengthening 80.00 Report 2015, we analyzed the 2013 transparency and expertise of corporate 70.00 report, and then redefined the overall Step governance, enhancing business a D issue pool in accordance with the 01 k 3 continuity through risk management, 60.00 4 company’s current status, reaching to fostering Global Financial Leaders 50.00 the identification of 16 issues. Based on through systematic human resources G 2 Ascertaining B I HC 5 this, we conducted a media analysis, Determined the relevance management, making social contributions 40.00 the issue pool benchmarked major companies, and of issues by analyzing the to grow with local communities, and II 30.00 looked at global guidelines to ascertain previous report, and redefined contributing to society through finance. 20.00 F E J the level of importance to stakeholders, 16 issues Other stakeholder issues that were raised, as well as reviewing business strategies, but at a lower level of priority, can be found 10.00 annual reports, and internal documents Step 02 in the relevant sections of this report. 26 to identify the business impact of different 0.00 10.00 20.00 30.00 40.00 50.00 60.00 70.00 80.00 90.00 100.00 27 Business Impact issues. As a result, five major issues were identified, and the relevant disclosures on Determining management approaches for each issues the level of influence Measured the level of influence I. 5 Major Issues were also provided. on stakeholders on stakeholders by conducting Report No. Issue Definition media analysis, benchmarking Page major companies, and Status of monitoring and control systems that allow executives to perform their roles in the interests Strengthening transparency and analyzing global guidelines, 1 of stakeholders, especially shareholders; corporate governance related to sustainability management 32~34 expertise of corporate governance Step including DJSI and GRI and governance of risk management 03 Enhancing business continuity Preemptive risk management activities to protect assets and business capabilities from the adverse 2 35~39 through risk management effects of financial and non-financial risks Determining Fostering global financial Reviewed business strategies, Organizational strategies and other activities to recruit and retain the best staff, and to promote the business impact 3 leaders through systematic 40~44 annual reports, and internal human resources management development of the careers of individual employees in partnership with organizational growth documents to determine priorities in relation to the Social contribution strategies and activities which support local communities and the Making social contributions to 4 under-privileged, as part of our corporate social responsibility; our impacts on local communities; 45~47 impact on KDB Daewoo grow with local communities support activities for local communities Step Securities’ business 04 Pursuance of eco-friendliness through the financial business; support for small-to medium-sized Contributing to society through 5 companies; development of financial products that promote the development of local communities 48~51 finance (the underprivileged and multicultural families, etc.) and relevant support activities Identifying Selected and reported five major issues major issues that were judged II. Other Important Issues to be of highest importance based on the outcomes of the No. Issue No. Issue measurements of stakeholder A Ensuring the determination of top management to practice sustainability F Enhancing the corporate image through effective brand management influence and business impact management G Generating sustainable economic performance Building an ethical and transparent corporate culture that is free from B Establishing a sound labor-management culture based on mutual corruption H respect C Engaging in active stakeholder communication I Providing fair and reasonable compensation to employees Enhancing customer satisfaction through customer-oriented D Establishing an eco-friendly management system and addressing management J climate change E Earning customer trust through business ethics and integrity K Making inroads into the global financial market KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report 2 KDB Daewoo Securities has thought hard and long about most important things on which it should focus Strategic while building a sustainable future: What would stakeholders need most; what are they that we can and do better than others. We have thus decided on five tasks: Focus 28 29 transparent governance, sound risk management, fostering financial experts, multicultural family support, and social contribution through finance. Focusing its resources and energies on these five tasks, we will do our best to create outstanding values in the areas of related issues. Sustainability Highlight 30 Corporate Governance 32 Risk Management 35 Global Financial Expert 40 Multicultural Society 45 Social Contribution through Finance 48 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Sustainability Highlight Sustainability Story of Sustainable KDB Daewoo Securities YOU Perfect fit for personal pension savings The essence of the financial services business lies in customer relations. Thus, it is extremely important to study when and what kinds of financial services customers need, and to accurately gage customer needs through KDB Daewoo Securities studies its customers to realize a better future proactive communication. According to a report by Statistics Korea, people aged 60 and above accounted for through finance. We will continue our sustainable growth based on 17.8% of the total population in Korea as of the end of 2014. In another words, Korea is rapidly becoming an aging society, which is fueling a growing anxiety about early retirement or post-retirement financial prospects. active communication and mutual trust. As Korea has an ignoble honor of being the No. 1 in elderly poverty among the OECD members, preparation for retirement has become a must, not a choice. The government is showing an unprecedented level of interest in the personal pension market, implementing varied policies of promoting private pension plans for a stable retirement life. Personal Pension Management 30 KDB Daewoo Securities analyzes social and economic impacts to provide products that customers truly need. 31 In an effort to become a ‘Premier PB House’, we have adopted the personal pension business as a priority task and unveiled ‘Personal Pension Fitness’, an in-depth management service. The service reflects our conviction that personal pension should not be another legal means of tax saving, but an essential tool for retirement, and that it should require steady earnings management. With a unique approach emphasizing pension savings investment management, we offer personal pension products fine-tuned to the lifecycle of customers and thus optimal for the enjoyment of a stable retirement life. Achievements The release of Personal Pension Fitness has generated an enthusiastic consumer interest in customized services. As of the end of September 2015, the number of personal pension subscribers stood at 29,693, a 623% increase, compared to 4,107 in the end of 2014. The popularity of the service led to a May 2015 receipt of the grand prize in the personal pension and securities category at the ‘2nd Korea Pension Awards’. 623 % No. of personal pension subscribers rose 623% in nine months KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Corporate Governance • Risk Management Global Financial Expert • Multicultural Society • Social Contribution through Finance Strategic Focus 1 Corporate Governance BOD Policies and Activities BOD Composition KDB Daewoo Securities operates a one-tier BOD system1) comprising two executive directors, four outside KDB Daewoo Securities has a stable, efficient and transparent directors and one non-standing director. Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Outside directors account for 67% of the Sungguk Hong Hojoo Shin corporate governance structure in an effort to maintain BOD membership. By composing the (Present) President & CEO and BOD Chairman, (Present) Representative Non-Executive Director, sustainable growth and protect stakeholder interests. majority of the BOD with outside directors KDB Daewoo Securities KDB Daewoo Securities completely free of conflicting interests, Major Experience Major Experience • Head of Investment Research, • Director-General Council at Finance and the Company ensures the independence KDB Daewoo Securities Economy Cooperation of the BOD from the influence of senior • Head of Wholesale Business Division, (present Ministry of Strategy and Finance) management. KDB Daewoo Securities • President & CEO, KOSDAQ Market • Head of Future Planning Institute, • Advisor, Samil PwC Consulting KDB Daewoo Securities • (Present) Standing Advisory Committee Member, Expertise and Diversity of BOD • Head of Research Center, Institute for Global Economics KDB Daewoo Securities The BOD consists of experts in diverse Member fields to maintain expertise and diversity Member • Steering Committee, • Steering Committee (Chairperson), Outside Director Nomination Committee (Chairperson) in its major decision-making process. Outside Director Nomination Committee, We also seek to maintain the composition Compensation Committee, Jangsoo Hwang of the BOD in such a way that would Risk Management Committee (Present) Non-Executive Director, prevent the concentration of any specific KDB Daewoo Securities background or profession. As of the end Changwon Lee Major Experience 32 • President, Korea Information Center for 33 of September 2015, the BOD comprises (Present) Statutory Auditor, Agriculture, Forestry & Fisheries two financial experts, two business KDB Daewoo Securities • (Present) President, Future Management Institute management and economic experts, Major Experience • (Present) Adjunct Professor, Business Administration • Tax Official, National Tax Service at Soongeui Women’s College one accounting expert, one legal expert, • Adjunct Professor, Kangnam University and one tax expert. Moreover, both Member • Director, The Korean Association Of Public Policy regular and ad-hoc meetings are held • Outside Director Nomination Committee, Member Compensation Committee, to enable the different specialties of Risk Management Committee (Chairperson) • Audit Committee directors to merge and complement one another. Hwancheol Byun (Present) Non-Executive Director, Disclosure on Management Approach KDB Daewoo Securities BOD Decision Making Process Major Experience For a company to maintain sustainable growth is essential stakeholders trust Unless otherwise specified, all BOD • Judge at Seoul District Court Non-Standing Director • Non-Executive Director (Chairman), based on transparent corporate governance. KDB Daewoo Securities pursues resolutions require the presence of Korea Housing Guarantee a majority of the directors and the vote of Youngsam Jun stable and advanced corporate governance through appropriate checks and (Present) Non-Standing Director, • Professor, Chung Ang University Law School a majority present. Any directors who • (Present) Representative Lawyer, the Law Firm Ilheung balances among its governing members, through selection of the members KDB Daewoo Securities have a special interest in the agenda of based on expertise and diversity, and through adherence to transparency in the Major Experience the meeting are recused from exercising • Head of Corporate Restoration Department, Member process and standard of handing business activities. their voting rights. Outside director KDB Bank • Outside Director Nomination Committee, Risk Management Committee, candidates are chosen by Outside • Head of Debt Capital Markets Department, Audit Committee (Chairperson) KDB Bank Director Nomination Committee, which • (Present) Head of Planning Department, Donghyun Ahn then recommends its nominees to the KDB Bank (Present) Non-Executive Director, Our Focus Our Progress General Shareholders’ Meeting for final KDB Daewoo Securities Member approval. Major Experience • Steering Committee Improve expertise and efficiency of BOD Outside director rate accounted for 67% • Member of the Market Oversight Commission • Non-Executive Director, NH Nonghyup Bank Promote activities of BOD BOD attendance rate recorded 93% • (Present) Non-Executive Director, POSCO Build sustainability governance Reported to BOD on CSR activities • (Present) Professor, Department of Economics of BOD twice a year at Seoul National University Member • Compensation Committee (Chairperson), 1) Audit Committee BOD structure where the BOD simultaneously performs management and supervision roles * As of the end of September 2015 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Corporate Governance • Risk Management Global Financial Expert • Multicultural Society • Social Contribution through Finance Strategic Focus 2 BOD Performance Evaluation Committees under the BOD Risk Management KDB Daewoo Securities limits the tenure KDB Daewoo Securities has established the following committees under the BOD to of its outside directors to two years; when enhance the efficiency and expertise of the latter’s decision-making process. a director is reappointed, the subsequent tenure is reduced to one year; the limit Facing rapid changes in the business environment, of combined tenures is set at five years. Committee Duties After the end of each business year, • Opening, relocation, and closure of domestic branches and sales offices KDB Daewoo Securities is protecting customer assets and outside directors conduct a self-evaluation • Appointment and dismissal of managers maximizing shareholder value through thorough risk management. Steering Committee in accordance with ‘Criteria for Model • Resolution on major changes to the financial structure Operations of the Audit Committee and • Appointment and dismissal of executive officers Outside Directors Systems for Financial Services Companies’. They review such • Development and implementation of internal audit plans, evaluation of outcomes, and follow-up measures factors as job performance, the efficiency • Development and assessment of internal control systems of BOD operations, the governance Audit Committee structure, and the activity of BOD • Consent for appointment of the Assistant Auditor committees. The findings of the evaluation • Appointment of outside auditors are disclosed on both websites of the • Follow-up measures on matters that were pointed out during audits Korea Financial Investment Association Outside Director and KDB Daewoo Securities, prior to the • Nomination of candidates for outside directors and Audit Committee members Nomination who are outside directors Annual General Meeting. The findings Committee are also made public through Corporate • Assessment on adequacy of compensation system operations Governance Annual Report. 34 • Examination of compensation system, financial position and risk relevancy 35 Compensation • Evaluation of annual compensation BOD Activities Committee • Review and discuss those subject to variable compensation In 2014, the BOD was convened 16 times, • Review and discuss scope of compensation policies with an average 93% of the directors attending. • Establishment of basic policies on risk management Risk Management • Decide acceptable levels of risk Committee • Approval for adequate investment ceilings and ceiling amount for risks • Establishing and changing risk management criteria BOD Meetings and Activities Disclosure on Management Approach 97 BOD Accountability on Risk management plays a very important role in corporate growth and development. Sustainability Increasing life expectancy, global financial crises, growing foreign exchange risks, 95 93 To widely publicize the CEO’s strong and other risks have increased the level of uncertainty in the business environment. Director Attendance stance for sustainability management Against this backdrop, KDB Daewoo Securities seeks to enhance its corporate value (%) both internally and externally, and to build as a sustainable company through a preemptive and systematic practice of risk Number of BOD 18 Meetings a sustainability governance structure, management. KDB Daewoo Securities reports to the 13 16 BOD its corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities twice a year. The first report of 2015, which covers 2014 Our Focus Our Progress activities, includes the status of budget executions, their results and future Facilitate the operation of Risk Management Committee plans related to three major projects— Risk Management Committee attendance rate recorded 100% in 2014 support for multicultural families, fostering Improve expertise of risk management Launched Finance Assessment Team of the social enterprises, and global and Investment Management Team 2012 2013 2014 contribution; details of the covered Details of major BOD agendas are disclosed matters have been fully discussed and on Corporate Governance Annual Report and * Based on fiscal year approved. the Company’s website under BOD Activity. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Corporate Governance • Risk Management Global Financial Expert • Multicultural Society • Social Contribution through Finance Definition of Risk Risk Management Organization Risk Management Regulations Regulations & Guidelines KDB Daewoo Securities defines risk as KDB Daewoo Securities sets various a potential loss or losses that arise in regulations, rules for operation, guidelines Risk Management Matters necessary for the composition and operation of Risk the course of its various management and standards to build a comprehensive, Committee Regulations Management Committee and its councils BOD Risk Management Committee or business activities. Risk always lurks company-wide risk management system. behind every income opportunity; but an CEO Proprietary Asset Risk Management Council Risk Management Matters necessary for effective execution of risk management undue exposure to risk can deal a blow to Regulations operations company-wide both shareholder interests and corporate Investment Review Chief Risk Officer Client Asset Risk Risk Management Framework Committee value. We are making utmost efforts to Management Council For systematic management of all risks Day-to-day matters related to managing market/credit/liquidity generate an optimum amount of revenue Rules for Operation on Working-Level facing the company, they are classified in risks associated with proprietary asset management as well as Review Council Risk Management within an acceptable range of risk. the aspects of market, credit, liquidity, and for operational risk management operational risks. The company also has Investment & Risk Management Finance Investment established management systems and Standards for Risk Procedures and matters that need to be observed when Risk Management Governance Credit Assessment Department Assessment Team Management Team criteria in accord with the characteristics Management of Real conducting activities related to real estate project financing (PF) Department Estate PF KDB Daewoo Securities operates of each risk, and use them to effectively Risk Management Committee under Risk Manager identify, analyze, evaluate, and control Criteria for Determining Matters neccesary for determining standard interest rates for the supervision of the BOD as the the risks. Standard Interest Rates for reviewing and operating retirement pension products based on Risk Reporter top decision-making body managing Retirement Pension internal control standards 36 risks in accordance with a set of 37 established guidelines. All decisions Measurement and Management Overseas Branch Risk Specific guidelines on risk management for operating overseas made and subsequent steps outlined of Risks Management Guidelines branch by Risk Management Committee are implemented by Proprietary Asset Risk Proprietary Asset Risk Management policies made by the Risk Management Market Risk ELS(B) and DLS(B) Criteria and procedures that need to be observed in issuing Management Council and Client Asset Council and Client Asset Risk Committee, the Proprietary Council, and In measuring market risks, KDB Daewoo Issuance and Management equity-linked securities and derivatives-linked securities, and in Management Council the Client Council. Guidelines managing hedged assets Risk Management Council. Near the end Securities uses standardized methods of 2014, Finance Assessment Team and Proprietary Asset Risk Management set in ‘Financial Investment Industry Investment Management Team were set Council (‘the Proprietary Council’) and Investment & Credit Assessment Regulations’. The company has adopted Trust Asset Risk Day-to-day matters related to managing risks associated with Department and Finance Assessment Management Guidelines trust asset operations up to secure expertise in preparation Client Asset Risk Management Council and operates SunGard’s market riskfor expansion of investment finance (‘the Client Council’) execute all specific Team measuring system, which enables the duties of decisions made by Risk calculation of internal market VaR (Value Day-to-day matters related to managing risks associated operations, including corporate credit Investment & Credit Assessment Wrap Asset Risk with customer wrap accounts deposited in accordance with business, and to better control risks. Management Committee and tasks Department and Finance Assessment at Risk)1). Management Guidelines discretionary investment contracts delegated to them, and report the results Team both provide rational opinions Risk Management Committee to the committee. based on comprehensive analyses of Credit Risk transactions related to proprietary trading, In managing credit risk, KDB Daewoo Risk Management Committee is the As transactions involving credit risk are Liquidity Risk Investment Review Committee IB underwriting, and credit offering. They company’s top risk management Securities sets acceptable exposure limits usually large and difficult to securitize, also preview the company’s investment In managing liquidity risk, KDB Daewoo decision-making body, formulating risk Investment Review Committee reviews by counterparty type or credit rating. developing proactive risk management decisions, independent of sales Securities uses liquidity gaps and ratios management strategies in line with the company’s investment transactions. We also maintain an appropriate level strategies is essential. In consideration departments, and carry out the policies of as key indicators. Departments related overall business strategies and ensuring Composed of executive directors only, of capital adequacy by controlling credit of such credit risk characteristics, Investment Review Committee. to managing risk or funds regularly that all risk-related specific duties it convenes frequently to facilitate smooth VaR limits based on standard models. In we conduct a preliminary evaluation monitor liquidity risks and report to senior are implemented appropriately. Risk investment decision making. addition, we identify and closely monitor process that involves both qualitative and Investment Management Team management. Management Committee is composed of major counterparties in the high risk quantitative analyses of all high credit risk only BOD directors with verified expertise Risk Management Department Investment Management Team performs category through regular monitoring of transactions. in risk management, which also ensures Risk Management Department conducts post-management functions such as our credit risk status. its independence. To further enhance all risk management-related matters monitoring of investment positions, debt its operation efficiencies, it maintains of the company in accordance with collection and management of nona risk management councils under its established procedures and approved peforming loans. supervison. systems, executing all risk management 1) Maximum losses expected from an investment over a given period of time and at a given confidence level when market prices move in an adverse direction under normal market conditions KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Corporate Governance • Risk Management Global Financial Expert • Multicultural Society • Social Contribution through Finance Integrated Risk Management System development is in its second phase. We the spot market, and other changes were Total Crisis Management also are in the process of computerizing made in price stabilization mechanisms. Systems the standardarized method-based risk In response to the increasing market KDB Daewoo Securities has a total amount calculation process across all risk of securities-related products, we crisis system in place to preemptively sales department as well as the daily preemptively manage risks associated Potential loss or losses the company and actively respond to crisis situations, NCR calculation process. The third with changes in the mechanisms through may incur in the course of conducting including the spread of risks and market the asset management due to the Potential loss or losses the company may phase will center on computerization of the systematic risk management system. shocks. We devide the development fluctuation of market factors, including incur due to an inappropriate or faulty the consolidated financial statementstock prices, interest rates, and internal process, personal behavior, or of crisis situations into three phases— based NCR calculation process and Operational Risk Management System exchange rates system, or an unexpected external event caution, alert, and risk—depending development of a system of assigning KDB Daewoo Securities has been on the liquidity status and stability of and managing limits on various risks. operating its internal operational risk financial markets. We have formulated Market Risk Operational Risk management system since 2009 to a detail execution plan for each phase New Risk Management System minimize the likelihood of financial losses to thoroughly prepare ourselves for In May 2008, KDB Daewoo Securities and potential losses associated with its crisis situations. We also closely monitor KDB Daewoo Securities developed a new risk management own operational risk. financial markets for any sign of instability Integrated Risk Management system in response to increased needs for by applying specific indicators that reflect risk management in new areas emerging Corporate Credit-Rating System the characteristics of each department. due to an expedited development of new KDB Daewoo Securities has been running To prevent risks that arise from natural 38 Liquidity Risk Credit Risk financial products and the enforcement its own corporate credit-rating system 39 disasters, such as fire, floods, and of the Capital Market Act. Included in this since 2011. The system gages the earthquakes, we have developed a system is a real-time risk management credit risk level of corporations deemed Potential loss or losses the company may Potential loss or losses the company may incur business continuity plan and share it process for over-the-counter (OTC) less than sound thorugh analysis of incur in the course of conducting the asset in the event of a counterparty’s failure to fulfill its company-wide. As for risks related to management due to its inability to acquire obligation of payment or repayment of principal derivatives. As the daily price range in the both financial and non-financial factors. an IT system failure, we have created or dispose of assets at normal market or interest, or breach of a contract of derivative securities market was expanded to ±30% We are keeping in pace with the fastprices due to a lack of liquidity in the market transactions such as swaps an emergency IT manual centering in the first half of 2015, the range limit expanding investment finance business or in assets under management on seamless provision of IT services, aslo increased for individual stock futures by continuing efforts at improving the to ensure the continuity and stability and options that are directly connected to corporate credit-rating models. of business activities even during a company-wide IT failure. KDB Daewoo Securities Integrated Risk Management Operational Risk Risk Management Systems for Risk Management at Securities KDB Daewoo Securities manages and Firms’ recommended by the financial The business scope of financial controls operational risks through Risk authorities, and to support strengthening Total New Operational Corporate investment companies is expanding in & Control Self Assessment (RCSA), of total risk management. We thus Risk Management Risk Management Risk Management Credit-Rating tandem with their development of various System System System System Key Risk Indicator (KRI) management, have built the foundation for calculating financial investment products. As a result, loss data management, establishment total capital at risk, managing risk, and Risk type Total risks Market/Credit risks Operational risks Credit risks there is an increasing need for sound of countermeasures, and calculation measuring risk-adjusted performances. risk management and thorough internal Assessment Consolidation of Market/Credit VaR, of operational VaR based on internal We also have formulated a long-term results individual risks sensitivity Operational VaR Internal credit rating controls. KDB Daewoo Securities has models. Regular RCSAs are carried out to plan for integrateing and improving established a stable, comprehensive risk • Capital adequacy • Integrated risk • Risk & Control • Information on the gage the level of risks of concern facing risk management systems to flexibly management structure comparable to its management database Self-Assessment company’s current each department. If an indication of risk respond to changes in the net operating reputation as Korea’s leading financial (RCSA) status capital ratio (NCR) system, to increase • Risk-adjusted • Market/credit risk is found, countermeasures are applied investment firm and is contributing to performance measurement • Key Risk Indicators • Corporate financial to manage it preemptively, and we also work efficiencies between business measurement system (KRI) information build an advanced financial environment. Major keep a close track of all of our financial departments and Risk Management functions • Analysis of crisis • Risk analysis • Loss data • Probability of losses. For company-wide operational Department personnel, and to situations by department/ default Total Risk Management System • Risk measurement risk measurement and management, we enhance our overall risk management product/type • Integrated risk data and reporting In February 2011, KDB Daewoo Securities competencies. We have been modifing and reports • Review and report plan to expand the scope of operational established a total risk management and improving the risk management results risk management to include overseas system to meet ‘Minimal Requirements systems by phase. As of 2015, the system subsidiaries. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Corporate Governance • Risk Management Global Financial Expert • Multicultural Society • Social Contribution through Finance Strategic Focus 3 Global Financial Expert KDB Daewoo Securities People People of KDB Daewoo Securities Through our creative organizational culture, KDB Daewoo Securities envisions its KDB Daewoo Securities is supporting its individual employees’ exemplary employee as someone who pursues global financial leadership endeavors to become the best in their field. by putting the highest value on the customer, acquiring a wide range of first-rate knowledge, and seeking creative challenges. We seek to cultivate future global financial leaders who relish new challenges, develop worldleading professional skills, and dedicate Creative themselves to customer satisfaction We pursue the leadership attitude that Challenge based on a customer-oriented mindset. actively responds to rapid changes in the business environment and relishes new challenge and active innovation. HRD System KDB Daewoo Securities has established a human resources development 40 (HRD) system with focus on helping its 41 employees develop competencies to their aptitudes. Consisting of four curricula Professionalism We endeavor to develop the world’s designed considering specialty, the best capabilities. The fierce competition system offers programs in line with the serves as the corner stone of growth, training objectives of each area. and the instructions and coaching by seniors are driving forces to become Leadership Curriculum a global financial leader. Leadership Curriculum offers leadership training to executives, department Disclosure on Management Approach managers, branch managers, and staff Customer being promoted. In 2014, we developed We put our customers first, treat them Since talent management is essential in corporate competitiveness, companies Orientation a leadership pipeline system that is as life-time partners and devote our full implement various strategies to recruit or retain talent. As employees are the attention to them. continuous, practical and suitable for source of corporate innovation and culture, KDB Daewoo Securities places the relevant positions and duties, and highest priority on talent management, and strives to foster true financial experts expanded a field-centric leadership who can lead change and innovation and offer the best value to customers. education that focuses on generating By doing so, we stay ahead in the pursuit of advanced finance. profit and performance. Professional Curriculum Professional Curriculum consists of Honor & Pride We cherish honor and pride ourselves completed training phases ranging from as world-leading financial experts well PB Academy to Expert Course, and of respected by customers. With a mindset Our Focus Our Progress specialized training courses for such that we represent the Korean financial Cultivate Professional financial certificates sectors as WM, corporate investment industry and compete with global financial experts increased by 3.7% banking (CIB), and management. In 2014, players, we pursue a level of dignity and the global training course was expanded refinement worthy of such a mindset. Foster PBs to build 14 recruits completed a ‘Premier PB House’ the 1st PB Academy to strengthen employee proficiencies to communicate with overseas communities and to help them gain the knowledge of advanced finance. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Corporate Governance • Risk Management Global Financial Expert • Multicultural Society • Social Contribution through Finance Daily Routine of Learning, HRD Programs finance/PIB; in the latter, participants Leadership Insight Faculty Mastering, and Teaching Professional Curriculum receive hands-on coaching at actual Curriculum Curriculum Curriculum KDB Daewoo Securities is often called a sales sites. ‘talent academy’ or ‘securities academy’ One KDB Value Introductory course for new experienced recruits Biz accomplishments Retail CIB Management Global Executive with its high level of investment in Learning (學) Executives Completed 1st PB Academy Course developing HRD programs to enhance Global experience Global MBA Global business skill-up Expert Course Expert Course Expert Course Officer leadership expertise of its employees. In particular, In 2015 the PB Academy trained its first (07:00~12:30) Sales strategies for CIB synergy Case study Coverage Biz Skill branch managers External many of our programs aim at developing 14 new PBs. The new PBs went through Morning conference, Learn knowledge the content accumulation phase from Branch Manager/ Conference for professional skills that can be applied to daily Branch Manager/General Internal lecturer development course Fostering future leaders branch managers degree curriculum business operations, as part of our efforts April through June, learning the training Facilitator development course Mastering (習) Advanced Case study to maintain job relevancy of training contents through a daily exercise of General Manager programs to the filed. learning, mastering, and teaching, which Manager leadership Understanding customers Stock investment Financial products Wealth management Sales skill make up the training concept of the (13:30~17:30) Sharing duties with External trainings Test, Extendible learning1), PB Academy academy. After training, the PBs provided Acquisition of sales content Deputy the instructors with feedbacks on what they other departments related to duties Basic PB Academy is a distinctive introductory Manager individually had learned and then received Part/Team Head training program for new PB entrants advice on contents that can be applied Teaching (敎)* * Twice a week as the foundation for the ‘Premier PB Manager to actual sales. Trainees organized the Promotion leadership leadership House’. The academy is a training knowledge on a sales contents notepad (18:30~20:30) system that helps new PBs develop 42 KDB Daewoo Securities Academy and to create an individual manual. By PT(L&T)2), Role play 43 professional skills and immediately apply Customer Support Team associate training Assistant employing this process, PB Academy Duty leadership Working-level CIB case these skills to their jobs. This eight-month application has broken away from the traditional Manager competition training system consists of two phases: 1) Look for materials that can be related to actual sales, Working-level skill Management unilateral training approach and instead in addition to reviewing what was learned, and share improvement advanced ‘content accumulation’ and ‘sales skill with others Mandatory for has developed a distinctive curriculum duties (Coverage, development’. In the former, participants 2) Products advanced regulation, etc.) that centers on the repeated process of At the level of learning that allows participants to develop a basic understanding of teach what they have learned Senior Customer Support Team learning, mastering, and teaching. This Basics for securities business professionalism including a sense of training method, unprecedented in the Associate purpose and a sales mindset as well Management financial industry, even of the world, has PB Academy CIB boot camp orientation as financial knowledge, including of Head leadership been noted by many industry experts for Basic common training economics, securities, products, and its distinctive approach. Introductory course for new associate (organization, expertise) Junior Associate Financial products + OA + Basic knowledge Branch duties PB Academy Program Introductory course for Counter Associate + Jump Up course The five-month training period is divided into two phases: ‘content accumulation’ (three months) and ‘sales skill development’ (two months) Insight Curriculum Faculty Curriculum once a year to help them retain their Insight Curriculum consists of various Faculty Curriculum aims at improving mastery of financial knowledge as Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May Jun. Jul. Aug. contents related to humanities, including the lecture-giving skills of employees KDB Daewoo Securities professionals culture, history, and philosophy, and chosen as lecturers of various in-house and develop a global mindset in tune with rapid changes in the financial Content accumulation Sales skill development aims to share the values of KDB Daewoo education/training programs. In 2014, Securities and to foster creative talents. a systematic program was created to environment. We also run an introductory Knowledge of Knowledge of program twice a year for new employees Introductory First branch OJT Boot camp Second branch economics products Actual sales and coaching In 2014, diverse contents were added foster employees into lecturers who give course + March (branch work (overall securities OJT (the instructor accompanies that reflect changes in the business seminars to customers. with professional experiences to help experience) industry) (product-centric) Knowledge of Knowledge of each trainee to actual sales them familiarize with the organization and equities finance/PIB environment and trends that can enhance activities and provides coaching employee satisfaction. the core values of the company. Passion/pride/sense of purpose/ on developing sales know-how) Others sales mind In addition to the training programs of the four different curricula, the company PB Academy provides training to assistant managers KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Corporate Governance • Risk Management Global Financial Expert • Multicultural Society • Social Contribution through Finance Strategic Focus 4 Multicultural Society DWS Learning Center Fostering Financial Experts Employees with Professional Financial Certificates DWS Learning Center provides a one-stop To strengthen the financial expertise of KDB Daewoo Securities supports multicultural families and (Unit: Person) service, covering from provision of diverse its employees, KDB Daewoo Securities implements programs educating the public on multiculturalism, knowledge and information for employees developed a training system, with the to HRD work function. It is an on-line area of focus divided into three—CIB 1,244 in an effort to create a more mature multicultural society. knowledge and content-providing service (HQ sales), WM (branch sales), and 1,281 AFPK 1) exclusive to KDB Daewoo Securities. Management (HQ management)—and 1,052 Eschewing traditional training methods, has since run the expert course once a the center features diverse programs year since 2013. This optional course, that focus on field-oriented training and a break from the mandatory training, motivate trainees to strengthen their invites self-motivated participants and competencies. It has enhanced the thus registers a higher level of course convenience of learning by connecting its effectiveness. To increase the expertise knowledge search function to a popular of all employees, KDB Daewoo Securities search engine, in addition to utilizing TOSS has made available courses that offer and WM Community, the company’s professional certificates, and as a result, 208 internal on-line platforms. In 2015, a mobile the number of AFPK and CFP holders has 181 226 course was adopted to further expand been growing over the years. CFP 2) 44 employee participation. 26 45 25 26 CFA3)(Level 3) 2012 2013 2014 1) Associate Financial Planner Korea 2) Chartered Financial Planner 3) Chartered Financial Analyst Disclosure on Management Approach DWS Learning Center Website In 2015, according to a Ministry of the Interior, the number of foreigners residing in Rewarding Outstanding Korea reached around 1.74 million, which accounts for 3.4% of the total population, Trainees and the number will soon reach 2 million. Korea is fast transforming into a nation DWS Learning Center Functions of many cultures and ethnicities. In response, the nation is looking into ways of In addition to focusing on training its employees, KDB Daewoo Securities promoting social integration and improving the public’s understanding of multicultural identifies and rewards outstanding society. KDB Daewoo Securities regards ‘fusion of diverse cultures’ as a core task for Apply for course and Share knowledge Search for E-Learning trainees. Around 5 to 10 percent of the social development, and in collaboration with experts in various fields, implements check results resources knowledge trainees are chosen as outstanding distinctive programs to help multicultural families settle down and lead a life of dignity. trainees based on their course • Staff can view history • Staff can choose • Staff can search My HRD performances on test, PT and role information on learning learning content that for knowledge through the DWS they need to develop through IT systems playing, and their class attitudes as well. Our Focus Our Progress Learning Center relevant competencies and the knowledge This practice improves the effectiveness or acquire a certificate bulletin board • Staff can check of training by facilitating a positive sense Learning Hold a bilingual contest 40 students participated information on the • Staff can apply for • Staff can of competition and raising the level of (The 4th Mother Tongue Contest) in the contest training history, internal training, participate in customized training, external training, communities, participation among trainees. Expand budget to The budget increased and certificates online training, produce UCC, support multicultural society 26.3% year-on-year Knowledge Sharing real-time training, and engage in or correspondence online and video learning meetings KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Corporate Governance • Risk Management Global Financial Expert • Multicultural Society • Social Contribution through Finance All proceeds from the sale of the cookbook across the nation that offer language Helping Improve the Public’s go to multicultural family support programs. classes. The materials also are available Understanding of Multiculturalism Every year we deliver the cookbook for free, in the digital format on the company’s Through a KBS program titled ‘Red to newly-arrieved female immigrants. website. Of the five-language editions, the Bicycle’, featuring experiences of the Chinese and Vietnamese versions have minority group, we aired an animation Bilingual Educational Supports been developed in the e-book format to series aimed at improving the public make target children more receptive to understanding of multiculturalism. Each Children of multicultural families naturally learning. We plan to develop in 2015 the episode about four minutes long, the learn, from their parents, the languages Thai and Cambodian editions. series talks about understanding and and cultures of their both parents and thus develop a deep understanding of the To motivate children to learn the The 4th Mother Tongue Contest embracing different cultulres, and about two countries, which makes them ideal languages of their both parents, we have communication. The senarios were candidates to grow into global experts. been holding an annual ‘Mother Tongue produced with help from KBS, Global In collaboration with Hankuk University of Contest’ since 2011 in cooperation Village of Love, and the Seoul National Published cookbooks in multiple languages Foreign Studies, KDB Daewoo Securities with the Ministry of Gender Equality & University of Education. Based on the has developed Korean language learning Family. The contest is participated by total 63 episodes aired through the Red Supporting Multiculturalism materials in five languages—Chinese, preschoolers and elementary school Bicycle, we have published a teaching Vietnamese, Mongolian, Japanese, and students who are recommended by their plan, ‘Understanding Multiculturalism with A harmonious fusion of various cultures an Animation’, to help remove prejudices Russian—to help Korean-challenged multicultural family support centers. An is essential to a sustainable social against multiculturalism and raise the 46 mothers teach their children their mother average of around 200 children and 47 development. KDB Daewoo Securities public awareness of the importance of tongue. These materials have been supplied their family members have participated is executing projects together with great Published a teaching plan cultural diversity and mutual respect. to 205 multicultural family support centers in the final each year. Starting in 2015, partners in diverse fields to support The teaching plan and animation DVDs multicultural families in their efforts to the contest will be hosted jointly with the Ministry of Education, and expanded to have been distributed to around 5,000 settle down in the Korean society and elementary schools, the Ministry of become financially independent. Its social include students from elementary to high schools, which is expected to increase Gender Equality & Family, and National contributions made through private-public Police Agency to be used as educational cooperation have been honored with a the number of partipants. materials for improving the public Presidential Citation and a Minister of Cookbooks in On November 22, 2014 the 4th Mother understanding of multiculturalism. multiple languages Gender Equality & Family Citation. We Tongue Contest was held at KDB plan to continue our multicultural family Daewoo Securities’ Gwacheon Human In April 2014 the ‘Red Bicycle’ was supports aimed at helping them live selected for International Panorama happily in Korea as a member of society. ㄱ Resource Development Center. It was (the non-competitive division) in the hosted jointly by KDB Daewoo Securities ㄴ ㄷ and the Ministry of Gender Equality & educational issue category of the Korean Cookbooks in Multiple Published bilingual teaching materials Family. Some 200 people attended the Pulcinella Awards Best Teen TV Series at Languages contest, including Assistant Minister Aeri ‘Cartoons on the Bay’, an international Bilingual educational supports for children from multicultural Son of the Youth & Family Policy Office animation film festival held in Venice, Italy. The Korean language and cooking have families under the Ministry of Gender Equality & been found to be the two most difficult challenges facing marriage migrant Family, President Inchul Kim of Hankuk women. In response, KDB Daewoo University of Foreign Studies (HUFS), Securities in 2009 published free Director Minjung Yang of HUFS Center recipe calendars in seven languages, for Multicultural Education. It consisted Produced an animation series to improve the understanding including Chinese and Vietnamese, of a category for preschoolers and lowerof multiculturalism and commercially published ‘Korean Teaching materials publication grade school students and another Family Foods: 45 Food Most Commonly to improve the understanding of one for the higher-grade students. The Served at the Korean Family Table’, in multiculturalism Received a Minister of Gender Equality & Family Grand Prize winner in each category Citation ten different languages. In addition to was presented with a KRW 2 million recipes, the cookbook contains a general scholarship and a plaque. knowledge essential to understanding Korean sentiments and culture. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Corporate Governance • Risk Management Global Financial Expert • Multicultural Society • Social Contribution through Finance Strategic Focus 5 Social Contribution through Finance Based on its financial expertise, KDB Daewoo Securities is developing various projects that can resolve social issues, to take a lead in generating sustainable values. Providing ESG Financial Golden Age No. 3 Web Accessibility Certifications and Awards Products Released in 2011, KDB Daewoo As a financial investment institution, KDB Securities’ Golden Age No. 3 is a product Daewoo Securities strives to contribute that provides stable wealth management May 2013 Acquired WA certifications to the establishment of a sustainable services, including monthly pension for the company website, the company introduction site, society through finance. The company payments, to customers who entrust and the WTS has developed ESG(Environment, Social, their retirement savings to the company. Governance)-related financial products Asset allocation generates a stable flow Oct. 2013 Acquired WA certifications of returns, and this investment diversity for the career page, pension and advisory services that reflect social page, the ‘KDB Daewoo issues, such as new and renewable shields from the danger of the inevitable Direct/Direct+’ page, the table energy, aging society, and socially fluctuation of financial market factors. tennis team page responsible investment (SRI). Moreover, the portfolio can be adjusted to Dec. 2013 Received a Special Grand suit the investment needs and appetites Prize at the ‘2013 Web Award KDB Daewoo Securities is reviewing of customers. The product is gaining Korea’ 48 49 diverse financial products, including SRIs, traction among those intersted in stable clean energy funds, and donation-type profitability for their post-retirement life, funds for its customers and stakeholders. thanks to its superior benefits, including ‘KDB Bank SRI Fund for a Better World’ is sufficient monthly payments, substantial company received a Special Grand Prize an ESG product that invests in companies tax reduction, and an inflation-headging at the ‘2013 Web Award Korea’. Since outstanding in sustainability management. asset growth. the receipt of the certification, we have Also, ‘KDB Bank S&P Clean Energy Fund’ been managing digital contents with invests in the S&P Global Clean Energy focus on web accessibility and carried Index, which consists of new and renewable Financial Services for Minorities out accessibility assessments, which led energy-related companies. ‘Dongbu KDB Daewoo Securities is making to the retention of the certification in 2014 Disclosure on Management Approach Econation Fund’ is a private equity fund utmost efforts to make its financial and 2015. We will continue to make our established by KDB Daewoo Securities’ services equally available to the socially digital contents easy for customers to For corporations facing competition worldwide is essential to secure new growth high net worth customers interested in marginalized. access irrespective of user environments models. As a sustainable growth strategy, many multinational financial firms social contribution through donation. It is or conditions. pursue development of diverse products. KDB Daewoo Securities also endeavors a socially responsible private equity fund Increasing Web Accessibility to the to stay in the forefront of building a sustainable financial society. Specifically, (PEF) that allocates a certain percentage of Disabled Programs to Protect the Financial we consider business models with strong growth potential, including socially its returns to a scholarhsip fund. Consumer Rights of Minorities In making its financial services accessbile responsible investment, climate change, financial services for the socially to the socially marginalized in pursuant Through the Financial Consumer marginalized, and other social issues. Financial Products for to relevant laws, KDB Daewoo Securities Protection Department created in 2014 Retirement became the first in the Korean financial solely for financial consumer protection, investment industry to apply the web KDB Daewoo Securities has been As the average life expectancy rises, an conducting various financial consumer standards and web accessibility to its increasing number of people think and protection education programs aimed Our Focus Our Progress web trading system (WTS) and all its do more and more about their lives after at strengthening financial services websites, which entitled the company to retirement. Accordingly, KDB Daewoo accessibility to the financially vulnerable, Increase financial accessibility Received the Special Grand Prize the Web Accessibility (WA) certification. for minorities at the ‘Web Award Korea’ Securities has been developing financial including the elderly, North Korean The websites have a screen reader products that help people plan a financially defectors, livelihood program recipients, Expand eco-friendly projects to Arranged first overseas energy project: program for the visually-impaired, and secured post-retirement life. and low-income households. counter climate change Fiji biomass power plant are also designed to help investors with color blindness or weakness easily check the web contents. For these efforts, the KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Corporate Governance • Risk Management Global Financial Expert • Multicultural Society • Social Contribution through Finance Introducing ‘S-Loan’, a Small Loan PIB Service a 18% stake. The power plant will have Service a power generation capacity of 38.9MW. In August 2014, KDB Daewoo Securities Once this project has been registered launched ‘S-Loan’, a loan service that as a CDM project, it also is expected to allows customers to use only a small generate an extra profit dependent on the PB IB PIB amount of carbon dioxide it reduces. amount of equities as collateral. The service is designed for people who have PB consulting for IB and institutional Assign dedicated PIB major shareholders, sales targeting personnel of KDB Daewoo difficulty getting loans from primary CEOs and executives corporate clients Securities PEF for Environmental Waste financial institutions. Individual customers of corporate clients in Class Six or lower credit ratings, who Provide one-stop services Management specialized for SMEs account for around 80% of all citizen in In accordance with relevant environmental Korea, can easily and quickly receive a laws, KDB Daewoo Securities is loan up to KRW 40 million. The range of managing and supervising waste equities that can be used as collateral treatment companies acquired by a has been expanded to 1,700 stocks to to such companies. Through its PIB was selected to manage ‘K-Growth Private Equity Fund (PEF). We make sure make the service more accessible. This operations, KDB Daewoo Securities is Global Fund’, which supports SMEs that that landfill waste is buried safely and loan service is available both off-line and offering such SME-oriented services as are experiencing difficulties in advancing leachate not spill out of landfills and cause on-line, including HTS and smartphones. corporate value and image improvement. into overseas markets due to a lack of environmental pollution. Also ensured are PIB is a new concept business in that it resources or experience despite their thorough management and supervision 50 51 combines wealth management and IB. technological prowess. Fund operation of the eco-friendly treatment of such byThe bird’s eye view of the biomass power plant in Fiji Financial Edution for Future details are available on the Growth Ladder products generated by waste incineration KDB Daewoo Securities provides its PBs Generation Fund website run by Financial Services as exhaust gas and fumes. Moreover, with PIB sales trainings and increased the Commission. onshore wind power plant, located in overseas energy projects. The biomass waste heat generated through waste One-Company-One-School Financial number of PIB Centers from two to four for the northeastern side of Jeju Island, is wood chip power plant1) in Nabou, Fiji, incineration is converted into energy and Education more systematic and efficient operations. the first wind power generation project is a case in point. This 12MW project is sold to nearby plants. These efforts have We will continue to expand our SMEParticipating in New & KDB Daewoo Securities has signed an in Korea to be funded in a non-recourse expected to cost KRW 50 billion. This led to a substantially reduced use of fossil focused services by listening more closely Renewable Energy Projects agreement with elementary, middle and method. KDB Daewoo Securities has project is significant in two ways: it is fuels such as liquefied natural gas (LNG) to SME customers concerned about their high schools nearby its branches located KDB Daewoo Securities is involved in new provided financial advice and funding an overseas investment development and bunker C oil, which encourages us to growth strategies. throughout the country, to provide a and renewable energy projects as part arrangements totaling KRW 78.3 billion, being pursued jointly by domestic SMEs proceed more eco-friendly projects. financial education and help teenagers of its commitment to fight global climate and is serving as the plant’s primary and large corprations; and it is the first Growth Ladder Fund develop a basic knowledge of finance changes and to develop new growth bank. overseas energy development for which and build a smart consumption habit. Growth Ladder Fund is a governmentengines. a private Korean financial company is created fund that is based on a new Yeonggwang Baeksu Wind Power Plant arranging the funding participation of concept of backing promising ventures Jeju Gimnyeong Wind Power Plant local financial institutions. This project is The Yeonggwang Baeksu Wind Creative Finance and SMEs in need of capital supports for Project expected to generate additional profits Power Plant, located in Baeksu-eup, KDB Daewoo Securities is contributing further growth. The goal is to establish once it has been registered as a clean The Jeju Gimnyeong Wind Power Plant, Yeonggwang-gun, South Jeolla Province, to the spread of Creative Finance* by a healthy corporate growth ecosystem. development mechanism (CDM) project. whose shareholders include GS EPS and commenced commercial operations in expanding sales activities targeting small In January 2015, KDB Daewoo Securities Jeju Holdings, commenced commercial June 2015. Unison, Toshiba, Korea Eastand medium-size enterprises (SME). operations in June 2015. This 30MW West Power, and Daehan Green Energy Yeongwol Photovoltaic Generation Project are shareholders in this 40MW onshore * Refer to the footnote on Creative Finance on page 17 wind power generation project. KDB This project involves building Asia’s 49.0 Partners Club Daewoo Securities has provided financial largest photovoltaic power plant, in advice and funding arrangements totaling Nam-myeon, Yeongwol-gun, Gangwon To grow together with SMEs, KDB Daewoo Securities has commenced ‘Partners Club’, % KRW 106 billion, and is also serving as Province. KDB Daewoo Securities has the plant’s primary bank. provided financial advice and arranged a consulting service offered to sound funding, and is serving as the primary SMEs. Social roles played by SMEs are bank of the KRW 140 billion project. PIB Balance Increase Rate Biomass Power Plant Project in Fiji growing in prominence with the emergence The company also is participating in the of the era of Creative Economy, but there PIB balance rose 49.0% as of September 30, 2015 KDB Daewoo Securities provides financial 1) Roots, branches and other wood wastes, that cannot be since started aggregating in April 2015 project as a major shareholder with used as construction materials, are separated and chopped are not many securities services dedicated Jeju Gimnyeong Wind Power Plant advice, arranges funding and invests in into chips to be used as raw materials for cogeneration KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report 3 KDB Daewoo Securities aspires to grow together with all of its stakeholders, including customers, shareholders/investors, employees, and local communities. Such aspiration transpires into a ceaseless pursuit of challenge and innovation toward creation of a sustainable progress enjoyed by all stakeholders. Sustainability Performance 52 53 By thinking ahead and taking great steps toward creating economic, social, and environmental values, KDB Daewoo Securities will earn stakeholders’ trust and support and achieve more meaningful performances and sustainable progress. Customers 54 Shareholders/Investors 60 Employees 66 Local Communities 72 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 1 Customers KDB Daewoo Securities places the highest priority on customer satisfaction, and strives to grow together with customers, protecting their rights and interests. Major Issues 1 Build customer relationship strategies and a system to improve customer satisfaction 2 Conduct responsible activities to protect financial consumers 3 Strengthen personal information protection Financial Consumer Protection A major goal for KDB Daewoo Securities is to enable financial consumers to make profits through the financial services that we provide. We also ensure business integrity to protect financial consumers. All of us at KDB Daewoo Securities 1 place the highest priority on the Improving Customer Satisfaction KDB Daewoo Securities offers a wide range of customer satisfaction services to ensure the best in customer satisfaction. interests of financial consumers We will further enhance customer Opportunities & Risks as our key business goal; satisfaction by listening to our customers Financial Consumer Protection Charter and providing better financial products 2 There has been a sharp rise in incidents where financial consumers have not been given the right KDB Daewoo Securities regards it as and services. explanations about products, which has led to consumer damage. There has also been an increase provide clear explanation vital for its customers to receive accurate in financial fraud, whereby customers’ personal information has been leaked and abused through voice and information on financial Voice of Customer and complete information, to minimize investment products and services phishing. We make efforts to ensure the complete sales of our financial investment products, and we potential losses from lack of information. so that financial consumers can The Voice of Customer (VOC) system was also undertake continuous management and training to prevent the leaking of personal information. As an industry leader, we became the make reasonable investment built to enable KDB Daewoo Securities 54 first company in the Korean financial decisions; customers to deliver their opinions 55 investment industry to announce a 3 through branches, the company website, Key Performance financial consumer protection charter, the the Customer Center, regular mail, and ‘Think you’ Charter, to protect the rights actively protect the financial and e-mail. The opinions that we hear are personal information of and interests of financial consumers. then actively used to improve customer financial consumers; services and policies. In addition, we Policies for the Perfect Sale of Financial 4 provide responsive customer feedback to Products all our staff members through a process make sure that there is be no Financial products are purchased as discriminatory acts against any of review, handling, and improvement. a result of our staff explaining and financial consumers; recommending them; it is therefore 5 Customer Complaint Management essential that sales process is perfect. System Employee training on customer KDB Daewoo Securities established make maximum efforts when Customer satisfaction score File encryption information protection KDB Daewoo Securities has developed a to handle customer complaints an internal system based on the basic Customer Complaint Management System 95.1/100 All documents 100% properly, and to protect customers (plan to be implemented in 2016) principle of perfect sales, taking a lead from damages; (CCMS) that is more comprehensive than in building a healthy investment culture. ‘Dreami VOC’, the previous VOC system, 6 We have also established the ‘Financial and manages complaints in an integrated Product Quality Assurance System’ under protect the rights and interests of and systematic way through such various which, if our staff sell a product that is financial consumers by obeying channels as phone, website, HTS, MTS, not completely adequate, or if product all laws and regulations, and e-mail, and customer opinion postcards. explanation is not sufficient, the product engaging in responsible activities; Customer comments are broken down by can be recalled within 15 days, and 7 different channels, types (compliments, customers can be compensated. suggestions, complaints), and themes protect financial consumers’ (customer service, home trading system, assets safely; and policy) to create a database. The response No. 1 securities firm category of 8 status and feedback process are shared the K-CSBI New sales channel 44th anniversary of the founding help the growth and development with all staff members in real time. The Two consecutive years, Stores in Songdo, Pangyo and Invited the St. Petersburg CCMS will be leveraged to improve 2014 & 2015 Sejong City Philharmonic Orchestra of the financial investment industry by protecting financial customer satisfaction and to formulate consumers. strategies on customer relations. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities VOC Receipt and Handling Process Customer Satisfaction 2012 2013 2014 Customer satisfaction score Channel through which Sharing among 98.8 96.2 95.1 Classification Review, Handle, Improve (Unit: Point) opinions are received all employees Branch with less than 90 points – – 1 ① The relevant department reviews whether to (Unit: Branch) Customer Service Improvement Council reflect the opinion (on the same day) Feedback program Main Line ② T  he Customer Service Improvement Council CCMS: Real time Phone Within a week re-examines the matter → Mainly opinions management of Opening of the ‘Store’ in Sejong City subject to rejection and re-examination receiving, handling, Customer Satisfaction Surveys Customer Satisfaction (Weekly) and all other processes Award List Suggestion ③ F KDB Daewoo Securities used to conduct  eedbacks to customers on the company’s Website plan on reflecting the suggestion customer satisfaction surveys with new unveiled the ‘Store’, a new concept sales 2013 • Received the Grand Prize in the Qway NEO customers, but in October 2014, we on-line category at the ‘2013 point, in Songdo, Pangyo, and other On-line ④ IT development and business improvements – Smart NEO expanded the scope to include existing Consumer Best Brand Awards’ business districts with growing financial E-mail ⑤ Feedbacks to customers on the result customers. This has enabled us to listen needs. The Store consists of personnel Posting on TOSS or • Ranked first in the securities sector to more opinions, and also provided (outstanding suggestion, complimented employee, complaint) CCMS on a weekly of ‘2013 Korea Highest Brand and space that are about one-quarter and monthly basis opportunities to make improvements to Awards’ of those at a regular sales point. This 56 ① Thank the customer for making the compliment Immediately services. 57 Postcard on 2014 • Chosen as the No. 1 securities firm innovative sales point is intended to customer Branch Compliment opinion ② Feedbacks to the complimented employee → at the ‘2014 K-CSBI’ increase customer contact points and Provide compliment card and CS Gold Emblem Monthly Employee Training on Customer Service strengthen a feeling of closeness. In • Received the Grand Prize in KDB Daewoo Securities provides training Customer Satisfaction at the ‘2014 addition, we have established overseas ① First response given by VOC personnel (Customer Center) Viewfinder D to its employees to strengthen their Herald Business Capital Market subsidiaries in developing countries, Hidden VOC Awards’ including Indonesia and Mongolia, in skills in dealing with customers and to Premeptive and active ② S  econd response given by relevant department after Immediately Complaint enhance customer satisfaction. We have addition to the overseas subsidiaries response • Ranked first in the securities sector confirming and reviewing the matter developed the ‘Self-Motivation Course’, a of ‘2014 Korea Highest Brand that have already been opened in major self-development program that is offered Awards’ economies. KDB Daewoo Securities has to all staff at headquarters and in the 12 overseas networks, the most of any Diversified channel Quickly handle the matter and review from the customer perspective Service improvements 2015 • Chosen as the No. 1 securities firm Enhanced accessibility (Deliver customer feedback immediately or within a week depending on the matter) Customer satisfaction branches once a year. In addition, we at the ‘2015 K-CSBI’ Korean financial investment company. use role playing to examine our sales We plan to continue to open sales points processes. The third Wednesday of every based on diverse concepts, and in month is a training day for staff who locations that reflect customer needs. take on customer and PB roles; after Closer to Customers the training is complete, a report is sent In changing times, KDB Daewoo Family Office Service ‘Insight’ Viewfinder D Customer Service Improvement Council to the Financial Consumer Protection Securities continues to make the utmost ‘Insight’ is an integrated consulting KDB Daewoo Securities set up Viewfinder D The Customer Service Improvement Department. efforts to communicate with customers so service that includes management at its corporate headquarters in December Council is an internal consultative body that we can develop customized services of a family’s assets and investments, 2012 as a communication channel to help that is in charge of quickly acting on Customer Recognition and satisfy their financial needs as their tax planning, succession of the family us understand customer thoughts and customer service requests and media. It KDB Daewoo Securities’ efforts to achieve needs change and diversify. These efforts business, risk management, real estate perspectives. Customers’ compliments, consists of staff from related departments, greater customer satisfaction have been have been supported by an expanded management, and corporate advice. The suggestions, and complaints, as well including the Customer Center, IT Center, recognized by its customers, which in sales network, and more customized Insight service is available to customers as how customers felt when using our and Smart Financial Department. The turn is helping the company to build services. with financial assets of KRW 3 billion or services, are collected and posted on a Council holds a meeting every two sustainable growth. more, and the number of families using it weekly basis. Viewfinder D enables us Viewfinder D helps us understand customer thoughts and weeks, to ensure that customer service Expanding the Sales Network has risen steadily since it was launched in perspectives to learn in greater detail what customers improvements are made as quickly as KDB Daewoo Securities focuses on 2013; more than 100 families now use the expect from the company. possible. establishing a sales network that offers Insight service. customers greater accessibility and convenience. As a result, we have KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities Improving Personal Pension Products security measure, we prohibit the use Activities to Prevent Leakage of Family Product Service Customized Marketing related to Transparent Supply Chain of customers’ personal information for Customers’ Personal Information Finance and Investment Management KDB Daewoo Securities has focused on In September 2013, KDB Daewoo the personal pension market in 2015, as marketing purposes from three months Securities released its family product KDB Daewoo Securities held a part of its ‘Premier PB House’ strategy. after the end of customer transactions. User Terminal Activity service, which offers more benefits when seminar on ongoing economic issues, Reports on Corruption The personal pension is being shown Also, a personal information database more family members invest in a greater including real estate and the Chinese To root out corruption by employees, Information is stored separately from five years after Detect and block external to customers as a financial resource leakage leakage of customer and variety of products. On-line and off-line PR stock market turmoil. These seminars KDB Daewoo Securities operates the for active wealth management, not just the end of customer transactions. We prevention personal information activities, including a random box event, provide resolutions to customers, ‘Corruption Sinmungo’. This system have also created a manual to help us to system a product aimed at tax deduction or supported the launch of the service, and and our experts can offer consulting allows employees, stakeholders, and life after retirement. A target earnings minimize customer damage even in the Encrypt all documents and led to a high level of interest with around services on investment trends and the third parties to report employee violations Encryption of all event of a leak of personal information. files (plan to be implemented rate is set after studying the customer’s documents in 2016) 15,000 customers applying for the service global outlook. In addition, we provide of laws and company regulations. The circumstances, and then a customized within just three months of its release. customized regional services; for anonymity of the person’s suggestion is Personal Information Security Policy Document Encrypt personal information portfolio is constructed. Our unique example, local residents who are subject protected throughout the entire process, security files that are stored in PCs personal pension product also features Managing Customers’ Personal Information Co-Marketing to land compensation are provided with from reporting stage to feedback stage. Secure USB Block external media, and continuous, in-depth management, tax The Compliance Department is in charge information on the land compensation We also have an IP tracing prevention and blocking of screen if files were moved with KDB Daewoo Securities cooperates benefits, and various other services. It of protecting personal information, and media secure USB process and ways to use land system. We inform on this corruptionwith partner companies to do marketing embodies our strong determination to has established customer information compensation funds, and we also hosted fighting system when we send requests Detect and remove viruses that can approach to the partner look after customer assets as best we Vaccine a seminar on recent financial trends for for proposals to outside parties, and protection and management regulations and malicious code companies’ customer base to attract can, and to manage them with care. in order to systematically protect CEOs and CFOs in industrial complexes. also post information on our website. Server and potential customers. For example, we Prevent server and database Launched in October 2014, the Corruption 58 customers’ personal information. These database put advertisements on clothes hangers 59 access by unapproved users Comprehensive Consulting Service regulations apply to all staff at KDB access control Monthly Letter for VIPs Sinmungo has received two reports so at Cleantopia Cleaners’ franchises, Daewoo Securities as well as our partner KDB Daewoo Securities issues a regular far, both of which have been handled. A one-on-one consulting service is offered and offered a dry-cleaning gift card to to high net worth customers. Experts in companies, so that we can keep all of our our customers. We partnered with KT monthly letter to its VIP customers with various fields, including investments, customer information safe. Marketing Activities for to offer the ‘KDB Daewoo Securities – the Royal class (average balance for Transparent and Thorough Supply the last three months, or a balance at Chain Management retirement planning, tax affairs, and real Customers KT Communication Expense Support Staff Training on Information Protection estate, visit our branches, so customers Service’ to KT customers who open the end of the previous month, of KRW KDB Daewoo Securities has established In order to prevent incidents related Performance to Celebrate the 44th 100 million to 1 billion) and above. The regulations on the purchase of items and can benefit from comprehensive, onea cash management account (CMA) to electronic banking and information Anniversary email letter shares information on wealth services, to enhance transparency in the stop wealth management. and custodial account, and sign for the protection, KDB Daewoo Securities management strategies, major news on selection of partner companies and in KDB Daewoo Securities has hosted automatic standing order of mobile phone provides a regular training on informtaion taxes, real estate, and investments, and purchasing. There are thorough reviews cultural performances for customers on bills. The users of this service exceeded Protecting Customers’ Personal protection to all staff every year. Staff in informs customers about any relevant of a potential partner’s both financial and the anniversary of the company’s founding 30,000 in just three months. Information charge of information protection receive events. non-financial aspects, depending on the every year since 2006. The world’s top additional in-depth training, including on item being purchased, to ensure correct The increased use of the Internet has artists are invited to offer the company’s Cheer up! Join us! the ethics of information protection and decisions on purchases. There were no enabled the easy management and loyal customers an opportunity to enjoy Finance Camp for Juniors an IT training course. 100% of executives, KDB Daewoo Securities undertook sharing of information, but on the negative high-quality performances. For our 44th cases of violations of fair trade during the general staff, IT staff, and staff in charge marketing activities to attract customers The ‘Finance Camp for Juniors’ is offered side, it has also made it much easier anniversary in 2014, the St. Petersburg latest reporting period, including unfair of information protection completed under the slogan ‘Cheer up! Join us!’ to customers and their children to help for private information to be exposed. Philharmonic Orchestra was invited. competition or anti-trust. information protection training in 2014. in 2014. We offered special benefits them develop good financial sense. Fun Financial companies handle sensitive to a greater number of customers games are used to enable participants private information, which is why KDB to easily understand and familiarize Procurement Assessment Committee Relief from Losses Caused by by supplying targeted products, and Daewoo Securities undertakes various provided customers with investment themselves with finance, which children When a purchase is over a certain Telecommunications Fraud activities to give the strong protection to guides for the market environment and might otherwise think is too difficult. amount, a Procurement Assessment our customers’ personal information. KDB Daewoo Securities enables the their needs, as well as releasing financial Committee meeting is held to evaluate the suspension of payments for 24 hours products that reflected their requirements. purchase. The General Affairs Department Strengthened Personal Information to minimize customer losses caused by Promotions informed customers about the is in charge of convening meetings, Security telecommunications fraud. We undertake products in detail, thus helping customers while detailed work related to meeting careful monitoring of accounts that are KDB Daewoo Securities currently to manage their wealth wisely. proceedings is handled by the department suspected of fraud, and share all relevant encrypts important files, but we will that wishes to make the purchase, or jointly information using the information network begin encrypting all documents in 2016, by that department and the Procurement of the Korea Federation of Banks. Performance to celebrate the 44th anniversary of in order to enhance document security. the founding of KDB Daewoo Securities Department. As an additional personal information KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 2 Shareholders/Investors KDB Daewoo Securities responds flexibly to the financial market, and strives to build foundations for sustainable growth, all in an effort to maximize Major Issues value for shareholders. 1 2 3 Provide transparent reports Build a sustainable business Increase shareholder and on economic performance Sustainable Business Model model for a changing investor interest in 6 Capitals of KDB Daewoo Securities Impacts on Stakeholders and increase active It is important to present a sustainable corporate environment non-financial information communications business model to shareholders and Financial Capital investors, and to provide them with • Contribute to Korea’s Capital used by the company to provide products and services capital market transparent information on corporate value. KDB Daewoo Securities uses an • Return to investors and Total shareholders’ equity Tax expenses Opportunities & Risks employees integrated reporting framework how we KRW 4.2 trillion KRW 84.9 billion facilitate our capitals and create synergy The stock market continues to remain unstable, due to uncertainty in the business among them, in order to provide our Manufactured Capital environment in Korea and overseas. The continued low interest trend across the globe products and services. Buildings, facilities, and infrastructure that the company has also triggered major changes in the Korean financial market environment. can use to produce products or provide services • Enhance customer satisfaction KDB Daewoo Securities is implementing business strategies that are appropriate for such financial environment, in order to build a revenue base that can continue to grow. Domestic network Global network • Facilitate the local economy overseas 102 12 60 61 Key Performance Human Capital Support for the corporate governance and ethical values for human resources, competencies, experiences and innovation • Share skills and knowhow among staff Total number of employees Number of trainings on ethics • Maintain a transparent 2,968 142 corporate culture Intellectual Capital Knowledge-based intangible assets, including brand image and other reputation developed by the company • Develop customerNumber of HNWI with investments oriented products Number of Number of professional Industry’s top-level Total client asset as of of KRW 100 million and above staff trainings financial certificates • Strengthen employee credit ratings the end of June 2015 as of the end of June 2015 343 1,533 expertise AA+, Baa2 Over KRW 135 trillion Recorded 61,193 Natural Capital All environmental resources and relevant products and services • Realize a low-carbon society Greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) CDP score 33.9% decrease year-on-year 99/100 • Build an eco-friendly business environment Social Capital Systems and relations within or among communities, stakeholders, and other networks Received three awards at the • Realize a society where Indonesian subsidiary ‘2015 thebell League Table Awards’ DJSI World Index Social contribution Hours of participation in CSR diversity is respected expenditures activities per person per annum acquired underwriting license Best Equity Deal, For a fourth consecutive year • Promote the regional KRW 2.1 billion 2.9 economy Best Financial Bond House, Best Bond Deal (ABS) * Based on the performance in 2014 and 2015 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities Performance and Plan by Business Revenue by Business in FY2014 Revenue by Business To strengthen our retail business, the 32.7% KRW 236.6 billion 32.2 % KRW 97.0 billion 35.5 % 471.5 % KRW 58.8 billion KRW 214.9 billion 20.6 Interest income 30.9 Investment Information Support Department, an organization dedicated to retail operations provides direct and indirect support for the retail brokerage operations. There are also Brokerage WM IB S&T Brokerage active customer communication activities, 1) KDB Daewoo Securities’ fiscal period increased from 9 months to 12 months after a change in settlement date. 2) FY2014 including seminars at branches, one-onAs of the end of 2014. The increase (%) indicates performance compared to the previous year. (Unit: %) one investment consulting for VIPs, and companion visits to companies. In domestic Sustainable Economic Markets (ECM), which had previously Credit Ratings 28.1 wholesale brokerage, our market share was 4.7%, thus maintaining our leading been stagnant. We successfully led the Performance IPO for Cheil Industries, one of the largest In November 2011, KDB Daewoo Sales & Trading 12.7 position even without having a major asset KDB Daewoo Securities continues to Securities received AA+ grade from Wealth management management affiliate; this was enabled ever in Korea, which highlighted our create opportunities to enhance corporate outstanding capabilities. Sales & Trading Korea Ratings and the Korea Investors 7.7 by increasing the number of institutions value, and strives to share a strong culture Service for its non-guaranteed corporate Investment banking we do business with and developing new (S&T) revenue stood at KRW 214.9 billion, of investment to take a lead in advancing bonds, the best credit rating given to sources of revenues. Our market share for helped by an excellent performance finance. a financial investment company since international wholesale brokerage saw yearfrom investing in fixed income issued in 62 the Asian financial crisis of 1998. The on-year growth of 0.1%p to reach 2.8%. 63 Korea and offshore, thanks to our active * Revenues before commission expenses; Summary of Economic Performance company received AA+ grade from NICE Excluding other net operating revenues response to the interest rate environment Investors Service in September 2012, In the area of prime brokerage service In 2014, KDB Daewoo Securities recorded at home and abroad. and also received Baa2 grade for foreign (PBS), we served as a prime broker for five net operating revenue of KRW 798.7 currency-denominated long-term fixed asset managers and nine Korean hedge billion, operating income of KRW 270.8 * Refer to page 81 for more information on economic Brokerage performance income from Moody’s in January 2011, funds in 2014, providing a comprehensive billion, income before income tax of KRW and has maintained that rating. range of services, from brokerage and 273.8 billion, and net income of KRW margin transactions to credit offerings, 205.2 billion, our best performance since Operational Size portfolio swaps, and Repurchase 2011. As of the end of 2014, the company AA+ Agreements (Repos). Our focus for 2014 KDB Daewoo Securities strives to support Korea Investors Overview had KRW 30,613.3 billion in total assets, Service shareholders and investors through was on increasing the balance of margin KRW 26,439 billion in total liabilities, and Our brokerage business offers broking distinctive sales strategies based on trust transactions, with the result that our balance KRW 4,174.3 billion in total shareholders’ services for securities transaction for and expertise. Our strategies to build doubled over the previous year, making us a equity. Brokerage revenue reached KRW 236.6 the foundations for sustainable growth in Korea Ratings AA+ individual, institutional, and foreign investors. leading company in the industry. 2014 resulted in total client assets rising Performance billion. The company saw slight recoveries 19.1% from the end of 2013 to reach KRW Plans in both commissions and turnover market shares, and revenues were also helped 136.6 trillion. WM assets reached KRW 55.3 trillion, a year-on-year increase of NICE Investors Service AA+ Brokerage revenue went up by KRW 58.3 billion to record KRW 236.6 billion. • Improve distinctive sales Commission and turnover market shares competitiveness and research skills by an increase in profits from investments. 6.1%, and the number of High Net Worth were up slightly, by 0.4%p and 0.1%p, Wealth Management (WM: financial product sales) revenue stood at KRW 97.0 Individuals (HNWI) with investments of KRW 100 million or more rose from 47,280 Moody’s Baa2 respectively over the previous year, and • Create synergy with retail sales channels, to expand the network and billion. Efforts to expand our customer in 2013 to 51,337 at the end of 2014. revenues were up as a result of our fiscal diversify sources of revenue * As of the end of September 2015 contact points resulted in a KRW 2.8 period increasing from nine months to • Actively participate in IB deals, including trillion increase in our retail financial twelve months because of a change in the block deals and IPOs, in addition to product assets compared to end-2013. settlement date. The daily average trading traditional brokerage In addition, total financial product assets Client Assets WM Assets Number of HNW Clients volume in 2014 remained around KRW 6 rose KRW 3.2 trillion in 2014, to reach trillion, with individual investors accounting • Prepare for the passing of a Bill 19.1% increase YoY 6.1% increase YoY 8.6% increase YoY KRW 55.3 trillion. Investment Banking for less than 59%. In this challenging on reforming the PEF system, and KRW 136.6 trillion KRW 55.3 trillion 51,337 persons (IB) revenue recorded KRW 58.8 billion, business environment, our commission successful positioning in the market with major Initial Public Offerings (IPO) * As of the end of 2014. The increase (%) indicates performance compared to the previous year. revenues dropped, but our retail commission helping a strong recovery in Equity Capital market share rose by 0.2%p, to 5.2%. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities financial product assets totaling KRW 33.3 financial company, and the first noninvestment products and focused on airline; we also offered products related to Wealth Management trillion at the end of 2014, the highest in the resident Renminbi bonds in Korea. These Sales & Trading generating competitive and sustainable this deal to domestic investors. In addition, industry in Korea. Retirement pensions are achievements all helped us to remain investment revenues, leading improvements we launched a PEF in relation to a Korean seeing high growth, with many individual at the top of the league tables for IB in in PI performance. shipping company project. Our Hong Kong customers being added. Korea. subsidiary, which had shareholders’ equity Plans of USD 300 million and a net income of KRW Overview In the M&A sector, we were ahead of Overview Plans 8.7 billion in 2014, has been a great success others in cross-border M&A. We attracted • Improve revenues by enhancing the The WM sector sells financial products The S&T sector offers fixed income and – this subsidiary is unrivaled in terms of both •Optimize the sales point network Limited Partners (LP), including the competitiveness of key businesses and offers financial consulting services. exchange-traded and over-the-counter size and profitability among the overseas National Pension Service, based on • Formulate differentiated marketing derivative products, manages hedge • Create new sources of revenue and networks of Korean securities firms. existing PEFs, and continued our efforts Performance strategies through market, customer, funds, and invests the company’s equity increase overseas investments to diversify our profit structure such as by We are implementing a midto long-term and trend analyses capital. • Increase customer satisfaction by WM revenue rose KRW 23.6 billion in 2014, successfully providing financial advice for plan for emerging markets with strong to reach KRW 97.0 billion. The issuance • Improve the quality and competitiveness large-scale wind power generation, and offering distinctive products growth potential. This strategy involves of contents Performance of Equity-Linked Securities (ELS) and achieved significant accomplishments. developing our overseas subsidiaries Derivative-Linked Securities (DLS) reached • Strengthen PB skills and improve Our accomplishments in the IB sector S&T revenues in 2014 was KRW 214.9 into full-service securities firms by KRW 13.7 trillion. Wrap account and Repo customer processes were recognized with many awards, billion, a year-on-year increase of leveraging our personnel and know64 KRW 177.3 billion. Despite increasing Global Business 65 assets stood at KRW 12.6 trillion and helping to further enhance the reputation how. For example, in Indonesia, we are • Ensure co-work system between KRW 6.7 trillion respectively, indicating our of KDB Daewoo Securities. In particular, uncertainties at home and abroad, with two combining our IT technologies and ondifferent business divisions in the stable revenue base based on diversified we won three categories – Best Equity base interest rate reductions of the Bank of line business know-how, and, as a result, company products. Deal, Best Financial Bond House, and Korea and the postponement of the US exit the Indonesian subsidiary is building a Best Bond Deal (ABS) – at the 2015 strategy, there was a favorable interest rate reputation as the biggest and best on-line KDB Daewoo Securities has opened Overview thebell League Table Awards, hosted by environment which KDB Daewoo Securities securities firm in Indonesia. In 2014, our small, specialized sales points to increase actively leveraged to achieve an outstanding MoneyToday thebell. KDB Daewoo Securities has distinctive Indonesian subsidiary, after obtaining its customer contact points, and strives Investment Banking performance in fixed income issued in Korea strategies and products for different regions, underwriting license and completed its first to expand the customer base through and offshore. We increased overseas fixed Plans which strengthens local businesses, IB deal, and we now plan to make it into various contents and a line-up of distinctive income investments, including investments including IB and direct investment. Indonesia’s leading full-service securities products. Our WM assets in 2014 were up • Implement a two-track strategy by in Europe and emerging markets, and firm. Elsewhere around the world, we can by KRW 3.2 trillion from the previous year achieving a balance between large and expanded overseas returns to around Performance adopt Korea’s advanced finance model to to KRW 55.3 trillion, making us the industry Business Overview smallto mid-sized deals 30% of the total, reflecting our success in supply distinctive products that leverage leader. • Generate synergy by providing total We continue to advance into overseas The IB sector provides corporate financing, diversifying revenue sources. KDB Daewoo Securities’ unique strengths. services within IB markets as a means of overcoming We opened additional sales points in 2014 PEF, and M&A-related services. In 2014, this has enabled us to offer a Derivatives became more attractive structural issues in the Korean market, to increase customer contact points, and • Establish a foothold in consulting USD Certificate of Deposit (CD) fund from investments in a low interest rate including an aging society, low growth, and provided diverse products and services to Performance services for Korean companies’ Mongolia’s TDB Bank, and to sell deposits environment, and with the market mostly the global financial crisis. As of the end meet customer needs. We are also trying acquisition of overseas companies in the Agricultural Bank of China and a IB revenue rose KRW 15.5 billion from being range-bound in 2014. Total market of 2014, we have 12 offices (8 overseas to improve customer satisfaction and build Convertible Bond (CB) trust of the Bank of 2013 to reach KRW 58.8 billion. We issuance was at a record high, and we subsidiaries, 1 branch, 3 representative our brand image by offering distinctive China. increased revenue in the recovering ECM recorded the industry’s best issuance offices) in nine countries around the globe, consulting services to different customer performance. In Alternative Investment (AI) with around 400 personnel. Strengthening market by acting as a lead manager of the bases. Bancassurance is one of our leading proprietary trading, we made selective and our overseas business will improve our Plans IPO of Cheil Industries, one of the biggest products for retirement and tax planning, focused investments, aiming at stability overall competitiveness. deals in Korea, and by arranging large• Formulate distinctive strategies that are and is contributing to the establishment and profitability; we used our knowledge scale block sales. In Debt Capital Markets right for local circumstances of a stable revenue base. We ranked We aim to maximize revenues in major (DCM), there was increased competition of domestic and overseas real estate the industry’s No. 1 in bancassurance economies by making direct investments • Boost competitiveness and identify new after measures to stabilize the corporate PF to make good investments in those product sales, as measured by converting in assets. In 2014, KDB Daewoo Securities businesses in regions where we already bond market were adopted. We pursued areas and, as a result, our revenues and all assets into single payment. Our ability became the first securities firm in Korea have a presence business diversification by successfully investment earnings rates improved over to offer financial products that satisfy to invest in aircraft when we invested in • Build a ‘Premier PB House’ by issuing a new type of convertible bond, the the past three years. In Principal Investment customer needs led to domestic wholesale aircraft used by Finnair, the Finnish state-run developing unique products first hybrid bonds from a credit-specialized (PI), we controlled volatility by specializing KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 3 Employees KDB Daewoo Securities develops talent in a spirit of challenge and passion, to build a creative and open corporate culture. Major Issues 1 2 3 Increased emphasis on Intensified competition Share visions and establish respecting diversity and Workforce Qualifications to recruit and retain a corporate culture through protecting employees’ KDB Daewoo Securities’ total workforce outstanding talent employee communication • Staffs who have been with KDB Daewoo human rights stood at 3,044 at the end of 2014, of Securities for more than four years whom 1,836 were male and 1,208 were female. Female employees account • Must have worked in current department for 39.7% of the total. The company for three years or more, or two years for Opportunities & Risks is providing equal opportunities in branch staff consideration of diversity. Non-regular Increased specialization and segmentation in the financial industry is making it more important workers comprise approximately 15.7% Process to recruit and retain the talent. KDB Daewoo Securities seeks to be an attractive company, of the total workface, and we aim to make 109 departments and branches have for those wishing to join us, where they can fulfill their dreams of becoming financial experts. more of them into permanent employees submitted applications using the Open HR Notice for the second Open HR in 2014 We also strive to help our staff achieve a balance between their personal and work lives, and so as to enable greater harmony and unity system, and, following a strictly confidential develop their careers. That is why we place the highest priority on employee satisfaction when among all staff. screening process, 64 employees were 66 we build our HR system, ranging from recruitment and welfare to labor-management relations, selected and assigned to the relevant 67 performance evaluation and compensation, training, and communications. departments and branches. Many staff Principles Recruitment and Retention of members have shown an interest in the Outstanding Personnel •Staffs chosen are immediately appointed Open HR system, and a Q&A session was Key Performance to the appropriate department or branch We recruited 115 people in 2014, to held to provide answers to their questions. acquire outstanding talent and promote •The manager of the department or employment. The turnover rate was 5.7% branch from which the staff will be for male employees and 4.3% for female departing is notified after the selection employees in 2013, but these figures fell process, to ensure there is no substantially in 2014, to 3.1% and 2.6%, Each department and branch disadvantage to the employee, such respectively, as a result of our efforts to seeking internal recruitment applies to participate as evaluation and compensation for retain the best people. We will continue to performance share our vision and improve employee satisfaction in order to recruit and retain •Strict confidentiality is maintained until Participation rate in training on 2012~2014 Labor union membership outstanding talents. the final appointments are made Departments and branches subject preventing sexual harassment in 2014 Open HR percentage in 2014 to internal recruitment are finalized •Any fraudulent conduct is strictly 100% 64 employees were 93% Open HR prohibited transferred to their desired positions KDB Daewoo Securities implemented its •If there is a fraudulent act, such as ‘Open HR’ system from 2012 to 2014, Individuals apply for internal making personal requests or violating the aimed at unlocking outstanding talent and recruitment principle of confidentiality in the selection enabling individual employees accomplish process, the competition is cancelled their personal visions. Open HR puts the and a penalty is applied for the following best talent in the right positions, allowing recruitment staff to expand their work experience A screening process takes place at each appropriate department and and thus increase their expertise and •The number of employees selected by branch (screening for selection) skills. Departments and branches that one department or branch is restricted need more personnel publish a notice of to no more than 10% of the total number Family Day Promotions assessment system the number of people needed and the of employees in that department or Expanded to twice a month Reformed qualifications required, after which the branch (where the number of selected Announcement is made on selected optimal talent is chosen through open employees employees exceeds 10%, the longestcompetition. serving are given priority) KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities 100 % Diversity in Employment in 2014 Labor-Management Council KDB Daewoo Securities enacted its Labor-Management Council regulations in 1990, and holds a Labor-Management Program Key Welfare Programs Details Employee Safety and Health KDB Daewoo Securities’ employee safety and health system supports health care, so that we have a safe work environment 319 Support for leisure life Operate condominiums, and provide subsidies for club activities Participation rate in training on Council meeting every quarter. The and our staff can enjoy healthy lives. preventing sexual harassment in 2014 Labor-Management Council represents Support for Provide paid maternity leave before and after birth, all employees at the company, and is in new mothers congratulatory fund for birth Employee Safety and Health System Protecting Human Rights charge of engaging in discussions with High school graduates Housing support Provide housing loans, and support employees living outside of Korea was suffered from Middle East senior management with regard to major their hometown to increase sense of stability KDB Daewoo Securities joined the UN Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) in 2015, employee-related issues. Four meetings Global Compact (UNGC) in October Medical and health and KDB Daewoo Securities raised the were held in 2014, during which there Support medical expenses, health checkup, dispensary 57 support risk level under its business continuity 2006, and abides firmly by its ten were discussions on 38 agendas. In 2014, principles concerning human rights, Educational support Support schooling expenses plan to ‘alert’ in June 2015. A separate through a labor-management agreement, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. work space was set up for selected we abolished our previous severance Physiological leave, parental leave before and after birth, The company also prohibits any forms employees in order to continue daily pay system, in which it was progressive Vacation system paternity leave for spouse, annual leave, regular leave, other of child labor and forced labor, or any Disabled leaves related to congratulatory and consolatory events business in case of infectee occurs, as of the years of service. This system discrimination based on employees’ and disease control measures were had placed a burden on the company’s Transportation expenses for overtime and compensation for backgrounds. There were no incidences implemented at branches, with all relevant cost management, and the changes have working on holidays, reward for continuous service, employee 27 related to employee discrimination in the Support for daily life association operation, fitness center, group term life insurance, information being provided to customers. 68 helped to build stronger foundations for 69 latest reporting period. support in relation to congratulatory and consolatory events, etc. We also measured the temperatures of the company’s financial structure and all visitors at the company headquarters KDB Daewoo Securities gives mandatory competitiveness. The second Friday and fourth Wednesday of each month are Family Day designated as Family Day to help employees enjoy cultural and the Gwacheon Human Resource training on sexual harassment prevention Foreigners events with families and colleagues Development Center, and restricted once a year to its entire workforce. Internal Labor Union Operation and access to visitors with a temperature of In 2014, all staff completed their onMembership 37 degrees or higher. These measures 68 line training on sexual harassment KDB Daewoo Securities upholds the helped to prevent the spread of this prevention from November 17th through labor rights stipulated in Article 33 of the infectious disease, while continuing to Welfare System As of the end of 2014, the number of staff to December 18th. Constitution of Korea, and does not have provide customer services. KDB Daewoo Securities runs facilities covered by the retirement pension system any internal regulations or guidelines Men of national merit and provides subsidies for various club was 2,852. that counter or curtail the application Fitness Center Respecting Diversity of the law. The company does not take activities so that staff can enjoy their leisure time. The company provides Maternity and Child Care Leave KDB Daewoo Securities has a fitness KDB Daewoo Securities is active in its any measures against employees for housing loans to increase our employees’ To encourage childbirth and protect center on the 17th floor of its headquarters efforts to abolish discrimination based on engaging in labor union activities. sense of stability, and financial support for mothers’ rights in Korea, which is building in Yeouido, to promote the health academic background, and selects talent To guarantee these rights in practice, unemployment, and to seek to hire skilled tuition and medical expenses. In addition, struggling with a low birthrate, KDB Daewoo of its staff. The center is available for use by focusing on skills. Pursuant to the KDB Daewoo Securities protects the high school graduates; this included KDB Daewoo Securities has a group term Securities guarantees maternity and child at any time throughout the day, except Framework Act on Employment Policy, labor union activities and labor disputes employment counseling sessions for job life insurance policy for its entire staff, and care leave. In 2014, the retention rate after during work hours. It helps employees the company does not discriminate that are stipulated in the collective seekers. pays all related premiums. child care leave was 91.8%. relieve themselves from stress and against people on grounds of gender, agreement. As of the end of 2014, labor strengthen their physical health. religion, physical condition, social status, union membership stands at 93% of the educational background, marriage, workforce, with 2,134 union members Retiree Support Program Child Care Center Labor-Management Relations from among the 2,283 employees who pregnancy, medical history, etc. during We offer various career development Pursuant to Article 14 ‘Establishment of its recruitment process, and guarantees KDB Daewoo Securities respects are entitled to membership. programs for re-employment and business Company Child Care Center’ of the Infant equal opportunities for employment. The voluntary labor union activities that start-ups so that employees can enjoy a Care Act, KDB Daewoo Securities shares company pursues diversity in employment obey all relevant laws and regulations. stable post-retirement life. We adopted child care center jointly with other owners by offering opportunities to women, the The company engages in transparent Welfare a retirement pension system in October since 2011. This measure was taken as disabled, and non-Koreans. KDB Daewoo communications through the LaborKDB Daewoo Securities operates various 2014, and use the Defined Benefit (DB) a part of the company’s welfare programs Securities participated in the ‘2014 Job Management Council and the company’s welfare programs to help our staff to or Defined Contribution (DC) plans, to help employees feel less burdened Concert for High School Graduates’ labor union, and strives to improve the maintain a positive balance between their depending on an employee’s position. from childbirth and child care. to help to address the issue of youth work environment for employees. personal and work lives. Fitness center for employees KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities Promoting Employees’ Emotional Health Fair Evaluation and Employee Communications Benefits of Do Dream KDB Daewoo Securities began its Compensation By facilitating various communication Employee Assistance Program (EAP) KDB Daewoo Securities evaluates channels, promoting communications in 2010, to provide professional performance through transparent across hierarchy, and acting on the ideas psychological counseling and coaching procedures and the right criteria. There and opinions of our staff, KDB Daewoo services to resolve issues that our staff are various incentives based on the Securities is creating our own corporate come across inside and outside of work. outcome of evaluations, thus motivating culture. A total of 590 cases were consulted as of staff and increasing efficiency. Create a culture of 2013; it has been reforming since 2014. Launch of Do Dream open communication Performance Evaluation Process The ‘Do Dream’ internal bulletin board KOK – a WM solution provider Employees are graded on their for suggestions was set up to expedite performance and capabilities, and work, system, and cultural innovation, feedback from evaluations is provided so and to promote a culture of open ‘KOK’ has a dual meaning – it stands for as to ensure fairness. There are upward communication. Employees can suggest Share ideas ‘Key of Knowledge’, but ‘kok’ in Korean appraisals of executives, department ideas or opinions, and anyone can also means to ‘pinpoint’ referring to managers, branch managers, and team make comments on them. Relevant the fact that the sales material shared Notice for 2014 performance evaluation heads to enable communication between and promotion departments review and discuss the on this forum pinpoints customer senior and junior staff, and to build the suggestions, and adopt them in their needs. The latest sales materials and 70 71 skills of unit heads. Colleague evaluations policies as appropriate. There is also Facilitate product information are delivered to Reforming the Promotions Assessment the ‘Sharing Best Practice’ board collective intelligence are conducted to build mutual trust PBs every quarter, helping them to System and share constructive advice. These through which employees can share offer the best advice to customers, to multifaceted evaluations allow impartial KDB Daewoo Securities has reformed information on how they improved work formulate strategies on how to respond performance evaluations. In addition, all the promotions assessment system to to make it more efficient, and the ‘Plan a to different scenarios, and to suggest employees have an interview with their enhance fairness and transparency. The Proposal’ board, where departments at customized portfolios. The material can reformation centered on the creation Accelerate department or branch manager to go headquarters offer plans, and staff can be downloaded from our bulletin board, management innovation Notice for EAP service through their personnel evaluation, and of Promotion Assessment Committee, comment and suggest ideas on them. and can be viewed conveniently using also engage in more communications on which evaluates the qualifications and a smartphone or tablet PC, anytime and a regular basis. competencies of the promoted in light Communications for a Transparent anywhere. of the characteristics of each position Corporate Culture and duty involved. When promotions are information that helps employees to take WM Community Audit Department Newsletter appropriate measures in the event of an Performance Evaluation Process announced, information on base scores To build a ‘Premier PB House’, KDB KDB Daewoo Securities’ Audit issue related to compliance. for promotions and the promotion ratio Daewoo Securities undertook major Department releases its ‘Newsletter from are also revealed, to ensure confidence in improvements to the ‘WM Community’, Downward the Audit Department’ every month, to Specialist Work Communications Upward Evaluation the system’s fairness. our forum for enterprise-wide WM Evaluation share information on audit-related issues CS Talk for Customer Service communications. Previous sales support Department and Category Main details throughout the company. The newsletter branch Employee Compensation System Employees use the CS Talk to share channels were all integrated into WM manager interviews Target of Executive, department manager, branch manager, talks about the company’s internal audit evaluation and part manager (team manager) evaluation Employees receive both financial and their know-how and ideas, so that the Community in 2013, and this was 1 Self-evaluation schedule, various internal and external Department Part manager non-financial compensation according to company can always effectively respond followed by improvements to the userExecutive manager (Team manager) issues, and information on how staff can 2 Initial evaluation a fair and transparent evaluation process. to customer needs. Independent and customized content search function, the be fully aware of audit-related issues and Compliance Compensation includes basic salaries, voluntary participation makes sure that provision of real-time, open information, prevent problems in advance. 3 Feedback Leadership bonuses, and welfare benefits. KDB information that is needed in the field is and the establishment of an improved Evaluated Policy Daewoo Securities does not discriminate Compliance Issue available, and related know-how can be forum for information-sharing in the open categories competencies Organizational culture 4 Final evaluation community. We have now established a improvements based on gender in basic salaries. In The Compliance Department shares shared. CS Talk is also used to share the 5 Finalization Organization value oriented 2014, the new employee wage was 271% information on ethics and compliance results of customer satisfaction surveys. web environment that allows users to find of evaluation of the Korean minimum wage. with all employees, compliance issues and view content at a single glance; this Job WM Solution KOK Work drive will help our staff share their professional 6 Application competencies that might easily be overlooked, and for objection amendments to finance-related laws. The This sales material enables employees financial knowledge and contribute to Use of Referenced for provision of opportunities for top-down communication, 7 Finalization evaluation skill development of unit organizational managers, and department also organizes and supplies to conveniently obtain information that maximize synergy. of grade results organizational operations is essential for customer consulting. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 4 Local Communities KDB Daewoo Securities’ social contributions aim to fulfill our responsibilities as part of local communities, and put into practice our sustainability management Major Issues through sharing. 1 Increase social contribution activities that reflect our business and culture 2 Diversify activities that are aimed at resolving social issues 3 Minimize the company’s environmental impact to counter climate change Social Contributions to Grow with Local Communities KDB Daewoo Securities undertakes localized CSR activities based on its commitment to grow together with local Slogan CSR Vision System Dream with us communities through equal opportunities. Opportunities & Risks Finance to Social contribution activities are growing in importance at home and abroad. Multicultural Family Support CSR Vision grow together KDB Daewoo Securities supports a wide array of programs that seek to resolve social issues Program and make best use of our financial expertise, rather than just making one-time donations. Major programs to help multicultural By considering the needs of the beneficiaries, and encouraging sincere staff participation, families settle down in Korea and become our activities continue over time, and increase opportunities for a win-win relationship independent include a cookbook in Core Value Grow together through equal opportunities 72 with local communities. multiple languages, bilingual educational 73 Localized CSR activities through support for the children of multicultural Strategic Direction empathy and participation families, and the sharing of educational Key Performance Core Businesses content to improve people’s understanding of multiculturalism. KDB Daewoo Securities Multicultural Under-developed Social chose multiculturalism as one of its key family support nation support entrepreneurship program program program CSR programs, and details are provided on page 45~47 at the Strategic Focus section of this Sustainability Report. with the World Food Program (WFP), KDB Plan Korea, an international child support Under-developed Nation Daewoo Securities began construction of group with expertise and a network in Support Program the KDB Daewoo Securities School and Indonesia. Direct greenhouse gas Per-capita greenhouse gas Employee participation rate in emissions in 2014 (Scope 1) emissions in 2014 Lovemeter in 2014 Supporting under-developed nations is a completed construction in 2013. KDB social responsibility of global community Daewoo Securities supports the school’s Decreased by 33.9% Decreased by 5.5% 88.3% year-on-year year-on-year members. KDB Daewoo Securities meal program, which enables around 400 operates a ‘safe educational environment students to enjoy a good meal at school to program’ for children in the world’s poorest help them study. The school is also used by nations and in countries where some of local residents as a venue for community the company’s overseas subsidiaries are activities. located. This has helped us to develop our local network, and to support the Repairing and Remodeling Elementary CSR activities in the DRC development of local communities in those Schools in Indonesia countries. KDB Daewoo Securities provides support in Indonesia so that elementary schools Meal Support for an Elementary School in disaster-affected areas can be repaired Number of companies supported through the Jump Up project Consumption of paper in 2014 2015 CDP sore in the DRC and remodeled, and local residents helped 16 (2013~2014) Decreased by 3.7% Improved by 18 points An African research project by the to learn what to do in the case of natural year-on-year year-on-year company’s Junior Board in 2011 led disasters. The impact of this program has to a school project in the Democratic been increased through our collaboration Republic of the Congo (DRC). Together with our Indonesian subsidiary and with CSR activities in Indonesia KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities Social Entrepreneurship Working Capital for Social Enterprises ‘Go! Dream Tree Class’ Program Learning Aid Equipment Support Program KDB Daewoo Securities signed a In 2013, KDB Daewoo Securities began Since 2010, KDB Daewoo Securities has A good way to address social issues is memorandum of understanding for the an educational program for children in provided 40 Braille terminals for visually to support young entrepreneurs which promotion of social enterprises with small study rooms. ‘Go! Dream Tree impaired college students from lowcreate social value through innovative the Korea Social Enterprise Promotion Class’ was offered in nine areas in 2013 income families, to help young people ideas. KDB Daewoo Securities makes Agency and Social Solidarity Bank, to and 13 areas in 2014. It is tailored for who are passionate about learning diverse efforts to help outstanding social provide one-year low interest rate working each study room and includes a variety but cannot afford expensive learning entrepreneurs achieve independence, capital loans to social enterprises that find of content to help children to develop equipment. In 2013, KDB Daewoo and to facilitate the establishment of a it difficult to get loans from established and live happy lives. In recognition Securities bought 20 hearing aids from Performance evaluation of the Jump Up project social economy ecosystem. In recognition financial institutions. Support was given to of the program’s commitment and a social enterprise and donated them to of these efforts, KDB Daewoo Securities 25 enterprises from 2011 through 2014, effectiveness, KDB Daewoo Securities hearing-impaired college students. won the Minister of Employment and helping them to resolve short-term cashwon the ‘Education Donation Award’ from Received the ‘Seoul City Mayor Award’ Labor Award in 2013. flow difficulties and improve business the Ministry of Education in 2013. continuity. Staff Participation in Project to Develop Young Social Sponsorship for Alternative Schools for CSR Activities Entrepreneurs North Korean Defectors KDB Daewoo Securities’ culture of Educational Support for sharing grows every year, thanks to the KDB Daewoo Securities’ Jump Up project KDB Daewoo Securities sponsors the Teenagers continued and enthusiastic participation involves discovering outstanding business ‘Heavenly Dream School’ and ‘Yeomyung 74 start-up teams established by young KDB Daewoo Securities’ educational School’, alternative schools for teenage of our staff. 75 people and providing them with the support programs are based on North Korean defectors. These schools Received the ‘Education Donation Award’ from the Ministry of Education funds that they need to grow into a social customized sponsorship – we ascertain help teenagers overcome the sense of Volunteering Programs enterprise. We have provided support to the needs of recipients, and tailor the cultural difference that they experience in KDB Daewoo Securities’ regular a total of 26 teams from 2012 through best educational program for them. South Korea, and enables them to settle T-SKY, a volunteer education group consisting of volunteering involves departments and 2014, and the results have been very We collaborate with local partners that down in a new society. In addition to high school students branches cleaning local facilities at least positive, with half of the teams being are best-placed to provide the right sponsorship, the KDB Daewoo Securities’ once a year. These facilities include designated as preliminary social educational support for children, such as table tennis team visits Heavenly Dream nursing homes, facilities for the disabled, enterprises. We also hold an annual social enterprises and college student School every month to provide a table nurseries, and hospices. KDB Daewoo research paper contest for college and volunteer groups. tennis class. KDB Daewoo Securities won Securities also offers volunteer programs graduate school students across the the ‘Seoul City Mayor Award’ in 2014 in with such themes as painting walls, nation; this increases understanding of the recognition of our efforts. In the second making kimchi, lending a hand on farms, social economy and builds a foundation for half of 2015, we plan to teach Yeomyung and delivering charcoal briquettes. These supporting potential young enterpreneurs. School students about the economy. programs enable staff to share time with colleagues and families, and contribute to Support for Student Volunteer Education the local communities which are the root Groups Wall painting volunteer program of our company. Support for Social Enterprises KDB Daewoo Securities’ regular volunteering involves departments and Volunteering with Customers branches cleaning local facilities at least Volunteering with customers not only Project Size Project Year Note once a year. These facilities include helps the underprivileged as part of (KRW 100 million) nursing homes, facilities for the disabled, our social responsibilities, but it also Customized education programs offered 8 business teams (16 enterprises) chosen as part of through ‘Go! Dream Tree Class’ 2014 2.1 the Jump Up project were provided with growth funds nurseries, and hospices. KDB Daewoo strengthens relationships with our Fostering Securities also offers volunteer programs customers. KDB Daewoo Securities social Held an annual research paper contest for college and graduate school students across the nation with such themes as painting walls, provided support for these volunteering entrepreneurs 2013 2.0 (21 winners from 70 entries) and publicized the making kimchi, lending a hand on farms, activities on 13 occasions in 2013, and 24 collected papers and delivering charcoal briquettes. These Charcoal briquettes delivery volunteer program occasions in 2014. Supporting 2014 1.05 5 enterprises (Average of KRW 21 million per enterprise) programs enable staff to share time with short-term colleagues and families, and to contribute working 2013 1.5 5 enterprises (KRW 30 million per enterprise) to the local communities which are the capital root of our company. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Customers • Shareholders/Investors • Employees • Local Communities Breakdown of Social Contribution Expenditures in 2014 Environmental Management System Greenhouse Gas Reduction KDB Daewoo Securities set up its KDB Daewoo Securities looks to reduce environmental policies in 2006, and now greenhouse gas emissions throughout focuses on enterprise-wide environmental its 12 company buildings including the processes to implement these policies. Yeouido headquarters, and the Gwacheon 3.2 company building. As a result, emissions Project and volunteer support Participation in the CDP in 2014 were down 6.9% compared to the previous year, with per-capita emissions As a member of the CDP, KDB Daewoo down 5.5%. Securities has disclosed its carbon Energy-saving campaign video emission information since 2010. The 2.1 Total 9.6 company won the Carbon Management Support for social Support for Eco-Friendly Business Reducing Paper Usage enterprises 20.8 (Unit: KRW 100 million) multicultural families Special Award at the 2013 CDP Korea Awards, and the Carbon Management Operations As a financial investment company, KDB Daewoo Securities seeks to reduce Sector (Finance) Winner Award in 2015 as the amount of paper that is wasted in its 2.1 a result of our evaluation score rising from KDB Daewoo Securities’ business activities business activities, which also reduces Global social contributions 81 points in 2014 to 99 points in 2015. We do not have a substantial impact on the relevant expenses. Staff are encouraged have also joined C4C, a corporate climate environment, but the company is still to use black-and-white, double-sided, and committed to being eco-friendly. We collect Donating goods through Emptying Out & Filling Up 2.4 change initiative based on the UNGC. 2-up (printing two pages on one side of 76 Support for social welfare facilities 1.4 and use environmental performance data, a piece of paper) printing. The amount of 77 (the disabled, childcare, senior) Educational support for teenagers such as on energy and paper usage paper used for photocopying and printing from low-income families and on greenhouse gas emissions, and fell 5.2% year-on-year in 2014, and total CDP Score undertake activities that seek to reduce our paper usage was down 5.0%. impact on the environment. 99 Establishing a Green Work Environment Chinese Environmental KDB Daewoo In order to improve energy efficiency, Protection Company Report Employee Participation Securities in ‘Lovemeter’ ‘Lovemeter’ – Donations from Salaries Use of Social Contribution Budget KDB Daewoo Securities maintains an KDB Daewoo Securities has issued a Each month, KDB Daewoo Securities’ Funds for our CSR programs come from 81 79 average indoor temperature of 26°C or higher at all sales points during summer, report that detailed China’s environmental protection policies and an outline 88.0 employees donate a portion of their the donations made through Lovemeter Finance 88.3 salaries through ‘Lovemeter’, our internal and from the social contribution funds that 75 Sector Average and recommends an indoor temperature summary of 20 relevant companies listed Participation rate fund-raising system. The funds are used the company sets aside every year. The of 20°C or lower in the winter. We use a on the Shanghai Stock Exchange and 84.4 (Unit: %) 59 to sponsor welfare facilities recommended company openly discloses all information central cooling and heating system, and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange. China’s 54 by each of our regional headquarters. on use of the social contribution budget refrain from using ceiling air-conditioning new Environmental Protection Law was No. of employees through its internal Intranet. and heating units as much as possible. revised to specify legal liabilities and who participated 2,718 Unnecessary lighting is turned off during strengthen regulations, for the first time 2,660 (Unit: Person) ‘Emptying Out & Filling Up’ Event lunchtimes and nights. A video on our in 25 years, which is expected to present 2,687 ‘Emptying Out & Filling Up’ takes place Eco-friendly Green Management energy-saving campaign is played in significant opportunities to companies in every spring and autumn under the slogan KDB Daewoo Securities undertakes our elevators and first-floor lobbies. the environmental protection business. ‘Let’s empty our closets and bookshelves, 2013 2014 2015 eco-friendly green management by We have also implemented ‘Cool-Biz’, We plan to release a series of industry and fill our hearts with love’. Staff donate reducing ecological footprints involved whereby staff can wear short-sleeve shirts analyses of China by selecting issues that items such as books, clothing and bags, in its business, and by participating and do not have to wear suit jackets reflect midto long-term trends, such as and proceeds are used to create jobs in international initiatives aimed at during the summer. This creates a more electric vehicles. for the underprivileged and help them countering climate change, such as the comfortable work environment, which in achieve independence. CDP and Change for Climate (C4C). The turn allows our staff to do their job better. 20121) 20132) 20143) company also strives to minimize the A ‘no tie’ policy is implemented flexibly environmental impact, thus establishing a throughout the year, depending on the 1) 2012: Based on total of 3,150 employees green working environment. particular circumstances at departments 2) 2013: Based on total of 3,090 employees and branches, such as whether they are 3) 2014: Based on total of 3,044 employees involved in customer service or sales. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Facts & Figures GRI G4 1. General Standard Disclosures G4-10 Total number of employees by gender, employment contract and region (Unit: Person) G4-1 2012 2013 2014 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the Total number of employees 3,150 3,090 3,044 organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing Male 1,918 1,860 1,836 sustainability By gender Female 1,232 1,230 1,208 Refer to the CEO Message on page 6~7 By Permanent 2,661 2,599 2,566 employment contract Non-regular 489 491 478 G4-3 Name of the organization Domestic 3,112 3,053 3,006 By region KDB Daewoo Securities Overseas 38 37 38 High school 391 338 319 graduates G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services Disabled 55 58 57 Minority group Refer to the Company Profile on page 12~15 Foreigners Appendix 33 31 27 Men of national 74 65 68 merit G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 78 79 KDB Daewoo Securities Bldg., 56, Gukjegeumyung-ro, G4-11 Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (Unit: Person) G4-6 2012 2013 2014 Number and names of countries where the organization operates Number of employees Refer to the Global Network on page 13 entitled to labor union 2,367 2,329 2,283 membership Number of employees with G4-7 2,116 2,147 2,134 labor union membership Nature of ownership and legal form Labor union membership Refer to the Company Overview on page 12 percentage 89 92 93 (%) G4-8 Markets served (including sectors served, and types of customers) G4-12 Organization’s supply chain Refer to the Company Profile on page 12~15 Refer to the Company Profile on page 12~15 G4-9 Scale of the organization G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period Refer to the Organization Chart on page 12 Refer to the Company Overview on page 12 Refer to the Sustainable Economic Performance on page 62 Refer to the Milestones on page 14 ~15 Refer to the Expanding the Sales Network on page 57 Facts & Figures 79 UN Global Compact 88 G4-14 Precautionary approach and principles Independent Assurance Statement 89 Refer to the Environmental Management System on page 77 GRI Index 91 Membership 97 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix G4-15 G4-29 GRI G4 2. Specific Standard Disclosures Revenue by Business (Unit: %) Externally developed economic, environmental and social Date of most recent previous report FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 charters, principles, or other initiatives which the organization KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2013 endorses (Publication date: November 2013) EC (Economic) Brokerage 33.0 42.8 30.9 Refer to the Membership on page 97 Wealth management 13.9 17.6 12.7 G4-EC1 G4-30 Direct economic value generated and distributed Investment banking 5.0 10.4 7.7 G4-16 Reporting cycle Business Performance (Unit: KRW billion) Sales & Trading 28.7 9.1 28.1 Memberships of associations Biennial FY20121) FY20132) FY20143) Refer to the Membership on page 97 Interest income 19.4 20.1 20.6 Net operating revenue 711.1 362.9 798.7 * Revenues before commission expenses; Excluding other net operating revenues G4-31 Brokerage 241.5 178.3 236.6 G4-18 Contact point for questions regarding the report Process for defining the report content, and reporting principle Wealth management 101.9 73.4 97.0 Customer Base (Unit: Person) IR Team, KDB Daewoo Securities +82-2-768-2130 Investment banking 36.5 43.4 58.8 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 G4-19 Sales & Trading 210.0 37.6 214.9 Number of HNWI with investments of 44,029 47,280 51,337 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report KRW 100 million and above G4-32 Interest income 142.2 83.8 157.5 content GRI Content Index for the chosen option, and the reference to Others (1.9) (31.8) 54.9 the External Assurance Report WM Assets & Revenue Commissions expenses (19.2) (21.8) (21.0) G4-20 Refer to the About This Report on page 2 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Aspect Boundaries within the organization Refer to the Independent Assurance Statement on page 89 * Based on K-IFRS consolidated financial statements 1) Refer to the GRI Index on page 91~96 FY 2012: Apr. 1, 2012 ~ Mar. 31, 2013 WM assets (Unit: KRW trillion) 52.7 52.1 55.3 2) 80 FY 2013: Apr. 1, 2013 ~ Dec. 31, 2013 81 3) FY 2014: Jan. 1, 2014 ~ Dec. 31, 2014 WM revenue (Unit: KRW billion) 101.9 73.4 97.0 G4-21 Aspect Boundaries outside the organization G4-33 (Unit: KRW billion) Organization’s policy and current practice on external assurance FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Refer to the Materiality Assessment Process on page 26 Total Client Assets (Unit: KRW trillion) of the report; relationship between the organization and the SG&A expenses 547.7 398.3 527.9 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 assurance providers; whether senior executives are involved in G4-24 external assurance Operating income 163.4 (35.4) 270.8 Total client assets 114.0 114.7 136.6 List of stakeholder groups To ensure the internal and external credibility of this report, we Non-operating income 16.1 (0.6) 3.0 requested an independent assurance statement from the Business Income before income tax 179.5 (36.0) 273.8 Distribution of Economic Value Institute for Sustainable Development (BISD) of the Korea Chamber (Unit: KRW billion) G4-25 of Commerce and Industry, which is a professional assurance Income tax expenses (35.8) 7.3 (68.0) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders organization. The BISD’s detailed opinion is on page 89 of this 1) Net income 143.7 (29.2) 205.2 Generated report. economic Operating revenues 3,273.9 2,468.4 4,013.8 * Based on K-IFRS consolidated financial statements G4-26 1) value Net income represents the net income/loss attributable to equity ownership of controlled entity Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement G4-34 Interest Customers 264.2 201.8 264.3 Refer to the Stakeholder Communication Channels on page 24 Governance structure of the organization; any committees expenses Financial Stability (Unit: KRW billion) responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental Shareholders/ and social impacts FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Dividends 40.3 0 84.1 Investors G4-27 With a mission to ‘Dream with us’, the CSR Dept., which is responsible Total assets 25,437.4 26,005.0 30,613.3 Salaries and Key topics and concerns that have been raised through for actual project execution, takes charge of the social sector Employees employee 349.7 243.5 341.9 stakeholder engagement Total liabilities 21,385.7 22,090.5 26,439.0 Distributed together with the CSR Steering Committee and Donation Beneficiary welfare economic Refer to the Stakeholder Communications in 2014 on page 25 Selection Committee. Sustainability management in the economic and Total shareholders’ equity 4,051.7 3,914.5 4,174.3 value Donations environmental sectors is handled by the Strategy & Planning Dept. Local and social under the Strategic Planning Unit. The CSR Dept. and Strategy & Communities 2.7 1.7 1.7 contribution G4-28 Planning Dept. are organized under the Strategic Planning Unit, thus and NGOs expenses Reporting period enabling systematic decision-making at the company level. Income Reporting period for this report is from January 1st 2013 to Government taxes and 57.9 6.4 84.9 December 31st 2014. Performance indicators are based on three other taxes years from 2012 to 2014. Information deemed important and G4-56 relevant from 2015 has also been included. Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of * Based on Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS) consolidated financial statements behavior Refer to the Ethical Management on page 20~22 Refer to the Code of Ethics on page 20 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix G4-EC2 G4-EC6 G4-EC8 G4-EN6 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Proportion of senior management hired from the local community Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of Reduction of energy consumption organization’s activities due to climate change impacts Locally Hired Executives KDB Daewoo Securities’ total energy consumption went down Risks and opportunities at the company level KDB Daewoo 2012 2013 2014 Refer to Direct economic value generated and distributed (G4-EC1) 4.2% in 2014. In detail, the company recorded a year-on-year rise Securities recognizes that climate change is an important factor on page 81 of 10.8% in the use of city gas for heating, reduction of 14.8% in in corporate competitiveness, and analyzes and considers its Number of locally hired executives1) kerosene, rise of 10.7% in heating oil, fall of 15.6% in district heater, 6 52 59 opportunities and risks. In addition, the company is actively (Unit: Person) and reduction of 4.4% in electricity. participating in CDP at the company level. Portion of locally hired executives 11.3 14.3 17.5 (Unit: %) Risks and opportunities at the client asset level KDB Daewoo EN (Environmental) G4-EN8 Securities strives to reflect environmental regulation-related * The Indonesian subsidiary was established on August 1, 2013 (acquired management rights Total water withdrawal by source (Unit: m3) to eTrading securities), and was included in the number of locally hired persons starting from opportunities and risks in its investment decision-making process, the end of 2013 G4-EN1 2012 2013 2014 placing priority on opportunities and risks that are related to 1) Executive refers to a network manager, a part manager and the equivalent. In case of the Materials used by weight or volume individual assets of customers. Indonesian subsidiary, this includes a team head as well as a supervisor or a team head at Consumption of water 134,337 124,799 117,417 the Open Gallery & Education which is an independent branch similar to an agent in Korea Consumption of Paper (Unit: Ton) 1) Based on the figures collected at 12 company buildings including the Yeouido headquarters, In addition, the company checks the financial impacts on individual and the Gwacheon company building 2012 2013 2014 asset resulted from government subsidies, such as Feed in Tariff 2) Water consumption has decreased by 5.9% from the previous year as of December 31, 2014. (FIT) and Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS), and reflects them in G4-EC7 Photocopying and printing 198.0 209.0 201.0 investment decisions. Infrastructure investments and services supported Disposable cups 0.2 0.3 0.3 Social Contributions G4-EN15 Direct mailers 10.0 9.0 9.0 2012 2013 2014 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) G4-EC3 Total 208.2 218.3 210.3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations Expenditures in 1) social contributions 35.5 26.2 20.8 The consumption of paper for photocopying and printing has decreased by 3.8% from the (Unit: KRW 100 million) previous year as of the end of 2014 G4-EN16 82 Retirement Pension 2) Total paper consumption has decreased by 3.7% from the previous year as of the end of 2014 83 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) Cash values of pension liabilities1) KRW 202,448,970,004 Amount to support volunteer activities 0.6 0.6 0.5 Number of people covered by 67 (Unit: KRW 100 million) G4-EN3 G4-EN17 a defined benefit plan2) Energy consumption within the organization Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) (Unit: CO2e) Number of hours participated Number of people covered by 10,333 8,818 8,836 2,785 (Unit: Hour) 2012 2013 2014 a defined contribution plan3) Number of participants G4-EN4 Scope 1 1,272 1,113 736 Total number of staff covered by retirement 2,322 2,195 2,164 pension plans 2,852 (Unit: Person) Energy consumption outside the organization Scope 2 14,465 13,898 13,241 * As of December 31, 2014 Social contribution expenditures 20,671 18,251 16,491 Scope 3 258 235 259 1) Defined contribution plans only per person (Unit: KRW) 2) G4-EN5 Subject to executives and directors 1) Based on the CDP report (The 2012 figure was recalculated according to the change in the 3) A system where the company pays an amount that is worth 1/12 of next year’s total Number of hours participated 3.3 2.9 2.9 Energy intensity (based on KRW) calculation criteria) annual wages to the retirement pension provider and employees decide how to manage per person (Unit: Hour) 2) Based on the figures collected at 12 company buildings including the Yeouido headquarters, the contributions Consumption of Energy (Unit: MWh) and the Gwacheon company building 3) Scope 1 has decreased by 33.9% from the previous year as of the end of 2014 2012 2013 2014 4) Breakdown of Social Contribution Expenditures Scope 3 is the sum of greenhouse gas emissions by a waste treatment company during (Unit: KRW 100 million) City gas 1,361 1,082 1,199 incineration process and emissions by supply companies in paper manufacturing process, G4-EC5 recording a year-on-year rise of 10.2%, based on the figures collected at the Yeouido 2012 2013 2014 headquarters and the Gwacheon company building as of the end of 2014 Ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum Kerosene 55 54 46 Support for multicultural families 6.7 7.6 9.6 wage Heating oil 26 28 31 Educational support for teenagers 6.2 4.8 1.4 2014 from low-income families District heater 815 895 755 Ratios of standard entry level wage Support for social enterprises 2.5 2.0 2.1 Electricity 29,979 29,706 28,399 271% compared to local minimum wage Global social contributions 1.3 1.1 2.1 Total energy consumption 32,236 31,765 30,430 Support for social welfare facilities Energy intensity (Unit: Person) 3,109 3,090 3,044 4.6 3.6 2.4 (the disabled, childcare, senior) Energy consumption per 10.4 10.3 10.0 Donation to KDB Sharing person 9.8 3.0 0.0 Foundation 1) Based on the figures collected at 12 company buildings including the Yeouido headquarters, Project and volunteer support 0.7 3.8 3.2 and the Gwacheon company building 2) Energy consumption per person has decreased by 2.9% from the previous year as of the end Emergency and distress relief 3.7 0.3 0.0 of 2014 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix G4-EN18 G4-LA6 G4-LA13 LA (Labor) Greenhouse gas emissions intensity (Unit: CO2 e) Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, and work-related Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by fatalities by region and gender employee category 2012 2013 2014 G4-LA1 Greenhouse gas emissions Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee 2012 2013 2014 KDB Daewoo Securities does not discriminate based on gender in (Scope 1+2) 15,737 15,011 13,977 turnover remuneration. Total workforce (Unit: Person) 3,150 3,090 3,044 Intensity Employment (Unit: Person) 3,109 3,090 3,044 Number of absentees due Male 10 10 7 (Number of employees, Unit: Person) 2012 2013 2014 G4-LA16 to occupational diseases or Male 111 85 85 injuries (Unit: Person) Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and Per-capita greenhouse gas emissions 5.1 4.9 4.6 Female 10 12 6 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 1) Based on the figures collected at 12 company buildings including the Yeouido headquarters, Female 63 72 30 and the Gwacheon company building Rate of absentees due to occupational Operation of EAP 0.6 0.7 0.4 2) Greenhous gas emissions have decreased by 6.9% from the previous year as of the end of 2014 Non-experienced 80 56 53 diseases or injuries (Unit: %) 3) 2012 2013 2014 Per-capita greenhouse gas emissions have decreased by 6.1% from the previous year as of December 31, 2014 Experienced 94 101 62 Lost days (Unit: Day) 570 841 720 Satisfaction level 4.3 4.4 Total 174 157 115 (Unit: Point) Improving and Number of people using the service G4-EN19 G4-LA9 152 131 reviewing the (Unit: Person) Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions service Turnover Rate (Unit: %) Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and employee category Number of times the service used In Korea, companies are engaging in a wider variety of activities to 2012 2013 2014 762 590 (Unit: Case) reduce energy consumption and counter climate change with the 2012 2013 2014 adoption of the greenhouse gas target management system and Male 4.9 5.7 3.1 Number of trainings emissions trading scheme. In response to increased awareness Female 3.7 4.3 2.6 (Unit: Case) 528 424 343 towards climate change, KDB Daewoo Securities is taking 84 measures that reduce energy consumption and greenhouse Training hours per person 85 82 70 40 gases emissions, in addition to curtailing costs. For example, the (Unit: Hour) HR (Human Rights) G4-LA2 company promotes to refrain from excessive use of air-conditioners Training expenses per person and heater, ceiling-types in particular, and turn off unnecessary Benefits provided to full-time employees 126 104 84 G4-HR2 (Unit: KRW 10 thousand) lighting during lunch time and night hours. In 2014, the company Refer to the Welfare on page 68~69 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures recorded a year-on-year reduction of 6.9% in Scope 1 and 2 concerning aspects of human rights greenhouse gas emissions. G4-LA10 Sexual Harassment Prevention Training G4-LA3 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that Return to work and retention rates after parental leave by gender 2012 2013 2014 support the continued employability of employees and assist G4-EN23 Number of employees on child care leave (Unit: Person) them in managing career endings Participation Rate (Unit: %) 100 100 100 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (Unit: Liter) Number of people 2012 2013 2014 Refer to the Retiree Support Program on page 69 2,943 2,891 3,000 2012 2013 2014 participating (Unit: Person) Male 0 1 4 Waste 389,000 327,500 360,600 Female 68 92 85 G4-LA11 1) Based on the figures collected at the Yeouido headquarters and the Gwacheon company building 2) Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and G4-HR4 Total amount of wastes has decreased by 10.1% from the previous year as of the end of 2014 career development reviews by gender and employee category Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise Retention rate after child care leave (Unit: %) freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 or at risk, and measures taken Number of employees receiving 2,858 2,789 2,732 Retention rate after child care leave 87.7 94.6 91.8 performance reviews (Unit: Person) Refer to the Labor-Management Relations on page 68 More than 12 months retention rate Percentage of employees receiving 73.5 82.7 71.8 91 90 90 after returning to work performance reviews (Unit: %) G4-HR5 * Based on female employees Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken G4-LA12 Refer to the adhering to the ten principles of the UN Global G4-LA5 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees Compact on page 88 Percentage of total workforce represented in joint management– by indicators of diversity such as gender, age group and minority worker health and safety committees that monitor and advise on group membership occupational health and safety programs As of the end of 2014, the number of KDB Daewoo Securities’ G4-HR6 As of the end of 2014, labor union membership stood at 93%, with employees stood at 3,044, of which 1,836 (60.3%) were male and Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for 2,134 labor union members from among the 2,283 persons who are 1,208 (39.7%) were female. Non-permanent workers accounted for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures taken entitled to membership. 15.7% of the total. In terms of employment diversity, 319 were high Refer to the adhering to the ten principles of the UN Global school graduates, 57 were the disabled, 27 were foreigners, and 68 Compact on page 88 were men of national merit. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix SO (Society) G4-EN23 FS6 PR (Product Responsibility) Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size and sector G4-SO1 G4-PR3 Refer to G4-EN23 on page 84 Percentage of operations with implemented local community Product and service information required by the organization’s Refer to the Revenues by Business on 62~65 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs procedures for product and service information and labeling, and Refer to G4-EC1 on page 81 percentage of significant product and service categories subject G4-DMA Refer to the Multicultural Society on page 45~47 to such information requirements General standard disclosures (Occupational Health and Safety) FS7 Refer to the Policies for the Perfect Sale of Financial Products on Refer to the Employee Safety and Health on page 69 G4-SO3 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a page 55 Refer to the Employee Assistance Program on page 70 (Service specific social benefit for each business line Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks was temporarily shut down in 2014, and is being considered to be related to corruption and the significant risks identified implemented as of 2015) Refer to the ESG Financial Products on page 48~51 G4-PR5 Refer to the Creative Finance on page 50 Refer to the Ethical Management Organization, and the Financial Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Irregularities & Corruption Reporting Center on page 21 FS13 Customer Satisfaction Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged FS8 G4-SO4 2012 2013 2014 areas by type Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a Customer satisfaction score specific environmental benefit for each business line Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and 98.8 96.2 95.1 Refer to the Financial Services for Minorities procedures (Unit: Point) Refer to the Participating in New & Renewable Energy Projects on Refer to the Educational Support for Teenagers and the Branch with less than 90 points Underprivileged on page 49 ~50 and 74~76 page 50 ~51 Ethics and Compliance Training – – 1 (Unit: Branch) 2012 2013 2014 Number of trainings provided FS14 G4-DMA (Former FS9) 207 166 142 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation (Unit: Case) Initiatives to improve access to financial services for 86 Information Protection Trainings in 2014 of environmental and social policies and risk assessment 87 Training hours (Unit: Hour) 274.6 229.5 143.0 disadvantaged people Number procedures Training of people Completion Refer to the Financial Services for Minorities on page 49 ~50 hours taking rate Refer to the Ethics and Compliance Reporting Systems, and the Financial Irregularities & Corruption Reporting Center on page 21 G4-SO5 Executives 3.0 31 100% G4-DMA Refer to the Internal Control System on page 22 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken General staff 6.8 2,680 100% General standard disclosures (Product and service labeling) Occurrences of Corruption (Unit: Case) IT staff 9.8 176 100% Refer to the Risk Management and the Risk Management G4-DMA (Former FS12) 2012 2013 2014 Framework on page 37~38 Voting policies applied to environmental or social issues for Staff in charge of information Violations of ethics and protection 12.0 – 100% Refer to the Code of Ethics on page 20 shares over which the reporting organization holds the right to 3 2 2 compliance vote shares or advises on voting * The number of violations is determined by a case resulting in a reprimand or worse, having come about due to illegal conduct in pursuit of personal interests G4-DMA (Former FS15, 16) Refer to the BOD Policies and Activities on page 33 Policies for the fair sale of financial products and services, and initiatives to enhance financial literacy FS (Financial Service Sector) G4-SO6 Refer to the Policies for the Perfect Sale of Financial Products on Total value of political contributions by country and beneficiary G4-DMA page 55 There are no political contributions in the company. General standard disclosures (Economic performance) Refer to the Social Contribution through Finance on page 48~51 Refer to the Social Contributions to Grow with Local Communities on page 73 G4-DMA (Former FS1, 2, 3, 4, 5) Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines, procedures for assessing and G4-EC1 screening, process for improving staff competency, and risks Direct economic value generated and distributed and opportunities Refer to G4-EC1 on page 81 Refer to the Local Communities on page 72~77 KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix UN Global Compact Independent Assurance Statement Principles & Pledges The Business Institute for Sustainable Development (the Assurer), led by the Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry, was requested by KDB Daewoo Securities to serve as an independent “third-party assurance institute” for the “KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability In October 2006, KDB Daewoo Securities joined the UN Global Compact, a voluntary initiative that calls for the fulfillment of corporate Report 2015” (the DWSEC Report), and submits the assurance statement as follows. social responsibilities. By signing up to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, on human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption, KDB Daewoo Securities is committing itself to abiding by global standards on corporate social responsibility, and has thus declared its determination to practice sustainability management in Korea and abroad. Purpose KDB Daewoo Securities will fulfill its social responsibilities as a global financial investment company by adhering to the ten principles of The purpose of this assurance report is to identify any major errors or biases in the DWSEC Report, to conduct an independent the UN Global Compact. The company’s activities in this area, and the outcomes of those activities, are listed in the table below. evaluation to determine whether the sustainability management issues of KDB Daewoo Securities were appropriately reported, and to present an assurance opinion. 10 Principles of UN Global Compact Principle Performance Indicators GRI G4 Relevant Responsibilities and Independence Content This report covers issues relating to KDB Daewoo Securities’ sustainability management efforts, achievements, and future plans in G4-HR1, G4-HR2, 1. Businesses  should support G4-HR3, G4-HR4, 2013 and 2014. KDB Daewoo Securities maintains all responsibility regarding the drafting of the DWSEC Report. and respect the protection •Join the UN Global Compact and obey its 10 principles G4-HR5, G4-HR6, of internationally proclaimed In conducting assurance procedures on the DWSEC Report and providing assurance opinions to the board of directors, the Assurer Human •Pursue employment diversity for high school graduates, G4-HR7, G4-HR8, human rights; and 68, 88 has no management-related interests in profits with KDB Daewoo Securities, aside from carrying out third-party assurance, in order to Rights the disabled, and foreigners G4-HR10 maintain independence and autonomy. 2. m  ake sure that they are not •Provide employee education to prevent sexual harassment G4-HR1, G4-HR7, complicit in human rights G4-HR10 abuses. Assurance Standards and Restriction 3. B  usinesses should uphold the •Operate a labor-management council that represents all 88 freedom of association and employees G4-HR4, G4-11, The Assurer performed the assurance engagement in consideration of the three accountability principles (inclusivity, materiality and 89 68 the effective recognition of the •Operate an internal labor union and guarantee the three G4-LA4 responsiveness) of AA1000AS (2008), the principles for defining report content and report quality of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) right to collective bargaining; labor rights of employees G4 guidelines. 4. the elimination of all forms of G4-HR6 88 Physical inspections were conducted at the Headquarters located in Seoul. The scope of the assurance was limited to only those forced and compulsory labour; performances stated in this Report and excludes data from previous years and data reported online. Labour •Join the UN Global Compact and obey its 10 principles 5. the effective abolition of child G4-HR5 88 labour; and Major Assurance Procedures •Pursue employment diversity for high school graduates, 6. the elimination of discrimination the disabled, and foreigners G4-HR3, G4-LA1, For the assurance process, results of the interviews with KDB Daewoo Securities’ employees and other relevant documents provided in respect of employment and •Provide employee education to prevent sexual harassment G4-LA9, G4-LA12, 67, 68 by KDB Daewoo Securities were examined. Major assurance procedures undertaken are as follows: occupation. G4-LA13 •There is no wage discrimination based on gender  Review of the application of the company’s internal sustainability reporting standards 7. B  usinesses should support •Practice eco-friendly green management a precautionary approach to •Build and fully establish a corporate-wide environmental G4-14 76, 77  Review of the DWSEC Report contents and the information collection process environmental challenges; management process  Review of the DWSEC Report contents related to the materiality test, core issues, and company policies •Participate in CDP and listed as one of Korean signatories  Performance of physical inspections and interviews with employees •Join C4C, an initiative under the UN Global Compact that G4-EN6, G4-EN7, 8. u  ndertake initiatives to is intended to counter climate change G4-EN10, G4promote greater environmental 76, 77 •Carry out activities to reduce energy use in the summer EN19, G4-EN27, Opinions responsibility; and and winter G4-EN28 Environment •Conduct activities to reduce paper use The Assurer performed the assurance evaluation in accordance with the procedures identified above, and the report was modified by KDB Daewoo Securities if and when deemed necessary. Based on the assurance evaluation, The Assurer is not aware of any significant •Provide green finance products: KDB SRI Funds for a Better World, KDB S&P Clean Energy Fund, etc. errors in the DWSEC Report and confirmed that the DWSEC Report was written in accordance with GRI G4 guidelines (Core option). G4-EN2, G4-EN6, 9. e ncourage the development •Participate in new and renewable energy generation The opinions of The Assurer in consideration of the AA1000APS accountability standards are explained below. G4-EN7, G4-EN10, 49, 50, and diffusion of environmentally projects: Jeju Gimnyeong Wind Power Plant Project, G4-EN19, G451 friendly technologies. Yeonggwang Baeksu Wind Power Plant, Biomass Power EN27, G4-EN28 Inclusivity Plant Project in Fiji, Yeongwol Photovoltaic Generation Project Does KDB Daewoo Securities adhere to the principle of stakeholder engagement in order to ensure a responsible and strategic •Enact the code of ethics and hold a ceremony for response in advancing sustainability management? 10. B  usinesses should work employees to take an oath on ethics and compliance Antiagainst corruption in all its •The first Wednesday of each month was designated as the G4-SO3, G4-SO4, 20, 21, – KDB Daewoo Securities is gathering major concerns and opinions from core stakeholders, including its customers, corruption forms, including extortion Day of Ethics and Compliance G4-SO5 22 employees, local communities, shareholders and investors through stakeholder communication channels. and bribery. •Establish and operate the he money laundering prevention – The Assurer is not aware of any significant stakeholder groups that were omitted from the process of gathering sustainability system management issues through KDB Daewoo Securities’ stakeholder communication channels. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix GRI Index 1. General Standard Disclosures Responsiveness Level of Disclosure ●Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Non-reported ◇ Not Applicable Does KDB Daewoo Securities respond appropriately to stakeholder issues? GRI Index Description Page Note – KDB Daewoo Securities identified major sustainability management issues through the materiality test. Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 6 ~7 ● – The Assurer is not aware of any significant issues that were omitted from the materiality test process. G4-3 Name of the organization 12~15 ● G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services 12~15 ● Materiality G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters 12~15 ● Does KDB Daewoo Securities include core issues that affect stakeholders in the entire spectrum of sustainability management G4-6 Countries with significant operations 12~15 ● in the DWSEC Report? G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 12~15 ● – KDB Daewoo Securities responded properly to the issues in which stakeholders are interested by reporting plans and evaluating core sustainability management issues that are identified. G4-8 Markets served 12~15 ● G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 12~15 ● – The Assurer is not aware of any violations of the principle of responsiveness in KDB Daewoo Securities’ response to major sustainability management or performance issues that are described in the DWSEC Report, from the perspective of a. Total number of employees by employment contract and gender materiality. b. Total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender c. Total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender G4-10 d. Total workforce by region and gender 12~13, 79 ● Recommendations Organizational Profile e. Whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by The Assurer makes the following recommendations within a scope that does not affect the assurance results: workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers It is impressive that KDB Daewoo Securities received favorable evaluations in sustainability management, such as having f. Significant variations in employment numbers 90  91 been listed in the DJSI World for four years in a row through its untiring efforts, despite a difficult business environment. G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 79 ● Also, as its new CEO’s leadership for addressing sustainability is accelerating internal innovation, KDB Daewoo Securities G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply chain 12~15 ● is expected to make continued progress in this area. We recommend that KDB Daewoo Securities report key performance metrics on material issues to increase the favorable evaluations by its stakeholders. Significant changes during the reporting period relating to size, structure, or 12, 14 ~15, G4-13 ● ownership or its supply chain 57, 62  The scale of social finance has been expanded as a result of receiving attention from the world’s leading countries and global G4-14 Implementation of the precautionary approach or principle 77 ● investment banks. Based on its expertise and network, KDB Daewoo Securities has been achieving good results in ‘the supporting social economy’ since 2012. It is expected that KDB Daewoo Securities will continue growing together with society G4-15 External economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other 97 ● through active investment and partnership. initiatives which the organization subscribes to or endorses  As KDB Daewoo Securities publishes its sustainability report every two years, some issues included in its report are out of G4-16 Memberships of associations such as industry associations 97 ● date. It diminishes the effectiveness of the sustainability report when issues are discussed that have already been superseded a. Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or by the significant changes that have already occurred in KDB Daewoo Securities related to its internal and external growth. equivalent documents G4-17 2 ● We recommend KDB Daewoo Securities consider publishing the report every year so that major performances are shared b. Whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report with stakeholders in a timely manner. a. Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries G4-18 b. How the organization has implemented the reporting principles for defining 2, 26~27 ● report content Identified Material Aspects And G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 26~27 ● Boundaries G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization 26~27 ● G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization 26~27 ● October 2015 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the G4-22 2 ● reasons for such restatements President Chun, Subong Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect G4-23 2 ● Boundaries G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 24~25 ● G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 24~25 ● Stakeholder Engagement G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement by type and by stakeholder group 24~25 ● Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the G4-27 24~25 ● organization has responded to them KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Level of Disclosure ●Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Non-reported ◇ Not Applicable Level of Disclosure ●Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Non-reported ◇ Not Applicable GRI Index Description Page Note GRI Index Description Page Note G4-28 Reporting period 2 ● G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 83 ● G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 80 ● Nov. 2013 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 83 ● G4-30 Reporting cycle 80 ● Biennial Energy G4-EN5 Energy intensity 83 ● G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 2 ● G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 83 ● a. ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services ○ Report Profile G4-32 b. GRI Content Index for the chosen option 2, 89, 91 ● G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 83 ● c. Reference to the External Assurance Report Water G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ◇ a. The organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused ◇ b. Scope and basis of any external assurance provided Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas G4-33 2, 89 ● G4-EN11 ◇ c. Relationship between the organization and the assurance providers and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas d. Whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report G4-EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside ◇ Biodiversity protected areas Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest Governance G4-34 32~34, 80 ● governance body G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored ◇ Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 20~22 ● Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with G4-EN14 ◇ habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 83~84 ● G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 83~84 ● 92 2. Specific Standard Disclosure 93 G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) 83 ● Emissions G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity 84 ● Level of Disclosure ●Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Non-reported ◇ Not Applicable G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions 84 ● GRI Index Description Page Note a. Reason and impacts that make this Aspect material G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances ◇ Disclosures on 32, 35, 40, G4-DMA b. How the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts ● G4-EN21 NO X, SO X, and other significant air emissions ◇ Management Approach 45, 48 c. Evaluation of the management approach G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination ◇ Economic G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 84 ● G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 23 ● G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills ◇ Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s Economic G4-EC2 82 ● Effluents and Waste Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous activities due to climate change Performance G4-EN25 under the terms of the Basel Convention2 Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage ◇ G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 82 ● of transported waste shipped internationally G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government ◇ Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related G4-EN26 habitats significantly affected by the organization’s discharges of water and ◇ Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage runoff G4-EC5 82 ● at significant locations of operation Market Presence G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 48~51 ◐ Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant G4-EC6 82 ● Products and Services Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by locations of operation G4-EN28 ◇ category Indirect Economic G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 82 ● Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions No violation Impacts G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 83 ● Compliance G4-EN29 ○ for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations reported Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation ○ Not counted Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and Transport G4-EN30 materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the ◇ Environmental workforce G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 77, 83 ● Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 48~51 ◐ Materials G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials ○ G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria ○ Supplier Environmental Assessment Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply G4-EN33 ○ chain and actions taken Not counted Environmental Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and G4-EN34 ○ Grievance Mechanisms resolved through formal grievance mechanisms KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Level of Disclosure ●Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Non-reported ◇ Not Applicable Level of Disclosure ●Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Non-reported ◇ Not Applicable GRI Index Description Page Note GRI Index Description Page Note Social Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights Security Practices G4-HR7 ○ Not counted policies or procedures that are relevant to operations Labor Practices and Decent Work Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 ◇ G4-LA1 84 ● actions taken group, gender, and region Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human Employment Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or Assessment G4-HR9 ◇ G4-LA2 68~69 ● rights reviews or impact assessments part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria ○ G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 84 ● Supplier Human Rights Assessment Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply Labor/Management Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these Legal G4-HR11 ○ G4-LA4 60 Days ● chain and actions taken Not counted Relations are specified in collective agreements requirement Human Rights Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker G4-HR12 ○ Grievance Mechanisms resolved through formal grievance mechanisms G4-LA5 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational 84 ● health and safety programs Society Occupational Health Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, 45~47, and Safety G4-LA6 85 ● G4-SO1 ● absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and gender impact assessments, and development programs 72~76 Local Communities G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation ○ Not counted Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local No case G4-SO2 ◇ communities reported G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 69 ◐ Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and employee G4-SO3 21~22 ● G4-LA9 40~44, 85 ● corruption and the significant risks identified category Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 20~22, 86 ● Training and Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued G4-LA10 69 ● Education employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 22, 86 ● 94 95 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development No political G4-LA11 85 ● reviews by gender and employee category Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary ◇ contributions reported Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee Diversity and Equal G4-LA12 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other 85 ● Anti-competitive Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and Opportunity G4-SO7 20~22 ◐ indicators of diversity Behavior monopoly practices and their outcomes Equal Remuneration Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions G4-LA13 85 ● Compliance G4-SO8 20~22 ◐ for Women and Men and significant locations of operation for non-compliance with laws and regulations G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria ○ Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on Supplier Assessment G4-SO9 ○ Not counted Supplier Assessment society for Labor Practices Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply G4-LA15 ○ for Impacts on Society chain and actions taken Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain G4-SO10 ○ Not counted and actions taken Labor Practices Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved G4-LA16 85 ● Grievance Mechanisms through formal grievance mechanisms Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved G4-SO11 ○ for Impacts on Society through formal grievance mechanisms Human Rights Product Responsibility Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts G4-HR1 ○ Not counted that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and G4-PR1 54~55 ● Investment safety impacts are assessed for improvement Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures Customer Health G4-HR2 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the 85 ● and Safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary percentage of employees trained G4-PR2 codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during 54~55 ● their life cycle, by type of outcomes No Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken ● discrimination Type of product and service information required by the organization’s reported procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage G4-PR3 54~55 ● of significant product and service categories subject to such information Freedom of Association Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of requirements and Collective G4-HR4 association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and 68 ● Product and Service Bargaining measures taken to support these rights Labeling Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary G4-PR4 codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of 54~55 ● Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child Child Labor G4-HR5 88 ● outcomes labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 56~57, 86 ● Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of Forced or Compulsory G4-HR6 forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all 88 ● Labor forms of forced or compulsory labor KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 Report Overview Strategic Focus Sustainability Performance Appendix Membership Level of Disclosure ●Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ○ Non-reported ◇ Not Applicable GRI Index Description Page Note Year Name of Group and Association G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products 54~55 ● 2015 Financial Security Institute Marketing Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 2014 Asia Society Korea Center Communications G4-PR7 codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, 54~55 ● and sponsorship, by type of outcomes National Strategy Institute 2013 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer Committee on Financial Informatization Promotion Customer Privacy G4-PR8 privacy and losses of customer data 58~59 ● UNGC: UN Global Compact 2012 Korean Pension Association Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations This is a voluntary corporate initiative to observe ten major Compliance G4-PR9 58~59 ◐ 2011 ISDA principles, including those on the environment, human rights, concerning the provision and use of products and services labour, and anti-corruption. KDB Daewoo Securities joined in Financial Services Sector Disclosures Financial Security Forum October 2006. The organization’s community investment strategy in association with community 2010 Korea Economic Research Institute G4-DMA 73 ● Economic Performance development Institute for Global Economies G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 81 ● Korean Securities Law Association 2009 C4C: Caring for Climate G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions resulting from employees’ business travel ○ Global Finance Forum G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions resulting from employees’ business travel ○ This is a voluntary corporate initiative aimed at fighting climate Korea Money and Finance Association Emissions 2008 change that is under the UN Global Compact. KDB Daewoo G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions resulting from employees’ business travel ○ Securities joined in 2010. Seoul IB Forum G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 84 ● 2007 Korea Center for International Finance Occupational Health The organization’s policies and practices regarding threats and violence in place G4-DMA 69~70 ● UN Global Compact and Safety to assist workforce members or community members 2006 Korea Capital Market Institute G4-HR1 Policies and procedures on human rights 88 ● 96 CDP: Carbon Disclosure Project 97 Internal Auditor’s Society of Korea Listed Companies 49~50, Human Rights G4-FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type ● 2005 Association 74~76 KDB Daewoo Securities signed the CDP, and has been taking part Center for Financial Law of Seoul National University in the carbon management disclosure program every year since 2010. G4-FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people 49~50 ● 2002 Financial Information Security Council Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services Product and Service G4-DMA (former FS15) 48~51, 55 ● 2000 Korea Management Association Labeling Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary (former FS16) 1991 Korea Employers Federation Policies with specific environmental and social components, assessing, G4-DMA monitoring, improving staff competency, and environmental and social risks and 72~77 ● 1983 Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry opportunities, applied to business lines (former FS1, FS2, FS3, FS4, FS5) 1981 The Institute of Internal Auditors G4-FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region and sector 62~65 ● 1980 Korean Securities Association DJSI: Dow Jones Sustainability Index Product Portfolio Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver social benefits for For the last four years, KDB Daewoo Securities has been listed in G4-FS7 48~51 ● The Federation of Korean Industries each business line 1975 the DJSI World Index, a world-renown sustainability management Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver environmental Korea Listed Companies Association evaluation index. G4-FS8 50~51 ● benefits for each business line Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental Audit G4-DMA 21~22 ● and social policies and risk assessment procedures (former FS9) Voting policies applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which G4-DMA 33 ● the organization holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting (former FS12) Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which Active Ownership G4-FS10 ○ the organization has interacted on environmental or social issues Not counted Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social G4-FS11 ○ screening The paper used in printing the KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 is certified as acid-free and Elemental Chlorine-Free by the FSC™ (Forest Stewardship Council), an NGO that promotes forest management. In addition, the soybean oil ink used in its printing minimizes the impact on the environment. KDB Daewoo Securities Sustainability Report 2015 think Magazine Contents M 04 17 agazine This magazine consists of interviews of various stakeholders of KDB Daewoo Securities, including customers, investors, employees, and local communities. It is a story of stakeholders’ thoughts, experiences, and Customers Local Communities 08 22 hopes in relation to the company’s sustainability management. Going forward, we will stay closer to our stakeholders, always listening to their opinions and proactively communicating with them, all in an effort to achieve sustainable growth together with our stakeholders. Investors Think You This report has been published in Korean and English to promote more efficient communication with stakeholders at 12 Employees 23 Thank You home and abroad. It is also available in the PDF format to allow readers to move easily through the pages of this report, and to take advantage of digital technologies that enable an effortless retrieval of data and information. The PDF version can be downloaded from the company web site at http://english.kdbdw.com. Related page in the Report section Related web pages T HINK s sin es of Bu e/ les y l Customers are our raison d’être. Ke ho sa ics l W tai et s Ar ea Se adqu re osm ou arte c l, K rs He or ea 2015 On July 10, 2015, TONYMOLY became the first Korean cosmetics brand shop to be listed Esta on the Korea Composite Stock Price Index (KOSPI). blish July d e KDB Daewoo Securities served as the lead manager of the nue n 2006 Reve 5.1 billio initial public offering (IPO), which attracted KRW 7.5 trillion in 2014 20 KRW subscription and generated an intense investor interest. On the day of TONYMOLY’s listing, its stock price surpassed the offering price of KRW 32,000 to reach over KRW 50,000. The successful listing of TONYMOLY is considered by many a monumental deal to both TONYMOLY and KDB Daewoo Securities: TONYMOLY has laid the foundation for growing into a trendsetter in the global cosmetics market; and KDB Daewoo Securities has gained the know-how of being a lead manager in 04 05 cosmetics brand IPOs. In fact, many Korean cosmetics IPO LY companies have since chosen the securities firm to July MO 201 ONY 5 Abo ut T .com lead-manage their IPOs. ly mo .etony We will continually help customers plan ng ://e http their future and grow with them by leveraging our industry-leading product competitiveness, planning ability, and know-how in overseas operations accumulated through various cases of successful overseas experiences. The Beauty of “Think you very much” We see things from the customer’s perspective, think deeper and speak more from the heart, and put customer interests above the bottom line, all to earn customer trust and satisfaction. Based on our efforts to ‘Think you very much’, we will grow together with our customers. P. 54~59 The relationship between KDB Daewoo Securities and TONYMOLY dates back to 2009 when TONYMOLY, founded in 2006, was a latecomer to the cosmetics business in Korea. From 2009 to the moment TONYMOLY was listed on the stock market, KDB It is clear to me that Daewoo Securities never stopped thinking from the customer’s KDB Daewoo Securities perspective. Owing no small part to such customer-first efforts, TONYMOLY always thinks about made a strong debut on the market. and studies its TONYMOLY has begun a new winwin relationship with KDB Daewoo customer needs. I hope Securities toward a brighter future. Manager Sungwon Chang of KDB Daewoo Securities Management Support Team at TONYMOLY talks about his experience continues to leverage with KDB Daewoo Securities’ customer-oriented management its advanced financial and makes a few suggestions on sustainability management. competencies to the fullest for the mutual 06 growth with us. Sungwon Chang 07 ship p a rtner ers Manager at Management gic m a s trate ith custo Support Team, TONYMOLY in w ys king alwa Wor S e c u rities la es c ewoo s. It p t K D B Da e r need rovid es tha usto m nd p m e s c , a er lear t o It is c ut and stu n custom dies it er va lu e for cu sto m Susta opt im a l Dae w oo Tip inabi s abo t priority o ices KDB our lity think hes s e r v I ho p e LY a s e h ig c t s and n e r. M O th odu a n ely m r with TO N Y eing a n c ial pr a t im e y o nd b fin s in geth e go b to a Comm need r o ws to e c t it will d g row in Y unicat g exp ny a n MOL ing w rities also mpa ONY Secu r. I c o . T KDB D ith cus artn e cia l tatio n ess in aewoo tomer a t e gic p in g finan a r repu u r succ o manag S e curities s, rele The IPO of TONYMOLY s t r a’s le a d a st e ll on o ues t ement practic ntlessly Kore with b ased c ontin a n d takes e s c ustome p a l com ding over n y se a s o Se curit ie s s to t h e and im proving the lea r-oriente was a meaningful deal globa n e w o p e t encie nies. Howev the work d in su pportin d a Da m a er, it is environ o exp KDB ial co wo comp d if m e g local commu from the perspective of is als . I h ope e d fi nanc t h e t compa ny con fi cult for stakeho n t for its employ nities a anc th o f Kore s adv tual grow d u c ts its su ld e rs to fu e e s. r age it u told ab out its a stainab ility ma lly gras p how financial experts who ity le v e the m compa ctions d nagem the t for ny end etail. W fulles er e a hy not ent with believe in providing the osp such p v o rs to gro publiciz out bein Pr Tip Daewo ublicati o Secu on will contrib w in a s u te ustaina ble ma e how h ard the g best services possible rities’ b a great n ner? I b unders rand im deal to elieve tand th age an enhanc The pe e comp a n y. d h e lp it s stake e KDB to their customers. ople I h holders pride in their co ave me t from KD better It also was a historic always m pany. I B D a ewoo S be more do their jobs to was de eply im presse ecuritie s have great moment for consumers active in th eir bes d by ho part of its susta risk ma nagem t a b il ity. How ever, I th w they who want quality the com inability ent and ink it sh commu its custo pany p ro v iding m manag e m e n t. I w nity serv ic e ould cosmetics. mers s ore com o u ld also a s Kyoungmi Kim service o that th munica like to s s, and e y can b ti o n oppo e e Deputy Manager at corpora etter un rtunities te cultu derstan to IPO Department, re. d its pro ducts, KDB Daewoo Securities T HINK Investors If investors are convinced that a company is on the right path to Shareholder value is our top priority. sustainable growth, they should provide capital and reap benefits from its growth, as true partners should. Portfolio Manager Daejin Lim is in charge of funds management at the Teachers’ Pension, one of the pension funds shareholders whom KDB Daewoo Securities has been serving for a long time. Sustainability Management Socially Responsible Finance Stronger Growth 08 05 09 New Formula for Growth Q How do investors evaluate Q Do corporations have to change Q What roles can investors play to help corporate value? when they release information? corporations grow in a sustainable manner? We seek a path toward sustainable growth A Investors do not evaluate a company’s A More and more corporations become A Investors also have to change. If they are by maximizing shareholder value, and worth by using financial information alone. aware of the value of and practice convinced that a company is on the right path They use a wide variety of valuation sustainability management. However, to sustainable growth, they should provide grow strong and proud by achieving balanced growth indicators such as corporate governance, it is difficult for the general public capital and reap benefits from its growth, and contributing to society through finance. business status, and sustainability to see the growing trend. For this as true partners should. In order for this to The new win-win strategy of sustainable growth is performance. This is why socially reason, companies need to actively happen, the company should give top priority what KDB Daewoo Securities pursues. responsible funds were created in the communicate with various stakeholders, to raising its employees’ understanding of the first place. As more corporate information including investors. In addition to importance of sustainability management. becomes available that investors want transparent reports detailing economic Accordingly, KDB Daewoo Securities should to know about, companies should more performances, they need to inform see its business under the light of not only P. 60~65 readily disclose a variety of information, investors how they establish and execute finance but also all the indicators, including to validate their corporate value. It is their core values, vision, and mid-to longthe mid-to long-term plan, and inform investor. difficult to say if Korean investors are really term plans so that investors can properly Corporations grow strong through sustainability management. practicing socially responsible investment evaluate their corporate value. When The bigger corporations grow, the bigger their social responsibilities are. in comparison to overseas investors. It is KDB Daewoo Securities makes public its KDB Daewoo Securities grows together with its communities through finance, now time for domestic investors to evaluate economic performances, it should also fulfilling our social responsibility, and contributing to a better tomorrow for all. the value of corporations more objectively disclose its non-financial information as by looking at the sustainability, rather than well as future plans, which would help focus solely on the profitability of their confirm that all of its activities boil down investment targets. to sustainable management. Q As a corporate analyst, what do you expect to see in KDB Daewoo Securities? A KDB Daewoo Securities should establish, execute, and publicize its vision in detail to We know that the answer to finance lies in the minds of customers. raise its investment appeal and to have its true By thinking of and studying our customers in detail, value known. The company should go beyond we will speak of finance in the way they would understand. short-term performances, and provide details on how it has derived its business strategies, Enjoy finance. KDB Daewoo Securities will make it easier for you. future profit structure, and execution roadmap. This would give shareholders and investors Easy Finance a better understanding of the company’s value and growth potential. Stakeholder Trust 10 Q Sustainable Growth How do you assess ‘Easy Finance’ Q How significant is sustainability 11 of KDB Daewoo Securities? in corporate analyses? I think it is good that A Finance is not a subject that anyone can A One of the most important factors in the easily approach. For this reason, it is good growth of financial companies is trust. KDB Daewoo Securities that KDB Daewoo Securities is conducting However, an increasing number of people is conducting a brand a brand enhancement campaign and are developing a negative view of finance enhancement campaign communicating with its stakeholders based because of the global financial crisis. on the motto, ‘Easy Finance’. KDB Daewoo The recent financial incidents also have dealt and communicating with Securities is explaining difficult financial a blow to the credibility of financial companies. its stakeholders based on concepts in easy-to-understand terms, It is a relief to know that large financial the Easy Finance. helping people better understand finance. companies are looking back on their business This approach is significant in that it helps practices and making efforts to earn back the Senior Analyst Miji Son is in charge of expand the industry base, and create diverse public trust. Sustainability is important also securities and insurance industry sector values through finance. The ‘Think you very for risk management, and for this reason, analysis at Research Center of Shinhan much’ slogan ubiquitous in its ad campaigns companies should manage performance from Investment Corp., and regularly issues also is a brilliant and creative concept. the long-term perspective rather than focus KDB Daewoo Securities earnings reviews I believe it effectively communicates the on short-term gains. Now Investors include and industry outlook reports. company’s will to deliver benefits of finance some non-financial information as well as to a greater number of people. financial performance data in their evaluation of corporate value. This trend will spread to all aspects of sustainability management. There is a high possibility that non-financial information will be included as an equivalent evaluation factor in corporate analysis reports. 2 Step 2 Fostering a culture of sustainability Step 3 The will of senior management is the 3 most important factor for the sustainability Growing together with management mindset to take root across local communities the company. KDB Daewoo Securities has a well-established sustainability KDB Daewoo Securities is a company of management system in place. financial experts. This is why it is referred What is needed now is its employees take T HINK interest in the system and conduct their jobs in accordance with it. We will grow to as a “securities academy”. I think contributing to society through use of one’s competencies is meaningful for the further when all employees internalize nation and is an achievement that should sustainability as their own and foster it into Our people is our sustainable core. be extensively publicized. I hope to see a permanent component of the corporate continued improvements in employees’ culture. Many corporations used to see expertise, and that such competencies sustainability as a PR tool to maintain will substantially contribute to a win-win Employees or enhance their reputation. However, relationship with local communities. sustainability is what corporations must practice as a member of local communities, Step 1 and is what shareholders and investors are demanding. In other words, sustainability Understanding risk, is a mindset KDB Daewoo Securities must a starting point in develop, in order to grow in a sustainable sustainability management manner. As such, the company needs to comprehensively establish sustainability For KDB Daewoo Securities to grow in management strategies and direction, a sustainable manner, first, each and and move in the same direction together 1 every one of its employees should fully with its employees. 12 13 understand risks associated with the company’s business and management activities and focus on preventing the risks. From the perspective of sustainability there are diverse risks. One in particular is related to the task of selling financial products and service in full compliance, which is a type of risk that should be managed at all cost, to protect financial consumers and preserve their trust. For management of such risk, employees should enhance their financial expertise, with institutional supports at the company level. Always One Step Ahead With Integrity Always One Step Ahead In a workplace where passion and creativity rule, we study about customers and practice expertise. Our goals are the same; but individual perspectives are different, which help us learn from each other. Discovering unlimited potentials of finance, we are the driving force of KDB Daewoo Securities. Youngcheol Bae Executive Managing Director at Compliance Unit In charge of financial consumer protection and compliance-related risk management as a head P. 66~71 of Compliance Unit B Always One Step Ahead Step 2 With Expertise A premier corporate culture without discrimination or prejudice Reflective of its business characteristics, Growing into a respected company KDB Daewoo Securities has many female employees. Even though I have not been with KDB Daewoo Securities focuses on sharing KDB Daewoo Securities for long, I can really growth with its local communities. The company feel the efforts of the company to help its encourages, with appropriate supports, its female employees continue their careers and employees to join community service programs to create a good work environment for them. of their choice or to feel free to take part in social I also believe that the company evaluates contribution activities on a regular basis. I hope and expects the competencies of female KDB Daewoo Securities takes an extra step employees as are. I am glad to be working toward taking the lead in building an eco-friendly for a company that strives to foster all of its green workplace, slowing climate change, and Step 3 employees into financial talents without any growing into a truly world-leading company discrimination or prejudice. I will make full C fulfilling its corporate responsibility in the area of use of my capabilities to contribute to the Building mutual understanding environmental protection. company’s development. and respect for local communities KDB Daewoo Securities is the kind of Step 2 Step 1 company I would like to stay with for a long time. I want to be a financial expert the company is proud of, and hope to receive Respecting people, a cornerstone Step 1 active company supports for my ambition. of sustainable growth I would also like to see many sustainability management programs in which employees 14 Developing human resources, A company cannot grow sustainably 15 can participate and improve their job a first step toward customer without satisfying its employees. competencies, through which they can KDB Daewoo Securities spares no effort satisfaction A contribute to local communities. or resources in helping its employees adapt to the organization, and at the same From the perspective of sustainability time, conducts employee job training in management, KDB Daewoo Securities’ a thorough and strict manner. I believe one human resources development (HRD) of the greatest strengths of KDB Daewoo system is its great strength. The company Securities in the area of HRD is its mentoring is famous in the industry for its emphasis system, through which employees are on HRD. We foster top leaders in exposed to the experiences and knowledge various fields through internal training, of senior staff. which reflects the strong will of senior management. Irrespective of market circumstances, KDB Daewoo Securities has been providing various types of training, ranging from off-site to on-line trainings, and spared no resources in developing employee competencies and fostering talent. These efforts are what have enabled us to offer distinctive products and services and maintain our stellar reputation in the industry. Based on such expertise, Always One Step Ahead With Respect all of us at KDB Daewoo Securities combine our strengths and work in unison to achieve premier customer satisfaction. Jeongyun Kim Jihye Ko Deputy Manager at Fixed Income Senior Associate at Operations & Settlement Department Product Department In charge of FX (Foreign Exchange) derivatives settlement In charge of repurchase agreement (RP) as a senior associate who joined KDB Daewoo Securities in 2014 sales and fixed income trading Local With passion and abilities for the pursuit of excellence, KDB Daewoo Securities is known as “talent academy” or “securities academy” we envision a society where all can enjoy the benefits of finance. in the Korean financial market. This is because Transform Ideas into Impact we have fostered many financial experts through systematic and customized training. We have built a premier corporate culture that We also support the sustainable growth of local communities. promotes open communication and respects COMMUNITIES 16 passion and creativity. This corporate culture P. 72~77 17 underlies our competitiveness and strengths. We will continue to stay ahead based on the belief that “people equal innovation”. When we coexist with local communities and fulfill our social responsibilities, KDB Daewoo Securities will foster financial professionals who have every qualification to be success partners to our customers and to contribute to the sustainable the world opens to a better future, and we all grow stronger as a whole. growth of the company and society. T HINK We bring positive change to communities. HUFS Center for Multicultural Education Providing consulting and social services Description related to multiculturalism Interpretation and translation services Key Business for marriage-bound immigrants, Areas education of children gifted in language, Multicultural School of Love project diversity unity Established April 2007 www.hufsmcs.org Many different types of people live in harmony. A multicultural society where understanding and mutual respect rule, is what KDB Daewoo Securities is helping build. In supporting multicultural families, educational contents, holding a bilingual KDB Daewoo Securities collaborates contest, ‘Mother Tongue Contest’, and through a partnership with the Hankuk adopting various language education University of Foreign Studies (HUFS) approaches. The company also creates KDB Daewoo Securities Center for Multicultural Education. animation materials to improve the The company offers distinctive public’s understanding of multicultural is a pioneer in social programs supporting multicultural societies”. 18 families, and the Director Minjung contributions based on 19 Yang regards this as an example case Regarding a future direction of a company sharing value with its KDB Daewoo Securities can take in finance. I would like to communities. She thinks highly of how social contribution, Director Yang hopes the company is extensively engaged the company develop more diverse ask the company to in a wide variety of social contribution programs and help the multicultural activities and creatively and innovatively society in Korea make progress together develop more programs leverage its corporate competencies with their local communities. to contribute to and share with local In particular, she suggests such and help the multicultural communities, thereby setting examples ideas that can be of practical use to in creating a better society. multicultural families as development society make progress of a financial terminology dictionary According to Director Yang, in multiple languages, educating the together with their “KDB Daewoo Securities contributes to families on how to conduct basic the development of local communities financial transactions, and improving local communities. in various ways. The company has financial institution employees’ made and distributed recipe calendars understanding of multicultural societies. and a cookbook in multiple languages, She thinks that such programs would and also translated learning materials improve KDB Daewoo Securities’ on economy in many different unique brand value in sustainability Minjung Yang languages, all to help immigrant management. Director, HUFS Center for Multicultural Education women settle down in Korea and gain a good financial understanding. The company also helps children of multicultural families become global talents by developing and providing bilingual teaching materials and Since 2013 KDB Daewoo Securities has helped solve the problem, finding of the two Koreas. After undergoing Vice-President Cho suggests has been providing Yeomyung School the school an optimal location to build trials and errors, we have established an KDB Daewoo Securities to implement financial supports for rent payment classrooms and a playground. education system based on the model social contribution programs that and facility maintenance through the neither of South Korea nor of North Korea leverage its business expertise. North Community Chest of Korea. Yeomyung Vice-President Myungsook Cho of but of a third country, and are using Korean teenage defectors do not fully School is an alternative school for North Yeomyung School gives the following this system in educating our students. understand such economic concepts as Korean teenage defectors and children descriptions about the school’s roles We believe that a peaceful unification banking and interest rates, and social of families who have defected from and KDB Daewoo Securities’ support: can be successfully achieved through contribution programs teaching basic the North. Schools in general need a “Germany went through a crisis for education. KDB Daewoo Securities financial concepts would help them place for students to study and play, but a decade after its unification: Adults provides various supports that enable develop a good understanding of how Yeomyung School lacked funds for such had a tendency to develop a fixed us to make progress towards our goal to succeed in a market economy. She a place. By regulation, schools cannot mindset after going through secondary of peaceful unification.” also hopes that KDB Daewoo Securities be too close to a shopping center or and high school educations, and this makes more efforts to let the scope of an adult entertainment district; but it presented problems in educating them its social contribution activities known was difficult for Yeomyung School to on unification. Yeomyung School is an to the general public, which would help find a suitable location due to financial institution that is preparing for unification make available more diverse financeconstraints. KDB Daewoo Securities based social contribution activities. KDB Daewoo Securities provides essential 20 supports when they 21 are truly needed. The company’s timely and learn earn appropriate supports of Through learning we project a more prosperous tomorrow. A society where all are free to learn Yeomyung School has and grow, is what KDB Daewoo Securities is helping build. greatly helped us run the school in a stable manner. Yeomyung School Myungsook Cho Vice-President, Yeomyung School An alternative school for North Korean Description youth defectors, troubled adolescents, and teenagers of multicultural families Key Business Self-directed learning, reading, character Areas building, volunteering, and health Established September 2004 www.ymschool.org 22 THINK The more we think, the easier it gets. The deeper we go, the clearer it becomes. How to help more people lead better lives, how to bring about a better future, we ‘Think you very much’. Thank We thank you very much. We are empowered by your trust in us. By pursuing unlimited possibilities of finance, we will continue to realize the true value behind ‘Think you very much’. 23
