Made for life Sustainability Report 2014 Contents Overview 02 Our vision Who we are, where we are going and how we’re going to get there. At a glance A world-class business. Aperam’s business divisions across three primary operating segments. Message from the Chief Executive Officer Strategy and performance 06 Focusing on what matters How Aperam puts stakeholders at the heart of its strategy. 2014 in numbers How we performed for the Group and for the divisions. People 10 Safety is always the top priority and we also help our people manage their general health and wellbeing. We offer training and development opportunities and look after our people. Environment 18 Our new Environment Working Group helps keep us focused on where we can make the most difference on environmental issues. These include driving down our energy use and related carbon emissions, becoming a zero waste business, using water wisely and improving air quality. Stakeholders 24 We encourage our senior management to lead by example, and to be highly visible with our team members. Engaging openly with our customers also helps us create more meaningful solutions for them. Getting closer to our stakeholders helps us build a better business. About this report 32 Assurance statement GRI Index Overview Environment Strategy and performance Stakeholders People About this report About Aperam our vision We are a leading global stainless and specialty steel producer but we are also a young company with a fresh approach. Our vision is to become sustainably profitable, and we are prepared to constantly challenge the status quo in order to achieve this. Our goals for sustainability are rooted in our business ambitions. The business we want to be, and the qualities we draw on to make this vision a reality, are fundamental to how we engage in the topic of corporate responsibility and sustainability. Living our values Our values Leadership With leadership has always come Our three values are the means by which We seek to be bold and audacious in our responsibility and this has never been we will deliver our vision. They inform our approach, while remaining relevant to the truer than it is today. We aim to do every action: marketplace, and to promote sustainable things the right way and we support the solutions. development of new standards in our industry. Our people are innovative and Ingenuity collaborative. Adapting to today’s business Our people are skillful, imaginative and and sustainability challenges demands innovative in their work, and passionate to quick thinking and flexibility. There is no share their skills. This may mean developing time to waste. new ideas, or seeing things with new ideas to find an appropriate solution. Leadership Ingenuity The Aperam Way While our three company values of Agility leadership, ingenuity and agility ensure We recognise the need to move quickly high performance and profitability, it is and adapt to changing market conditions, our behavioural values that help us as well as to be flexible enough to meet become a responsible and sustainable Agility specific customer requirements. leader in our industry. The Aperam Way is the name we give to the behaviours we want to see from our people. These include teamwork, transparency and proximity. They capture the culture we want to build for our company; one that fosters the key qualities that guide the way that we do business. It is through the expression of these behaviours that we can manage our impacts on society and become a more sustainable business. For more information please visit our website: aperam.com/sustainability 02-03 Aperam Sustainability Report 2014 At a glance a World-class company Our main production sites 01 01 Genk, Belgium 02 Châtelet, Belgium Gueugnon, France 1.81mt 04 02 03 05 03 Shipped in 2014 04 Isbergues, France 05 Imphy, France 06 Timóteo, Brazil 2.5mt Flat stainless steel Global Performance capacity in Europe Through our Brazilian subsidiary, and South America Aperam BioEnergia, we produce wood US$ Global and charcoal (biomass) from cultivated Million Aperam(1) eucalyptus forests. Revenues 5,485 We use the charcoal (biomass) produced by Aperam BioEnergia as a substitute for coke Operating costs (2) 4,259 at our Timóteo production facility, which Employee wages 681 produces fewer carbon emissions. In 2014 and benefits we produced 433,000 tonnes of charcoal through Aperam BioEnergia, compared Payments to providers 84 with 431,000 tonnes in 2013. of capital Payments to government Community investments 67 1 9,424 06 employees of 47 EBITDA 547 nationalities Economic value retained 393 Direct economic value 5,485 generated Economic value distributed 5,092 8,274 1,150 Total number of Total number of G4-EC1 male employees female employees, (1) D  ifferences between ‘Global Aperam’ and the sum of the increased by 4% different segments as shown on page 3 are due to all operations other than those that are part of the Stainless Steel & Electrical in one year Steel, Services & Solutions and Alloys & Specialities operating segments, together with intersegments eliminations and/or non-operational items which are not segmented. (2) Operating costs include R&D fees of $20m for Aperam Group. Overview Environment Strategy and performance Stakeholders People About this report Business divisions We manage our business across three primary operating segments: Stainless & Services & Solutions Alloys & Specialities Electrical Steel This division, which includes Believed to be the fourth We are one of the our tubes and precision largest producer of nickel largest global producers businesses, performs three alloys in the world, this of stainless steel by main activities: division specialises in the production capacity. We (i) the management of design, production and produce a wide range of direct sales of stainless transformation of various stainless and electrical steel products from our nickel alloys and certain steels in Europe and South production facilities; specific stainless steels. America, and continuously (ii) distribution of our Our products take the form expand our product products (and, to a less of bars, semis, cold-rolled offerings by developing extent, those of our strips, plates, wire and wire new grades and finishes. suppliers); and rods, and come in a range (iii) transformation services, of grades. which include the provision of value-added and customised steel solutions to meet specific customer requirements. Performance US$ Million Stainless & Electrical Steel Services & Solutions Alloys & Specialities Perimeter Worldwide: Worldwide: Worldwide: – Belgium: Châtelet, Genk – 16 Steel Service Centres (SSCs) – France: Amilly, Imphy, Rescal – Brazil: Timoteo, BioEnergia – 8 Transformation facilities – PRC: Imhua – France: Gueugnon, Isbergues – 19 Sales offices Employees (FTE EOP) 6,256 1,998 1,114 Revenues 4,427 2,389 628 EBITDA 427 87 58 Payment to Governments 35 20 8 Economic value generated 4,427 2,389 628 Economic value distributed 4,179 2,320 571 G4-EC1 Transparency drives engagement and performance We are committed to fair, accurate and honest disclosure of our progress to being a more sustainable and responsible business. We believe this builds trust with our stakeholders, and helps us improve our performance over time. Among the organisations Aperam supports are the UN Global Compact, the Carbon Disclosure Project, the Global Reporting Index and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. 04-05 Aperam Sustainability Report 2014 Message from our CEO Welcome to our report, which covers our Our customers are at the heart of what we social and environmental performance do. We aim to be their preferred choice and during 2014. It details our progress in to constantly exceed their expectations. addressing our most material social and In 2014, we have strived to partner with environmental issues as we aim to become our customers and other external a sustainable, profitable company and the stakeholders – from suppliers to financial leading industry catalyst in stainless steel partners – to develop mutually profitable and specialities. In producing this report, and sustainable products and solutions. we have been guided by the Global Reporting Initiative G4 guidelines, which Mitigating our environmental impacts we are in accordance with at the core level. is crucial to achieving our vision of being It also complies with the UN Global a sustainable and profitable company. Compact, which we are proud to support. In 2014 we established an Environment Working Group – one of six new groups At Aperam, we are proud of our ability to aimed at strengthening our governance think differently and create change in our of sustainability issues – and set stretching industry through focusing on quality and long-term targets to address energy innovation. In 2014 we have once again consumption, waste, water use and managed to improve our operational other key areas. efficiency and financial performance, as well as to reduce our net debt, despite Communicating openly with our challenging market conditions. Alongside stakeholders in order to understand the this, we have continued to focus on our broader impacts of our business is part of non-negotiable priority: the health and what it means to act responsibly. A key safety of our people. achievement in 2014 was establishing a more open exchange with the communities Safety is our first duty to our employees. we operate in. As a result, we have ended Timoteo Di Maulo In 2014 we achieved a significant 2014 stronger and ready to start a new CEO reduction in our lost time injury frequency phase of our journey. In 2015, a new and rate, from 1.3 in 2013 to 1.1 in 2014, and dynamic leadership team with fresh ideas improved our practice in other safety will take the Aperam Way to the next level. priority areas. I am also pleased to report “We have continued that absenteeism was down from 2.1% in I believe that not only are our products 2013 to 2% in 2014. It is a good measure made for life, but they are also made with to focus on our nonof the overall health of our workforce, and passion. I am proud of our workforce and negotiable priority: the represents an improvement in dealing with of the way we do business according to chronic health issues and work-related our values of leadership, ingenuity and health and safety of stress. We can always do better, however, agility. I am confident that we can unlock our people.” and in 2015 we will concentrate on further embedding safety-conscious behaviours Aperam’s full potential and keep our promises for a sustainable common future. and strong managerial commitment. Please do let us know what you think of We also want to enable our employees to this report and our progress towards thrive and to fulfil their potential. The becoming a more sustainable business. Aperam Way defines our commitments to our people and the behaviours we expect from them; in short, the culture we want to develop that will help us become a more sustainable business. Timoteo Di Maulo Chief Executive Officer Overview Environment Strategy and performance Stakeholders People About this report The Aperam Way The way we do business at Aperam is guided by our culture which encourages teamwork, transparency and proximity. 06-07 Aperam Sustainability Report 2014 Strategy Focusing on what matters Employees & Management Authorities & regulators Communities Unions Governments and local authorities Neighbours & Communities Educational Institutions & trainees Competition Authorities NGOs & Local Associations Standardisation Authorities Local Media Local economic players Our engagement is reflected in: Our engagement is reflected in: Our engagement is reflected in: – Collective agreements including  – Regular meetings with – Stakeholder day or meetings CSR based incentives local authorities – Site visits or open days – Proximity meetings – Policies and formal procedures – Specific newsletters (‘Good  – HR and Human Rights policies – Compliance programmes neighbour’ newsletter) – Data Privacy policies and trainings – Press releases and interviews – H&S programmes and H&S days – Regular measurements, – Acesita Foundation & philanthropy – Yearly performance appraisals certifications a nd risks – Preference and support of – People development plans prevention protocols local suppliers – Training plans & catalogues – Combined Insurance audits – Environmental & Human – Professional Committees and a lerting systems Rights policies – Climate Surveys – Diligent responses to enquiries – Pollution prevention – Support of global initiatives such training exercises as CDP, G  lobal Compact – Local development and student fairs Our stakeholders at the heart of our strategy Customers Financial partners Business partners Customers Shareholders Suppliers End Consumers Banks & investors Subcontractors Stock Exchanges Trade Associations Audit & Certification firms Our engagement is reflected in: Our engagement is reflected in: Our engagement is reflected in: – Code of Business Conduct – Code of Business Conduct – Code of Business Conduct – Meetings, site visits, trade fairs – Policies on Anti-Fraud, Insider – General Purchase Conditions and technical customer trainings dealings, Money-Laundering, – Environmental policies – General Sales Conditions Double-Signature protocols – Sustainable Sourcing charter – Product documentation – Regular assessments, certifications – Associations, working groups and – Anti-Trust & Anti-Corruption policies and r isks prevention protocols exchanges on H&S best practices – Economic sanctions policy – Combined Insurance audits – Subcontractor Safety Charter and protocols andalerting systems – Requests for quotations and – Requests for quotations and – Earnings & press releases, IR annual contract negotiations annual contract negotiations meeting & IR days, interviews – Congresses and trade fairs – Customer satisfaction surveys – Shareholders meetings, – R&D partnerships – R&D partnerships General meeting, etc. – Certification audits and site visits G4-24 Overview Environment Strategy and performance Stakeholders People About this report Our goal is to become a sustainable, Our approach to define what is Based on our ongoing engagement profitable company through thinking material has not changed with stakeholders around each of differently and creating change in Just as in 2013, we undertook a structured our sites, our Sustainability Steering the stainless, electrical and speciality exercise to identify the most material Committee considers that there has been steels sector. sustainability issues and their impacts, no substantial change during 2014 to based on Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) the materiality assessment and that By promoting teamwork and applying ‘the principles. The materiality of an issue was we are continuing to focus our efforts Aperam Way’, we can foster innovation. determined via an assessment based on on the most relevant areas. By building closer relationships with our the potential impact on the Company stakeholders, we can address issues of and on our stakeholders. concern, build trust and maintain and enhance our licence to operate. Through this joint focus on innovation and Materiality Matrix engagement we aim to become the leading sustainable stainless steel company. Following the publication of our 2013 report, we conducted an extensive review of our current structures and the steps we need to take to achieve our sustainability ambitions. Developing our sustainability strategy and governance in 2014 Our governance structure comprises the Board of Directors who define business objectives advised by the Leadership Team, the Chairman, and the CEO who has ultimate accountability for sustainability performance and compliance. Our Leadership Team is entrusted with the day-to-day management of the Company. Two senior committees govern our overall approach to sustainability: –– Our Sustainability, Performance and Strategy Committee, which comprises three Directors and is responsible for reviewing performance and strategy; –– A Sustainability Steering Committee, comprising nine senior managers, whose remit is to guide sustainability management, risk, stakeholder relationships, reporting and assurance activities. During 2014 we strengthened our G4-19 governance of sustainability-related issues by creating six working groups People Environment Stakeholders covering the key strategic areas in which 01 Occupational Safety 01 Raw Material 01 Sustainably Profitable we would like to improve our practice: 02 Employee Engagement Consumption 02 L egal & Fiscal environment, stakeholder engagement, 03 Social Dialogue 02 Energy Consumption Compliance supply chain management, social 04 Community 03 Waste/Recycling 03 Customer Satisfaction reporting, customer satisfaction Engagement 04 Air & Dust Emissions 04 Anti-Dumping and integrated reporting. 05 Competencies & 05 Pollution Prevention 05 Cash, Debt & Financing Employability 06 Water Consumption 06 Fair Business Practices Each working group is tasked with creating 06 Occupational Health 07 Climate Change 07 Economic Sanctions a five-year strategy for the 2015-2020 07 S upplier Labour 08 Product Innovation 08 Market Dynamics period. This will bring clarity of purpose and a Practices 09 Transport Emissions 09 S upplier Environmental focus to our work that will drive us forward 08 Diversity & Equal 10 Biodiversity Practices across these six sustainability areas. Opportunity 09 Philanthropy 10 Data Privacy 08-09 Aperam Sustainability Report 2014 Performance 2014 in numbers For the Group Aspect Indicator 2014 2013 Economic performance Direct economic value generated and distributed USD 5,485m USD 5,190m Procurement practices Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation (%) 62%(1) 57% Materials consumption Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 28% 26.5% Energy consumption Energy intensity (GJ/t) 13.0* 13.6 Water consumption Total water withdrawal by source (million m ) 3 22.3* 22.5 (93% from local rivers) (93% from local rivers) Emissions Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity (tCO2e/t) 0.48* 0.48 Significant air emissions (tonnes of ducted dust) 441.8* 400 Occupational health and safety Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) (employees and contractors) 1.12 1.34 – Severity rate 0.11 0.08 – Absenteeism 2.03% 2.05% – Fatalities 0 0 Career development Employees receiving regular performance reviews (%) (by employment category) Exempts (GEDP) 95%(2) 96% Blue Collar and White Collar workers 87% 86% Supply chain labour practices Percentage of suppliers having significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices (health 15% 16% & safety) for which improvements were agreed (Raw material/Europe) (Raw material/Europe) Actions to be defined in 2015 Impacts on local communities Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and 100%(1) 100% development programmes Product stewardship, customer service Results surveys measuring customer satisfaction (score) 7.8 (Brazil)(3) 7.1 (Europe)(4) (Compared to 8.05 (Compared to 7.1 in 2012) in 2011) (1) Scope: Significant operating sites in Europe and South America (Genk, Châtelet, Gueugnon, Isbergues, Imphy, Timóteo) excluding Services & Solutions division. Non-raw materials only. (2) We do not break down this statistic by gender. The GEDP process is the same, regardless of gender. (3) Scope: South America operations only. Collected every two years, the last available data for Europe was collected in 2013 (score 7.1). (4) Scope: Europe operations only. Collected every two years, last collected in 2013. Overview Environment Strategy and performance Stakeholders People About this report For the divisions Stainless & Electrical Steel Services & Solutions Alloys & Specialities Europe: South America: Worldwide: Worldwide: Genk (BE), Timóteo (BR), – 16 Steel Service Imphy (FR), Châtelet (BE), BioEnergia (BR) Centres (SSCs) Amilly (FR), Gueugnon (FR), – 8 transformation Rescal (FR), Isbergues (FR) facilities Imhua (PRC) – 19 sales offices Employees (FTE)(5) 3,040 3,216 1,998 1,114 (3,151 in 2013) (3,233 in 2013) (2,050 in 2013) (1,046 in 2013) Fatalities 0 0 0 0 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 2.8 0 0.4 3.5 (LTIFR) (2.6 in 2013) (0.4 in 2013) (1.4 in 2013) (3.2 in 2013) Customer overall satisfaction score 71% (2013) 78% (2014) 71% (2013) 91% (2014) (71% in 2011) (83% in 2012) (71% in 2011) Trend in energy intensity (GJ/t, 2014 vs. 2013) 4.7% 2.2% 11.1% 3.4% Trend in carbon energy intensity (greenhouse 4.3% 9.1% 8.4% 8.3% gas emissions) (CO2et/t, 2014 vs. 2013) Trend in local air emissions (dust) 5.6 % 6.9% N/A 1.3% (t, 2014 vs. 2013) Trend in water withdrawal 9.5% 3.9% 10.3% 5.6% (m3, 2014 vs. 2013) % of procurement spend on local suppliers 65% 49% N/A 71% (61% in 2013) (47% in 2013) (56% in 2013) Site management 100% of sites 100% of sites 90% of sites 100% of sites system certification compliant with compliant with compliant with compliant with – ISO 14001 – ISO 14001 – ISO 9001 – ISO 9001 – OHSAS 18001 –O  HSAS 18001 – OHSAS 18001 – OHSAS 18001 85% of sites 50% of sites 50% of sites 80% of sites compliant with compliant with compliant with compliant with – ISO 9001 – ISO 9001 – ISO 14001 – ISO 14001 – FSC One site compliant with One site compliant with – ISO 50001 – ISO 26000 (5) There are 56 FTE in our Luxembourg headquarters compared to 53 FTE in 2013. 10-11 Aperam Sustainability Report 2014 People Looking after our employees Our people are not only our Health and safety Fatalities first asset but also colleagues It is vital that safety is always the top with whom we share true priority. Accidents happen when we don’t 2011 2012 values and a common future. pay attention, so we all need to take care at every moment of every day. It is Safety is our non-negotiable priority and a therefore important for us to continually collective responsibility, as the first duty improve our performance in order to to our people. We focus relentlessly on achieve our aims of zero fatalities, zero implementing rigorous standards and injuries, and keeping lost time injuries low procedures in order to achieve our aims of – and all employees have a part to play. 1 fatality 3 fatalities zero fatalities, zero injuries, and minimising lost time injuries. Such is our commitment Fatality Prevention: our to the safety of our people that 10% of non-negotiable priority the performance bonus of the CEO and During the second half of 2014, we members of the Leadership Team is linked conducted Fatality Prevention Audits 2013 2014 to our safety performance. (FPA) to help sites understand which areas they need to improve. These were carried In addition, motivating, developing and out by colleagues at other sites who know engaging with our employees were among the processes better, and covered topics our highest priorities in 2014. This also of relevance to our safety priority areas applied when we had to implement such as contractor safety management difficult restructuring projects. and the fair-play policy. At the end of each 0 fatalities 0 fatalities FPA, the relevant site received a report and was tasked to develop action plans to improve safety management in all sites. G4-LA6 Indicator We said We did We will LTIFR (all regions) Achieve 1.3 1.1 1.0 Employees and contractors Employees Maintain at 1.0 1.2 1.0 Contractors Achieve 1.9 0.8 Maintain below 1.0 Fair Play Policy 100% completed by 2015 100% Absenteeism 2.1% and improvement plan in sites 2.03 2.0 where the average is higher Overview Environment Strategy and performance Stakeholders People About this report Our people are our greatest asset. They are also our colleagues, with whom we share values and a common future. Their safety is our non-negotiable priority. 12-13 Aperam Sustainability Report 2014 People continued Health and safety LTIFR1, LTIFR`2, Severity Rate LTIFR LTIFR` Severity Ilder Camargo Da Silva, Head of Health Employees and Employees and Rate Contractors Contractors and Safety at Aperam, said of Aperam’s 2014 safety performance: “2014 was our second best year overall for lost 2011 2012 time, and our best year ever if we include restricted work. This was 4.0 4.0 due in large part to highly visible and exemplary leadership, in particular the active participation of our CEO in our monthly safety conference call. 2.0 0.7 3.0 0.08 2.0 3.5 0.07 1.29 Strong managerial commitment and accountability was supported by a rigorous focus on the importance of all employees adopting a safetyconscious attitude and being aware 0.0 0.0 of potential risks. This included sharing and embedding the Fair Play Policy – using the motto ‘Fair play, for you and for me’ – especially at the health and safety training event, as well 2013 2014 as improving our practice in our other safety priority areas – fire protection, 4.0 4.0 isolation and contractors.” 2.0 2.0 1.34 3.28 0.08 1.12 2.48 0.11 0.0 0.0 (1) Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate G4-LA6 (2) Lost Time Injury + Restricted Work Frequency rate (Fr’) To facilitate the implementation of our and proposed to all sites a pragmatic Ilder Camargo strategy, our Safety Restricted Committee ‘toolbox’ with best practice examples Head of Health and Safety (comprising safety managers across all to help them: sites) holds a bi-monthly conference call –– Select and evaluate the contractors; to share information and best practice at –– Analyse the risks and define each site and to evaluate results. Our Safety preventive measures; Monthly Committee, which comprises –– Manage the different types Our strategy and approach safety managers and site managers as of contracts; Our 2014 strategy to achieve our safety well as the CEO, discusses performance –– Organise the maintenance stops; goals focused primarily on: and information on specific projects. –– Communicate with contractors; and –– Sharing information: including both –– Implement the fair play policy for good practices and accident data, as Our top safety priority areas: contractors. well as the lessons we have learned when things have gone wrong; Contractors Services & Solutions Centres have worked –– Involving our leaders: we recognise Unsatisfactory results on on simplifying procedures and introducing that they have a vital role in contractor safety (our LTIFR for standard reference documents. promoting and exemplifying our contractors was 2.3 in 2013) led us to safety standards; and review our contractor safety procedures During the summer maintenance stops, some –– Establishing rituals: keeping people and launch a working group dedicated to of the proposed tools were put in place (e.g. aware of safety issues, sharpening improving contractor safety management a double safety audit and daily meetings their perception of potential danger and results in all sites. with all contractors involved in the work). and developing behaviour that will During the second half of 2014, all sites minimise the risk of incidents. In June 2014 this group, composed of (including the Services & Solutions Centres) Health & Safety site managers, purchasers implemented the toolbox and organised and maintenance managers, presented monthly follow-ups to monitor the results. Overview Environment Strategy and performance Stakeholders People About this report In December 2014, a Fatality Prevention actions proposed in the action plans, remaining differences between fire Audit was carried out at all main production find pragmatic solutions to integrate prevention measures in place at each site. sites to assess the implementation of into existing operational and safety Specific action points include evolving as the toolbox and measure the progress. organisation, and create a network of many sites as possible past the next level of The results were very satisfying as no fire risk experts. The Group comprises safety standards and finalising the common accidents had occurred during the summer operational site managers and fire minimum procedures for hot works permits, maintenance stops, and the LTIFR for prevention experts and meets quarterly. as well as integrating fire prevention contractors therefore dropped from recommendations made by our insurance 2.3 in 2013 to 0.8 in 2014. During the year, the Group succeeded in companies into our strategy and practice. helping all sites achieve full compliance, One of the recommended best practices as well as working together to share Isolation included in the toolbox were the best practices and identify gaps in our Our aim is to minimise the risk of boss-to-boss meetings between the site procedures. A key finding was that there harm by preventing people from manager, the purchasing manager and the is no common procedure for hot works touching equipment. To this end, manager of the contractor company. permits, even though most fire incidents in 2014 we identified two leaders – one are a result of hot works. The Group is now in Europe and one in South America – and working on a common procedure, with the conducted audits of different sites to objective of setting minimum standards identify gaps in our preventive measures. that are applied throughout Aperam. In addition, we launched a pilot project on The overall goal for 2015 is to develop a each industrial site to add lock-outs during common fire prevention vision for the entire isolation phases of our equipment. This will Aperam Group, and to eliminate the improve safety during maintenance activities. 2014 Injury rate performance(1) Voices “We learnt that an open exchange and regular contact between the two has a big impact on the contractors’ behaviour, as both parties understand the importance Aperam places on safety management and 2014 Severity rate performance(2) results – and that they can affect Aperam’s commercial relationships.” Philippe Riche, Support Manager at Aperam and leader of the Contractor Working Group, said of this practice: Fire protection Following the fire at our Gueugnon site in 2012 – and the subsequent risk assessments and action plans completed by all sites in 2013 we (1) Total number of injuries/total hours worked x 1,000,000; injury rate calculation includes fatalities. (2) Total number of days lost for accidents/total hours worked x 1,000,000. established a working group at the end of 2013. Its remit was to roll out the main G4-LA6 14-15 Aperam Sustainability Report 2014 People continued Fair play Embedding responsible behaviour Participating leaders then faced the The Fair Play Policy aims to through training challenge of presenting a safety project encourage awareness of risk and Our 2014 two-day training event was to colleagues at their respective plants, adherence to procedures, and to held at our Isbergues site, headed by the to assist them in following through on recognise good behaviour. Our focus in Isbergues plant manager and head of the commitments they made at the 2014 was to share and embed the policy, Health and Safety at Aperam. First-line end of the training. to effect a change in the mind-set supervisory staff from the operational of the leaders and to work on our management teams of our European In 2015 we intend to focus on further teams’ behaviour. plants attended, accompanied by each behaviour training at our top priority site’s health and safety manager. sites (Châtelet and Imphy). During the year all sites put into practice the fatality prevention standards After a year focusing mainly on standards (Aperam’s customised standards), based and procedures, we wanted to use the on the Fair Play Policy, and were working training day to emphasise practical on achieving Level 3, which equates to behaviour and our collective responsibility compliance with local laws as well as to promote safety by implementing our the Fair Play Policy. policies accurately. The agenda therefore focused on understanding and improving Self-assessments carried out during the safety and performance on the workfloor, year have led to an increased awareness and on developing leadership behaviour of the importance of safety-conscious around safety issues. behaviour. In addition, senior managers have recognised the need to lead by A key aim was to present tools that can example and, as a result, training on be built into daily routines that will have safety leadership has been provided a positive impact on behaviour, and to to all managers. increase understanding of possible human Voices errors that can lead to accidents. Our goal for 2015 is to conduct external “Our key challenges for audits to ascertain how well the standards are understood and followed, and for all As a result, participants are now better able to anticipate accidents and implement 2015 are to maintain sites to reach the next level of our Aperam Standards. We will also focus on ensuring suitable preventive measures. The training also emphasised a collaborative approach our achievement of that the Fair Play Policy is correctly monitored across the Company. towards safety, including the importance of listening to colleagues but also having the zero fatalities and to courage to speak up and stop a machine or make further progress task if safety was thought to be at risk. in other areas. It is also Voices vital that we continue “Leaders who attended to focus strongly on the training are now visible leadership and better equipped to accountability, that improve the attitudes both managers and and behaviours of their employees continue to team members to be be driven by a safety more safety-conscious mindset, and that all and to develop a culture employees retain the of safety within conviction that injuries their teams.” and occupational illnesses can be Gerard Grimbert, Isbergues Plant Manager commented after the training. prevented.” Timoteo Di Maulo CEO Overview Environment Strategy and performance Stakeholders People About this report Beyond safety: a healthy workforce In addition, two workshops have been fostering an open exchange and greater for better business delivery offered specifically for managers, focusing sharing of knowledge, this structure Health and safety go hand in hand. Only on the early detection of burn-out risks. allows employees greater mobility when you’re healthy are you physically and between platforms and the opportunity mentally capable of identifying – and to develop a broader set of skills. therefore avoiding – risks or accidents quickly. Health management is thus an Developing our Employees At Aperam Alloys Imphy, developing integral part of our safety strategy. Our first commitment to our employees competencies and transferring knowledge is to provide them with a safe work has been tackled in the true ‘Aperam Way’, We believe that absenteeism rates are environment and train and prepare them promoting teamwork and proximity. a good indicator of the health of our well for the challenging tasks they are workforce. In 2014, Aperam’s global hired for. In addition, we seek to provide Among all senior workers, 75 have been absenteeism rate was 2%, down from our people with the opportunity to identified as mentors, capable of training 2.1% in 2013, reflecting a continuous develop new skills and move ahead on and passing on their experience and skills to reduction in occupational disease, chronic their career development path. co-workers, recent hires or young talents. health issues and work-related stress. These 75 mentors have first been trained Competencies and Employability themselves on how to guide another In 2014, we have put in place a number person for professional development. of professional committees for each Absenteeism rate (%) transversal function (for example, purchasing and commercial) with the aim Stainless Europe 3.12 of gaining greater understanding of the resources we have or need, to develop our Stainless America 0.72 teams to their full potential. We aim to Services & Solutions 2.57 facilitate the learning and development of our workforce and, to this end; all our Alloys & Specialities 2.99 different sites have defined and deployed Luxembourg HQ 1.26 training programmes or even adapted their organisational structure for greater Total 2.03 learning opportunities. In Châtelet, for example, our human G4-LA6 resources teams have put together an extensive management training package, To achieve such good results, we offer teaching team leaders or aspiring a range of preventive measures such as managers what it takes to successfully free flu vaccinations and subsidisation of lead and develop a team, manage a budget sports activities. In 2014, a full medical and carry out a project from beginning to check-up was organised at our sites in end. This training will be offered to all Brazil. A multi-disciplinary team composed managers during 2015 and 2016. of a physician, nutritionist, psychologist and fitness trainer offered an all-encompassing health check, taking into account factors such as individual lifestyles or hereditary preconditions. The objective was to provide each employee with a personal risk map. By undergoing these comprehensive check-ups, 57% of employees have gained greater awareness about Recognition for our efforts their potential health risks and taken For the fifth consecutive year, preventive measures to reduce their risk Aperam South America was selected of cardiovascular diseases. Since a healthy as one of the best companies to work mind is as important as a healthy body, With the ambition of creating a collective for by Guia Você S/A, in recognition of many of our sites focused strongly on knowledge pool and ensuring greater our work on employee health and stress management in 2014. A good transfer of skills, representatives of the wellbeing. example of this is the ‘Charge your different entities of our Isbergues site batteries’ programme initiated by our team (sheet metal shop, Services & Solutions The ranking appears in the Guia Você in Duisburg, Germany. The programme Centre, recycling centre (Recyco) and S/A – Exame, edited by Editora Abril consisted of a seminar entitled ‘Finding Research & Development institute) have and the Foundation Institute of relaxation in everyday life’ led by an collaborated and organised themselves Administration (FIA). external expert, as well as four different around functional knowledge platforms workshops on stress management. rather than separate entities. As well as 16-17 Aperam Sustainability Report 2014 People continued To help each employee achieve a positive outcome, depending on their own circumstances and preferences, we offered a variety of options from the more common to the innovative. Our support ranged from CV reviews, training or early retirement to investigating employment options at other Aperam locations or even other local industrial companies. In this case we encouraged people to enrol for a trial period at another company, without ending the work contract with Aperam prematurely. The result was that, by the time of the closure, 90% of Firminy employees had achieved a positive outcome, and the local authorities praised the Company for our responsible and exemplary conduct throughout the process. Responsibility 90% Socially Responsible Reorganisation Taking the personal touch with our As a key player in a sector impacted by people at Firminy worldwide over-capacity, the ability to In 2013 we had to take the difficult survive additional hardships such as decision to close the Firminy plant, and economic crises or critical operational the beginning of 2014 saw the plant Aperam managed to find a suitable changes sometimes necessitates difficult carry out its final weeks of operation. solution for 90% of the Firminy decisions. While we make every effort workforce by the time of closure. to resolve problems at our plants in a Recognising the impact this would have way that minimises the need for major on its 71 employees, our priority was to restructuring or closure, sometimes manage the closure in the most responsible Ensuring a sustainable future these outcomes prove to be the most way and to offer assistance and support for Gueugnon appropriate way to ensure the long-term to those affected. With this in mind, we After a difficult few years the Gueugnon sustainability of the Company. began providing assistance to employees plant needed substantial transformation even in early 2013, before the closure of to ensure a return to profitability. Given In such situations our priority is to the site was confirmed. the severe economic difficulties of the manage restructurings and closures in area and Gueugnon’s status as the a responsible manner – in line with our In addition, once the plan was finalised, principal employer, substantial effort was values – and to ensure that affected we set up specific voluntary redundancy devoted to explaining the need for urgent employees are treated with respect agreements in order to settle as many commercial re-positioning and swift cost and kept fully informed at all times. individual cases as possible before reduction, in parallel with ongoing dialogue the closure. with staff and local authorities. Indicator We said We did We will % of employees receiving GEDP for 100% of managers and 1 95% exempts of which 100% GEDP for 97% of exempts of regular performance and 97% of exempts, plus improve are managers. which 100% are managers. career development reviews. annual interviews for workers in 87% workers. the main sites. Succession plans in place Succession plan review to fully 100% complete. for management. cover Aperam management. (1) Global Executive Development Programme Overview Environment Strategy and performance Stakeholders People About this report The result was an enhanced commercial strategy targeting new market segments, with lower complexity, leaner structures and more efficient processes. To implement these changes, a robust capacity-building policy was put in place, with strong investment in training and the enrolment of apprentices. We achieved a high level of buy-in for these actions, and by the end of the year the site had demonstrated clearly improved efficiency, profitability and a more sustainable positioning. Revitalising Isbergues Having already suffered the closure of its melting shop in 2006, our Isbergues site was further impacted by the long-term suspension of the traditional rolling tool in 2011 and consequent effects on employment at the plant. Beyond redundancy measures for the staff – which often necessitated relocations – Aperam implemented a revitalisation agreement aimed at compensating each job lost on the site (223 in 2011) with a new job within a 30 km radius. We decided to implement this €1.2m agreement with local authorities (a higher investment than legally required) using a special revitalisation agency to achieve the best long-term efficiency. However, due in part to the economic crisis, the results were regrettably insufficient. Nonetheless, the extension of the agreement in 2014 – together with a more favourable economic climate – enabled the creation of 173 jobs during the year (203 since the launch of the plan). This has brought more life and activity to the area as well as providing renewed opportunities and services to the population, including one kindergarten and a brand new stainless-steel wrapped cultural centre. Our commitments for 2015 In line with our duties and values, in 2015 we will continue our actions until we reach our targets. The Isbergues revitalisation Local authorities agreement will again be extended to allow the remaining 30 jobs to be created, in order to fully compensate for the 2011 suspension of Isbergues’ traditional rolling mill. €1.2m Aperam decided to implement a €1.2m Everywhere else in the Group, we will continue to fulfil our responsibilities and ensure we continue to optimise performance so we can achieve sustainable profitability. agreement with local authorities. 18-19 Aperam Sustainability Report 2014 Environment Thinking more, using less Our vision is to become an Strengthening our sustainability and A new structure to drive increasingly sustainable mitigating our environmental impacts are improvement long-term goals that require both time and In 2014 we established a new and profitable company. good management. For this reason, our Environment Working Group which has Taking steps to reduce our priority during 2014 has been to apply a defined the following long-term objectives environmental impact is more structured approach to our efforts, for minimising our environmental impact – to strengthen our governance of targeted for achievement by 2020. The essential to achieving this sustainability issues and to establish a remainder of the chapter explains the goal, as well as to promoting series of stretching 2020 targets across steps we are taking towards achieving the sustainability of the our key environmental impact areas. these goals: communities we operate –– Reduce CO2 intensity by 35% What has been crucial in making this (compared with 2007); in and reducing our costs a reality is to increase the individual –– Reduce energy intensity by 5% through greater efficiency. and collective consideration we give to (compared with 2012); environmental issues and to drive home –– Be a zero waste (for disposal) In Europe there is also a regulatory imperative the links with our business goals. This company; to act responsibly towards the environment, leads us to innovating solutions that make –– Reduce the absolute value with each plant receiving a permit to more efficient use of resources and so are of fresh water extracted; and operate and an annual emissions quota. good for the business as well as the planet. –– Reduce dust emission. Indicator We said We did We will Energy consumption We will drive improvements Monitoring: In Imphy, we installed We will continue to reduce energy through monitoring, energy a software to collect data on consumption through monitoring, action plans and compliance our consumption. The system audits, process optimisation, actions. We will improve our data triggers a real time alarm as thorough analysis communication collection and reporting through it detects any deviation from and training. a sound environmental data standard norms. collection system. In 2015, the same system will be Review the use of interim targets implemented in Timóteo, Brazil. to monitor our performance improvements. CO2 emissions We will continue to invest in clean We recently invested in a modern We will continue to invest technology and performance annealing and pickling (RD79) in clean technology and improvements as required. with lower CO2 emissions which performance improvements started its first year of full as required. production in 2014. Waste Prepare an action plan to reach the 2020 goal of zero residue (for disposal). Overview Environment Strategy and performance Stakeholders People About this report Improving our environmental performance We are committed to reducing our impact on the environment and using finite resources wisely. We have identified our most material issues and set relevant objectives for all our sites. 20-21 Aperam Sustainability Report 2014 Environment continued Energy Consumption 5% Targeting a 5% reduction in energy intensity by 2020 (2012 baseline). our total manufacturing input is recycled materials. G4-EN2 This achievement was mainly due to investments made in the treatment of slag and the reuse of metal scrap. In addition, Recyco, an Aperam-subsidiary that recycles dust and sludge from our French and Belgian melt shops, also helps us reduce waste. The dust waste is melted in an electrical oven, enabling nickel – an expensive raw material – and chromium Driving down energy use baseline. Our total energy consumption to be recovered. These are then used to Carbon dioxide intensity in 2014 was 18.9m GJ of direct energy create cast ingots that can be returned to We are delighted that we have already and 8.0m GJ of indirect energy, a change the production cycle as raw material for achieved our 2020 commitment to reduce in total energy consumption of 3.3% Electric Arc Furnaces (EAF). The process our CO2 intensity by 35% against the 2007 from our 2012 baseline. Nevertheless, produces dust containing zinc oxide and baseline – principally through replacing our energy use per tonne of crude steel slag, both of which are sold to external coke with charcoal. was 13.0 GJ*, a decrease of 4.7% from companies and reused. the previous year. G4-EN5 In terms of emissions, we emitted 1m Using water wisely tonnes of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e) in 2014, Targeting zero waste In 2014, we consumed 22.3m cubic which was made up of 0.685m tCO2e Our aim is to contribute towards the metres* of water in our manufacturing direct emissions and 0.306m tCO2e circular economy by becoming a zero processes, which equates to 10.7 cubic indirect emissions. This is unchanged from residue (for disposal) company by 2020. metres per tonne of crude steel, a change 2012, and a 41.1% reduction from our At present, our production processes still of -7% from the previous year. 93%* of 2007 baseline. As a relative measure, result in some waste for disposal – 110.3k our water comes from rivers and canals, our emissions per tonne of crude steel tonnes in 2014, of which 54.2k tonnes while the remaining 7% comes from were 0.48 tCO2e/t* in 2014. G4-EN18 was hazardous. However, because a combination of groundwater (4%*), stainless steel can be repeatedly recycled, rainwater (2%*) and municipal sources Energy intensity our waste output is already relatively low, (1%*). Across the Group we recycle Our 2020 goal is to reduce our energy and this year 88.6% of our waste was 95.5% of our water. G4-EN8 intensity by 5% compared to the 2012 recycled or reused and already 28% of Total water use (m3/t) 25 22.7 20 22.4 22.5 22.3 15 10 05 00 2011 2012 2013 2014 G4-EN15 G4-EN16 G4-EN8 Overview Environment Strategy and performance Stakeholders People About this report Improving air quality During 2014 we emitted 441.8 tonnes* of ducted dust from our operation. This Our 2015–2020 represented an increase of 6.4% from strategy is to the baseline/previous year. This change in increase is due partly to the increase decrease our in production (+5.6%) in 2014 and to improved and more precise measurements. water intake We are strongly committed to continuous improvement in this area, as we are (from river, canal aware that dust is a visible pollutant and is unpleasant for residents in our and groundwater), communities of operation. through a number In particular, we focus on improving the of methods: monitoring of air quality from chimneys, setting lower intervention thresholds and consuming less installing alarms to alert us when these are breached. water in our All of this leads to more action sooner. processes, reducing We are committed to refining and water loss due improving this approach and sharing it as best practice across the Group. G4-EN21 to leakage and evaporation, and Embedding a culture Voices increasing our of best practice at Timóteo Improving energy efficiency has “Energy use should be recycling. As well also been a strong area of focus at the a shared concern for all as protecting the Timóteo plant in Brazil in recent years, with initiatives including improvements employees, both inside environment, this to the thermal efficiency of furnaces, better use of steel gas and technological and outside the plant. will also reduce upgrading of equipment. Timóteo is now developing an Energy Integrated By implementing the our own costs. Management System, in which a fundamental pillar is promoting a Energy Management In Isbergues for example, we undertook works to stop significant culture of best practice in energy use and involving the entire plant in Integrated System water leakage in the underground pipes. Through this we avoided leaks implementing the energy policy. we aim to effect of around 73,000 cubic metres of water a year. more consistent and longstanding results. We improved our rainwater management to avoid overflows In addition, the speed during heavy rains, which also helps save water. By improving processes and robustness at our water treatment plant we were also able to return more clean water of our actions are back to the fresh water sources. fundamental to the In addition, we see this strategy competitiveness and as an important facet of our risk management as we need to be sustainability of prepared for the likelihood that, at some point, our water extraction the Company.” allowance will be reduced. Preparing for this in advance will protect us against the difficulty of our industrial Luciano Lellis Miranda, process having to adapt quickly Technical Assistant in the Operational to a sudden reduction in our Excellence Team at Aperam Timóteo. extraction allowance. 22-23 Aperam Sustainability Report 2014 Environment continued Increasing efficiency Voices Sustainable packaging and cutting waste at and transportation Ústí nad Labem “We knew that changing at Amilly(1) Aperam Alloys Amilly generates The drive for ongoing improvement in our waste management led the production the furnace model around 100 million pieces each year, weighing between two and 20 grams. team at Ústí nad Labem in the Czech Republic to take an innovative approach would have an For the last ten years we have worked alongside clients and delivery sites to improving the efficiency and longevity of its core equipment. influence on energy across Europe to reduce both waste consumption, but this and cost through a number of The production process – which consists measures – improving the design of mainly of cutting stainless welded tubes has exceeded all our our pallets, developing recyclable packaging and optimising our for the automobile market – uses large quantities of consumables such as blades expectations. As a transportation requirements. and cutting fluids. Using Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) and Total Productive team we’re very proud Our dual economic and environmental goals compelled us to think outside Maintenance (TPM) methodologies, our team of 60 operators, team leaders and of what we’ve achieved. the box and to come up with managers – in discussion with our suppliers The result is sustainable innovative ways to adapt and reuse – conducted over 600 trials aimed at our packaging and minimise human improving the lifetime of the consumables for the environment, handling, as well as to adapt transportation timings and routes while reducing the waste production. sustainable for the between sub-contractors and clients. As a result, we have now used the The result was a reduction in waste metal of over two tonnes, and in waste quality of the steel same packaging boxes for more than ten years, saving around 30 tonnes of oil and emulsion of 60m3, at no cost to the product’s quality. The project also yielded production and CO2 and 6 tonnes of waste per year. a cost saving of €118,000 in 2013, and sustainable for an increase in productivity of 13%. (1) S  ubsidiary of the Aperam Group, Aperam Alloys Amilly transforms parts made of the economy.” bonded material and magnetic alloys through precision stamping and core manufacturing. Innovation and teamwork Benny Brebels, yield results at Genk Coordinator EAF at Aperam Genk Energy consumption is an essential area of focus in our quest to be a sustainable Voices steelmaker. In particular, we know that the Electric Arc Furnaces (EAFs) used in our “Thanks to our melt shops are substantial consumers of production electricity; the annual consumption of just one of the two EAFs at the Genk steel plant, department’s for example, is twice the annual consumption of all the inhabitants of the city. commitment In the spirit of driving continuous to continuous improvement, in 2013 one of the teams at Genk developed an innovative idea to reduce improvement we have the energy consumption of the EAFs by not only improved adapting the energy consumption model. As a result the team wrote a new simulation our competitiveness model for the operation of the furnace, as an extension of the existing programme, and but also, by reducing explained it to other teams in the EAF control room. Seeing the positive results, the other Recognition for our efforts consumables, created teams quickly adopted the tool and gave In 2014, Aperam South America feedback, enabling it to be further developed. was again listed as one of the most a cleaner and more sustainable companies in Brazil, environmentally Electricity consumption decreased immediately and, in 2014, all Genk teams according to the 2014 Sustainability Guide promoted by Exame magazine, friendly production together consumed 5 GWh less than the previous year, while maintaining due to our ambitious environmental goals and performance. The 2014 process.” the same steel production. The project has saved 1,100 tonnes of CO2 – the Guide comprises 61 companies from 19 sectors. annual consumption of 1,000 families Lukas Terc, – exemplifying our goal of being a Supervisor Cutting Production sustainably profitable company. Overview Environment Strategy and performance Stakeholders People About this report Reducing dust emissions at Genk Making a positive impact Our main objective is to identify rare, The location of our plant in Genk endangered and endemic species, to – situated between a residential area In a high impact identify areas conducive to wildlife and an industrial zone – necessitates a particularly strong focus on driving down industry, acting and to devise protection strategies. dust emissions for the benefit of our neighbours. It also presents opportunities responsibly goes Nine years into the project, we have identified over 230 bird species and 30 to lead the way within our industry and to build dialogue with local residents beyond reducing mammals, and preserved and improved the quality of the natural resources – and authorities. emissions and particularly the flora and fauna – surrounding our production facilities. Discussions with our stakeholders helped preventing pollution. us to establish an extensive action plan to achieve the desired improvement. We aim to In addition, we conduct regular fauna and flora assessments in all our forests Advice from engineers and environmental specialists led to a number of operational compensate for to ensure harmonious cohabitation between eucalyptus plantations and actions, including increasing continuous monitoring of the most sensitive chimneys, our environmental insects such as ants, caterpillars, beetles and termites, all detrimental to forestry. decreasing internal intervention thresholds, impacts and take To achieve this, we use biodegradable and new encapsulation of the oxy-cutting FSC-allowed products only. area. Managers and workers were steps to protect and incentivised to meet objectives through a specific KPI and, in addition, we initiated nurture biodiversity. a dynamic and open dialogue with relevant stakeholders. Our eucalyptus forests: carbon sinks and water regulators As a result, we achieved a 72% reduction Aperam BioEnergia is a forestry subsidy in guided air emissions in 2014 compared in Brazil, nearly a quarter of whose with 2006, to a total value of 13g per ton surface is used as a nature reserve while of steel produced. The process has also the remainder is planted with eucalyptus allowed us to gain expert knowledge on trees. We use these trees to produce the topic of air emissions, and to share charcoal – considered a clean and best practice with other Aperam plants. renewable energy source due to its The fact that the plant has received just sustainable production process. two complaints in the last four years also But as well as being an attractive energy demonstrates both strong improvement provider, forestry is also a carbon sink, and effective relationships. absorbing a large quantity of CO2 from the atmosphere and thus mitigating against greenhouse gas effects and global warming. Furthermore, eucalyptus trees source their water needs from the superficial layers of the soil, protecting long-term water resources. Every seven years, we renew our plantations in order to sustain the forest and offset the cuts. Wildlife protection In addition to the Oíkos project reported Forest on last year, Aperam BioEnergia also renewal operates an extensive programme to nurture biodiversity. 7 A key project focuses on monitoring and protecting Brazil’s wildlife, particularly birds and large mammals. Studying these species enables us to assess the quality and condition Every seven years, we renew our of Aperam’s natural areas. plantations in order to sustain the forest and offset the cuts. 24-25 Aperam Sustainability Report 2014 Stakeholders engaging with our stakeholders At Aperam, acting responsibly Constant dialogue with our To fully integrate the external workers begins with increasing employee representatives into our teams, we have adapted our One of our Aperam Commitments working conditions to respond to their proximity and fostering open explicitly affirms our desire that all needs and trained them on the job, on dialogue with our stakeholders. employees should be able to share safety and the Aperam Way of working. This approach helps us gain their ideas through open communication Before they collaborated on the floor, we channels. One of the ways we seek to brought together our local workers with greater awareness on how achieve this is through regular dialogue their disabled counterparts encouraging our business impacts our with employee representatives in each them to get to know each other and learn stakeholders and how we jurisdiction where we operate. how to communicate with each other. can improve our operations Our employees in various parts of the This project helps Aperam create a respectful to lower these impacts. world are represented by trade unions, and non-discriminatory working environment, and in certain locations collective while giving disabled people an opportunity labour agreements are in place with to develop their skills in a job. Employees employee organisations. Our low level Our people are our most important of absenteeism and low attrition rate stakeholder and it is important for our demonstrate the positive dialogue business success that we motivate our we enjoy with our trade unions and employees to embody our values and our close working relationships with perform at their best. This is what the our employees. Aperam Way is all about: promoting a positive workplace environment that In 2014, our European Work Council met supports and inspires our people to regularly and initiated a working group live out the behaviours we want to dedicated to Health and Safety topics, be known for. illustrating the quality of the dialogue we maintain with our workers. Proximity and exemplarity Interaction between employees at Promoting inclusiveness and respect different levels is vital and, in 2014, Since 2008, Aperam Alloys Amilly has our sites have implemented a number of collaborated with a local institution that straightforward rules that foster proximity specialises in providing care through between leaders and teams. In Isbergues, employment (ESAT – établissement for example, every production manager spécialisé d’aide par le travail), through spends one and a half hours on the shop which disabled people are integrated into floor every morning and two night shifts our local workforce. In 2014, Aperam per week. Alloys Amilly extended the collaboration to about 20 disabled men and women, In 2015, we are committed to undertaking who work side-by-side with our workers, more of these initiatives as we remain either in production or in work-area focused on increasing proximity between maintenance. and within all of our worldwide locations. Overview Environment Strategy and performance Stakeholders People About this report Getting closer to everyone who matters We foster open dialogue with our stakeholders in order to understand the broader impacts of our business and to be a good neighbour. This helps us identify risks and seize opportunities. 26-27 Aperam Sustainability Report 2014 Stakeholders continued Customers Our customers, their needs and challenges Lower emissions and are at the heart of our business. We aim at fuel evaporation – the improving our customer service by listening fuel filler neck to our customers’ demands and working The range of products Aperam has on tailor-made solutions that will help developed for the automotive industry them achieve their goals. includes new stainless steel solutions for fuel filler neck. In addition to being We aim to develop high quality, innovative resistant to corrosion and friction, products that do not only meet, but stainless steel ensures a better seal anticipate our customers’ needs. than other materials, which reduces Our products are fuelled by ingenuity emissions and fuel evaporation. It is and based on active research and also shear-tolerant and cut-resistant. development. We aim at building long-lasting partnerships with our subcontractors and suppliers and support our customers in everything they do, from technical assistance to product co-development. Greening the automotive industry A stainless steel fuel tank As a response to the trend of more for hybrid cars stringent U.S. and European fuel-efficiency In addition to the challenge of regulations and the need of our customers significant weight reduction, hybrid car to become more eco-efficient, our R&D manufacturers face the need for a more team has invested heavily in research resistant substitute to the commonly on the substitution and replacement used plastic tanks. of heavier or harmful material used in the automotive sector. With an increase in temperature and internal pressure, hybrid car fuel tanks In 2014, Aperam entered the development need to be more resistant and better and pre-commercialisation stage of a new insulated than regular car tanks. In stainless steel grade: the martensitic addition, tanks will become smaller stainless steel MaX. By doing so, we help because of additional space taken by our customers from the automotive sector hybridisation and lower fuel consumption. overcome one of their biggest current Plastic, because of its thickness, limited BMW i3 Fuel Tank © Magna Steyr Fuel Systems challenges, which is the reduction of insulation and recyclability is thus a weight and thus reduction of harmful non-viable or sustainable solution. emissions and CO2. Together with fuel tank suppliers, Aperam In order to meet new environmental has worked on a thin stainless steel tank regulations (i.e. mass of CO2 emitted that resists heat and pressure, ensures into the atmosphere per km driven), car perfect insulation while keeping its manufacturers are focusing on vehicle anti-corrosion, formability and long-term weight reduction through product recyclability properties. In 2014, Aperam redesign and the extensive use of and fuel tank suppliers have exhaustively advanced lightweight materials including tested the stainless steel tank with the high-strength stainless steels. In short, objective to present the products to car manufacturers are looking for new car manufacturers by end of 2015. solutions to lighten chassis and structural parts in cars. For every 100kg of weight reduced, 10g of CO2 emissions are saved. CO2 emissions High strength steels formed by hot stamping have proved to be good candidates for achieving better in-use Lower performance together with a lighter structure. In particular, our martensitic stainless steel MaX fulfils the industrial targets for chassis parts in terms of mechanical and fatigue properties. Aperam has developed stainless It could potentially lead to a 15-50% steel solutions for fuel tank systems weight saving for our customers. in order to reduce carbon emissions. Overview Environment Strategy and performance Stakeholders People About this report The Sermeta Group And further to this, stainless steel is The Sermeta Group is a the ideal material for our applications world leader in the design and because it contributes to reduced manufacture of stainless steel energy consumption and environmental heat exchangers for gas condensing protection. Did you know that a boiler boilers. With 1.7 million heat exchangers equipped with a Sermeta stainless steel produced each year, we take great care heat exchanger enables CO2 emissions when selecting our suppliers. We expect to be reduced by 30% compared to a them to provide a service designed to traditional boiler? We certainly intend match our requirements in terms of to continue working with Aperam and, PHYTHERM® – innovating both products and logistics whilst at in particular, researching products that for sustainability the same time maintaining impeccable are even more innovative and offer Aperam Alloys’ Research standards of quality and offering even higher performance with them. Centre in Imphy has teamed up with permanent, ongoing technical European cookware manufacturers support and involvement. to create a new innovative cooking technology that brings key Aperam Stainless Europe has been sustainability, health and safety meeting these requirements for several advantages to the fast-growing years now, to the point where they induction cookware market. have become our principal stainless steel supplier. This relationship of trust, PHYTHERM® is a soft magnetic founded on their in-depth knowledge alloy that automatically regulates of our requirements and their proactive temperature in induction systems for approach, has contributed to the growth all methods of cooking. Kitchen utensil and development of our business. manufacturers can apply a layer of the PHYTHERM® alloy to the underneath of the pan, which stabilises the heat and offers unparalleled cooking performance. By limiting the maximum temperature Customer Voice reached by the cookware, PHYTHERM® is safe because it prevents the “Aperam Stainless Europe cookware from overheating, as well as ensuring that the food inside doesn’t has been a favoured burn. Uniform heat distribution enables consistent, perfectly controlled partner, proving able to cooking, which preserves the flavour and nutritional qualities of the food. meet our expectations, Furthermore, data gathered from for a number of several years of specific testing years now” confirms significant energy savings by comparison to standard cookware. By preventing temperature peaks, Groupe SEB – small requirements. The ability to create the PHYTHERM® technology further domestic equipment added value and to develop innovative supports Aperam’s sustainability For Groupe SEB, stainless solutions alongside our project teams, principles by preventing deterioration steel constitutes a key from the applied research phase of non-stick coating, thus enhancing raw material in the manufacture through to mass production, is also an the cookware’s durability. of numerous types of small important criteria for selection, and domestic equipment. Aperam Stainless Europe meets this Thanks to both teams’ expertise and requirement completely. dedication to collaborating during the Aperam Stainless Europe has been development process, PHYTHERM® a favoured partner, proving able Groupe SEB attaches great importance successfully meets the demands to meet our expectations, for a to environmental protection and social of contemporary number of years now. responsibility and applies a policy of induction cooking, responsible purchasing in order to offering the ideal What we essentially look for are ensure that its ethical, social and combination of suppliers who are reliable in terms environmental standards are respected pleasure, health of quality and service and who by its suppliers. This has notably involved and sustainability. offer a product range and logistics the implementation of supplier testing PHYTHERM® is a brand of Aperam Alloys Imphy. capacity that can meet our evolving and information systems. 28-29 Aperam Sustainability Report 2014 Stakeholders continued Market authorities and suppliers Standards are even higher for the Our commitment to all our stakeholders subcontractors operating on our sites. is to conduct our business in an ethical In addition to the Code for Sustainable manner. To maintain this commitment, Sourcing and Purchasing that we our managers lead by example and include in our agreements, they are convey a strong message regarding required to sign a specific charter in our compliance commitment. which they commit to high standards of health and safety practice, as well Creating a compliance-focused workforce as recycling or training. To achieve our goal of zero tolerance for non-compliant behaviour, in At all times we aim to comply fully with 2014 we developed and launched an local and international regulations, to all-encompassing corporate governance adhere to economic sanctions policies and compliance programme. and to behave in a responsible manner in all our markets. Headed by a Chief Compliance Officer, we have formed a Company-wide compliance Suppliers as partners network to assist with implementing the In 2014, we assessed 61 raw material compliance framework. This network suppliers for significant negative provides training on the Aperam Code socio-economic impacts and risks. of Business Conduct and other business We recorded that 15% of our raw specific policies in the local languages material suppliers had potential of all Aperam sites. negative impacts on labour practices (specifically health & safety); a The Chief Compliance Officer co-chairs – watching brief and dialogue are with the CFO – the Compliance in place as a result. Management Committee that has been Suppliers established to assess and review Aperam’s No contracts were terminated in compliance risk profile, framework 2014 as a result of the findings. performance and effectiveness. We have no reason to believe there 62% is any significant risk of negative In order to achieve a compliance-focused impacts on the community we or workforce, we have collaborated with our suppliers operate in. G4-LA15 an external consultant who trained our network of compliance officers. In 2014, 62% of total procurement for In 2014, 62% of total procurement significant sites was from local for significant sites was from The compliance officers have then started suppliers (i.e. those located in the site’s local suppliers. to train Aperam employees on the Code of host country or nearby cities). G4-EC9 Business Conduct in their local language. In addition, in-depth training on business specific policies such as anti-corruption, anti-trust, economic sanctions, insider dealing, human rights and data privacy has been provided to managers and customeror supplier-facing departments. Also, an internal Corporate Governance and Compliance website has been made available to all employees. Promoting high standards of business practices Aperam is a strong defender of the free market and is in favour of fair business competition. In our purchases, we ensure that we negotiate fairly and conduct annual contracts reviews, often complemented with site visits. As well as quality and cost factors, we also take criteria such as environmental and social performance and local footprint into account in our selection processes. Overview Environment Strategy and performance Stakeholders People About this report Communities The Stakeholder Day allowed us to explain Acting responsibly means facing up to the our approach to sustainable development social and environmental impacts of our and detailed our progress on reducing our activities. Some of our plants are located environmental impact. Keen to promote in the near vicinity of cities or residential a spirit of engagement and active areas and often, we are amongst the main participation, we also ran a ‘question employers in the regions. These two facts and answer’ session, and encouraged make it of paramount importance that we attendees to voice their ideas and take the time to get to know the people concerns. The afternoon was devoted to living in the communities surrounding our a tour of the plant so that they could see plants and to understand their views. for themselves what noise or emission reducing investments we have made Regular and frequent stakeholder over recent years. engagement at site level has continued to be a high priority in 2014. In addition On 8 July 2014, in collaboration to monitoring complaints from residents with students enrolled in a Master’s or authorities, we have adopted a more programme on sustainable development Voices proactive approach this year, by reaching out of the AFPI Loire, we organised a to our stakeholders, seeking open dialogues conference on sustainable development “We received very and inviting them into our facilities. For us, 2014 was a year of greater transparency and at our site. The objective of this conference, which mainly attracted positive feedback about a more open exchange with our stakeholders. representatives of other local industries, was to exchange practical information these events; Imphy Becoming a better neighbour – measuring how we do about the compliance with ISO standards, especially ISO 26000 on corporate social employees recognised In 2014 we have sought to measure our responsibility. We also exchanged the the plant’s progress relationships with those in our communities principal challenges we all face and by monitoring complaints from residents, as approaches to better manage the and local stakeholders well as legal claims from authorities as in previous years. Our Leadership Team includes environmental and social impacts of our activities. appreciated the open this feedback into its decision-making, and uses it to engage with the communities initiative. Now we in order to become a better neighbour. have to continue along In 2014, we received 76 complaints from that path, carry out neighbours and one claim from regulators, 53% of the complaints were related to projects and maintain noise and 37% to our dust emissions. We act upon each complaint by conducting relationships with our an immediate analysis of the situation and exchanging openly with the effected stakeholders. I hope this stakeholder. In our main plants we track noise 24/7 which helps us gain greater project will inspire other awareness of our noise levels. Aperam plants.” Fostering open dialogue in Imphy Amélie Hachani, Continuous sustainable development Organiser of the Aperam Stakeholder Day and requires big picture thinking, the ambition Sustainable Development Conference in Imphy to improve and the ability to define clear action plans. While Aperam Alloys Imphy has a long history of good practices to lower environmental impacts, we have identified the need to better communicate Good practice with our local stakeholders and include their feedback into our decision-making. On 11 June 2014, we therefore organised No.1 the first Aperam Stakeholder Day in Imphy. The event attracted a diverse range of attendees, including representatives from government, NGOs, local industry and the community, as well as from a On 11 June 2014, we organised the range of Aperam departments such first Aperam Stakeholder Day. as Services, Production, Maintenance and Environment. 30-31 Aperam Sustainability Report 2014 Stakeholders continued Permit renewal for Genk: an opportunity to engage in stakeholder dialogue With its environmental permit due for renewal in mid-2015 – and anticipating that it could be a lengthy process – Aperam Genk decided to get a head start by starting its preparations in 2013. The process typically necessitates extended safety and environmental examinations, with the findings written up in thorough reports, and involves both Flemish and regional administrations as well as representatives from local communities. Aperam Genk was able to draw on its strong relationships with local stakeholders along with its improved As a result, a renewed 20-year permit environmental performance in recent was delivered in September 2014, Relationship years to have constructive discussions. several months ahead of the deadline – Organising an Environment Day and a clear example of where taking the creating a Best Neighbours newsletter time to develop good relationships 20-year reinforced the open dialogue between with local communities is not just the site and the community and meant the right thing to do, but also makes that discussions were constructive good business sense. and respectful, with agreement quickly reached. In fact the process served to Aperam renewed a 20-year permit build closer ties between Aperam Genk, ahead of the deadline set to develop its neighbours and the local authorities. relationships with local communities. Overview Environment Strategy and performance Stakeholders People About this report More than an employer – the Aperam Acesita Foundation In Brazil, Aperam continuously invests in social development programmes, helping the communities we operate in to become safer with more opportunities for local people. Via the Aperam Acesita Foundation, we developed in 2014 a number of projects and actions in the region of Vale do Aço and Vale Do Jequitinhonha. Founded in 1994, the Foundation develops projects and actions with focus on four distinct areas: Education, Culture, Environment and Social Promotion. In 2014 alone, R$ 4.1 million (US$ 1.4 million) were invested in various projects and activities, which directly benefited more than 90,000 people. Improving the quality of education Giving children and young adults the opportunity to learn and develop new skills is at the heart of the Aperam Acesita Foundation’s programmes on education. In 2014, in collaboration with the ‘Pacto Supporting those who help Nacional de Alfabetização’ (National Pact our communities for Literacy), Aperam focused on improving We supported 9 social impact organisations the quality of school-teaching by training from our own resources and funds collected and updating the qualifications of teachers. from partners such as RedEAmerica, More than 500 teachers from 18 schools IAF (Inter-American Foundation) and BID were trained in Timóteo alone, benefiting 34.6 (Inter-American Development Bank). more than 1,500 students. 28.8 The R$100,000 (US$35,000) helped 25.3 more than 3,000 people in Vale do Aço Health and Safety, a priority also and in the Vale Do Jequitinhonha gain outside the Company access to services such as daycare facilities, Health and Safety is our non-negotiable schools and child foster homes. priority at work and so it is outside 11.3 Aperam too. We therefore invested in the ‘Transitolândia – Educação para o Trânsito’ (Transitland – Traffic Education) programme, working with the Military Police of Minas Gerais to bring safe driving lessons to more than 900 students from 14 schools in Timóteo. Providing a future in stainless steel Via the ‘Instituto do Inox’ (Stainless Steel Institute), which we maintain in partnership with the ‘Associação de Aposentados e Strengthening local art and culture pensionistas de Timóteo – AAPT’ We believe that the culture of a (Association of Timóteo’s Retirees and community significantly shapes the nature Pensioners – AAPT), we promote training of its development and presents unique and qualifications to disadvantaged people opportunities for local economies. We who are looking for their first job, or a next therefore promote local cultural heritage opportunity in the stainless steel industry. through support for local artists and In 2014, 9,000 hours of training were organisations. In 2014, we helped fund provided in the towns of Timóteo, Capelinha 192 cultural events (including theatre, and Turmalina. Today, 65% of students music and dance) enriching the lives from the ‘Instituto do Inox’ have a job. of over 50,000 people. 32-33 Aperam Sustainability Report 2014 About this report We declare this report as in accordance with GRI G4 core level. –– Registered office: 12C, rue Guillaume J. Kroll, The following exclusions apply to the environmental data: Material aspects and indicators are shown on p7 and p32 of L-1882 Luxembourg (1) Raw material data exclude packaging and this report; detailed Disclosures on Management Approach miscellaneous parts; (DMA) are in online supplement ‘C’. Safety data cover Services & Solutions and Alloys & Specialities, (2) Scope 3 indirect emissions. as well as contractors on site. Human resources data The scope of the information and data in this report covers exclude contractors. CO2 and absenteeism data are restated following improvements operations in Europe and South America, from January to in data systems, with no material effect on comparability or December 2014: Subject to the exclusions indicated below, environmental timeliness. The report represents our Communication on Progress –– Aperam’s production capacity is concentrated in six data cover all main industrial sites, SSCs and corporate offices. relating to UNGC membership (see Online Supplement ‘A’). production facilities located in Brazil, Belgium and France: Environmental information is compiled locally, and then Genk, Gueugnon, Isbergues, Timóteo, Châtelet, Imphy aggregated centrally. In our greenhouse gas emissions calculation The Report does not cover any joint venture operations –– 16 Steel Service Centres (SSC) we apply the standards of ISO14404-1 and ISO14404-2, or activities of partner organisations. –– 8 transformation facilities (1) which state that biomass is considered to be carbon neutral. –– 19 sales offices The CO2 emissions data relate to Scopes 1 and 2. (1) Including: Pont de Roide, Jequitinhonha Independent assurance statement Deloitte Audit Société à Responsabilité issued an unmodified –– EN5: Energy intensity (p8, p20) The ‘made for life’ report is a component (the ‘summary’) opinion using ISAE 3000 limited level assurance with respect –– EN8: Water withdrawal by source (p8, p20) of our complete sustainability reporting (the ‘Report’) for to the Report on the following subject matters: adherence –– EN18: CO 2 intensity (p8, p20) the year ended 31 December 2014. The Report is composed of to the Global Reporting Initiative G4 guidelines (the ‘GRI’ or –– EN21: NOx, SOx and other air emissions 5 items: the ‘made for life report’ and four Online Supplements ‘GRI Guidelines’) with respect to the Principles of Materiality, (only dust) (p5, p21) – A,B, C and D. Our 2014 Report can be found on our website Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context and on www.aperam.com/sustainability, accompanied by the four Completeness adherence of the disclosures in the Report to online supplements. The summary report provides part of the the GRI ‘In Accordance Core’ criteria and the appropriateness information required to satisfy GRI G4 ‘In Accordance Core’. of the GRI Index on pages 32-33 of the Report and; fair presentation in all material aspects in accordance with Therefore, the summary should be read with its accompanying GRI Guidelines, of selected performance data, marked in Online Supplements to constitute the complete Report. the Report with a ‘*’: GRI Index Disclosure Title References: this report, Annual Report and Online Supplements Economic Economic G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C – p1 performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p2-3, p8, Annual Report 2014 p34 Procurement G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C – p1 Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation p8-9, p28 Environmental Material G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C – p3 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input material p8, p20 Energy G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C – p2 G4-EN5 Energy intensity p8-9, p20 Water Consumption G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C – p3 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source p8-9, p20 Emissions G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C – p2-3 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) p8-9, p20 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) p8-9, p20 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity p8-9, p20 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other air emissions p8-9, p21 Waste G4-EN23 Weight of waste by disposal method p20 (Not entirely reported) Labour Occupational Health G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C – p3 and Safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and p8-9, p12, p13, p14, p15. Gender reference: Online Supplement C – p3 absenteeism, total number of work related fatalities, by region and by gender Training and G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C – p3 Education G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career p9 development reviews, by gender and by employee category Supplier Assessment G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C – p4 for Labour Practices G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices p8-9, p28 in the supply chain and actions taken Society Local Communities G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C – p4 G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community p9 engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes Product and Service Labelling Results of surveys G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Online Supplement C – p4 measuring customer satisfaction G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction p9 GRI Index note environmental and social aspects of business performance. See www.globalreporting.org. We have duly accounted for the To facilitate stakeholders’ understanding of our corporate The GRI framework helps companies select material content GRI mining & metals sector supplement (MMSS) in our Report responsibility performance, our reporting follows the Global and key performance indicators. preparation; we refer to it in this Index (p20) as well as in the Reporting Initiative G4 framework, an internationally Online Supplement B. recognised set of principles and indicators for economic, General Standard Disclosure Location Page reference made for life Report, Annual Report, Online Supplements Strategy and Analysis G4-1 CEO Statement p4 Organisational Profile G4-3 Name of organisation Back cover G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services Annual Report p7 and aperam.com G4-5 Location of headquarters 12c rue Guillaume J. Kroll, L-1882 Luxembourg G4-6 Countries of operation Significant sites: Brazil, Belgium, France G4-7 Ownership and legal form Public limited company in Luxembourg G4-8 Markets served Annual Report p14 G4-9 Scale of organisation Annual Report p6. EBITDA US$547m. 2.5mt at stainless steel capacity, 9,424 employees. Aperam’s production capacity is concentrated in six production facilities located in Brazil, Belgium and France, 16 Steel Service Centres, eight transformation facilities and 19 sales offices. See p2-3. G4-10 Employees and workforce. Total number of p2, Online Supplement C – p3. Figures based on average FTE from December 2014, including Aperam Drosbach (56). employees by employment contract, including Female workers: 12.2% of the Aperam overall; 5% of blue collar workers. Aperam is composed of employees from permanent employees and gender, total 47 different nationalities. Part of Aperam’s work is done by contractors, e.g. maintenance, site utilities, security; workforce by employees and supervised workers estimated to be 1,300 FTE in 2014. The small workforce at BioEnergia in Brazil is subject to variations due to seasonal and by gender, total workforce by region and factors (growing cycle of the trees: planting, harvesting etc.). gender. Self-employed workforce; variations in employment numbers. Own staff Supervised workers Employees on Aperam payroll (excluding Total FTE Worker Gender Total Total FTE Total temporaries, sub-contractors) Including Female Male Europe 427 only permanent and classical-fixed-term Europe 641 4,464 5,105 South America 54 contracts (excluding for example trainees, South America 296 3,647 3,943 Rest of the World 11 internships, apprentices), available personnel (but Rest of the World 213 163 376 Total 492 excluding long-term illness) and people working for Total 1,150 8,274 9,424 FTE, average of period external entities. FTE, end of period G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements 100% of the Aperam employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements G4-12 Description of supply chain Online Supplement C – p1 G4-13 Changes to organisational profile Changes between 2013 and 2014 are as follows: –M erger of Aperam Alloys Service into Aperam Alloys Imphy – Liquidation of ArcelorMittal Andino in Colombia –M erger of Aperam Treasury SNC into Aperam Stainless France G4-14 Precautionary approach Our risk management process anticipates the impacts on stakeholders and the environment. The Sustainability Steering Committee members feed into such deliberations. Our products provide an opportunity for customers to apply a precautionary approach due to their properties (e.g. corrosion resistance, light-weighting, durability, hygiene, and energy efficiency applications). G4-15 External initiatives Signatory to the UN Global Compact. We operate in partnership with various organisations, principally via the Aperam Acesita Foundation in Brazil. G4-16 Associations and advocacy organisations The International Stainless Steel Forum (ISSF), World Steel Association, Brazil Steel Institute Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in consolidated financial Annual Report p163 statements G4-18 Process for defining report content p6-7, Online Supplement B – p1 G4-19 List of material aspects p7, Online Supplement B – p2 G4-20 Aspect boundaries within the organisation Online Supplement B – p1-2 G4-21 Aspect boundaries outside the organisation Online Supplement B – p1-2 G4-22 Restatements Restatements may result from: Mergers or acquisitions. Change of base years or periods. Nature of business. Measurement methods Stakeholder Engagement G4-23 Changes in scope and boundaries No significant changes on scope and boundaries G4-24 Stakeholder groups p6, Online Supplement B – p4 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of Online Supplement B – p4 stakeholders G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement p6-7, Online Supplement B – p3-4 G4-27 Key topics and concerns P7, Online Supplement B – p3-4 Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period Calendar year 2014 G4-29 Previous report Made for life Report 2013. Calendar year 2013 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Contact point sustainability@aperam.com G4-32 Content Index p32-33, reporting to GRI G4 in accordance at Core level. G4-33 External assurance Main report p32, and online supplement bundle. Governance G4-34 Governance structure p7, Supplement D – p1, Annual Report, p48 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Values, principles, standards, and norms Codes of conduct – available on the web 2. Creation of dedicated Aperam Compliance website; A full 4-steps compliance programme has been implemented: 3. Creation of compliance network; 1. Review of the existing and formalisation of additional 4. Training for compliance network; relevant policies as well as translation in four main languages; 5. Training for all employees. For other GRI related reference documents, please see the Online Supplements at aperam.com/sustainability. Aperam 12C, rue Guillaume J. Kroll L-1882 Luxembourg Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Email: contact@aperam.com For all sustainability feedback: sustainability@aperam.com For more information please visit our website: aperam.com/sustainability Copyright 2015 © Aperam Produced by Aperam with the assistance of Gather London Limited Disclaimer – Forward Looking Statements In this Sustainability Report, Aperam has made certain forward-looking statements with respect to, among other topics, its financial position, business strategy, projected costs, projected savings, and the plans and objectives of our management. Such statements are identified by the use of forward-looking verbs such as ‘anticipate’, ‘intend’, ‘expect’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’, or ‘estimate’, or words or phrases with similar meanings. Aperam’s actual results may differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking statements due to the known and unknown risks and uncertainties to which it is exposed, including, without limitation, the risks described in the Annual Report. Aperam does not make any representation, warranty or prediction that the results anticipated by such forward-looking statements will be achieved. Please refer to the ‘Summary of risks and uncertainties’ section of the 2014 Annual Report page 47 as well as ‘Risks related to the Company and the stainless and specialty steel industry’ page 195. Such forward-looking statements represent, in each case, only one of many possible scenarios and should not necessarily be viewed as the most likely to occur or standard scenario. Aperam undertakes no obligation to publicly update its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Unless indicated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references in this Sustainability carbon neutral Report to ‘Aperam’, the ‘Group’ and the ‘Company’ or similar terms refer to Aperam, ‘société natureOffice.com | LU-319-003269 anonyme’, having its registered office at 12C, Rue Guillaume J. Kroll, L-1882 Luxembourg, print production Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, and to its consolidated subsidiaries.
