Information on the Achieved Progress JSC Savushkin product Republic of Belarus Sector: production of natural dairy products and juices 2015 Reporting period: 2015 CONTENTS General Director’s Foreword………………… 3 About the company…………………………… 4 UN Global Compact………………………… 14 Human Rights…………………………………15 Labor Relations………………………………. 21 Environmental Protection ……………………32 Anti-corruption Measures …………………....38 2 Dear colleagues and partners! The company Savushkin product is glad to present its annual report on the achievements made in the area of social responsibility. The years pass away, the new generation grows, the market changes and develops, but fundamental values and principles, which guide our company every day, are and will remain changeless, aimed at creation and care for people! Regardless of the challenges of 2015 not only in the global dairy industry, but also in global economy as a whole, we are confidently moving forward to our goal: to enter TOP-10 dairy companies in Europe. And the report is a good proof for this! Alexander Savchits General Director, JSC Savushkin Product 3 About the company JSC Savushkin Product is a young and dynamic company, the leader in the dairy industry of the Republic of Belarus, which is in the TOP-15 of the most efficient companies of our country. For more than 14 years Savushkin product has been stably holding the first position in the rating of most preferred by Belarussinas dairy brands. he company's activity is directed towards creation and consolidation of universal values: care, respect, diligence, honesty and openness, kindness and love. The mission of the company: To bring people pleasure and health In 2015 we’ll turn to be 39. The last 15 years have become the time of most intensive development of the company and its fast rising. From being a simple milk processing factory in the city, the enterprise has become the company of republican significance, a business card of Belarussian dairy sector. The manufacture of the produce today is carried out at high-tech production sites, located in Brest, Pinsk and Stolin, each of them specialising on a specific type of product assortment. Thus, the whole range of whole milk dairy products and juices are manufactured in Brest, while a wide selection of cheese is produced in Pinsk and Stolin. 4 About the company We produce a wide range of whole milk products, cheese, butter, and also natural juices, nectars and mors. There are 5 dairy trade marks in our brands' portfolio ( Savushkin , BrestLitovsk , Optimal , SuperKid , Laskovoe leto ) and one juice brand Nastoyashchi . Taking care for the health of growing generation, the company has introduced in 2015 a new brand of children's dairy products SuperKid . The specialists of the company have found an optimal quantity of calcium for each dairy product out of the kid's line. Calcium is a unique mineral, which can be obtained only with food, depending on the demand of the growing organism. In order to enhance the absorption of calcium, it is necessary to receive vitamin D. That is why, the yoghurts and curd pastes from the new dairy line for kids SuperKid are additionally fortified with this vitamin. SuperKid a discovery! For growth and development! JSC Savushkin product issues more than 250 kinds of products. 5 About the company Savushkin product manufactures its dairy produce only out of high-quality fresh whole milk. The company’s resource area consists of 92 farms in Brest region, situated in ecologically clean areas in the neighbourhood to the National park Belovezhskaya Pushcha . The amount of highest grade and extra grade milk from the total incoming raw milk volume is more than 82%. The company processes about 40% of raw milk in the region. According to the results of the first 9 months 2015, the company has processed more than 475.000 ton of milk, which surpasses by 15.7% the same period last year. In order to enhance yields and the quality of raw milk, Savushkin product closely cooperates with the farms, belonging to the resource area. In this connection the company has a long-running development strategy for the resource area. For the first 9 months 2015 Savushkin product has directed more than 5.5mln USD for the development of resource area. It enabled them to buy pasteurisers, cleaning and disinfection solutions, filters and laboratory devices, as well as sunflower meal and whole milk substitutes for feeding calves. 6 About the company The investment policy of the company is targeted at permanent technical retrofit of production and implementation of up-to-date technological processes. It guarantees high quality and security of the manufactured by the company food and also extended shelf-life for natural dairy products without use of preservatives. The manufacturing control is fully automated. The absence of contact between milk, outer environment and humans provides for the maximum safety of the produce and to have a positive effect on the quality of the ready produce. Savushkin product 99% automated enterprise. All the products are manufactured using state of the art production equipment of the leading world's companies Tetra Pak, Westfalia, Alfa Laval, Obram, Bosch, General Electrics, GEA, etc. For the first 9 months 2015 the volume of investments into the development of the major production has surpassed 27mln. USD. The funds have been directed to technical re-equipment and modernisation of the production for whole milk products and cheese, to build a new production site and a logistics centre in Brest, which are the company's major investment projects in the current five-year plan. 7 About the company In 2015 we purchased and mounted new equipment for curd-making department, dry dairy products department, equipment room, for our manufacturing branches in Pinsk and Stolin. We've finished repair works for the logistics centre front, and are completing repair and decoration works for the new administrative building in Brest. We are constantly upgrading technical base and software of the company. Taking about the effectiveness of the investments, it is important to note, that Savushkin product makes an emphasis on further deep processing of raw milk in order to enhance effectiveness of production. Today the company processes 100% of cheese and quark whey. The implementation of resource-saving technologies has been a cornerstone of the company's strategy for many years, which allows to considerably minimise the volumes of energy, water and fuel consumption. 8 About the company Considering the quality and safety requirements for the ready products, which are operating in the company, we have a strict incoming control not only for all the raw materials, coming to the enterprise, but for the packaging materials as well. A special control is directed to the incoming raw milk: the first quality test for raw milk is carried out already at a farm, and after the cooled milk is already supplied to the factory, we test it on a high-performance Danish laboratory equipment, which enables to make 200 sample-tests per hour. The milk is checked for pH, purity level, density, fat content, mass fraction of protein, the presence of residual antibiotics (ß-star test), mycotoxins, pesticides, pathogenic micro-organisms, etc. All in all about 50 parameters to check. Radiological control is also obligatory. In case there are any deviations from the norm, the raw milk won't be permitted for processing and will be forwarded back to the farm with a cover letter attached. The utilisation of modern equipment and the highest level of industrial standards at the company Savushkin product enable to insure the issue of quality and safe produce. The labs of the company carry out a strict incoming control for all the technological processes, they check for the compliance of the produce with the claimed physical and chemical parameters and give a permit for supply of the quality ready produce to sales nets. 9 About the company Savushkin Product takes responsibility towards the customers for the quality of its products. The company aims at providing consumers only with the best and high quality products. the company operates the quality management system in compliance with national standards STB ISO 9001-2009, the management system for quality and food safety based on the principles of HACCP, the environmental management system in accordance with international standards ISO 14001, and the occupational safety and health management system in accordance with OHSAS 1800. In spring 2015, Savushkin Product passed the audit of the food safety system according to the international scheme FSSC22000, having proved once again the high safety and quality level of the manufactured produce. The company received the certificate FSSC 22000 for the first time in 2013, and has already twice proved the compliance with it during inspection audits. In 2015 the production site in Stolin has also received this certificate. All the production sites of Savushkin product operate in accordance with the standard FSSC 22000 10 About the company The company’s special attention is devoted to storage and supply of the ready products. It is important not only to issue a quality product, but also to supply it to the customers as fast as possible, saving all the quality parameters. Savushkin product guaranties the preservation of the cold chain through all the way from conveyor up to the delivery to sales nets. In 2015 we've put into operation an innovative multi-level logistics centre, intended for 6.5 thousand pallet-spaces, having no analogies in Belarus. Each of the manufacturing floors is connected with the logistics centre via conveying gallery, with the help of which the produce is supplied to the warehouse. The logistics centre is fully automated and robotised, which allows to considerably save the loading time and to minimise the faults while assembling the orders. The dispatch of ready produce is carried out with a strict adherence to the temperature regime from +2 to +6°С. The trucks drive up to the gateways, the roller shutters closely adjoining the body of refrigerator, which fully excludes the contact of the product with street air and guaranties the absence of temperature fluctuations. It serves as an additional guarantee for quality and safety of the produce. A well-tailored logistics system allows to supply products in shortest possible terms and, for all that, observing temperature regimes from +2 to +6 °С, to the most remote destinations, which enables in its turn to provide for the constant presence of the produce on the shelves. 11 About the company The export policy of the company is manifold. We carry out regular supplies of our produce to 24 countries in the world. Including 77 regions of Russia, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, the UAE, Singapore, Jordan, Republic of Korea (South Korea), Hong Kong, Thailand, the European Union countries and other far and near abroad countries. Trial dispatches have been arranged to USA, China and Vietnam. About 60% of the export volumes are whole milk products, about 28% hard cheese, about 6% dry dairy products (whey powder) and approximately 11% butter. The export ratio in the total sales volume accounts for more than 45% for the first half of the current year. The company's commodity distribution network on the territory of Belarus includes 6 trade branches: in Minsk, Gomel, Vitebsk, Mogilev, Grodno and Pinsk. There are trade representatives working in big regional towns. The company's interests abroad are presented by a number of partners. 12 About the company The high quality and perfect taste of our products have been recognized many times by consumers and professional experts. Savushkin product possesses more than 500 republican and international awards. Among them the Government Award for Achievements in the Area of Quality, the CIS Award for Quality of Products and Services, the “National Legacy” Brand, etc. In 2015 JSC Savushkin product the only dairy company out of CIS countries, that has received highest awards from the International degustation competition «Superior Taste Award» (Bruccels, Belgium) Three golden stars out of three possible -for superior taste. It is a unique vote of confidence, taste and quality. The highest importance among all the awards, won by the company, are those received as a result of consumers' and professional vote. These are the competitions Household brand , Brand of the year , Product of the year within the framework of «World Food Moscow», etc. 13 UN Global Compact In November 2006, Savushkin Product joined the UN Global Compact International Initiative. Alongside with the member companies of the Global Compact Savushkin product promotes the principles of social responsibility and creates a multicooperation platform for state, business, society and international organizations. This agreement binds the business leaders to support and implement in practice 10 business principles in the area of: • human rights; • corporate social responsibility; • environmental protection; • anti-corruption measures 14 HUMAN RIGHTS The company Savushkin Product supports and promotes the human rights proclaimed in the international law, as well as in national legislation. It helps the company to earn confidence and respect among our consumers, partners, employees and society in general. Safety and quality insurance for the produce of Savushkin product is number one priority and a part of corporate culture. Consumers trust the company's brands. Our every day task is to preserve the trust of consumers, which starts with the highest quality products, having superior taste, openness towards consumers and business partners. Savushkin product adheres in its business activities to the international principles in the field of human rights.  The companies should support and follow the human rights, proclaimed by the international community.  The companies should take measures against the violation of human rights 15 HUMAN RIGHTS The company Savushkin product is not only a producer of natural whole milk products. Having distinguished the care for consumers' health as a major development strategy, the company generates healthy nutrition principles among the population and promotes the culture of milk and dairy products consumption. In 2005 the company has launched a unique for Belarus long-term project: Savushkin product for the health of the nation . For more than 10 years the company has been actively dragging consumers' attention to the issues of healthy nutrition, development of dairy products consumption culture. And, as a result, the development and launching to the market of functional products, which help to strengthen health and prevent diseases. The company Savushkin product is the only food company in Belarus making studies on the functional features of the manufactured produce. Together with the specialists of the Institute of Physiology of the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus the company has performed a number of scientific researches for physiological properties of dairy products, the results of which proved the functional qualities of the company's produce. Thus, it's an obvious proof, that the company takes care for the health of the nation. 16 HUMAN RIGHTS Savushkin product traditionally takes part in exhibitions and events, directed to popularization of healthy lifestyle and principles of healthy nutrition. In 2015 Savushkin product has taken part in the exhibition Brest. Fellowship2015 , where a professional chef gave tutorials on how to make healthy dishes. Savushkin product offered an opportunity for its customers within the framework of the exhibition to have a consultation with a dietitian and a doctor of medical sciences. Together with Nutrilife centre of health-improving nutrition and promotion of healthy lifestyle there have been held The days of milk , while implementing the program Nutrition and health . The company participated in the projects aimed at development of rational nutrition: Smachnyja vandrowki (jointly with Belarusian State University), NeVESomost (together with LLC Tut By Media), Healthy breakfast and snack for schoolchildren , It's great to smile for primary schoolchildren (together with the editors of the newspaper Komsomolskaya pravda ) , etc. 17 HUMAN RIGHTS Savushkin product is a company, which values each of its consumers. Each opinion is important for the company. The consumers have a right and a possibility to receive full and reliable information about the company's activities and the produce. In connection to this, we carry out huge work in the sphere of informing and building equal communications between the company, its partners and consumers. There is a Hotline phone number and e-mail address, which are indicated on each product packaging. For the first 9 months 2015 the Hotline has received 555 calls. The consumers can express their opinions and wishes, ask questions about the products and the company's activities as a whole. For faster information everyone can refer to our official website www.savushkin.by. We have also launched communities, groups and pages in social networks, such as Facebook, Twitter and Vkontakte. Everyone can subscribe and get useful and interesting information on dairy products and activities of Savushkin Product. 18 HUMAN RIGHTS There is also a corporate newspaper Savushkin info“, issued at the company. The newspaper covers major events in the life of the company and the employees. Each employee can participate in its creation. In order to inform the consumers, the specialists of the company work out information brochures on healthy nutrition and the benefits of dairy products. In 2015 there have been issued two booklets within the series Aware consumer . The brochure Everything that you haven't heard of milk is a reliable guide among dairy products. It is developed on the basis FAQ. The rules for health and slenderness a brochure, developed in cooperation with Eleonora Kapitonova, the doctor of medical sciences. The information, provided in this brochure, covers the issues of rational nutrition and its importance for human health in each age. We've also republished and edited the guiding brochure for the new employees and young specialists Welcome to the company Savushkin product . 19 HUMAN RIGHTS Even at most difficult times Savushkin Product doesn't forget about the consumers and those people, who particularly need care and support. For the first 9 months 2015 we've provided charitable assistance to more than 30 organisations, social establishments and individuals in the amount of 229 thousand USD. Among them Belarusian public youth organisation of rescuers , United organisation Belarusian wrestling federation , Minsk Diocese of Belarusian Orthodox Church, Pinsk city council of veterans of war, labor and armed forces, and law enforcement agencies, Brest city public association Volleyball club Stimul , State organisation Brest House of veterans , Healthcare establishment Brest regional TB dispensary , etc. The company traditionally supports children's organisations. In winter 2015 the employees of the company organised a festive meeting with gifts and greetings for the orphans of Brest supplementary boarding school. 20 Labor Relations The principles of corporate social responsibility, labour relations, provision of comfortable working conditions at Savushkin product are the most important cornerstones of successful operation of the company and getting high results. The company follows in this sphere the international principles:  Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.  Businesses should encourage the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor.  Businesses should uphold the elimination of child labor.  Businesses should encourage the elimination of discrimination in the sphere of employment and occupation. 21 Labor Relations Today the company employs more than 3000 people. To be an employee of the company means to work in the team of people with the same aims and thoughts, for whom professionalism and dedication are the common absolute priorities. Savushkin product is a big and friendly family, where everyone can reckon on support and understanding of the colleagues. In all the spheres of its activities Savushkin product strives to provide its employees with maximum comfortable working conditions. The proof for this is the recognition of the Collective Agreement of our company as one of the best in Belarus. At the present moment the company has a Collective Agreement for the period from March 1, 2013 to February 29, 2016. The trade union organization of JSC Savushkin Product currently includes 99.6% of employees. The company is governed in its activities by the Labor Code of the Republic of Belarus, the Corporate Policy and the Articles of Association of JSC Savushkin Product. 22 Labor Relations The policy in the field of labor relations, providing comfortable working environment, health improvement and recreation, the right for professional growth and ensuring transparent terms of labor payment at JSC Savushkin Product are reflected in the Collective Agreement of the company; the Regulation on bonuses for managers, professionals and workers in accordance with the company's economic results for the current year; the Internal labor regulations; the Regulation on recruitment and selection of employees; Standard of the organization Continuous professional training ; and Savushkin Product Professional Education Program. The documents are updated and modified every year. We have implemented a program for continuing professional education. We invite lecturers and trainers from educational centres, educational establishments and other organizations to organise corporate trainings. The company organizes “Best in Profession” contests in order to increase the professional level of our staff and to enable experience exchange. In 2015 the laboratory workers took part in the competition. Every year we admit about 300 students from universities and colleges to have practical training in our company. It gives a possibility to estimate the potential and qualification of the students and to choose young specialists for further work at the company. 23 Labor Relations The weekly working schedule at Savushkin product cannot exceed 40 hours. For the reason of continuous production, the company implements accumulated working time accounts to follow the yearly schedule balance. Employees receive a paid annual holiday leave of at least 24 calendar days, and there is an additional leave for people working in hazardous conditions 4 and 7 calendar days. The are short-term paid leaves provided for the workers (without cutting holiday leave) for arranging weddings -2 days, and for funerals 2 days. Mothers or fathers that are raising three or more children can receive one additional day off per week upon appeal. All pregnant women upon the provision of a medical certificate are transferred to easy labor positions with the average wage of their primary position, and relieved from night shifts. 24 Labor Relations The company Savushkin product provides in its activities for the compliance with the social guaranties and benefits, stipulated in the legislation of the Republic of Belarus and in the Collective Agreement. According to the Collective Agreement the employees of JSC Savushkin product receive the following additional payments: for sanatorium treatment, upon child birth, upon marriage, retirement, for anniversaries and festive days, for funerals, supporting payments for the unemployed retired, disabled children and families brining up more than 3 children, for participation in contests and competitions, etc. All the workers, who are in need of housing and improving of housing conditions, are included to the waiting list of the Trade Union. Savushkin product has 2 dormitories in Brest, where more than 570 employees have got accommodation. Last year we finished the building of a multi-storey house, where more than 116 families of our employees received flats. 25 Labor Relations In order to ensure safety, health protection and efficiency of the personnel in the working process, the company has developed and implemented policies in the area of occupational health and safety in compliance with the requirements of OHSAS 18001. The occupational safety and health management system are aimed at creation of the necessary conditions for occupational safety as a whole, support for the labor safety and prevention of traumatism and accidents. Each department of the company has been checked for risks and dangers. There are precaution measures developed and executed for each risk, which helps to prevent traumatism. In 2015 there have been mounted the sites for the conveying machine service near the cooler in the cottage cheese production room, the site for the service of tanks at the whey separation sector in Pinsk, the site for the service of conditioner at cheese production room in Stolin, equipped the gateways for loading-unloading platforms with additional warning devices, etc. For the first 9 months 2015 there have been invested 49.6 thousand USD into the improvement of labor and safety conditions in accordance with the respecitve plan. 26 Labor Relations The company holds The Days of occupational safety and environmental protection every month, according to the results of which we additionally work out the measures for occupational safety, which help to improve the labor conditions for the employees. The employees are supplied with personal protection aids. There is a constant control over the quality of the received personal protection aids by the specially arranged committee according to the order of CEO. For the first 9 months 2015 there have been spent 128 thousand USD for the personal protection aids. There are constant trainings and knowledge check of the company's personnel as regards occupational safety. Every year we arrange a competition on the best occupational safety conditions. The competition is held both among the departments of the major production and the departments of supplementary production. Those employees, who win, receive bonuses according to the results of the competition. 27 Labor Relations Apart from the worthy labor conditions, the company Savushkin product provides its employees with substantial social benefits. A close cooperation of the Trade union with the administration creates comfortable conditions for work and recreation of each member of our team. There are medical cabinets in the office building of the company in Brest, as well as at the production facilities in other towns, which are equipped with the most necessary equipment. In 2015 we've repaired the rooms and opened a first-aid medical cabinet at the production facility in Pinsk. The company Savushkin product pays special attention on the health of our employees and the improvement of their efficiency. The organisation grants money for medicines and the replenishment of the first-aid kits at the production departments, for dental materials, regular health control checks for the employees in the polyclinics of the city. There are the following medical and recreation services available in the company: a massage cabinet, dentist's cabinet, underwater massage, solarium and sauna. All the mentioned above are free of charge for the employees of the company. 28 Labor Relations A lot of attention is paid on the recreation and health-resort treatment of the employees and their children. Savushkin product purchases vouchers for health-resort treatment of its employees. Apart from it, we purchase vouchers for the recreation of our employees' children during summertime in recreational and sports camps. The families, bringing up more than 3 children, get the vouchers for the kids free of charge. The transport for the delivery of kids to the camps is also provided by the company at no cost. About 100 kids of our employees improved their health during summer 2015 recreational campaign. 29 Labor Relations An important task within the framework of social partnership is the development of mass physical culture and sports. The employees have an opportunity to regularly do sports and have physical activity. We rent swimming pools, sporting and training centres, skating rinks, arrange mini-football and volleyball trainings for our employees in Brest and at all production facilities and trading representatives. The sport teams of the company take active part in regional championships and open championships in the Health Program, according to the results of which Savushkin product receives sporting awards. There are also Days of health , that are held annually for the employees of the company. In 2015 our sporting teams have taken part in regional mini football tournaments, swimming tournaments, sports contests Friendly family 2015 , in tourist gatherings, pneumatic rifle shooting, etc. 30 Labor Relations Great attention is paid on team building inside the company. In 2015 there have been held cultural and entertainment events. The employees visited Pecherski Monastery of the Cave in Kiev, Holy Trinity-St. Sergius Lavra, Pokrovski nunnery, National Park Belovezhskaya Puscha , the residence of Ded Moroz, cultural museums and sights of Nesvizh and Mir, Lvov, Novovgrudok and Saint Petersburg, etc. The Trade Union takes into consideration the interests of each employee the organisation buys tickets for visiting theatres collectively. The employees of the company have also visited concerts of popular Belarussian singers and bands, the concerts of symphonic music, international festival January music evenings , dramatic performances, youths theatres, film premières, concerts within the international festival Slavic Bazaar . There are also annual events, devoted to the celebration of the professional holiday (the Day of agriculture and processing industry), The Day of Motherland defenders and The International Women's Day. In 2015 there have been held competitions The most charming and attractive , the contest of drawings for kids I'm drawing Savushkin product and My mum is the best one . 31 Environmental Protection The company Savushkin product pays special attention to the environmental protection and follows in its activities the international principles in this sphere:  Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges  Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility  Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 32 Environmental Protection Environmental protection is an integral part of the company’s activities. The aim of the environmental policy of Savushkin product is a minimal impact and the prevention of any negative effects onto the environment. There is a Department of occupational safety and environmental protection functioning at the company, which coordinates and controls the development and fulfilment of the action plans in the sphere of environmental protection, the local normative legal acts in the field of environmental protection and safety at work, receive approving documentation and perform environmental control at the production. The company has implemented and exploits an environmental management system (EMS), certified in accordance with STB ISO 14001-2005 and ISO 14001:2004. National certificate of conformity № BY/112 06.01.074 00043 dated from 08.04.2005, issued by Ecologiainvest RUE. There are annual inspection audits for the certificate approval. International certificate of conformity № BY 228715H-U dated from 10.11.2006, issued by Biuro Veritas FLLC. There are annual inspection audits for the certificate approval. 33 Environmental Protection According to the requirements of EMS in order to minimize the negative impact of production activities on the environment, there are annually planned environmental targets and measures, developed to protect the environment, to implement energy saving technologies, rational use of materials and energy resources. On the basis of EMS results analysis we work out measures for improving efficiency of environmental protection and control of ecological aspects. 34 Environmental Protection The activities of Savushkin product are based on the adherence to the obligations of the environmental protection policy and occupational safety, approved by the company's management: to comply with legal and other requirements in the area of environmental protection, safety at work, applicable to the organization; to implement measures aimed at improving working conditions and increasing safety at work, reducing the negative impact of our operations on the environment; to analyse and improve environmental management system, healthcare and labor safety system efficiency, and provide all the necessary resources to ensure functioning of the systems; to identify and estimate, to manage and minimize the risks in the sphere of occupational safety and environmental protection; to engage the employees into the active participation in the environmental protection, healthcare, and occupational safety; to conduct an open dialogue with the staff and the public on the activities in the sphere of environmental protection, healthcare, and occupational safety; to improve employee qualifications through continuing training in environmental protection, healthcare, and occupational safety; to improve technological processes, implement energy and resource saving technologies, strive for the rational use of materials and energy. 35 Environmental Protection The company’s activities in the sphere of environmental protection are aimed at the maximum recovery of secondary materials from waste products, sorting and registering waste by type and class of hazard in order to provide for their safe placement or secondary usage. The following types of waste are transmitted for the further utilization: uncontaminated waste of cardboard/paper, polyethylene, polystyrene, PET bottles, used lead-acid batteries with a non-fused electrolyte, synthetic and mineral oil waste, scrap and waste of ferrous and non-ferrous metals, wooden leftovers, etc. What is most important today, there is a possibility to fully process milk whey and buttermilk, left after manufacturing butter. It increases the efficiency of production and has no negative impact on the environment. 36 Environmental Protection In 2015 the company has issued an act, concerning stationary emission sources, as well as draft limits for permissible emissions and an environmental passport. Every year the company performs an analytical assessment of atmospheric emissions through cooperation with an approved, contracted organization, and in accordance with the analytical control program. No excess of the maximum allowed pollutant concentration values have been found. Cleaning of industrial emissions containing solid particles is carried out in the gas cleaning equipment, which is annually checked for effectiveness. Each year the staff of the company receives instructions in the field of environmental protection and attends trainings on Requirements of STB ISO 14001-2005. The Environmental Management System , legal requirements in the sphere of environmental protection of the Republic of Belarus. Last year the company installed packaging equipment to fill liquid dairy products into an ecologically clean packaging Tetra Top. It enabled us to spread the range of products in ecologically clean packaging. We also take measures on the improvement of the territory, adjoining to the company. In 2015 there have been planted about 250 trees and bushes. 37 Anti-corruption Measures Savushkin Product holds high ethical business standards, values its reputation, and uses in its activities only those methods, that are based on the principles of openness and humanity, and are approved by the world community:  Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Savushkin product carries out fair and transparent business practices, adheres to the moral standards of doing business, and builds long-term and stable relationships with all stakeholders based on mutual trust, total commitment and openness. The company strives for maintaining and support of a business culture, based upon trust and assuming intolerance towards corruption, including extortion and bribery, as well as “black payments” to employees. Wages are transferred via Belagroprombank , Belarusbank , Belvnesheconombank and Alfa-bank to electronic banking cards. 38 Anti-corruption Measures The company supports transparent business model and a strict following of national legislation concerning anti-corruption measures. Savushkin Product builds not only inner relations upon the principles of honesty, objectivity and good will, but outer communications as well. Today, the company has business relations with many organizations inside the country and abroad. The relations with them are based exclusively on the principles of trust and mutual respect. The company uses a system of tenders for purchasing materials and services. The suppliers of packaging, fillers and equipment and other partners are chosen by arranging tenders and should correspond, first of all, to the quality requirements for the provided goods and services. All the settlements with the partners are carried out via bank transfers. The company Savushkin product actively works against fraud from the employees and the third parties. The property and funds are used only for the achievement of the company's goals and never for personal purposes. 39 Contact person: Elena Babkina, Deputy general director for public relations JSC Savushkin product e-mail: elena@savushkin.by +375 17 394 92 97 +375 29 161 63 65 40
