AfrAsia Bank Limited: Communication on Progress (Year 2015) TABLE OF CONTENT  ABOUT AFRASIA BANK LTD  HUMAN RIGHTS  LABOUR  ENVIRONMENT  ANTI-CORRUPTION  CONCLUSION About AfrAsia Bank Ltd AfrAsia Bank Ltd has been created to ease the gap between Africa and Asia and build a trade corridor between these two continents. Our proficiencies are applied in Private Banking and Wealth Management, Corporate and Investment Banking, Global Business and Treasury. During this year AfrAsia Bank Ltd has given place to Corporate Social Responsibility. We have recruited a Corporate Responsibility Officer who has facilitated our involvement towards social activities and into sponsored Corporate projects. AfrAsia Bank Ltd has, since the beginning been passionate about Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainable development; we believe that the projects we sponsor should reflect our values. Our engagement towards the United Nations Global Compact is a path we are taking to emphasize on these values. Corporate Social Responsibility, in its struggle to help society, also ensures that internal policies, Government policies, legislations and guidelines are being respected. Our ongoing commitment to CSR helps us in aligning our operations with standards and expectations that are increasingly important to all of our local and global stakeholders. www.afrasiabank.com / Mauritius / South Africa / UK Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Being a member of the United Nations and the African Union, Mauritius already abides by the Articles of the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights (UDHR). We have ratified many treaties concerning Human Rights, for example, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR) to show our adherence to the standards laid down by the United Nations concerning Human Rights. Mauritius, to show further support, has included, in its Constitution, which is the supreme law of the nation, Human Rights and its protection. Chapter 2 of our Constitution provides for fundamental rights and freedoms of the individual and its protection. AfrAsia Bank Ltd (ABL), being anchored in Mauritius, respects all Mauritian laws and ensures that all its operations and activities are in line with them. Apart from these legislations, we also have internal policies which reinforce the existent laws. In its Conduct and Ethics Policy, ABL affirms that its employees treat each other with respect and consideration and that the Bank abides by the highest ethical and legal principles of its business activities. The Code of Conduct and Ethics sets all the parameters of behaviour which employees should consider while working at the Bank; for example disclosure of conflict of interest, fair and equitable treatment, fair dealing and discipline, among others. In case these are not respected, disciplinary actions are taken to act as a prevention mechanism for future situations. Apart from specified accepted behaviours, ABL also states in its Corporate Integrity and Whistleblowing Policies that any employee who feels aggrieved, by a decision taken by the management, which affects them, may voice out their disapproval in writing or through a meeting with a senior manager. In so doing ABL empowers its employees to have a say on decision making processes. www.afrasiabank.com / Mauritius / South Africa / UK Human Rights Furthermore our Human Resource General Policies asserts that employees’ hours of work are flexible, also, any significant amounts of excess working time which is not remunerated as overtime will be converted into time off. These regulations are in line with Article 24 of the UDHR, which states that everyone has the right to rest and leisure. www.afrasiabank.com / Mauritius / South Africa / UK Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. AfrAsia Bank Ltd complies with the Mauritian Constitution ; Article 13 of the Constitution provides that no person shall be hindered in the enjoyment of his freedom of assembly and association, and thus ABL endorses this principle. AfrAsia Bank Ltd also complies with the legislations which state that forced labour, compulsory labour and child labour are illegal. As per our Anti-Money Laundering Policies and Procedures, we have a Business Exclusion List which affirms that businesses investing in us or which we finance cannot be associated with forced labour or child labour. Through our support to NGOs, concerning children education, AfrAsia Bank Ltd strives to help underprivileged children engage into education through arts, sports and art & craft workshops. In this perspective, AfrAsia Bank Ltd aims at encouraging child literacy and combatting child labour. According to ABL’s Human Resources Policies, employee benefits, such as Pension scheme and Medical scheme are provided to all permanent employees and Employer’s Liability Cover is provided to all employees, irrespective of their employment status. www.afrasiabank.com / Mauritius / South Africa / UK Labour Regarding discrimination, ABL has a Hiring Policy, whereby it is clearly stated that recruitment and selection decisions are based solely on merit and that any form of discrimination, whether direct, indirect or by victimisation, as stated in the Equal Opportunities Act 2008, is not practiced. However, ABL does give a special preference to its employees by advertising vacancies internally prior to external candidates. Opportunities are open to all candidates irrespective of their status. The following charts show the gender distribution and age group of employees in AfrAsia Bank Ltd as at end of June 2015. www.afrasiabank.com / Mauritius / South Africa / UK Labour AfrAsia Bank Ltd has an Equal Opportunities Policy which aims at ensuring that no one receives less favourable treatment, or is disadvantaged by conditions, requirement, provisions, criteria, procedures or practices that cannot be justified. For instance, over 30% of women are represented in the Executive Management Committee (EXCO). In addition to this, ABL respects the business exclusion list of its investors, which states that production and distribution of racist, anti-democratic and/or neo-nazi media is prohibited. www.afrasiabank.com / Mauritius / South Africa / UK Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Afrasia Bank Ltd has already implemented the “Reduce, Reuse, Recycle” Project in its offices with the help of an NGO working for the benefit of the environment. We sort our waste as paper, plastic or general waste and the NGO collects it to be sent for recycling. www.afrasiabank.com / Mauritius / South Africa / UK Environment Furthermore, to reinforce this concept, ABL is implementing a Corporate Environment Programme which will consist of an internal phase and an external one. The internal phase will target our employees. Along with a local charity organisation, we will actualise the “guide eco-employés” in order to encourage our staff to behave in a responsible and environment-friendly way behaviour around the office so that they develop the culture of saving energy in their daily life. The external phase consists of transforming a neglected portion of a riverside into a green space, which will include a children playarea. ‘AfrAsia’ clean up days are planned for our employees to be involved in the process. These initiatives will help us promote environmental responsibility in members of our staff who will feel committed. Additionally, there are also minor changes that we have adopted in order to be more environmentally friendly, such as using led lamps and switching our computers and laptops to sleep mode when not in use. Moreover, the business exclusion list that we are committed to, includes protection of many environmental aspects. For instance, ABL does not invest or provide financing to businesses which trade in the following:  Hazardous and radioactive materials  Waste or waste products not in accordance with the Basel Convention  Drift net fishing using excess length of fish nets  Pharmaceuticals, pesticides, chemicals and ozone depleting substances  Destruction of Critical Habitat and  Wildlife or wildlife products which do not respect the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. www.afrasiabank.com / Mauritius / South Africa / UK Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. AfrAsia Bank Ltd’s anti-corruption standards are based on the following legislations and regulations:  Financial Intelligence and Anti Money Laundering Act 2002 (FIAML Act 2002)  Financial Intelligence and Anti Money Laundering Regulations 2003 (FIAML Reg 2003)  Bank Of Mauritius Guidance Notes  AfrAsia Bank Ltd Anti Money Laundering Policies and Procedures As part of the Mauritian Legislation, Section 3 of the Financial Intelligence and AntiMoney Laundering Act 2002, imposes a duty on every bank; it states that a bank commits an offence when it fails to take measures to prevent its services from facilitating money laundering. In view of implementing anti-corruption measures on its premises, ABL provides necessary resources and training to all front liners, Compliance Officers and Money laundering Officers as well as a general explanation of money laundering to all other staff members. Our compliance Department conducts an Anti Money laundering Refresher Training each year for the all staff members and they also circulate updated policies, regulations and latest news on this matter. We also abide by the ‘Know Your Customer’ principle, whereby our staff members make it a must to be acquainted with all their customers and to verify whether information provided by them is genuine. This helps build a safe and sound relationship between our bank and our clients. We do not allow opening of accounts with fictitious names or concerning illegal activities. ABL follows the method prescribed by the FIAML Reg 2003 to verify the identity and address of its customers. www.afrasiabank.com / Mauritius / South Africa / UK Anti-Corruption Furthermore, we have invested in a software which help us detect issues which may lead to corruption. We have in place an AML and KYC software, which allows transaction monitoring and enhances the customer due diligence process, as per parameters set up the bank. As per the laws of Mauritius, any cash transaction of Five hundred Thousand and above is prohibited with some exemptions. Our Bank ensures that these laws are respected and our staff is made aware that these transactions should be well monitored. In order to reinforce this behaviour, records, registers and documents of transactions are kept. We also encourage our staff to report any suspicious transaction that they may have noticed. www.afrasiabank.com / Mauritius / South Africa / UK Conclusion AfrAsia Bank Ltd’s aim is to provide a workplace that is open, respectful and safe. Our implementations over the ongoing year will be as follows: Our Human Resources department is implementing induction sessions, employee handbooks and a Human Resources Management system to help employees be more familiar with their rights and obligations, ABL’s rules, regulations and also to give them access to their personal data file. This will help provide a more accountable and transparent working platform. Our Environment Corporate Programme will be part of the employee handbook and in so doing, new staff members will be made aware of the environment culture within the bank. AfrAsia Bank is following a sustainability path. In order to succeed on this venture we have implemented reporting and monitoring approaches throughout the bank. www.afrasiabank.com / Mauritius / South Africa / UK
