2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT GROWING IN A BIGGER PLAYING FIELD CONTENTS 1.1 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE Company history 4 6 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 200 1.2 Ophthalmic optics industry 8 4.1 Introduction 202 1.3 Group businesses 9 4.2 Social information 205 1.4 The Group’s strategy 15 4.3 Environmental information 215 1.5 Performance of the Group in 2014 16 4.4 Information on societal engagement to promote 1.6 Risk factors AFR 27 sustainable development 223 4.5 Note on methodology 230 4.6 Independent third-party Report on the consolidated corporate, social 2 and environmental information included in the Management Report 235 4.7 Location of GRI elements 237 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 32 5 2.1 Management and supervisory bodies 34 2.2 Chairman’s Report on corporate governance AFR 51 2.3 Compensation and Beneﬁts 71 2.4 Summary table of the AFEP-MEDEF Code recommendations which are not applied 87 2.5 Statutory Auditors’ Report on the Report of the INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, Chairman AFR 88 ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 238 2.6 Special Report of the Statutory Auditors 5.1 Company 240 on regulated agreements and commitments 89 5.2 Share capital AFR 242 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.1 Comments on the Company’s ﬁnancial position 90 6 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION and earnings AFR 92 ABOUT THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 262 3.2 Trend Information 95 6.1 Persons Responsible AFR 264 3.3 Consolidated Financial Statements AFR 96 6.2 Auditors 265 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements AFR 103 6.3 Public Documents 266 3.5 Statutory Auditors’ Report on the consolidated 6.4 Cross-reference tables 267 ﬁnancial statements AFR 165 3.6 Fees paid to the Auditors and the members of their networks AFR 166 3.7 Annual Financial Statements of Essilor International AFR 167 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements AFR 171 3.9 Statutory Auditors’ Report on the ﬁnancial statements AFR 199 The information from the Annual Financial Report is clearly identiﬁed in the table of contents by the AFR symbol. Essilor | Registration Document 2014 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT & Annual Financial Report 2014 The French version of this Registration Document was ﬁled with the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF) on March 12, 2015, under number D. 15-0131, in accordance with Article 212-13 of the General Regulations of the AMF. It may only be used in support of a ﬁnancial transaction if accompanied by an offering memorandum approved by the Autorité des Marchés Financiers. This document has been prepared by the issuer and is binding on the signatories. The version ﬁled on March 23, 2015 is an updated version of the Registration Document ﬁled on March 12, 2015. The change on page 250 relates to maximum purchase price per share. 2014 KEY FIGURES 5,670 642 Adjusted (a) net proﬁt in €m Revenue in €m 33 plants worldwide 12 new partnerships 490 around the world (representing a combined full-year revenue of €525m) 58,032 employees in 62 countries prescription laboratories, edging facilities and local distribution centers across ﬁve continents (a) Adjusted for non-recurring items related mainly to the acquisition of Transitions Optical, Coastal.com and Costa in 2014, and of Xiamen Yarui Optical (Bolon) in 2013. Revenue by operating segment Revenue by region € millions and as a % of total Group revenue As a % of total Group revenue 5,670 4,989 5,065 North America 44% 43% 45% 88% Lenses and 89% 89% Optical Instruments Europe 33% 33% 30% Asia/Paciﬁc/ 16% 17% 18% Middle East/Africa Sunglasses & Readers 7% 7% 9% Equipment 4% 4% 3% Latin America 7% 7% 7% 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 Adjusted (b) (a)contribution from Adjusted (b) operating proﬁt Adjusted (b) net proﬁt attributable operations € millions to Group equity holders € millions € millions and as a % of revenue 1,057 +6.5% 989 893 920 833 857 603 642 585 11.7% 11.9% 11.3% 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Adjusted (b) net earnings per share Operating cash ﬂow (c) Adjusted (b) EBITDA (d) € € millions € millions and as % of revenue +6.3% 1,365 1,022 3.05 912 1,173 2.81 2.87 1,138 850 24.1% 23.2% 22.8% 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 (a) Contribution from operations corresponds to revenue less cost of sales and operating expenses (research and development costs, selling and distribution costs, other operating expenses). (b) Adjusted for non-recurring items related mainly to the acquisition of Transitions Optical, Coastal.com and Costa in 2014, and of Xiamen Yarui Optical (Bolon) in 2013. (c) Net cash from operations before change in working capital requirement. (d) EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization) is an indicator deﬁned as the adjusted contribution from operations before impact of amortization and impairment of tangible and intangible assets and amortization relating to inventory revaluations generated by acquisitions. Share price and Dividend € The CAC40 graph has been rebased to the Essilor share price at January 1, 2004 100 Essilor: +13.9%(f) 80 60 40 CAC 40: +1.1%(f) 20 0 €0.38 €0.47 €0.55 €0.62 €0.66 €0.70 €0.83 €0.85 €0.88 €0.94 €1.02 (e) 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (e) Subject to the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 5, 2015. (f) CAGR (Compound annual growth rate). Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 3 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE 1.1 COMPANY HISTORY 1.1.1 Essilor was created by the merger of two innovative companies 1.1.2 The 1970s to 1990s: internationalization 1.1.3 Essilor, the world’s leading manufacturer of ophthalmic optics 1.1.4 The 2000s were marked by a true globalization of high technology and strategic alliances 6 6 6 6 7 1.4 THE GROUP’S STRATEGY launched in 2014 1.5.3 Operating highlights 1 1.5 PERFORMANCE OF THE GROUP IN 2014 16 1.5.1 Highlights by business and region 1.5.2 Innovation and key products and services 1.5.4 Other aspects of business in 2014 1.5.5 Investments made in 2014 and planned 15 17 20 23 24 for 2015 26 1.2 OPHTHALMIC OPTICS INDUSTRY 8 1.2.1 Chemical companies and glass manufacturers 8 1.2.2 Lens manufacturers 8 1.6 RISK FACTORS 27 1.2.3 Prescription laboratories and edging centers 8 1.6.1 Operational risks 27 1.2.4 Retailers and optical chains 9 1.6.2 Market risks 29 1.6.3 Legal risks (material claims and litigation, proceedings, arbitration) 29 1.3 GROUP BUSINESSES 9 1.6.4 Industrial and environmental risks 30 1.3.1 Lenses and Optical Instruments 9 1.6.5 Insurance 31 1.3.2 Equipment 13 1.3.3 Sunglasses & Readers 14 4 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 IN BRIEF ESSILOR: THE WORLD’S LEADING OPHTHALMIC OPTICS COMPANY Essilor designs, manufactures and markets a wide range of lenses to improve and protect eyesight. It also develops and markets equipment for prescription laboratories and instruments and services for eye care professionals. Essilor is the North American leader in non-prescription reading glasses and also sells nonprescription sunglasses. The Group owes its success to a strategy in which innovation has been the driving force for more than 165 years. To fulﬁll it, Essilor allocates more than €150 million to research and innovation every year, in a commitment to continuously bringing new, more effective products to market. Essilor’s mission is to improve lives by improving sight. Of the 7.2 billion* people living on the planet, 4.5 billion* need visual correction, yet only 1.9 billion* actually receive it. More than Improve lives 2.5 billion* people worldwide receive no correction at all. As a result, the Group strives to provide products tailored to the needs of every person. by improving sight Essilor reported consolidated revenue of nearly €5.7 billion in 2014. The Group markets its products in more than 100 countries and employs 58,000 people. The Group has 33 plants, 490 prescription laboratories, edging facilities and local distribution centers and several research and development centers around the world. The Essilor share trades on the Euronext Paris market and is included in the Euro Stoxx 50 and CAC 40 indices. THE GROUP’S FLAGSHIP BRANDS * 2015 estimates. Source: Essilor, World Bank. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 5 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE 1.1 Company history 1.1 COMPANY HISTORY 1.1.1 Essilor was created by the merger of two innovative companies Essilor was formed in 1972 from the merger of two technological The second one dates back to the 1930s and was founded by and marketing pioneers, ESSEL and SILOR, which at the time Georges Lissac. The industrial division of the Lissac group, dominated the French ophthalmic optics market. SILOR, was formed in 1969 from the merger of frame-maker SIL (Société Industrielle de Lunetterie) and lens-maker LOR (lentilles The ﬁrst one can trace its origins to the Association Fraternelle ophtalmiques rationnelle), which had launched the first plastic des Ouvriers Lunetiers, an eyewear makers’ cooperative founded lens, Orma, in 1954. 1849 in the Marais district of Paris that soon changed its name to Société des Lunetiers (SL) and then to ESSEL. In 1953, it registered With the merger that formed Essilor in 1972, the priority became a patent for the world’s first-ever progressive lens, launched the building of an outstanding group specializing in ophthalmic under the Varilux name in 1959. ESSEL’s original operating optics. Secondary activities such as compasses, drawing structure, which was inspired by workers’ cooperatives and equipment, topography, its historical heritage, have gradually been involved employees in corporate governance, is the source of sold off. the strong employee shareholding culture that is still present in Essilor today. 1.1.2 The 1970s to 1990s: internationalization In the early 1970s, Essilor was mainly an exporting group, with The 1980s were marked by stiffening competition particularly in its international business accounting for 45% of revenue. It had the progressive-lens market, and the development of opticians inherited ESSEL’s presence in Japan and SILOR’s commercial organizing themselves into groups. To grow its competitiveness, development in the United States. A distribution network was Essilor set up other mass-production sites in Brazil and Thailand. gradually built up, ﬁrst in Europe and the United States and then The Group also set up and expanded its local distribution networks in Asia. After its successful IPO in 1975, it continued its innovation by buying up distributors in Europe and intensifying its presence strategy, launching the ﬁrst-ever progressive plastic lens, Varilux in Asia. In 1986, the American subsidiaries were consolidated Orma, a strong symbol of the synergy that existed between the under Essilor of America. By the end of the 1980s, Essilor had two founding entities. In 1979, the construction of a large plasticbecome the world’s leading manufacturer of ophthalmic optics. lens manufacturing plant in the Philippines was a turning point in Essilor’s transformation into a true international Group. 1.1.3 Essilor, the world’s leading manufacturer of ophthalmic optics In the early 1990s, the ophthalmic optics market was reshaped polycarbonate lens. The Group also invested in optics design, by a wave of mergers and acquisitions and an increase in launching a new progressive lens, Varilux Comfort, in 1993. Last competition. Essilor consolidated its world-leading position but not least, Essilor, which until the mid-1990s had earned most through a global strategy based on three key vectors, the ﬁrst of of its revenue in Europe, began to create a global network. The which was industrial specialization in corrective lenses as well as Group put down roots in China and India and also acquired more in instruments for opticians. The second was innovation in lens independent prescription laboratories, mainly in the United States coatings and their combinations. Launched in 1992, the Crizal lens and Europe, to ensure that its network reached local customers. with anti-reﬂective, smudge-proof and scratch-proof properties, Production was also set up in China with the opening of a plant and the variable-tint Transitions lenses launched one year later near Shanghai in 1998, as part of an expansion strategy that on the back of a new joint venture with PPG, became a highincluded the consolidation of distribution subsidiaries, particularly added-value major growth segment. At the same time, Essilor in Eastern Europe in the latter part of the decade. strengthened its market share in very light and unbreakable lenses with the takeover of Gentex in 1995, which brought it the 6 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 ESSILOR 1.1 Company history AT A GLANCE 1.1.4 The 2000s were marked by a true globalization of high technology and strategic alliances Technological innovation accelerated at the turn of the 21st century with a growing number of innovations beneficial to opticians At the same time, Essilor broadened its scope of activities in the optics world with the creations of two new divisions. The 1 and consumers. New products targeted both optical quality Equipment Division was created in 2008 following the acquisition and wearer-comfort thanks to new and increasingly effective of Satisloh, a world leader in prescription laboratory equipment. designs such as the Varilux S series lens launched in 2012. In In 2010, Essilor took over FGX International, the North American addition to correction, Essilor was also positioning itself in UV leader in non-prescription reading glasses. This acquisition led protection, even in clear lenses. E-SPF index was created in 2012 to the creation of the Sunglasses & Readers Division. It was to guarantee a level of protection for consumers on both sides supplemented in 2011 by the takeover of Stylemark, another of the lens. Prevention, with lenses selectively protecting against major player in the United States with a substantial portfolio of harmful blue light, such as Crizal Prevencia lens, constituted licensed brands of non-prescription sunglasses and reading a new development line for the Group. Essilor also set out to glasses. provide solutions that would cover the entire range of needs in In 2013, the Group stepped up the development of its sunglasses all circumstances, developing new, more affordable products to offer with the acquisition of new companies specializing in midoffer visual correction to as many consumers as possible. In this range products and high-tech sunglasses, such as Polycore, respect, the Group is also pushing the limits of science thanks to Xiamen Yarui Optical (owner of the Bolon and Molsion brands), new technologies that today allow visually impaired people to test Suntech Optics (which owns and distributes Ryders Eyewear) and eyeglass prototypes under augmented reality conditions. Costa. Another key event in 2013 was the creation of a Corporate The Group continues to grow through acquisitions and strategic Social Responsability (CSR) Committee within Essilor’s Board partnerships that allow Essilor to reaffirm its leading position of Directors and the position of Chief Corporate Mission Officer in fast-growing countries such as India, China and Brazil. This in charge of coordinating and strengthening all of the Group’s strategy also allows the integration of new technologies and new CSR initiatives. Its purpose was to help Essilor reach its goal of distribution networks on a group-wide basis. providing new solutions to 50 million new people worldwide each year, especially in terms of products and distribution. The decade was marked by major strategic partnerships, in particular: the Japanese group Nikon through the joint venture In 2014, Essilor deepened its presence in the photochromic Nikon Essilor Co. Ltd (1999); the South Korean group Samyung segment by completing the acquisition of the PPG group’s 51% Trading Ltd through the joint venture Essilor Korea Ltd with stake in Transitions Optical – its largest acquisition to date – and subsidiaries in South Korea and China (2002); GXB Rx in India in the online business, with the acquisition of Coastal.com, a major (2006); Wanxin Optical in China (2010); Signet Armorlite, which e-tailer of optical products. Also in 2014, the Group signiﬁcantly has the worldwide production and distribution license for Kodak in increased its investments in consumer marketing. the United States (2010); and Shamir Optical in Israel (2011). Over the period, Essilor developed its positions in many new countries, particularly in Latin America, Asia and Africa, aided by a score of new acquisitions and partnerships each year. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 7 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE 1.2 Ophthalmic optics industry 1.2 OPHTHALMIC OPTICS INDUSTRY The mission of the players in the ophthalmic optics industry is The ophthalmic lens industry is organized into four distinct to correct and protect vision. Consumers purchase glasses businesses, each corresponding to a phase in the transformation about every three years to correct defects such as myopia, of the product ordered by the consumer: raw materials suppliers, hypermetropia, presbyopia and astigmatism. lens manufacturers, prescription laboratories and edging centers, and retailers. Raw materials suppliers Chemical companies and glass manufacturers Lens manufacturers Integrated manufacturers Non-integrated manufacturers – Essilor with laboratories Optical chains with integrated Lens ﬁnishers Essilor Independent laboratories laboratories Retailers Independent opticians – Non-integrated optical chains – Online distribution with integrated Online distribution laboratories – Essilor End customers Consumers According to data available to the Group, the world market for year or approximately 600 million consumers per year. ophthalmic optics represents approximately 1.2 billion lenses per 1.2.1 Chemical companies and glass manufacturers Raw materials are developed and produced by glass Essilor is a customer of chemical companies and glass manufacturers for glass lenses and by chemical companies for manufacturers around the world. the polymerizable thermoset resins and injectable thermoplastic resins used in plastic lenses. 1.2.2 Lens manufacturers Using these raw materials, lens manufacturers produce in their Finished lenses are for simple eyesight corrections, while semi-ﬁnished plants single-vision ﬁnished lenses and a variety of semi-ﬁnished lenses allow for the production of more complex eyesight corrections. lenses. Essilor manufactures both single-vision ﬁnished lenses and semiﬁnished lenses. 1.2.3 Prescription laboratories and edging centers Prescription laboratories transform semi-ﬁnished lenses (only Essilor operates in this segment and owns 490 prescription the front surface is ﬁnished) into ﬁnished lenses corresponding laboratories, edging and local distribution centers around the to the exact speciﬁcations of an optician’s or optometrist’s order. world. This customization enables them to deliver the broadest possible Essilor’s Equipment business also designs equipment ranges array of correction combinations, especially for presbyopia. In the (primarily machines for surfacing and anti-reﬂective coatings) and process, they surface and polish the semi-ﬁnished lenses and then sells consumables to prescription laboratories. apply tinting, anti-UV, anti-scratch, anti-reﬂective, anti-smudge, anti-static, light-ﬁltering, anti-fog and other coatings. 8 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 ESSILOR 1.3 Group businesses AT A GLANCE 1.2.4 Retailers and optical chains Lenses are marketed through a number of channels, including independent eye-care professionals, cooperatives, central In the United States and the United Kingdom, for example, laboratories and edging centers usually fully mount the lenses 1 purchasing agencies and retail optical chains. and frames and deliver ready-to-wear eyeglasses to the eye-care professional. The primary role of eye-care professionals is to advise customers on the choice of lens, based on the prescription, as well as the In countries such as France and Germany, for the most part, choice of frame. Then, they send the prescription data to the lens laboratories deliver round lenses to opticians, who then adjust manufacturer or prescription laboratory. them to ﬁt the frame. The interaction among these players differs from one country to Essilor is a supplier for optical retailers and chains worldwide another. and develops online solutions for optical products (contact lenses, prescription eyeglasses and sunglasses). 1.3 GROUP BUSINESSES 1.3.1 Lenses and Optical Instruments 1.3.1.1 Business overview instruments for opticians and prescription laboratories, and secondly, vision-screening instruments for eye-care professionals, Essilor designs, manufactures and customizes corrective lenses schools, occupational medicine centers, the military and other to meet each person’s unique vision requirements. institutions. Through a wide range of lenses that offer greater comfort, Essilor The Group also develops solutions for the online sale of optical provides solutions for correcting myopia, hyperopia, astigmatism products (contact lenses, prescription eyewear and sunglasses) to and presbyopia to enable people to regain perfect vision, and serve a rapidly expanding global distribution channel. preserve and protect their eyesight. In 2014, the Lenses and Optical Instruments business represented Essilor serves every segment of the ophthalmic lens industry with 88% of the Group’s revenue. globally recognized brands, such as: • Varilux and its progressive lens ranges, including Varilux S series, a 1.3.1.2 Market and competitive position new range of lenses launched in 2012, and Varilux E series launched in 2014; According to the Group’s estimates, 4.5 billion (1) people worldwide are in need of vision correction. Among them, 1.9 billion (1) or 26% • Crizal and its range of anti-reﬂective, anti-smudge and antiof the global population, already have equipment to correct and static lenses, including Crizal Prevencia, a new generation of lenses launched in 2013; protect their vision. • Transitions and its photochromic lens ranges, including Ophthalmic optics represents a total of 1.2 billion lenses per year worlwide or approximately 600 million consumers per year, with Transitions Signature, a new generation of lenses launched in 2013; an estimated manufacturing value of almost €11 billion. Its longterm growth, traditionally ranging from 3% to 4%, is primarily • Optifog for anti-fog lenses; based on demand from fast-growing countries with an under• Xperio for polarized lenses; equipped population, on the aging global population, and on the increasing number of unmet visual needs. • Nikon and Kodak, brands used under licensing agreements with Nikon Corporation and Eastman Kodak. In a highly fragmented sector comprised mainly of small local competitors, the Group estimates Essilor’s signiﬁcant position to Essilor also designs, develops, distributes and maintains two be 39% in terms of volume. Essilor’s main competitors are Hoya specialized ranges of optical instruments: firstly, lens-edging (Japan) and Carl Zeiss Vision (Germany). (1) 2015 estimates. Source: Essilor. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 9 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE 1.3 Group businesses In 2014, according to estimates produced by the Essilor group, the Essilor’s customers are: global optics industry grew by around 3%, with volumes driven primarily by fast-growing countries in Asia and Latin America. • Opticians / optometrists for ophthalmic lenses and edgingmounting instruments directly or indirectly through The long-term development of the different segments is distributors; characterized by: • Prescription laboratories for lenses and edging-mounting • The gradual replacement of mineral lenses with organic instruments; lenses, particularly in the emerging countries; • End-users via the Group’s websites that sell optical products. • The growth in new organic materials that make it possible to produce very thin lenses, including the high and very high indices and polycarbonate; 1.3.1.3 Organization and facilities • The replacement of bifocal lenses with progressive lenses; ■ Business process • The development of surface coatings and multi-layer lenses, essentially anti-reflective, anti-smudge and variable tint Essilor’s business process is designed as a complete network. lenses; The Group is involved in every step, from product manufacture to • Growing demand in the developing countries based on growth delivery to stores. It has a global network of plants, prescription laboratories, edging centers and distribution centers serving eyein their middle class. care professionals (optical retailers and chains) worldwide. Plants Distribution Centers Prescription Laboratories Opticians / Eye-Care professionals Semi-ﬁnished lenses Finished lenses Stock or prescription ﬁnished lenses Ready-to-wear glasses Orders sent to the prescription laboratories 10 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 ESSILOR 1.3 Group businesses AT A GLANCE ■ A unique global network 1 Europe: 44 Paris North America: 169 Dallas Asia/Paciﬁc/ Singapore Middle East/Africa: 244 Latin America: 33 RRio i de Janeiro 25 plants specialized in prescription lens production 5 Transitions Optical plants (photochromic lenses) 3 plants specialized in sun lens production 490 prescription laboratories, edging facilities and local distribution centers 7 export prescription laboratories 16 distribution centers Production plants Their role is to ensure the secure supply of ﬁnished and semiThe Group had a total of 33 plants as of December 31, 2014. ﬁnished lenses to subsidiaries and direct customers, on-time, per speciﬁcations and at the best cost. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 11 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE 1.3 Group businesses Geographical distribution of the 33 plants owned by Essilor and its partners as of December 31, 2014 (Date of consolidation) North America: 6 Latin America: 2 Europe: 7 Asia/Middle East: 18 15 Essilor plants United States: Brazil: France: China: • Dudley, • Manaus (1989) • Ligny-en-Barrois • Shanghai (1997) Massachusetts Les Battants (1959) Laos: (1995) • Dijon (1972) • Savannaketh (2013) • Salt Lake City, • Sézanne (1974) Philippines: Utah (2003) • Bellegarde-sur• Marivelès (1980) Mexico: Valserine (2003)* • Laguna (1999) • Chihuahua (1985) Ireland: Thailand: Puerto Rico: • Ennis (1991) • Bangkok (1990) • Ponce (1986) 5 Transitions United States: Brazil: Ireland: Philippines: Optical plants • Pinellas Park, • Sumaré, São Paulo • Tuam (2014) • Laguna (2014) Florida (2014) (2014) Thailand: • Amphoe Phan Thong (2014) 13 plants operated United States: United Kingdom: China: in partnership or • X-Cel Optical Sauk • Crossbows Optical • Essilor Korea via its subsidiary recently acquired Rapids, Minnesota (2010) Chemilens, JiaXing (2006) by the Group (2012) • ILT Danyang, Danyang (2010) • Wanxin Optical, Danyang (2010) • Youli Optics, Danyang (2011) • Seeworld Optical, Danyang (2012) Korea: • Essilor Korea via its subsidiary Chemiglas, Yangsan (2002) Israel: • Shamir Optical, Kibbutz Shamir (2011) Indonesia: • Polycore, Karawang (2013)* Japan: • Nikon-Essilor, Nasu (2000) Malaysia: • Polycore, Johor Baru (2013)* Vietnam: • Essilor Korea via its subsidiary Chemiglas, Dai An (2013) * Plants specialized in sun lens production. Prescription laboratories and edging centers Distribution centers Prescription laboratories transform semi-finished lenses into Distribution centers take delivery of ﬁnished and semi-ﬁnished custom-made ﬁnished lenses. lenses and ship them to distribution subsidiaries, prescription laboratories and edging centers. Sixteen centers are located As of December 31, 2014, the Group’s prescription laboratories, throughout the world: six in Asia, ﬁve in Europe, three in North edging facilities and local distribution centers were located as America and two in Latin America. follows: Products manufactured by Essilor and its subsidiaries are North America 169 distributed by: Europe 44 • the Group’s subsidiaries or networks in the countries where Essilor is located; or Asia/Paciﬁc/Middle East/Africa 244 Latin America 33 • by distributors if the Group does not have its own subsidiaries. 12 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 ESSILOR 1.3 Group businesses AT A GLANCE 1.3.2 Equipment 1.3.2.1 Business overview particularly in digital surfacing machines, small machines that produce one hour anti-reﬂective lenses, and consumables. 1 The Equipment business consists primarily of Satisloh, which manufactures and sells equipment and consumables used by Satisloh’s customers are prescription laboratories, integrated prescription laboratories. optical chains and lens manufacturers. In 2014, the Equipment business represented 3% of the Group’s Its main competitors are Schneider (Germany) in surfacing and revenue. Leybold (Germany) in anti-reﬂective coating machines. 1.3.2.2 Market and competitive position 1.3.2.3 Organization and facilities In value, the Group estimates that sales of equipment and Satisloh, whose headquarters are in Baar, Switzerland, owns consumables used by prescription laboratories at around production units in Germany (Wetzlar), Italy (Milan), the United €500 million. States (Charlottesville and Concord), Brazil (Petropolis) and China (Zhongshan), and has representative offices in many other Satisloh is the world’s leading supplier of surfacing machines countries. and anti-reﬂective coating units. Its global position is substantial, Moscow Wetzlar Paris Horgen g HQ: Baar Zagreb Barcelona Milan Ankara Athens Tel-Aviv Seoul Germantown Tokyo Concord Charlottesville Danyang Zhongshan Hong Kong Mumbai Bangkok Bogota Petropolis Sao Paulo Brisbane Production and / or R&D centers Sales and service centers Representative offices Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 13 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE 1.3 Group businesses 1.3.3 Sunglasses & Readers 1.3.3.1 Business overview FGX International is the North American leader in nonprescription reading glasses. Internationally, the competitors The Sunglasses & Readers business sells non-prescription of FGX International are small local players. Costa is one of the reading glasses and non-prescription sunglasses. U.S. leaders in high-performance sunglasses while Xiamen The Group has a portfolio of well-known brands such as Foster Yarui Optical (owner of Bolon and Molsion) is the leading Chinese Grant, Costa, Bolon, Molsion, Prosun, Ryders Eyewear, Magnivision, manufacturer of mid-range sunglasses. Gargoyles, SolarShield, and Corinne McCormack. It also holds Products in the Sunglasses & Readers Division are sold to large licenses for trademarks such as Ironman, Nine West, Dockers, retailers (e.g., Wal-Mart and Target), pharmacies (e.g., Walgreens Reebok, Hello Kitty and various Disney trademarks. and CVS) and specialized retail outlets (e.g., Barnes and Noble), as In 2014, the Sunglasses & Readers business represented 9% of well as to eye-care professionals and department stores. Group revenue. 1.3.3.3 Organization and facilities 1.3.3.2 Market and competitive position FGX International’s headquarters are in Smithﬁeld, Rhode Island, The Group estimates the Readers segment at approximately United States. 240 million pairs per year in volume and close to €1.2 billion per The Sunglasses & Readers business has representative offices year in value. and subsidiaries in the United States, Canada, Mexico, the United The organized industry for non-prescription sunglasses represents Kingdom, Italy and China. approximately 615 million pairs per year in volume and €6 billion With the 2013 acquisition of 50% of Xiamen Yarui Optical, the in value. Chinese leader in mid-range sunglasses and owner of the Bolon and Molsion brands, the Sunglasses & Readers Division now has a production plant in Xiamen in southeastern China. Headquarters Subsidiaries/representative offices Plant Countries where products are distributed 14 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 ESSILOR 1.4 The Group’s strategy AT A GLANCE 1.4 THE GROUP’S STRATEGY 1 For all of its businesses, Essilor’s strategy is based on four key • An active acquisitions and partnership strategy with industry pillars: stakeholders, allowing the Group to strengthen its local presence or enhance its asset portfolio (see Section 1.5.4.1 • I nnovation in terms of products, services and technology, “Acquisitions and partnerships during the year”); reflected in particular in the launch each year of a large number of products with improved performance and • Stimulating demand through the development of vision new benefits for wearers to resolve vision problems (see information and screening campaigns, and initiatives to make Section 1.5.2 “Innovation and key products and services visual correction accessible to as many people as possible. launched in 2014”); These four pillars rely on the Group’s ongoing industrial and • The development of offers tailored to all segments and all operational efficiency and on a strong commitment to corporate, regions to meet the various needs of eye-care professionals social and environmental responsibility (see Chapter 4). and consumers (see Section 1.5.2.5 “More than 300 new products launched in 2014”); Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 15 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE 1.5 Performance of the Group in 2014 1.5 PERFORMANCE OF THE GROUP IN 2014 In a mixed economic environment, Essilor successfully deployed a The 2014 results were also shaped by the following factors: strategy of broadening its playing ﬁeld, with the sustained support of its original model of innovation and partnerships. In 2014, this • The sustained success of the Company’s innovations, including the Crizal, Varilux S series, Transitions Signature and Xperio process increased the Company’s presence in corrective lenses lenses; to 39% of global volume, and in the percentage of revenue coming from North America, to 45%, and from fast-growing countries, to • The improvement in like-for-like revenue growth, to 3.7%. This 22%. Essilor deepened its presence in the Photochromic segment was driven by the Lenses and Optical Instruments division and by completing the acquisition of the remaining 51% of Transitions gained steady momentum quarter after quarter to hit 5.0% in Optical – its largest acquisition to date – and in the online business the ﬁnal quarter of the year; with the acquisition of Coastal.com, a major e-tailer of optical products. Essilor also developed a sunglass offer combining • A historically high adjusted (1) contribution from operations (2), at 18.6% of revenue, illustrating Essilor’s ability to use its the Company’s premium sunlens production expertise and FGX operating leverage and the synergies from the acquired International’s distribution capabilities. The sunwear business companies to ﬁnance its additional marketing expenditure; was also strengthened by the acquisition of the mid-range Bolon and Molsion brands in China at the end of 2013, and of the Costa • The increase in consumer marketing spend, which rose brand in the US performance sunglass segment at the beginning to around €150 million on a full-year basis, including the of 2014. Photochromic, Sunwear and Online businesses; • The completion of twelve new acquisitions representing total full-year revenue of €525 million; • The growth in business with large accounts and the increase in the number of integrated supply-chain contracts in every region around the world. Change in revenue from 2013 to 2014 Change Change Actual on a like-forin the scope Currency change like basis of consolidation effect € millions 605 187 491 -73 As a % +12.0% +3.7% +9.7% -1.4% In 2014, consolidated revenue totaled €5,670 million, an strategic acquisitions (4.8%) in the form of Transitions Optical and increase of 13.4% over the previous year. Coastal.com. Like-for-like sales growth was 3.7% for the year, reflecting an An overall adverse 1.4% currency effect, reflecting the sharp improvement in activity between the ﬁrst half (up 3.0%) and the increase in the euro against the main billing currencies in the ﬁrst second (up 4.4%). half was partially offset by the upturn in the dollar against the euro late in the year. The positive 9.7% impact of changes in scope of consolidation was attributable to the contribution of bolt-on acquisitions (3) (4.9%) and (1) Adjusted for non-recurring items related mainly to the acquisition of Transitions Optical, Coastal.com and Costa in 2014, and of Xiamen Yarui Optical (Bolon) in 2013. (2) Contribution from operations corresponds to revenue less cost of sales and operating expenses (research and development costs, selling and distribution costs, other operating expenses). (3) Local acquisitions or partnerships. 16 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 ESSILOR 1.5 Performance of the Group in 2014 AT A GLANCE 1.5.1 Highlights by business and region Change 1 Consolidated revenue Actual in scope of Currency € millions 2014 2013 change Like-for-like consolidation effect Lenses and Optical Instruments 4,970 4,505 +10.3% +4.3% +7.6% -1.6% North America 2,038 1,770 +15.1% +5.0% +10.9% -0.8% Europe 1,653 1,572 +5.2% +0.1% +5.1% +0.1% Asia/Paciﬁc/Middle East/Africa 898 812 +10.6% +8.2% +5.7% -3.4% Latin America 381 351 +8.6% +10.8% +6.7% -8.9% Equipment 197 205 -3.7% -1.8% -1.5% -0.4% Sunglasses & Readers 503 355 +41.7% -1.0% +42.9% -0.2% TOTAL 5,670 5,065 +12.0% +3.7% +9.7% -1.4% Breakdown of Essilor 2014 revenue by operating segment and by region Sunglasses & Readers Lenses and Optical Instruments 9% 88% Non-prescription Corrective lenses reading glasses Optical Instruments intended Non-prescription sunglasses for optician / optometrist Geographical breakdown of the Lenses € 5,670M and Optical Instruments division As a % of total Group revenue Equipment 36% North America 3% 29% Europe Machines and consumables used by plants and prescription laboratories 16% Asia/Paciﬁc/Middle East/Africa 7% Latin America Revenue generated by fast-growing countries (1) amounted to €1,261 million, or 22.2% of the Group’s revenue. (1) Fast-growing countries: Africa, ASEAN, China, Hong Kong, India, Latin America, Middle East, Russia, South Korea and Taiwan. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 17 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE 1.5 Performance of the Group in 2014 1.5.1.1 Lenses and Optical Instruments integrated supply chain contract with a very large optical chain and ﬁrm demand from independent eye-care professionals. Led The Lenses and Optical Instruments division delivered a 4.3% by operations in Poland and the Czech Republic, revenue from like-for-like gain for the year, sharply outpacing the 1.8% growth the Eastern European countries continued on a solid upward reported in 2013. This renewed vitality was led by the success trend overall. Growth also remained robust in Russia, thanks to of Essilor solutions with optical chains and independent eye-care an effective multi-network distribution strategy. professionals alike, ﬁrm markets in the fast-growing economies and the deployment of major consumer advertising campaigns. The situation gradually turned around in France after a rough start to the year. The success of high value-added products like Crizal Prevencia and Varilux S series lenses, boosted by an ■ North America assertive consumer advertising campaign and the close ﬁt among the various distribution networks, helped to attenuate the adverse Revenue rose 5% like-for-like in North America on the back of impact of a shifting regulatory environment. strong new product sales and successful consumer marketing campaigns. Positions were strengthened in the United States. The quickening ■ Asia/Paciﬁc/Middle East/Africa pace of advertising campaign roll-outs spurred faster sales of Revenue from the Asia/Paciﬁc/Middle East/Africa region rose by the leading Essilor brands in four main product categories: anti8.2% like-for-like, led by a solid performance in the fast-growing reflective lenses (Crizal UV and Crizal Prevencia), progressive countries of the region. lenses (Varilux, particularly Varilux S series), photochromic lenses (Transitions) and polarized lenses (Xperio). The contact l ens Operations in India had an excellent year, with a more than 20% distribution business also enjoyed robust growth, driven in part like-for-like surge in revenue, from both domestic and export by online sales. On the distribution side, business with Managed sales. Business beneﬁted from Crizal’s powerful brand identity, Care organizations rose after the supply contract with the nation’s the sharp growth in sales of Varilux lenses and other progressive number two provider was broadened, with full deployment lens, Kodak’s lens growing success in the mid-tier and the scheduled for completion in first-half 2015. The contract is continued shift from glass to plastic lenses. Together, these also having a recurring positive knock-on effect on business factors are enabling Essilor to maintain its forward momentum. with independent optometrists, as the eye-care professionals Operations in China continued to deliver double-digit like-for-like affiliated with this managed care network can also use their growth in domestic sales. The E-SPF UV protection index is being access to Essilor products and laboratories for purchases not positively impacted by the consumer advertising campaigns and covered by insurance. Business with the optical chains was more its introduction in the mid-tier by a large number of partners. mixed, although there were further gains with a number of large Kodak lenses performed well following their market launch, while accounts. The online business (FramesDirect, EyeBuyDirect and demand for photochromic lenses rose during the year. Lastly, a Coastal.com) continued to enjoy fast growth. good business relationship has been initiated with the country’s Growth in Canada is being supported by several factors, including leading optical chain. These solid results improved Essilor’s the effective consumer advertising campaigns for the Varilux, Crizal, positions in the domestic market, thereby helping to offset a Transitions and Xperio brands, the impact of the “perfect pair” offer, decline in export sales. which is driving the emergence of the prescription sunglasses Business in Southeast Asia is gathering speed, while operations category at independent opticians, and the Company’s widening in South Korea are suffering from a country-speciﬁc slowdown in presence in the mass retailing channel. Expansion in the mid-tier is demand due to the lengthening of the glasses renewal rate. gathering pace with the introduction of Kodak lenses and the good In the Africa/Middle East region, business is trending upwards, momentum of the recent partnership with Riverside Optical. with particularly strong growth in South Africa. In the region’s mature markets, business was stable in Japan ■ Europe despite the market decline spurred by changes in the economic Revenue rose by just 0.1% like-for-like in Europe, held back by and tax environments. The Group’s performance in Australia and a contract loss in the second half of 2013. Excluding this factor, New Zealand was positive thanks to the success of the Crizal which primarily impacted the German-speaking and Benelux UV lens, whose sales were boosted by consumer advertising regions, business was lifted by the sustained growth in certain campaigns. markets and the success of new product launches, led by the Crizal Prevencia lens. ■ Latin America In a generally improving economy, operations in Southern Europe Revenue growth accelerated in Latin America, to 10.8% like-forenjoyed a clear upturn in performance. In particular, revenue in like, despite the sharp economic slowdown in the region, where Spain beneﬁted from a new contract with a leading national optical Essilor is reaping the benefits of its strategy to innovate and chain and the success of its advertising campaigns. In the United develop its distribution networks. Kingdom, business was supported by the smooth execution of the 18 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 ESSILOR 1.5 Performance of the Group in 2014 AT A GLANCE Sales in Brazil were led by the successful launch of Varilux S reported growth continued to be impacted by the recognition of series lenses, the sharp increase in demand for Crizal lenses sales to acquired group companies as intra-group revenue. In spite (supported by a nationwide media campaign), and double-digit volume growth for Transitions photochromic lenses. In the midtier, the year was shaped by the gradual introduction of Kodakof this, Latin America reported a sharp revenue increase, thanks to the success of surfacing microlines for small laboratories and coating machines for industrial applications. Revenue was also up 1 brand lenses across the country, with volumes increasing in Asia. Revenue remained stable in North America, despite a high significantly in Brazil’s southern states where the launch was basis of comparison reﬂecting the effect of an equipment contract underpinned by a consumer advertising campaign. with a major optical chain in 2013. These trends were nonetheless insufficient to offset the decline in demand for digital surfacing Essilor generated further robust growth in Colombia by machines in Europe and North America. The solid fourth-quarter continuing to leverage its partnership with prescription laboratory performance was attributable to the resounding success of the Servioptica, thereby ensuring a sustained improvement in sales green alternative to the traditional alloy ophthalmic blocking of Varilux, Crizal and Transitions lenses. In addition, Essilor process, for which there is no rival product on the market to date. strengthened its presence in this fast-growing market by initiating This unique offering, as well as a pipeline of new products and the launch of Nikon-branded lenses. Business was also very brisk services, is helping to rebuild the order backlog, which should in Chile. In Mexico, growth was held back by an unfavorable drive a further revenue improvement over the coming quarters. economic and political environment. Lastly, countries served by third-party distributors delivered a solid performance overall. 1.5.1.3 Sunglasses & Readers ■ Instruments In 2014, the Sunglasses & Readers Division stepped up its The Instruments Division continued to expand during the year, strategy of expanding in the global marketplace and moving its with revenue rising 4.1% like-for-like thanks to the lens ﬁnishing product offering upmarket. New companies positioned in very and optometry businesses. New share was gained in the edging fast-growing sunglasses segments were integrated over the year, segment, supported by a solid improvement in the product mix including Costa, a major player in the US performance sunglasses and growth in edging system sales volumes. Business in Europe market, and Xiamen Yarui Optical, whose expansion is being was buoyed by the successful launch of the second-generation driven by the growing success of the Bolon and Molsion brands premium edger, Mr. Blue 2.0, which features custom lens in China. Both of these companies delivered strong growth in line engraving. In the fast-growing countries, sales were driven by with the business plans. the opening of new optical stores and the steady improvement Given that Xiamen Yarui Optical and Costa have been consolidated in product mix. This was particularly the case in China, where the since, respectively, November 1, 2013 and February 1, 2014, the mid-range NeKsia edger featuring improved lens centering and 1% like-for-like decline in division revenue was solely attributable blocking is gaining share from Triplets tool, the entry-level model. to the operating difficulties encountered by FGX in North America. Sales enjoyed solid growth in Italy, Spain and Japan, as well as At a time of rising consumer sales, business was dampened by in Turkey where a majority stake was acquired in Esel Optik, extensive inventory drawdowns by leading customers, especially Essilor’s long-standing distribution partner for instruments. in the second half, the postponement of certain eyewear line Optometry sales rose sharply on the launch of a new line of midrefreshes, and the loss of space at a large account. Outside North tier instruments offering the possibility of performing dilated America, FGX enjoyed robust business, with double-digit gains in fundus examinations. Sales of in-store measuring devices slowed Latin America and strong growth in Europe. during the year. 1.5.1.4 Exceptional factors 1.5.1.2 Equipment No exceptional factors inﬂuenced the Group’s main businesses or Equipment Division revenue declined by 1.8% like-for-like for the markets in 2014. year, but recovered strongly in the fourth quarter, which saw a like-for-like increase of 7.2%. Throughout 2014, the division’s Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 19 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE 1.5 Performance of the Group in 2014 1.5.2 Innovation and key products and services launched in 2014 1.5.2.1 Innovation: at the core of the Group’s (products testing by eyeglass wearers in real-life situations). The year was also marked by the integration of the R&D teams from strategy Transitions Optical and the establishment of the ﬁrst technological Ever since its beginnings, which saw the invention of organic synergies. This will lead to the launch of new products in 2015, lenses and progressive lenses, innovation has been a key area of particularly in the area of polarized lenses. Finally, the Group strategic focus for Essilor and also a competitive advantage. created a research center in Danyang, China that will open in Every year, the Group devotes a signiﬁcant percentage of revenue early 2015. The new center will assess products manufactured by to R&D: €188 million in 2014, before research tax credits. the Group’s Chinese partners, compare them with those of local competitors, and strengthen their performance. Essilor’s R&D teams are organized into three specific areas of expertise, allowing it to offer innovative technical solutions, products, processes and services to meet individual vision 1.5.2.3 R&D partnerships focusing on innovation correction needs around the world. These areas are Optics, In developing its products, Essilor networks with many Physics & Chemistry, which studies materials and thin ﬁlm, and universities, public and private research centers, and R&D teams Breakthrough Technologies. The teams rely on regional networks in other industrial sectors (major groups or innovative SMEs). built up with the world’s leading experts in these ﬁelds and on a solid base of international patents that are constantly being At the end of 2013, the Group signed a new four-year partnership developed. with the Vision Institute in France, one of the leading European centers dedicated to scientific and medical research into eye Each year brings innovations in terms of materials, coatings and diseases, and Pierre and Marie Curie University in Paris, which designs (especially for progressive lenses), and the Group uses specializes in science and medicine. This partnership led to the technologies from other industries to continually improve the creation of a joint R&D laboratory dedicated to non-pathological characteristics of its products. vision aging and its consequences on loss of independence. In The Group’s R&D work and partnership projects focus on ﬁve key 2014, the laboratory was granted ﬁnancial support from France’s areas: vision health and protection, myopia, customization and National Research Agency (ANR), becoming a French academic segmentation, the challenge of the effects of aging on vision, and industrial chair. Renamed SilverSight, the chair will study the brightness management (photochromic properties, glare, etc.). consequences of visual aging on perception and an individual’s cognitive functions, and will develop solutions to allow the elderly to remain independent. 1.5.2.2 A global structure based on three During the year, the Group was also awarded a prize by the Innovation and Technology Centers city of Wenzhou in China for its contribution to local economic To strengthen its capacity for innovation, in 2011 Essilor brought development and research on myopia in China, in conjunction together the skills and resources of R&D, Engineering and with its research laboratory run jointly with the University of Technical Support teams at three Innovation and Technology Wenzhou. The laboratory was created in 2013 to study myopia in Centers, one in Europe (Créteil, France), one in North America children, identify the sources and causes of this sight impairment (Dallas, USA) and one in Asia (Singapore). The purpose of these as well as the factors that can inﬂuence its development, and seek centers is to optimize quality and performance and the time it solutions – primarily based on ophthalmic lenses – to slow down takes to develop and launch products on the global market in its progression. order to respond to customer needs and the specifics of each The year was also characterized by the establishment of a market and to be able to identify and forge the best research partnership with the Laboratoire d’Analyse et d’Architecture des partnerships. Systèmes (LAAS), a research unit of the French National Center In 2014, the Group strengthened its teams at its Innovation and for Scientiﬁc Research (CNRS), to conduct a research project on Technology Center in Singapore, particularly for “wearers tests” the theme of “Vision, glare sensitivity, and the elderly.” 20 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 ESSILOR 1.5 Performance of the Group in 2014 AT A GLANCE A global R&D organization supported by scientiﬁc, industrial and academic partners I&TC EUROPE IVS Paris Bar-le-Duc 1 Dijon Grenoble Norway Toulouse CROSSBOWS Ireland I&TC Montreal London SATISLOH AMERICA Switzerland CHEMIGLASS Seoul NIKON-ESSILOR Tokyo Boston (Dudley) San Diego Dallas & Germany NEIJRC Tokyo FGX Smithﬁeld Madrid Shanghai SHAMIR Israel Chihuahua TRANSITIONS Tampa Wenzhou Tel Aviv Mexique Bangkok Bangalore Singapore I&TC ASIA Jakarta Rio de Janeiro Melbourne Essilor Innovation & Technology Centers (I&TC) Major Research and Development Partnerships Other Research and Development partnerships 1.5.2.4 Patents 1.5.2.5 More than 300 new products launched in 2014 At the end of 2014, the Essilor group, including its wholly owned In 2014, the Group launched more than 300 new products. This companies (BNL, Gentex Optics, Satisloh, Signet Armorlite, Rupp & high number reﬂects the increasing customization of lenses and Hubrach, FGX, Intercast, Optifacts and Transitions) and their the Group’s willingness to fulﬁll speciﬁc local requests. subsidiaries, held 1,500 patent families representing a total of In Europe, it launched the Varilux E series lens in the Varilux over 7,200 patents in France and abroad. progressive lens range. This new lens uses Swim Control The Group’s very active innovation policy is sustained and technology, which is derived from the Nanoptix technology that is strengthened by an equally active intellectual property policy, already key to the Varilux S series lens, and which reduces swim both upstream, to support innovation (by using patents as a tool effects while improving image clarity. The Varilux E series lens is for innovation) and downstream, to optimize protection for all particularly targeted at newly presbyopes since it makes it easier innovations. to adapt to progressive lenses. In 2014, Essilor ﬁled 140 new patent applications. In the Crizal range of anti-reﬂective lenses, the year was marked by the synchronized launch of Crizal Prevencia lens across all It is also Group policy to prevent patent infringements. As such, continents at the end of 2013. Crizal Prevencia lens is the ﬁrstall Group employees have access to guides and forms. Many ever preventive lens to protect against UVs, which are implicated employees also attend IP awareness-raising sessions conducted in the onset of cataracts. It also ﬁlters out harmful blue light, which by the Intellectual Property Department to create, protect and is one of the risk factors in age-related macular degeneration defend the Group’s intellectual property around the world. (AMD), while letting through beneﬁcial blue light. In 2014, Crizal The commitments given in the context of the exclusive or nonPrevencia lens was named Product of the Year in Canada in the exclusive use of patents through licenses are not material. Optics category. It also received the Fiber of Innovation award The Group is not dependent on any contracts, patents or licenses from OpticsValley, a French technology cluster that coordinates or on one or more customers that currently have a material impact collaboration between businesses and research laboratories in on its operations and that could have a significant impact on the ﬁeld of optics, photonics and electronics. expiration. Similarly, it is not dependent on any supply contracts, In the Transitions range of photochromic lenses, the Group rolled since purchases are spread among a number of suppliers. All out Transitions Signature in 2014 in North America and Asia/ contracts are on arm’s-length terms. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 21 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE 1.5 Performance of the Group in 2014 Pacific / Middle East/ Africa . This photochromic lens was first a licensing agreement signed in 2013 with Saﬁlo, the Group also launched in Europe in 2013 and is based on the new Chromea7 launched a polarized corrective lens under the Polaroid brand in technology, which increases its reactivity to light intensity as four countries: France, Italy, Spain and the United States. well as to indirect light. As a result, it can reach darker tints and In the readers segment, FGX International launched Foster Grant return to its clear state very quickly. The lens won the Best Visual MultiFocus, a range of eyeglasses offering three different optical Health Award at the Vision X show in Dubai in November 2014. strengths in one lens for reading (lower portion of the lens), Also in 2014, the Group launched a new tint for its Transitions computer work (central portion of the lens) or interacting with photochromic lenses called “Graphite Green.” Exclusive to Essilor, others (upper portion of the lens). the tint is inspired by the colored lenses worn by US army pilots in the 1950s and offers higher-quality vision and color and contrast New products have also been developed by Satisloh in the perception, regardless of the level of ambient brightness. equipment segment, including a new eco-friendly blocking machine called ART (Alloy Replacement Technology). The machine In 2014, the Group also launched a new version of its Myopilux uses only recyclable organic materials to block lenses during preventive lens range in Asia / Pacific and Canada aimed at surfacing, instead of heavy metals and rare-earth elements. This reducing the progression of myopia in children. The range now lowers its environmental footprint and also improves safety at comprises three separate products: Myopilux Plus, a progressive lens production plants. The machine received the 2014 Ecodesign lens specifically for children, Myopilux Max, a bifocal lens Award from the German Federal Environment Ministry. containing a prismatic addition in its lower portion, and Myopilux Lite. This new range also includes an additional refractive index In 2014, the Group continued to develop new instruments, tools (1.56) often used in Asia and other features such as Transitions and sales-support services for opticians. The Instruments technology. d ivision launched M’Eye Sign, a customized lens engraving process integrated into its new Mr. Blue 2.0 premium edger. IVS In the mid-range, in 2014, the Group developed, with its Chinese has developed Deep Lights, a wireless device that allows opticians partners, a new single-vision lens called Gemcoat. Adapted to the to demonstrate more easily to customers the characteristics of needs of myopic people, this lens combines a new coating and ophthalmic lenses, especially in terms of transparency, UV cutoff new material that allow the lens to be thin yet still offer more and the blocking of speciﬁc light wavelengths, including harmful transparency, more scratch resistance and better UV protection blue-violet light. The device won the Silmo d’Or Award in the than standard lenses on the market. Material / Equipment category at the Paris International Optics Also during the year, the Group extended its visual UV protection and Eyewear Exhibition in September 2014. Also in 2014, the index, the E-SPF, to mid-range lenses to meet the needs of fastGroup launched Eye Print, a sales agreement that allows opticians growing markets in the Asia/Paciﬁc region. Two new protection to assist customers in the purchase of customized lenses, from levels, 15 and 10, were created in 2014 based on the success of the time they enter the store to the time they leave, using a set of the Crizal lens’s E-SPF 25 index. They are available at all of the wireless, synchronized devices. Group’s Chinese partners (Seeworld, Tianhong, Wanxin and Yoli). The Group also signiﬁcantly stepped up its consumer-targeted For its part, the BBGR network launched a new progressive lens, communication and marketing initiatives in 2014 in a number of Sirus Plus, which offers wider and more stable vision in the midcountries to support the launch of new products and boost brand distance zone (between 50cm and 1m from the wearer). It also development. provides visual comfort and accuracy at any distance. This lens Lastly, in 2014 the Marketing, R&D and Engineering Departments won the Silmo d’Or Award in the Vision category at the Paris actively prepared for new products that will be launched in 2015. International Optics and Eyewear Exhibition in September 2014. These included the Varilux Comfort and Varilux Physio new Lastly, the Group launched its Kodak lenses in Brazil. It is the generation progressive lenses, and Eyezen, a new lens category country’s new leading mid-range consumer brand. that offers visual comfort and protection against harmful blueviolet lights for users of connected devices such as computers, In the polarized sunglasses segment, Xperio Colors lens was tablets, smartphones, etc. rolled out in Europe in 2014. Launched in Australia at the end of 2013, it is the ﬁrst-ever polarized gradual color lens. Following 22 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 ESSILOR 1.5 Performance of the Group in 2014 AT A GLANCE 1.5.3 Operating highlights 1.5.3.1 Production and capital expenditure (opticians, optometrists, and so on) and corresponding to the endconsumer’s prescription. The prescription laboratories and edging 1 The Essilor group and its partners operate 33 plants around the centers take the semi-ﬁnished lenses manufactured at the various world: six in North America, two in Latin America, seven in Europe plants and complete the surfacing, polishing, multi-layer coating and eighteen in Asia/Middle East. This figure includes the five and edging-mounting processes. Transitions Optical plants that were consolidated during the year. However, it no longer includes Essilor’s plant in Carbondale in In 2014, the Group’s prescription laboratories (excluding the United States, where production ceased in October 2014 (see acquisitions and partnerships completed in 2014) produced and summary table in Section 1.3.1.3 “Organization and facilities”). treated some 115 million lenses. In 2014, Essilor’s plants and those of its partners produced around During the ﬁscal year, the Group established new partnerships 465 million prescription lenses (including Transitions Optical sales with a number of laboratories around the world, in particular in to third parties) and some 30 million non-prescription sunglasses. North America and in fast-growing countries (see Section 1.5.4.1 These figures take into account the fullyear production of ”Acquisition and partnerships during the year“). At the same Polycore plants, a company specializing in the production of sun time, it continued to optimize its network and streamline existing lenses that is consolidated since July 2013. facilities. In terms of material, compared to 2013, the production of lenses For the prescription laboratories, 2014 was characterized by the with a 1.56 index continued to rise, particularly in response to roll-out of E-SPF visual UV protection index, in the Asia/Paciﬁc demand in the Asian markets. region and Latin America. E-SPF is now available across most of the Group’s network, including BBGR, Essilor, Kodak, Nikon and The Group recorded significant productivity gains during the Novacel. In addition, two new protection levels, 15 and 10, were year and continued to lower its production costs and improve the created and rolled out in response to requests from Chinese operating performance of its plants under the Lean Manufacturing partners. A license agreement for the use of E-SPF 25 was also program initiated in 2013. signed with a Japanese lens manufacturer. Lastly, the Group In terms of capital expenditure, the Group’s main actions in 2014 deployed E-SPF 50 on all sun lenses manufactured by two of its focused on: partners, BNL Eurolens in Europe and Polycore in Asia. • The start-up of a new production line at the Manaus plant in In 2014, Group entities continued the DEO (Digital-Surfacing External Offer) roll-out to independent laboratories. DEO is a Brazil for the manufacture of polycarbonate lenses in 2015; partnership offer in digital surfacing. It includes the installation • The continuation of plans to automate end-of-production-line of technologies, the supply of semi-ﬁnished lenses, training in processes (lens inspection, packaging and shipping) at the process control, and technical support so that lenses developed by Dudley plant in the United States. the Group can be produced locally using digital surfacing. It also Also in 2014, the Group officially opened its plant in Laos, which incorporates a patented Digital Surfacing Process Control system is specialized in the production of polycarbonate ﬁnished lenses, to guarantee the quality and performance of the lenses produced. while the new production line launched in 2013 at the Dijon In 2014, the Group strengthened its offer by connecting all of its plant in France gained momentum. That line is dedicated to the digital computers (Crossbows Optical, Essilor, Kodak, Nikon, and manufacture of high-index single-vision lenses for which the Shamir) on a single platform. This accelerated the roll-out of its Group obtained the Origine France Garantie label. product range across all markets. By the end of the year, almost Lastly, in 2015 the Group will focus on setting up production 140 independent and partner laboratories were equipped with synergies between Essilor and Transitions Optical plants, starting DEO around the world, up from approximately 120 laboratories with those in Brazil. at the end of 2013. As part of the roll-out of E-SPF and DEO, the Group set up six certification centers in 2014, located in Brazil, China, France, 1.5.3.2 Global Engineering and prescription Japan, Thailand and the United States . These centers offer laboratories independent and partner laboratories solutions for controlling and guaranteeing the quality of manufactured products using Essilor has a network of 490 prescription laboratories, edging technologies or skills developed and patented by the Group. facilities and local distribution centers around the world, including seven export laboratories (two in Mexico, two in Thailand, two in The Group’s global engineering also participated in the launch and India and one in China) that make lenses primarily for the European installation of Satisloh’s new eco-friendly blocking offer, ART or and North American markets. All of these laboratories produce Alloy Replacement Technology, in prescription laboratories (see custom lenses based on orders from eye-care professionals Section 1.5.2.5 “More than 300 new products launched in 2014”). Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 23 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE 1.5 Performance of the Group in 2014 Lastly, as part of its goal to reduce its water and energy these solutions, the Group has set up an inter-continental logistics consumption, the Group implemented a tool during the year to system that integrates stock lenses, prescription lenses and frames. share best environmental and technological practices among In 2014, Logistics teams were also heavily involved in the launch prescription laboratories. and roll-out of new products such as the Varilux E series in Europe, Transitions Graphite Green, whose launch was synchronized 1.5.3.3 Logistics across all continents, and Transitions Signature in North America and Asia/Paciﬁc/Middle East/Africa. These new products, along Essilor’s logistics segment covers the Group’s entire product with those manufactured by recently acquired companies, took ﬂow worldwide, from production sites and central warehouses the number of managed stock-keeping units to 1 million in 2014. to prescription laboratories and sales outlets of eye-care Despite this growth, inventories dropped in terms of coverage and professional customers. In particular, the segment simultaneously value in 2014, in line with targets set by Logistics in 2013 in its manages flows of series productions (finished lenses, mainly three-year action plan. single-vision lenses, manufactured at the plant) and flows of prescription lens productions (semi-ﬁnished lenses manufactured During the year the logistics business also stepped up efforts at the plant and then surfaced and treated at a prescription to streamline transport, replacing air freight with sea freight laboratory). In total, Essilor’s logistics segment manages more for some of its flows. This allowed the Group to reduce its CO2 than 3,000 different ﬂows worldwide. emissions and lower costs. The year was marked by the continued deployment of integrated The Group also continued its efforts to streamline costs related logistics services for optimal management of ﬂows of lenses and to obsolescent former product generations and to its strategy to frames. These collaborative offers were deployed primarily to internalize a proportion of previously outsourced lens purchases. Spain’s ﬁrst domestic optical chain, optical chains in France, and Lastly, the Group is committed to implementing logistical synergies independent optometrists in the United States. To be able to offer with recently acquired companies, especially Coastal.com. 1.5.4 Other aspects of business in 2014 1.5.4.1 Acquisitions and partnerships during the year In 2014, Essilor pursued its acquisitions and partnerships strategy, acquiring or increasing its stakes in 12 companies, representing around €525 million in annual revenue. 12 acquisitions and partnerships completed in 2014 Company Grand Vision Coastal.com ASE Inﬁeld Costa Inc. iCoat Esel Optik Plunkett Optical Prosun Transitions Optical Magrabi Optical Starclic Strategic acquisitions Transitions Optical plants Bolt-on acquisitions in Fast-Growing Countries Bolt-on acquisitions in Developed Countries 24 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 ESSILOR 1.5 Performance of the Group in 2014 AT A GLANCE ■ Strategic acquisitions • Asia/Paciﬁc/Middle East/Africa • 50%-owned Essilor Saudi Arabia has completed the Transitions Optical Inc. On April 1, 2014, Essilor owns 100% of Transitions Optical, the acquisition of Magrabi Optical Ltd, a prescription laboratory based in Jeddah (Saudi Arabia) with annual revenue of 1 world’s leading provider of photochromic lenses to optical some €8 million; manufacturers, and of all the outstanding shares of Intercast, • Essilor has acquired a majority interest in Esel Optik, a manufacturer of premium sun lenses. Based in Florida (USA), Essilor Instruments’ long-standing distribution partner in Transitions Optical was founded in 1990 by Essilor and PPG, that Turkey with annual revenue of some €1.7 million. owned respectively 49% and 51%. Transitions Optical reported sales of $844 million in 2013, of which around $279 million • Latin America with lens manufacturers other than Essilor. Transitions Optical • In Brazil, the Company has acquired a majority interest in and Intercast are fully consolidated in the Lenses and Optical Starclic, a prescription laboratory based in São Paulo with Instruments division. annual revenue of around €0.7 million. Coastal.com Sunglasses & Readers Since April 28, 2014, Essilor has owned all the outstanding • Since February 1, Essilor has owned all outstanding shares common stock of Coastal.com, one of the world’s leading online of Costa Inc., a U.S. leader in high-performance sunglasses. vision care retailers. Based in Vancouver, British Columbia Based in Lincoln, Rhode Island (USA), Costa Inc. designs, (Canada), Coastal.com designs and distributes one of the widest assembles and markets sunglasses under the Costa and online selections of optical equipment, including contact lenses, Native brands. Costa has become the fastest growing highprescription and non-prescription eyeglasses, sunglasses and performance sunglass brand in the United States. The various accessories. It reported revenue of CAD 218 million Company generated revenue of nearly US$100 million in 2013. in 2013. Coastal.com is fully consolidated in the Lenses and Costa Inc. Optical Instruments division. • In China, Xiamen Yarui Optical (Bolon), a 50%-held subsidiary over which Essilor exercises control, beca me a majority ■ Bolt-on acquisitions (1) shareholder in the Company that owns the Prosun brand. Prosun, which generated revenue of about €7 million in Lenses and Optical Instruments 2013, designs, manufactures and sells sunglasses in China’s fast-growing mid-range segment. The second best-known • North America local sunglasses brand in China after Bolon, Prosun mainly Essilor has broadened and deepened its local roots in the specializes in sunglasses for men and children. This company United States by acquiring a majority stake in two prescription will be consolidated in the ﬁnancial statements in 2015. laboratories: Note: Pursuant to the acquisition strategy conducted by the Group and in • Plunkett Optical, an Arkansas-based prescription order to retain the management teams of the companies acquired, laboratory with annual revenue of US$3.3 million; Essilor frequently acquires only a majority in the ﬁrst phase, most • iCoat, an independent California-based prescription frequently between 75% and 90%. Cross options generally expiring in laboratory specialized in the development and licensed sale three to ﬁve years are then set up with the sellers for the remaining of thin-ﬁlm deposit and coating technologies for premium percentage. As part of its acquisition programs and particularly in optical equipment. iCoat generates around US$26 million in countries with strong growth, Essilor may gradually increase its annual revenue. interest in target companies from 10% to 51% over a threeto ﬁve• Europe year period or create a 50/50 joint venture. The exercise value of these options is recognized in the consolidated balance sheet, which • In the United Kingdom, Essilor acquired a majority stake is presented in Section 3.3.2. in ASE Corporate Eyeware, a provider of optical services to businesses, representing some €4 million in annual revenue; 1.5.4.2 Launch of the Vision For Life program • In Russia, Essilor acquired a majority stake in Company Essilor has announced the creation of the Vision For Life program, Grand Vision, a major distributor of ophthalmic lenses and a pioneering step in the Company’s mission to improve lives by contact lenses that generates annual revenue of around improving sight. The Group has committed €30 million to this €29 million; initiative, which is supported by two endowment funds, making it • In France, a majority interest was acquired in Inﬁeld Safety, the largest global strategic giving program dedicated to the ﬁght a prescription safety eyewear wholesaler with around against Uncorrected Refractive Error (URE). It aims to accelerate €2.5 million in annual revenue that will be consolidated innovative initiatives targeting poor vision through awarenessin 2015. raising, capacity-building and the creation of basic vision care infrastructure. (1) Local acquisitions or partnerships. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 25 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE 1.5 Performance of the Group in 2014 1.5.5 Investments made in 2014 and planned for 2015 1.5.5.1 Investments made € millions 2014 2013 Property, plant & equipment and intangible assets (gross of disposals) 232 297 Depreciation 431 253 Financial investments net of cash acquired 1,840 333 Purchase of treasury shares 36 169 1.5.5.2 Capital expenditure 1.5.5.4 Principal outstanding investments Capital expenditure net of the proceeds from asset sales was Capital expenditure committed but not completed amounted to down at €227 million (or 4% of revenue) from €285 million the €81 million at December 31, 2014, corresponding mainly pending previous year. This includes capital expenditure to support industrial equipment orders. This amount can be broken down as the Group’s growth as well as the completion of construction follows: €16 million for Europe, €33 million for North America and of a number of buildings including the Singapore regional €32 million for the rest of the world. headquarters and the distribution center in Rhode Island, United States, for the Sunglasses & Readers Division. 1.5.5.5 Principal future investments Investments were distributed between Lenses and Optical Instruments (€189 million, of which €44 million for Europe, In 2015, the Group will continue its capital expenditure in €63 million for North America and €82 million for the rest of production and prescription. the world), Sunglasses & Readers (€34 million) and Equipment In the area of finance, the Group will continue its acquisitions (€4 million). strategy. 1.5.5.3 Financial investments Financial investments net of cash acquired amounted to €1,840 million in 2014, versus €333 million in 2013. These investments were mainly related to the acquisitions of Transitions Optical, Costa and Coastal.com. The Group also spent €36 million (net of disposal proceeds) on share buybacks in 2014, compared with €169 million in 2013. See Section 3.1.3. 26 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 ESSILOR 1.6 Risk factors AT A GLANCE 1.6 RISK FACTORS 1 Because of what it does and where it is based, the Essilor The main risk factors to which the Group believes that it is International group is exposed to various types of risk (operational, exposed and considers to be actually or potentially signiﬁcant as industrial, commercial or ﬁnancial). Essilor international has put of the date of this Registration Document are described below. in place an internal control system for improved risk anticipation At that date, there may be other risks of which the Group is not and management (see the Chairman’s Report on internal control aware or considers as non-significant and that may adversely in Section 2.2.3). impact it. 1.6.1 Operational risks Operational risks are managed by the operating units concerned. Risks related to substitutions of raw materials, It is their mission to anticipate, to the extent possible, and actively chemicals, and consumables monitor changes in such risks in order to reduce their potentially negative impact and, if necessary, escalate them to the Executive Changing regulations (especially in the European Union, Committee. regulations governing the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (“REACH”)) may force us to ﬁnd new The risks described below may be inherent to our industry alternatives for raw materials, chemicals, and consumables. A (such as substitution risk where raw materials are concerned), change in the raw materials, chemicals, or consumables used or speciﬁc to our Group (such as the risks in implementing the in our lens manufacturing processes can theoretically mean Group’s external growth strategy). a temporary or permanent inability to produce certain types of products or treatments. Risks related to changing economic conditions In order to anticipate any impact, define priorities, and review The Group’s sales are closely linked to ﬂuctuations in average current action plans, a Critical Raw Materials, Chemicals, and per capita purchasing power, the economic conditions in its Consumables Committee (“MPCC”) meets on a monthly basis and main markets, and the high volatility of currency exchange rates. is chaired by a member of Essilor Executive Committee. Given the persistent economic uncertainty in some of the Group’s This inter-departmental committee includes, in particular, the major markets, particularly Europe, the Group cannot exclude the R&D, Purchasing, Logistics, Engineering, and Health & Safety possibility of a drop in consumer sales or a change in consumption Departments. It reviews the assumptions underlying our priorities patterns. (criticality of change, time available to find a solution, impact To beneﬁt from the opportunities associated with fast-growing on our processes) in terms of possible or confirmed changes, markets and to diversify its geographic risk, the Group continues establishes action plans, and follows up these plans for key points. to strengthen our organization, one of which covers the “AMERA” It also annually sends an up-to-date list of the main suppliers to (Asia/Paciﬁc, Middle East, Russia, Africa) region and the other Latin Senior Management. America. Essilor’s growth in these regions is especially strong and is sustained by demographic fundamentals, increasing purchasing Risks related to the growing importance power and the introduction by the Group of an adapted mid-range product offering in those markets. As a result, fast-growing of retail chains markets are an ever-increasing part of the Group’s revenue and Retail chains that sell ophthalmic optical equipment to end rose from 18% of revenue in 2012 to 22% of revenue in 2014. This consumers are playing an increasing role in some of the Group’s increase should continue over the next few years, and the Group essential markets. Given the ability of these chains to attract a forecasts that its revenues in these countries will be €1.5 billion growing number of existing or potential consumers into their in 2015 and €2.8 billion in 2018. stores, the Group could lose market shares if it ignores this Another component of Essilor’s strategy focuses on capturing distribution channel. the full potential of mature markets, primarily through a policy of To respond to these challenges, Essilor has a highly diversiﬁed continuous innovation, stimulating upscale demand by launching portfolio of products and services, as well as a strong capacity for new differentiated products, and developing customer services innovation and adaptation, which allows it to offer and implement and solutions. This worked particularly well in 2014 in the United solutions adapted to these chains’ particular needs. In a States, where Essilor has reaped the beneﬁt of the rebound in competitive environment that encourages the destruction of value, growth in its leading global market. the Group thus has advantages that give it the capacity to create, offer, and implement new innovative business models, thereby creating ways it can differentiate itself from its competitors over the long term. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 27 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE 1.6 Risk factors In addition, the Global Department of Strategic Key Account The Group’s IT Systems Department and its local units contribute, Partnerships (which is overseen by an Executive Committee through various strategies, to reducing the possibility that this member) develops an overall strategic vision for the key risk will occur. These strategies include, in particular, publishing multinational accounts and provides support to local teams. This an IT Systems security policy, distributing security regulations organizational structure enables local teams to deliver the most regarding (among other topics) compliance with local regulations appropriate responses to customer demands and strategies such as the gathering and protection of personal and bank data, while allowing distributors to develop the market in a way that implementing system backup rules, network access, technical best satisﬁes consumer needs. This approach also allows better architecture principles aimed at ensuring enhanced system management of the complexity that some global commercial integrity and robustness, and programs to raise awareness of agreements involve. users. Risks related to logistics chain management Risks related to the implementation of its external The Group’s quality of service relies on a sophisticated logistics growth strategy chain that aims to control, over very short time cycles, complex In the context of increasing concentration in our industry, the flows (mass production plants, laboratories, transporters, Group’s strategy consists of acquiring equity interests (generally distribution centers) and an extremely large number of possible majority interests) in well-defined target companies, with product combinations (over 1 million references to suit indices, the objective of helping them grow proﬁtably and to be able to materials, the unique prescription of every glasses wearer, beneﬁt from that growth. Essilor therefore needs to put in place treatments chosen, color, personalization markings, etc.). the necessary resources to achieve the projected synergies, This logistics chain can experience malfunctions, even temporary and oversee that these acquired partner companies develop in blockages, due to external factors (such as natural disasters and accordance with forecasts and operate appropriate governance geopolitical events that can translate into blocked transportation policies. Should there be execution problems following an capacity in a given country) or internal factors (such as risks acquisition, the profits from the external growth strategy may linked to information systems, see below). All told, this could not be as high as expected. If the recoverable value of a Cash translate into long delivery delays or even a temporary inability to Generating Unit (see Section 3.4 Note 12) is less than the net book supply certain customers or certain products. value of the assets, including goodwill, an asset impairment loss is recognized in the income statement. To reduce this inherent risk in our industry, Essilor has implemented a diversiﬁed industrial strategy aimed at spreading Although it cannot guarantee that these objectives will be risk across a large network of production plants around the achieved, Essilor capitalizes on its extensive experience in world and at setting up distribution centers on every continent. welcoming new companies into the Group and promoting its Furthermore, with 490 laboratories across all continents, the values – including entrepreneurial spirit, respect, and trust – to Group has the capacity to reorient its ﬂows quickly should a crisis maximize its chances of success in fostering its acquisitions. occur. Lastly, the Group’s Logistics Department and its regional Partners are thus invited, by various means, to invest and counterparts are responsible for implementing substitution and participate in the Group’s development – including discussion business continuity solutions, especially in regard to what it meetings with the Executive Committee. The Group also pays considers to be the most sensitive sites. particular attention to the shareholders’ agreement with each acquired company. Lastly, Essilor’s ten Partnership Principles provide a framework for the relationships that it wishes to Risks related to the security of IT systems maintain with each of its partners. The Group’s activity depends in part on its information systems With regard to the joint ventures in which it is involved, the for managing the proper functioning of production, distribution, Group is not aware of specific risks other than those inherent billing, reporting and consolidation and for effectively organizing in such partnerships (partner relationships, political changes internal and external communications. A failure (whether due to in the countries concerned, environmental risk that may affect a malfunction or malice, internal or external) or a total system operations, etc.). shutdown could translate into loss or corruption of sensitive data, delivery delays, or loss of market shares and could adversely impact the Group’s reputation. 28 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 ESSILOR 1.6 Risk factors AT A GLANCE 1.6.2 Market risks The Group’s policy consists of limiting the impact of market risks on its earnings and cash ﬂows. Risks are managed by the into solely to hedge risks arising on business operations. The Company does not carry out any currency trading transactions 1 Group Treasury Division, which reports to the Corporate Finance without any underlying commercial transaction. Department. Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements, Section 3.4, The Financial Risk Committee is tasked with defining and describes the Group’s sensitivity to currency risk and related approving the financial risk management policy, identifying hedges. and assessing risks, and approving and monitoring of hedging. The committee meets as often as necessary and at least once a quarter. It is made up of members of the Group’s Finance and Interest rate risk Internal Audit Departments. The purpose of the interest rate management policy is to minimize the cost of financing while limiting the volatility of financial expenses linked to interest rate variations. The major part Liquidity risk of ﬁnancing is therefore kept at ﬁxed rates, either in the initial The Group aims to maintain continuous liquidity in order to ensure agreement or via hedging. its independence and growth. Key to this is substantial and steady The vast majority of the Group’s ﬁnancing is centralized on the cash flow. It also operates a financing policy that guarantees parent company; interest rate risks are therefore also centralized available funding capacity at all times at low cost. This policy at the parent company level. The interest rate risk on ﬁnancial is based on the diversification of funding sources, the use of liabilities is structurally limited. mediumand long-term ﬁnancing and committed credit facilities. Interest rate risk is disclosed in Section 3.4 – Note 27 of the Most of the long-term ﬁnancing and credit facilities are issued by consolidated ﬁnancial statements. the parent company, which then reﬁnances its subsidiaries. Some companies may, however, arrange their own local ﬁnancing when local regulations hamper intra-Group arrangements. Counterparty risk Liquidity risk is disclosed in Section 3.4 – Note 27 of the The Group is exposed to ﬁnancial counterparty risk in its shortconsolidated ﬁnancial statements. term investments, hedges and lines of credit. Default by a counterparty may result in an impairment (non-repayment of an asset) or loss of liquidity (inability to draw down a credit facility. Currency risk To limit this risk, the Group only deals with top-tier banks with Due to its international presence, the Group is naturally exposed the best credit ratings, while maintaining prudent diversiﬁcation. to currency ﬂuctuations. This impacts its operations, its ﬁnancing, and the conversion into euros of the accounts of foreign Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements, Section 3.4 subsidiaries denominated in other currencies. discloses the credit quality of the Group’s counterparties. Currency hedging is for the most part managed by Essilor International. Risk on shares and other ﬁnancial instruments The Group seeks to limit currency risk ﬁrst with natural hedges, Information on this risk can be found in Note 24 to the consolidated then by hedging residual transactional exposure through currency ﬁnancial statements (Section 3.4). forwards or options. Foreign exchange transactions are entered 1.6.3 Legal risks (material claims and litigation, proceedings, arbitration) Alleged anti-competitive practices in Germany. Accordingly, our two subsidiaries were officially notiﬁed of violations representing an aggregate amount of around €50 million. ■ Germany Essilor GmbH and Rupp & Hubrach Optik GmbH are contesting In late 2008, the German competition authorities, the both the grounds for the BKA’s ﬁndings and the amount of the ﬁne “Bundeskartellamt” (“BKA”), launched an investigation into that they deem to be disproportionate. As a result, two appeals possible breaches of German competition law by major players were lodged against the BKA’s decisions of June 15 and 16, 2010. in the ophthalmic optics market, including two of our subsidiaries, None of the ﬁnes will be paid while these appeals are pending. Essilor GmbH and Rupp & Hubrach Optik GmbH. The Group is not currently in a position to forecast their outcome or timetable. Following this investigation, on June 10, 2010, the BKA sent formal notification of fines to the major ophthalmic optic companies Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 29 1 ESSILOR AT A GLANCE 1.6 Risk factors In 2014, the case was transferred to the Prosecutor’s Office at Intellectual property the Court of Appeal. In the absence of any new development, the provisions created in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Hoya ﬁled a court claim in Tokyo, Japan on July 24, 2013, alleging at December 31, 2010 were maintained at December 31, 2014. that some Nikon Essilor’s products sold fell within the scope of a patent originally registered by Seiko and sold to Hoya on March 15, 2013. Hoya’s claim covers Nikon Essilor sales for the ■ France period March to July 2013. In July 2014, the French Competition Authority’s Inspection In 2014, Nikon-Essilor ﬁled a motion to the Tokyo Court and the Department made unannounced visits to a few Group subsidiaries Japanese patent office to seek invalidation of the patent. The in France and other actors in the ophthalmic lens market related matter is currently under investigation. to the online sale of ophthalmic lenses. The Group appealed the court order which authorized the visits. Tax disputes Due to its presence in numerous countries, the Group is subject Group actions to various national tax regulations. Any failure to observe these Following the settlement of charges brought by the Federal regulations may result in tax adjustments and the payment of Trade Commission after an investigation into Transitions Optical ﬁnes and penalties. Inc’s business practices in 2009, around twenty motions for To the Company’s knowledge, there are no current or pending authorization to bring class actions were ﬁled in late March 2010 legal or tax disputes, governmental or judicial proceedings or against Transitions Optical Inc, Essilor International, Essilor of arbitration that may have or have had a signiﬁcant impact on the America, and Essilor Laboratories of America before US and ﬁnancial position, income, proﬁtability, operations or assets of the Canadian courts. The plaintiffs in these motions are alleging Company or Group in the past 12 months. that the companies concerned endeavored jointly to monopolize the market for the development, manufacture, and sale of Provisions for risks and claims are described in Notes 22 and 29 photochromic lenses between 1999 and March 2010. A settlement to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. was agreed in 2014, closing these class actions, and leaving only the action by VisionEase with respect to TOI pending. 1.6.4 Industrial and environmental risks Industrial risks Environmental risks See Section 1.3 of this Registration Document, for a description of Within the scope of the entities that it controls operationally on a the Company’s business activities (and Note 28 to the consolidated day-to-day basis, environmental management systems have been ﬁnancial statements). implemented and are being maintained at upstream production facilities and, where appropriate, at downstream prescription To the Company’s knowledge, the nature of its industrial business laboratories. The Company aims to have the environmental does not present any particular risk. management systems of all its sites audited and certiﬁed, site by To the Company’s knowledge, the acquisitions made in activities site, to ISO 14001 standards. signiﬁcantly different from the Company’s traditional activities, These systems help to minimize the environmental impact of our particularly in instruments and machine tools or pre-mounted operations and prevent incidents, while also forming the basis lenses, have not led to any speciﬁc outcomes in their industrial for developing targeted action plans based on environmental activities that would expose the Company to any new specific performance improvement targets. risks. However, the Company believes that these new activities could create new risks and has therefore set up a precautionary The starting point in each case is a detailed environmental map to identify resulting probable risks and opportunities. analysis to identify and qualify the related risks. The Company has set up a system to manage issues related to the As part of the gradual widening of the boundaries of environmental European Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of reporting within the Group’s consolidated companies, the Chemical Substances (REACH) Directive. Under REACH, companies Company has begun establishing regular relationships with that manufacture and import chemical substances are required to selected new companies and operating departments in the Group. assess the risks arising from their use and to take the necessary measures to manage them. To its knowledge, the Company is in compliance with this directive. 30 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 ESSILOR 1.6 Risk factors AT A GLANCE It is mostly, but not only, the Global Environment, Health and Ongoing efforts to continuously improve the eco-efficiency of Safety (Global EHS) Department that is in charge of this. This production are gradually decoupling volume growth from resource department reports directly to a member of the Executive Committee (Global Engineering Director) and organizes its global network from Singapore, the center of gravity of the Asia/Paciﬁc use. Thus, two key indicators are part of the “Change Accelerating 1 Program” (CAP) dashboard: the number of kilowatt hours and the region. The Company can thus allow these new entities to beneﬁt number of liters of water per ophthalmic lens produced. from its experience and expertise in these ﬁelds so as to extend its culture of environmental risk prevention along with oversight Information about social corporate responsibility and sustainable of certain management procedures and systems and the sharing development is presented in Chapter 4 of this document. of best practices used by the Group. 1.6.5 Insurance The Group’s wholly-owned subsidiaries have high-level risk to the halting of production following an accident), losses due prevention programs and the Group follows a risk prevention and to the interdependence of the various sites, transportation risks protection strategy designed to drive constant improvement in (covering all movements of goods), and liability risks (operating, behaviors, procedures, and equipment. after-sales, clinical trials, professional and environmental liability covering also biodiversity and the cost of depolluting sites, as well Essilor’s plants throughout the world are audited by our insurers, as the responsibility incumbent on Essilor and its subsidiaries to who issue reports detailing the levels of insurance cover required transport raw materials, waste and products). at each facility and, where applicable, recommending measures to reduce insurance risks. The engineering departments of Essilor’s Under the laws of certain countries, insurance cover must be insurers are consulted concerning the design and protection of taken out with local insurers, in which case coverage may be certain construction projects and other major works as necessary. different from those provided under the worldwide insurance The projects are reviewed and adjusted to take into account both programs. The worldwide master policy covers any excess loss the needs of the Group and the prevention targets set jointly with not covered by a local policy. the insurers. Physical assets are regularly valued by independent The Group does not have any insurance policies with a captive experts. insurance company; minority-owned entities manage their In addition, the growing geographical diversification of our insurance needs independently. operations helps to limit the potential impact of a major loss at a The Group’s policies have low deductibles and transfer given facility on the Group’s ﬁnancial position. substantially all of the risk to the insurance market. In view of the nature of the business, the Group is not exposed to No major damage was recorded in 2014 and no company of the any speciﬁc insurance risks. Group was involved in signiﬁcant insurance disputes. Insurance cover is provided mainly by our worldwide insurance To determine the required level of cover for wholly owned programs negotiated at corporate level. The programs comprise subsidiaries, the Group estimated the extent of exposure to major a master policy drawn up in France and local policies in other risks, after taking into account the mitigating effects of internal countries, which together provide the same level of cover for all controls, preventive and protective measures and alternative of our controlled subsidiaries throughout the world. ﬂows. They are placed with leading insurers that have no ties with the The maximum insurance cover for property and casualty risks Group. and business interruption was kept at €200 million in 2014 and at Local insurance policies that comply with local insurance €1.5 million for transportation risks. requirements are taken out by subsidiaries to add to the cover The total cost of the Group policies was €4.94 million in 2014. provided by the worldwide programs. This was slightly higher than the previous year since the scope is The programs cover property and casualty risks (fire, constantly expanding as a result of the Group’s external growth explosion, machine damage, flood, theft, natural disasters), and actions to integrate subsidiaries into its insurance program. consequential business interruption (loss of gross margin due Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 31 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.1 MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BODIES 2.1.1 Board of Directors 2.1.2 The Executive Committee 2.2 CHAIRMAN’S REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.2.1 Composition of the Board of Directors 34 34 50 51 51 2.3 COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 2.3.1 2.3.2 2.3.3 2.3.4 2 Board of Directors Compensation policy Executive compensation policy Appendix: Compensation and beneﬁts tables Compensation components due or awarded to Hubert Sagnières, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, in respect of the 2014 ﬁscal year 2.3.5 Summary statement of transactions performed in 2014 on Essilor International 71 71 71 78 84 shares by Corporate Officers 86 2.2.2 Preparation and organization of meetings of the Board of Directors 55 2.2.3 Internal control procedures implemented by Essilor 63 2.4 SUMMARY TABLE OF THE AFEP-MEDEF 2.2.4 Organization of powers of management CODE RECOMMENDATIONS WHICH and control of the Company and powers of the Chief Executive Officer 69 ARE NOT APPLIED 87 2.2.5 Special procedures for shareholder participation in Shareholders’ Meetings 69 2.2.6 Principles and rules applied by the Board of 2.5 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON Directors to determine compensation and beneﬁts of its members 70 THE REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN 88 Information about internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of ﬁnancial and accounting information 88 Other information 88 2.6 SPECIAL REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS ON REGULATED AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS 89 32 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 IN BRIEF Essilor’s unique mode of governance reﬂects a strong, atypical business culture whose goal is to unite all of its employees around a single ambition: improving Group performance. Since employees share in Group proﬁts in the same way as shareholders, value distribution is a cornerstone of Essilor International’s governance. This association with the fruits of its business activity goes hand in hand with a contribution from within the Company’s Board of Directors. The Valoptec Association, which represents the employee-shareholder base, is Essilor’s largest shareholder. This encourages dialog and ensures employee participation in the Group’s major decisions. A presence on the Board of a large proportion of Independent Directors, three Valoptec representatives and a Director representing the employees, guarantees a balance of power with regards to General Management. Under the authority of General Management, the Executive Committee oversees the Group’s activities and implements its policies. On July 8, 2014, Essilor International won the Corporate Governance Prize in the 2014 Grand Prix de l’Assemblée Générale. BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEMBERSHIP Hubert SAGNIÈRES, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer Franck HENRIONNET, Director representing employees 15 Directors Philippe ALFROID, Yi HE, Director representing Of which: Non-Independent Director employee shareholders Benoît BAZIN, Bernard HOURS, 7 Independent Director (a) Independent Director (a) Independent Directors (b) Antoine BERNARD Maurice MARCHAND-TONEL, DE SAINT-AFFRIQUE, Independent Director 4 Independent Director (a) Aïcha MOKDAHI, employees Maureen CAVANAGH, Director representing employee (3 Directors representing Director representing employee shareholders employee shareholders shareholders Olivier PÉCOUX, and 1 Director representing Yves CHEVILLOTTE, Non-Independent Director (a) employees) Independent Director Michel ROSE, Xavier FONTANET, Independent Director Non-Independent Director For more information: Louise FRÉCHETTE, Independent Director (a) @ www.essilor.com Group/ Governance page at COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD • Audit and Risk Committee • Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee • Executive officers and Remuneration Committee • Strategy Committee • Nominations Committee (a) Term of office to be renewed at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 5, 2015. (b) The AFEP-MEDEF Code of June 2013 states that Directors representing employee shareholders and the Director representing employees are not counted to determine percentages of Independent Directors. Accordingly, the independence ratio (7 out of 11) is 63.6%. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 33 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.1 Management and supervisory bodies 2.1 MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BODIES 2.1.1 Board of Directors As of December 31, 2014, Essilor’s Board of Directors had Each committee reports to the Board on its work and the resulting 15 members, including three members representing employee proposals. shareholders and one member representing employees. In early 2013, the work of the Audit Committee was extended The average age of Board members in 2014 was 60. to cover the monitoring of certain risks. By law, this role is the responsibility of the Board, which will continue to monitor strategic risk directly (including reputation risk) and risk 2.1.1.1 Committees of the Board associated with governance of the Company. On the recommendation of the Chairman, the Board of Directors At its meeting of February 27, 2013, the Board decided to form a has ﬁve special standing committees composed of members of Corporate Social Responsibility Committee. the Board: As part of the 2014 self-assessment of the operations of the • the Audit and Risk Committee; Board of Directors and its committees, the degree of coordination between them was reviewed in order to streamline the ﬂow of • the Executive officers and Remuneration Committee; information and improve efficiency. • the Nominations Committee; The role, organization, operations and accomplishments of each • the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee; committee are described in Section 2.2.2.6. • the Strategy Committee. 34 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.1 Management and supervisory bodies GOVERNANCE 2.1.1.2 List of directorships at December 31, 2014 HUBERT SAGNIÈRES 59 years old (Countries of citizenship: Canada and France) Number of shares: 337,034 Main position held within the Company: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (since January 2, 2012) Business address: Essilor International – 147, rue de Paris – 94227 Charenton Cedex – France 2 First appointment as Director: May 14, 2008 Current term ends: 2017 Personal information – Experience and expertise Hubert Sagnières has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Essilor since January 2, 2012. He joined Essilor in 1989 as President of International Marketing. He was appointed President of Essilor Canada from 1991 to 1996 and President of Essilor Laboratories of America in 1996, then President of Essilor of America, a position he held until 2005. From 2006 to 2009, he was President of Essilor Europe and North America before being named Chief Operating Officer in August 2008, then Chief Executive Officer from January 1, 2010 to January 2, 2012. Other positions and terms of office Past positions and terms of office held at December 31, 2014 held over the past ﬁve years Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Essilor International* Essilor group companies Other Essilor group companies Chief Executive Officer, Essilor International President, Essilor of America Inc. (USA) Chief Operating Officer, Essilor International Director, Essilor International and subsidiaries President & Chief Executive Officer, Essilor of America Inc. Essilor of America Inc. (USA) (USA) Essilor AMERA Pte Ltd (Singapore) Director, Essilor International and subsidiaries Essilor Vision Foundation (USA) Transitions Optical Inc. (USA) (b) Frames for America, Inc. (USA) Essilor Canada Ltee / Ltd (Canada) Transitions Optical Holdings B.V. (Netherlands) (b) Omics Software Inc. / Logiciels Omics, Inc (Canada) Cascade Optical Ltd (Canada) Reseau Essilor in Canada Inc. / Essilor Network in Canada Inc, (Canada) Groupe Vision Optique Inc. Groupe Vision Optique Inc. (Canada) Optique de l’Estrie Inc. (Canada) Optique Lison Inc. (Canada) Vision Optique Inc. (Canada) Vision Optique Technologies Ltée (Canada) Visionware Inc. (Canada) Westlab Optical Ltd (Canada) Nassau Lens Co., Inc. (USA) K&W Optical Limited (Canada) Vision Web Inc. (USA) Econo-Optic Ltée (Canada) (b) Term of office expired during ﬁscal year. * Listed company. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 35 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.1 Management and supervisory bodies PHILIPPE ALFROID Non-Independent Director 69 years old (Country of citizenship: France) Number of shares: 260,743 Business address: Not applicable – retired since June 30, 2009 First appointment as Director: May 6, 1996 Current term ends: 2017 Personal information – Experience and expertise Philippe Alfroid was Chief Operating Officer of Essilor until his retirement in June 2009. He began his career with PSDI (Project Software and Development Inc.) in Boston before joining the Essilor group in 1972. He has held executive positions in various operational departments, including contact lenses and frames. He was appointed Vice President Financial Control in 1987 and promoted to Chief Financial Officer in 1991. He was appointed Chief Executive Officer in 1996 (and became Chief Operating Officer in 2001). Philippe Alfroid, who served as Chief Financial Officer and then as Chief Operating Officer, brings to the Board his very broad knowledge of the Company. Other positions and terms of office Past positions and terms of office held at December 31, 2014 held over the past ﬁve years Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Faiveley Transport* Essilor group companies Director Chief Operating Officer, Essilor International Essilor of America Inc. (USA) Chairman Eurogerm* Omega Optical Holdings Inc. (USA) Gemalto N.V. (Netherlands)* Director Sperian Protection Essilor of America Inc. (USA) Gentex Optics Inc. (USA) EOA Holding Co, Inc. (USA) EOA Investment, Inc. (USA) Omega Optical Holdings Inc. (USA) Essilor Canada Ltee / Ltd (Canada) Pro-Optic Canada Inc. (Canada) Shanghai Essilor Optical Company Ltd (China) External company (non Essilor group) Director Faiveley Transport * Listed company. 36 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.1 Management and supervisory bodies GOVERNANCE BENOÎT BAZIN Independent Director 46 years old (Country of citizenship: France) Number of shares: 1,000 Major positions: Senior Vice President at Compagnie Saint-Gobain President of the Building Division of Saint-Gobain group Business address: Saint-Gobain – Les Miroirs – 18, avenue d’Alsace – 92096 Paris La Défense – France 2 First appointment as Director: May 15, 2009 Current term ends: 2015 Personal information – Experience and expertise Benoît Bazin is currently President of the Building Division of Saint-Gobain group and Senior Vice President at Compagnie SaintGobain. He began his career with Saint-Gobain in 1993 as a project manager. He was subsequently Corporate Planning Director of the Saint-Gobain group from 2000 to 2002, President of the Abrasives – North America Division from 2002 to 2005, and Chief Financial Officer from 2005 until 2009. Benoît Bazin brings to the Board his experience as former Chief Financial Officer and as senior manager of a major international group involved in distribution. Other positions and terms of office Past positions and terms of office held at December 31, 2014 held over the past ﬁve years Saint-Gobain group companies Saint-Gobain group companies Executive Vice President, Compagnie de Saint-Gobain* Chairman Chairman Saint-Gobain Distribution Bâtiment Suisse AG Saint-Gobain Distribution Bâtiment Sas (Switzerland) Partidis Sas Chairman of the Supervisory Board Point P S.A. Lapeyre Chairman of the Board of Directors Projeo Saint-Gobain Distribution Nordic AB (Scandinavia) Director Fondation Saint-Gobain Initiatives Jewson Ltd (United Kingdom) Saint-Gobain Building Distribution Ltd (United Kingdom) Norandex Building Material Distribution Inc. (USA) Member of the Supervisory Board Saint-Gobain Building Distribution Deutschland GmbH (Germany) Saint-Gobain Distribution The Netherlands B.V. (Netherlands) External companies (non-Saint-Gobain group) Association Proquartet-Cemc (a) (a) Term of office started during the ﬁscal year. * Listed company Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 37 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.1 Management and supervisory bodies ANTOINE BERNARD DE SAINT-AFFRIQUE Independent Director 50 years old (Country of citizenship: France) Number of shares: 1,000 Major position: President of Unilever’s Foods category Business address: Unilever – 100 Victoria Embankment – Blackfriars – London EC4P 4BQ – United Kingdom First appointment as Director: May 15, 2009 Current term ends: 2015 Personal information – Experience and expertise Antoine Bernard de Saint-Affrique is President of Unilever’s Foods category and member of the Group’s Executive Committee. He joined Unilever in 2000 after serving as Marketing Director of Amora-Maille (Danone group then PAI), holding the positions of Vice President, Sauces and Condiments Europe until 2003 and of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Unilever Hungary, Croatia, Slovenia from 2003 to 2005. He was subsequently Vice President of the Unilever group, in charge of Central and Eastern Europe and Russia from March 2005 until August 2009 and Executive Vice President in charge of skin products for the Group from August 2009 to September 2011. Bernard de Saint-Affrique brings to the Board his international experience and his skills in marketing and sales. Other positions and terms of office Past positions and terms of office held at December 31, 2014 held over the past ﬁve years Unilever group companies Unilever group companies President of Unilever’s Foods category* Executive Vice President, Unilever, Skin care and Skin Cleansing Unilever (Central & Eastern Europe) Director Inmarko (Russian Federation) Icosmeticals SAS * Listed company. 38 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.1 Management and supervisory bodies GOVERNANCE MAUREEN CAVANAGH Director representing employee shareholders 51 years old (Country of citizenship: USA) Number of shares: 1,122 Major position: President of Vision Impact Institute (USA) Business address: 13515 N Stemmons Frwy – Dallas, TX 75234 (USA) First appointment as Director: November 27, 2012 (1) / May 16, 2013 Current term ends: 2016 2 Personal information – Experience and expertise Maureen Cavanagh has been President of the Vision Impact Institute (Dallas) since October 1, 2014 and was previously President of Nassau Lens Company and of OOGP since December 2009. After working at Johnson & Johnson, she joined the Essilor group in October 2005. Since May 2012, she has represented the Essilor Employee Shareholders’ Association in the USA and has been a member of the Board of Directors. She brings to the Board her experience and knowledge of the ophthalmic industry. In addition, she contributes to the broadening of international representation and diversity on the Board. Other positions and terms of office Past positions and terms of office held at December 31, 2014 held over the past ﬁve years Essilor group companies Essilor group companies President: President: Vision Impact Institute (USA) (a) Nassau Lens Co Inc. (USA) (b) Member of the Board of Directors, Valoptec Association OOGP, Inc. (USA) (b) Director Nassau Lens Co Inc. (USA) (b) OOGP, Inc. (USA) (b) Shore Lens Co Inc. (USA) (b) (a) Term of office started during the ﬁscal year. (b) Term of office expired during the ﬁscal year. (1) Cooptation followed by ratiﬁcation by Shareholders’ Meeting. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 39 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.1 Management and supervisory bodies YVES CHEVILLOTTE Independent Director 71 years old (Country of citizenship: France) Number of shares: 2,257 Business address: Not applicable – retired since January 2004 First appointment as Director: May 14, 2004 Current term ends: 2016 Personal information – Experience and expertise Yves Chevillotte was Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A. from 2002 to his retirement in 2004. He started at the Crédit Agricole group in 1969, where, in 1985, he became head of its regional branches. In 1999, he joined Caisse Nationale as Executive Vice President in charge of the Market Development Division. Yves Chevillotte brings to the Board his experience as senior manager of a major international bank and his knowledge of ﬁnancial matters. Other positions and terms of office Past positions and terms of office held at December 31, 2014 held over the past ﬁve years Chairman of the Board of Directors Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Finaref Arvige Director G.A.S.F.O. Mission Possible Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors SA Soredic F.R.A.C. Member of the BPI Orientation Committee 40 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.1 Management and supervisory bodies GOVERNANCE XAVIER FONTANET Non-Independent Director 66 years old (Country of citizenship: France) Number of shares: 324,307 Business address: Not applicable – retired since December 31, 2011 First appointment as Director: June 15, 1992 Current term ends: 2016 Personal information – Experience and expertise 2 Xavier Fontanet was Chairman and CEO of Essilor from 1996 to 2009, then Chairman of the Board of Directors from January 1, 2010 to January 2, 2012. He is still a Director. He began his career as Vice President of the Boston Consulting group and became Chief Executive Officer of Bénéteau in 1981. He managed food service operations for the Wagons-Lits group from 1986 until 1991. He joined Essilor in 1991 as Chief Executive Officer. Xavier Fontanet brings to the Board his extensive knowledge of the ophthalmic optics industry and of the Company. Other positions and terms of office Past positions and terms of office held at December 31, 2014 held over the past ﬁve years Director Essilor group companies L’Oréal* (Chairman of the Appointments and Governance Chairman of the Board of Directors, Essilor International Committee) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Essilor International Schneider Electric SE* Permanent representative of Essilor International on the Chairman Board of Directors of Association Nationale des Sociétés par EOA Holding Co., Inc. (USA) Actions (ANSA) Nikon and Essilor International Joint Research Center Co Chairman Ltd (Japan) Director Fondation Fontanet Essilor of America, Inc. (USA) Transitions Optical Inc. (USA) EOA Holding Co, Inc. (USA) Shanghai Essilor Optical Company Ltd (China) Transitions Optical Holdings B.V. (Netherlands) Nikon-Essilor Co. Ltd (Japan) Nikon and Essilor International Joint Research Center Co Ltd (Japan) Essilor Manufacturing India Private Ltd (India) Essilor India PVT Ltd (India) Essilor Amico (L.L.C.) (United Arab Emirates) External companies (non Essilor group) Director Crédit Agricole SA Fonds stratégique d’investissement (SA) * Listed company. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 41 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.1 Management and supervisory bodies LOUISE FRÉCHETTE Independent Director 68 years old (Country of citizenship: Canada) Number of shares: 1,000 Business address: Not applicable First appointment as Director: May 11, 2012 Current term ends: 2015 Personal information – Experience and expertise Louise Fréchette is Chairman of the Board of Directors of CARE Canada and a member of the Board of Directors of CARE International. She is also a member of the Global Leadership Foundation. From 1998 to 2006, she was the Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations, the ﬁrst appointee to this position. Prior to that, she pursued a career in the Public Service of Canada, serving as Ambassador to Argentina, Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the United Nations, Associate Deputy Minister of Finance and Deputy Minister of National Defense. Louise Fréchette brings to the Board, among other things, her UN and non-governmental organizations experience, her knowledge of emerging countries and her experience in sustainable development and governance matters. She is Chairman of the CSR Committee. Other positions and terms of office Past positions and terms of office held at December 31, 2014 held over the past ﬁve years Chairman of the Board of Directors, CARE CANADA Chairman of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors Pearson Peacekeeping Centre (Canada) CARE CANADA (Canada) Member of the Board of Directors CARE INTERNATIONAL (Switzerland) Pearson Peacekeeping Centre (Canada) Montreal Council on International Relations (Canada) 42 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.1 Management and supervisory bodies GOVERNANCE YI HE Director representing employee shareholders 61 years old (Country of citizenship: PR China) Number of shares: 19,690 Major position: Chairman of Essilor (China) Holding Company Business address: Unit D2, 20th Floor – N° 398 Huai Hai Middle Road – Luwan District – Shanghai– Chine P.R.C. 200020 First appointment as Director: January 27, 2010 (1) / May 11, 2010 Current term ends: 2017 2 Personal information – Experience and expertise Yi He is a Director representing the Valoptec Association. Since September 2010, he has been Chairman of Essilor (China) Holding Company. After studying Management and Strategy at École des Hautes Études Commerciales, in 1991 he joined the Danone group as Chief Executive Officer of the Shanghai subsidiary. He joined the Essilor group in 1996 as Chief Executive Officer of Shanghai Essilor Optical Company Ltd (China). Other positions and terms of office Past positions and terms of office held at December 31, 2014 held over the past ﬁve years None Essilor group companies Chairman and Director of Essilor (China) Holding Company Chief Executive Officer and Director, Shanghai Essilor Optical Company Ltd (China) Director Danyang ILT OPTICS Co. Ltd (China) Jiangsu Wanxin Optical Co. Ltd (China) Jiangsu Youli Optical Spectables Ltd (China) Xin Tianhong Optical Co. Ltd (China) Shanghai Nvg Optics Co. Ltd (China) Xiamen Yarui Optical Company Ltd (China) (a) Xiamen Artgri Optical Company Ltd (China) (a) Xiamen Prosun Trading Co. Ltd (China) (a) Member of the Board of Directors, Valoptec Association Member of the Supervisory Board, Essilor group 7-year French Purchasing Stock Plan (FCPE) External companies (non Essilor group) Sun Art Retail Group Ltd (China) (a) Term of office started during the ﬁscal year. (1) Cooptation followed by ratiﬁcation by Shareholders’ Meeting. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 43 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.1 Management and supervisory bodies FRANCK HENRIONNET Director representing employees 43 years old (Country of citizenship: France) Number of shares: 1,570 Major position: Lean Manufacturing Project Manager in the Instrument Division of La Compasserie (Meuse-France) Business address: 61, rue Bontems – 55500 Ligny-en-Barrois (France) First appointment as Director: October 28, 2014 (Works Council appointment) Current term ends: 2017 Personal information – Experience and expertise Franck Henrionnet has been Lean Manufacturing Project Manager in the Instrument Division of La Compasserie (Meuse – France) since January 2013. He joined Essilor in September 2006 as Quality Manager, Instrument Plant at La Compasserie until September 2010 and then was Production Manager at the Instrument Plant in Shanghai (China) until December 2012. Other positions and terms of office held at December 31, 2014 None 44 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.1 Management and supervisory bodies GOVERNANCE BERNARD HOURS Independent Director 58 years old (Country of citizenship: France) Number of shares: 5,472 Business address: Not applicable First appointment as Director: May 15, 2009 Current term ends: 2015 Personal information – Experience and expertise 2 Bernard Hours held the position of Chief Operating Officer of Danone from January 2008 to September 2014 and Vice President of the Board of Directors from April 2011 to October 2014. He had joined Danone in 1985 initially in sales and marketing for Evian and Kronenbourg then as Marketing Director for Danone France in 1990. He was subsequently Managing Director of Danone Hungary (1994), then of Danone Germany (1996) and lastly Managing Director of LU France in 1998. In 2001, he joined the Fresh Dairy Products Division as CEO Business Development and became Vice Chairman in 2002. Bernard Hours brings to the Board his experience as Director of a major international group and his knowledge of marketing and sales. Other positions and terms of office Past positions and terms of office held at December 31, 2014 held over the past ﬁve years Director Danone group Essilor of America Inc. (USA) Chief Operating Officer and Vice President of the Board of Directors, Danone (S.A.)* (b) Managing Director Danone Trading B.V. (The Netherlands) (b) Member of the Supervisory Board, Ceprodi Director Danone (S.A.)* (b) Flam’s (b) Danone Industria (Russia) (b) OJSC Unimilk Company (Russia) (b) Fondation d’Entreprise Danone (Association) (b) Permanent Representative of Danone (S.A.) Danone S.A. (Spain) (b) (b) Term of office expired during the ﬁscal year. * Listed company. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 45 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.1 Management and supervisory bodies MAURICE MARCHAND-TONEL Independent Director 70 years old (Country of citizenship: France) Number of shares: 1,000 Major positions: Senior Advisor, BearingPoint France SAS Advisor Director, Invescorp. Bank B.S.C. Business address: Not applicable First appointment as Director: November 22, 2006 (1) / May 11, 2007 Current term ends: 2016 Personal information – Experience and expertise Maurice Marchand-Tonel is an independent consultant. He began his career in 1970 at the Boston Consulting group, and then served successively as Chairman of Compagnie Olivier (1979), Chief Executive Officer of Sommer (1984) and Chairman of Givenchy (1987). After that, he headed Ciments Français International and Transalliance. In 2000, he became a partner at Arthur Andersen / BearingPoint where he has been Senior Advisor since 2013. He is President of the European American Chamber of Commerce, Advisory Director of Investcorp, Senior Advisor at BearingPoint and member of the Supervisory Board of Faiveley Transport. Maurice Marchand-Tonel brings to the Board his experience both as a senior manager and as a highlevel corporate advisor. Other positions and terms of office Past positions and terms of office held at December 31, 2014 held over the past ﬁve years Chairman, European American Chamber of Commerce (France) Director Member of the Supervisory Board, Faiveley Transport* French American Chamber of Commerce (Chicago, USA) Director European American Chamber of Commerce (Cincinnati, USA) European American Chamber of Commerce (New York, USA) * Listed company. (1) Cooptation followed by ratiﬁcation by Shareholders’ Meeting. 46 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.1 Management and supervisory bodies GOVERNANCE AÏCHA MOKDAHI Director representing employee shareholders 59 years old (Country of citizenship: France) Number of shares: 15,820 Major position: Vice-President, Essilor Vision Foundation – Europe and AMERA (Asia/Paciﬁc, Middle East, Russia, Africa) Business address: Essilor International – 147, rue de Paris – 94227 Charenton Cedex – France First appointment as Director: January 24, 2007 (1) / May 11, 2007 Current term ends: 2017 2 Personal information – Experience and expertise Aïcha Mokdahi has been VP of Essilor Vision Foundation – Europe and AMERA (Asia/Paciﬁc, Middle East, Russia, Africa) since October 1, 2013 and President of Valoptec Association. She began her career in 1976 in the Frames Division, where she successively held the positions of product manager, logistics manager and sales development manager. In 1990, she joined the Lens Division, holding various managerial positions in the Global Operations Department, in particular Logistics Director Europe until year-end 2003. From 2004 to 2008, she was head of acquisitions at Essilor subsidiary BBGR, and from 2008 to the end of September 2013 was Supply Chain Director for Essilor Europe. Other positions and terms of office Past positions and terms of office held at December 31, 2014 held over the past ﬁve years None Essilor group companies Chairman of the Board of Directors, Valoptec Association Member of the Supervisory Board, Essilor group 7-year French Purchasing Stock Plan (FCPE) (1) Cooptation followed by ratiﬁcation by Shareholders’ Meeting. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 47 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.1 Management and supervisory bodies OLIVIER PÉCOUX Non-Independent Director 56 years old (Country of citizenship: France) Number of shares: 1,000 Major positions: Chief Executive Officer, Paris-Orléans Managing Partner, ROTHSCHILD et Cie Banque Business address: Rothschild & Cie – 23bis, avenue de Messine – 75008 Paris – France First appointment as Director: January 31, 2001 (1) / May 3, 2001 Current term ends: 2015 Personal information – Experience and expertise Olivier Pécoux is Chief Executive Officer of the Rothschild group, which he joined in 1991. Since June 2012, he has been Executive Director of P.O. Gestion, and general partner of Paris-Orléans SCA. He began his career at Peat Marwick then at Schlumberger as a ﬁnancial advisor in Paris and New York. In 1986, he joined Lazard Frères in Paris and was named Vice President of the investment bank’s New York office in 1988. Olivier Pécoux brings to the Board his experience in ﬁnancial and banking matters and his extensive knowledge of Essilor, for which he has been instrumental since 2001. Other positions and terms of office Past positions and terms of office held at December 31, 2014 held over the past ﬁve years Rothschild group Rothschild group Chief Executive Officer, Paris-Orléans* Member of the Executive Board, Paris-Orléans Managing Partner, Rothschild et Cie Banque Managing Partner Chief Executive Officer, P.O. Gestion Rothschild et Cie Director Member of the Supervisory Board of Financière Rabelais Rothschild España (Spain) Rothschild Italia (Italy) Rothschild GmbH (Germany) External companies (non-Rothschild group) Extend Capital * Listed company. (1) Cooptation followed by ratiﬁcation by Shareholders’ Meeting. 48 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.1 Management and supervisory bodies GOVERNANCE MICHEL ROSE Independent Director 71 years old (Country of citizenship: France) Number of shares: 1,000 Business address: Not applicable – retired since May 1, 2008 First appointment as Director: May 13, 2005 Current term ends: 2016 Personal information – Experience and expertise 2 Michel Rose was Co-Chief Operating Officer of Lafarge, where he was mainly responsible for the Cement Division before his retirement in 2008. He joined Lafarge in 1970 as an engineer, moved to the Research Center and was later named to lead the Company’s internal communications team. After managing Lafarge’s activities in Brazil from 1980 to 1984, he was named Executive Vice President Human Resources and Communication and later headed the Biotechnologies Division. He was appointed Senior Executive Vice President in 1989, served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Lafarge North America from 1992 to 1996 and was named to manage the Company’s operations in high-growth markets in 1996. In 2003, he became Chief Operating Officer of the Lafarge group in charge of the Cement Division. Michel Rose brings to the Board his experience in human resources and of senior management of a major international group. Other positions and terms of office Past positions and terms of office held at December 31, 2014 held over the past ﬁve years None Director La Poste Neopost Lafarge Maroc (Morocco) (b) Malayan Cement (Malaysia) (b) Unicem (Nigeria) Chairman, Fondation de l’École des Mines de Nancy (b) Term of office expired during the ﬁscal year. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 49 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.1 Management and supervisory bodies 2.1.2 The Executive Committee Chaired by Hubert Sagnières, the committee is made up of the other cross-functional Boards and committees. The Executive Company’s top corporate and business executives, with either Committee is tasked with reviewing, understanding, considering, worldwide responsibilities (global engineering, for example) or implementing and organizing the Company’s strategy and, in some regional responsibilities (Europe, North America, Latin America, cases, making strategic decisions. It reviews proposed changes Asia/Paciﬁc and Africa). and the Group’s mediumand long-term outlook and goals. It issues opinions on the actions to be implemented in order to The Executive Committee holds at least nine meetings each year achieve them. to review the Company’s business performance and all of its activities. It plays a unifying role by liaising with the Company’s As of December 31, 2014, the Executive Committee has 27 members. Tadeu ALVES President, Latin America Region Eric BERNARD Chief Operations Officer, AMERA (Asia/Paciﬁc, Middle East, Russia, Africa) Jayanth BHUVARAGHAN Chief Corporate Mission Officer Carl BRACY Executive Vice President, Marketing & Business Development, Essilor of America Jean CARRIER-GUILLOMET Chief Operating Officer Patrick CHERRIER President, AMERA Region (Asia/Paciﬁc, Middle East, Russia, Africa) Lucia DUMAS Senior Vice President Corporate Communications Bernard DUVERNEUIL Chief Information Officer Norbert GORNY Senior Vice President, Satisloh, Equipment and Consumables activities Réal GOULET Senior Vice President Rx, Sunwear Lena HENRY Chief Strategy Officer Eric LÉONARD President, Essilor of America Alexander LUNSHOF Corporate Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs Frédéric MATHIEU Corporate Senior Vice President, Human Resources Bernhard NUESSER President, Europe Region Eric PERRIER Corporate Senior Vice President, Research and Development Géraldine PICAUD Chief Financial Officer Patrick PONCIN Corporate Senior Vice President, Global Engineering Alain RIVELINE Corporate Senior Vice President, Strategic Marketing Thierry ROBIN Senior Vice President, Digital Surfacing Strategic Opportunity Bertrand ROY Senior Vice President, Strategic Partnerships Kevin RUPP Executive Vice President, Finance & Administration of Essilor of America Hubert SAGNIÈRES Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Paul du SAILLANT Chief Operating Officer Eric THOREUX President Sun, Readers, Photochromics Laurent VACHEROT Chief Operating Officer Carol XUEREF Secretary General 50 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.2 Chairman’s Report on corporate governance GOVERNANCE 2.2 CHAIRMAN’S REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Reference Code: the AFEP-MEDEF Code • information which may have an impact in the event of a public offering is described in Chapter 5, Section 5.2.6.2. Pursuant to Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code and in accordance with the decision of the Board of Directors In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF of March 4, 2009, the Company declares that it adheres to the Code and the AMF, this report, in a summary table (Section 2.4), AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code for listed companies of identiﬁes the provisions in the Code which were not implemented June 2013. and explains the reasons for these choices. This Code can be viewed online at the following address: http://www.medef.com. In accordance with the provisions of Article L.225-37, this report This report was prepared following certain procedures, mostly performed by the Secretary General and, as regards part 2.2.3 of the report, in close collaboration with the Internal Audit 2 Department, based on written consultation and discussion with includes the Chairman’s Report on: the heads (at the corporate level) of the various internal control • the composition of the Board and the application of the sectors within the Group. It was presented to the Audit and Risk principle of equal representation of men and women on it; Committee (on February 16, 2015) before being presented to • the conditions for preparing and organizing the work of the the Board of Directors for approval. This makes it possible for priorities and works in progress to be validated and for awareness Board of Directors during the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2014; of the importance of internal controls to the Company to be raised. In order to draft this report, we also relied on the principles listed, • the Company’s internal control and risk management for reference purposes, regarding the AMF systems for the risk procedures (see Section 2.2.3); management and internal control of listed companies. Finally, the • any restrictions on the powers of the Chief Executive Officer contents of this report were approved by the Board of Directors decided by the Board of Directors; on February 18, 2015. • specific procedures for shareholder participation in We are committed to steadily improving our corporate Shareholders’ Meetings; governance, year after year, not only in terms of the practices of the Board of Directors and the special Board Committees, but also • the principles and rules applied by the Board of Directors as regards the Company’s internal control procedures. to determine Executive Board Directors’ compensation and beneﬁts (see Section 2.3); 2.2.1 Composition of the Board of Directors Article 12 of Essilor’s bylaws stipulates that the Company’s affairs • diversity of backgrounds and skills. As part of this, the are to be managed by a Board of Directors of no less than three Nominations Committee, in 2014 and at the beginning of and no more than ﬁfteen members, not including Board members 2015, continued its selection work with a view to appointing representing employee shareholders (Article 24.4) and the Board an increased number of women, Independent Directors and member representing employees. people with an international background. On December 31, 2014, the Essilor Board of Directors was comprised of ﬁfteen members. Three of these Directors represent 2.2.1.1 Representation of women on the Board employee shareholders and one Director represents employees, who began this role on October 28, 2014. The composition of of Directors the Board and the committees is reviewed each year, under the The Board of Directors, which currently includes three women guidance of the Nominations Committee and as part of the Board out of fourteen Directors (excluding the Director representing of Directors’ self-assessment. employees, who is not counted in accordance with the law Below are the principles which guide the composition of the Board and the AFEP-MEDEF Code), complies with the provisions of of Directors: law no. 2011-103 of January 27, 2011 regarding balanced representation of men and women, which has required 20% • the search for a balance between experienced Directors with female representation since 2014. Suggestions will be made to the extensive knowledge of the Group on the one hand and, on the Board of Directors in the coming months, with a view to submitting other hand, new Directors who contribute experience which candidates for directorships during the Shareholders’ Meetings in can serve the Group and its future development; 2016. The composition of the Board will, in 2017, comply with the law which requires balanced representation of men and women. This law provides a 40% minimum proportion of Directors of the same gender. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 51 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.2 Chairman’s Report on corporate governance See also “Major accomplishments of the Nominations Committee entire Board is re-elected over a rolling three-year period. The in 2014” in Section 2.2.2.6. Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014 approved a review of Article 14 of the Bylaws, which was intended to facilitate a harmonious renewal of the Board and to prepare for changes in 2.2.1.2 Directors’ term the composition of the aforementioned Board of Directors. Board members are currently appointed for a three-year term and The records pertaining to each Director (Section 2.1) mention may stand for renewal. The terms of one-third of the Directors the start and end dates of their terms and the table below, which expire at an Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting deliberating on notes the end date for the term of each Director, shows balanced the ﬁnancial statements of the previous ﬁscal year, so that the time phasing. End dates of the current directorships: Members of the Board of Directors 2014 2015 2016 2017 Hubert Sagnières x x Philippe Alfroid x x Benoit Bazin x Antoine Bernard de Saint-Affrique x Maureen Cavanagh x Yves Chevillotte x (a) Mireille Faugère Xavier Fontanet x Louise Fréchette x Yi He x x (b) Franck Henrionnet x Bernard Hours x Maurice Marchand-Tonel x Aïcha Mokdahi x x Olivier Pécoux x Michel Rose x TOTAL RENEWALS 5 5 5 5 (a) Resignation March 27, 2014. (b) Appointment October 28, 2014. 2.2.1.3 Obligation of Directors appointed 2.2.1.4 Expertise and experience of Directors in the Shareholders’ Meetings Members of the Board of Directors contribute management to hold shares expertise and/or experience to the Company in a variety of areas, including general and practical business knowledge, expertise in In accordance with Article 13 of the Bylaws in force at a speciﬁc Essilor International business segment or several years December 31, 2014, each Director appointed by Shareholders’ of experience in managing international companies, and thus Meetings must own at least 1,000 shares in the Company. As an contribute their management expertise and/or experience. This exception, the Director representing employees is not required diversity and complementarity of backgrounds is also a result of to hold shares, pursuant to Article L.225-25 of the French the internationalization of the Board of Directors, on which people Commercial Code. of four different nationalities serve. For more details, see the list of The records regarding each Director (Section 2.1) mention the directorships and their respective nationalities in Section 2.1.1.2. number of shares held by each of them. The Company Directors have a duty to be vigilant and exercise complete freedom of judgment. Above all, this freedom of judgment allows them to independently participate in the decisions or works of the Board and, if necessary, the special Board Committees. 52 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.2 Chairman’s Report on corporate governance GOVERNANCE 2.2.1.5 Independence of the members The Board of Directors, at its meeting of November 25, 2014, on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee and after of the Board of Directors having examined the situation of each Director with regard The criteria for determining the Board members’ independence to the independence criteria established by the AFEP-MEDEF are set out in the Company’s internal rules as adopted by the Code, concluded that out of the ﬁfteen Directors on the Board of Board on November 18, 2003 and amended from time to time. Directors, seven were independent, namely: These criteria, which comply with the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Louise Fréchette, Benoit Bazin, Antoine Bernard de Saint-Affrique, Governance Code, are as follows: Yves Chevillotte, Bernard Hours, Maurice Marchand-Tonel “A Board member is independent when he or she has no and Michel Rose. relationship of any kind whatsoever with the Company, the Group On December 31, 2014, the independence rate of the Board or the management thereof which may color his or her judgment. reached 63.6%, pursuant to the recommendations of the In particular, a Board member does not qualify as an Independent AFEP-MEDEF Code (i.e. not including the 3 Directors representing Director if: • such Board member is an employee or Executive Board employee shareholders and the Director representing employees). The Board is of the opinion that none of these Directors who 2 Director of the Company or of a company of the Group (or has qualiﬁed as independent had any material business relationships been during the previous ﬁve years); with the Company and its group. It is especially noteworthy that • such Board member is an Executive Board Director of a the Saint-Gobain group, where Benoît Bazin is a Director, has no company in which the Company holds, either directly or signiﬁcant current business with the Company. indirectly, a seat on the Board or in which Board membership is However, the following Directors did not qualify as independent: held by an employee of the Company designated as such or by a current or former (going back up to ﬁve years) Non-Executive • Hubert Sagnières, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since Board Director of the Company; January 2, 2012; • such Board member is a customer, supplier, investment banker • Xavier Fontanet, Chairman of the Board of Directors until or commercial banker – in each case – which is material for January 2, 2012; the Company or the Group or for which the Company or the Group represents a material proportion of the entity’s activity; • Philippe Alfroid, Chief Operating Officer until June 30, 2009, who remained a Director after his retirement on that date; • such Board member has any close family ties with a Non• Olivier Pécoux, a Director whose term has exceeded Executive Board Director; 12 years. Though the Board considers that independence • such Board member has been a Statutory Auditor of the is not correlated with the seniority of a Director and that, on the contrary, completion of a term is a gauge of a Director’s Company over the past ﬁve years; capacity to act freely and completely independently, the Board • such Board member has been a Director for more than nonetheless decided not to qualify Mr. Pecoux as independent, 12 years. pursuant to recommendations in the AFEP-MEDEF Code; Board members representing shareholders who do not have a controlling interest in the Company are considered Independent • the 3 Directors representing the employee shareholders: Maureen Cavanagh; Yi He; Aïcha Mokdahi; Directors. However, if a Board member represents a shareholder holding • the Director representing employees: Franck Henrionnet. more than 10% of the share capital or voting rights, the Board of Directors determines whether that Board member is an Independent Director, based on the opinion of the Nominations Committee issued in writing. Such opinion namely takes into account: • the composition of the share capital of the Company; • and whether there exists potential for any conﬂicts of interest.” Each year, the Board of Directors reviews the situation of each of its members with regard to the independence criteria set out in the AFEP-MEDEF Code in force. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 53 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.2 Chairman’s Report on corporate governance Summary table detailing each Director’s compliance or non-compliance with regard to the independence criteria of the AFEP-MEDEF Code The criteria used to rule out the qualiﬁcation of independence are indicated by the letter “C”. Criteria for AFEP-MEDEF independence Employee or executive Is a client, supplier, Has a close Has been a Board Director business banker family link statutory auditor Has been a of Essilor or ﬁnancing with a nonof Essilor Director of International banker (signiﬁcant executive International Essilor for or a Group over the last Crossbusiness Board over the last more than Directors company ﬁve years directorships relationships) Director ﬁve years 12 years Hubert SAGNIÈRES C Philippe ALFROID C Benoît BAZIN Antoine BERNARD DE SAINT-AFFRIQUE Maureen CAVANAGH C Yves CHEVILLOTTE Louise FRÉCHETTE Xavier FONTANET C Yi HE C Franck HENRIONNET C Bernard HOURS Maurice MARCHAND-TONEL Aïcha MOKDAHI C Olivier PÉCOUX C Michel ROSE Non-independent. 2.2.1.6 Ethical awareness of Directors Based on the information above, to the Company’s knowledge: • there are no potential conﬂicts of interest between the duties, with regard to the issuer, and the private interests and/or other ■ No potential conﬂicts of interest duties with regard to third parties, of any of the members of In accordance with the Directors’ Charter (see Section 2.2.2.1), the Company’s Board of Directors. To this end, the Directors’ Directors have an obligation to inform the Board of any conﬂict Charter stipulates that Directors have an obligation to inform of interest, even potential, and must refrain from participating in the Board of any conﬂict of interest, even potential, and must votes for corresponding resolutions and in discussions preceding refrain from participating in the deliberations related thereto; this vote, including the works of special Board Committees. • no member of the Board of Directors or any Chief Executive Participation of a Director in a transaction in which the Company, Officer has a service contract with Essilor or any of its or any other company in the Group, is directly involved is brought subsidiaries providing for the award of beneﬁts at the end of to the attention of the Board of Directors prior to completion of such contract; this transaction. • none of the Executive or Non-Executive Board Directors have As part of an annual statement, the Director informs the Board of been convicted of a fraudulent offence in the last ﬁve years; Directors of the terms and roles they perform in other companies and must request the opinion of the Board prior to accepting any • in the last ﬁve years, none of the Executive or Non-Executive Board Directors have been involved in a case of bankruptcy, new directorship. receivership or liquidation as a member of a Board, a The Director must, more speciﬁcally, make an annual declaration management or supervisory body or as a Chief Executive Officer; of any, even potential, conflicts of interest they have detected. According to these declarations, the Board of Directors identiﬁed • none of the Executive or Non-Executive Board Directors have been publicly incriminated and/or sanctioned by statutory or regulatory no conﬂicts of interest. The information referred to in Appendix 1 authorities (including designated professional bodies); of European Commission Regulation (EC) No. 809/2004 of April 29, 2004 below contains additional information. 54 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.2 Chairman’s Report on corporate governance GOVERNANCE • there are no family ties between the members of the Board of been made public (Articles 622-1 and 622-2 of the AMF General Directors. Regulation). The charter indicates that Directors, in addition to the period preceding the publication of any privileged information of which they are aware, must refrain from performing any ■ Insider dealing rules transaction in the securities during the abstention periods set During the session of August 27, 2014, the Board of Directors in accordance with recommendation no. 2010-07 of the French reviewed applicable regulations in terms of the prevention Financial Markets Authority (“AMF”) of July 8, 2013. of insider misconduct, especially as regards periods during Finally, Directors inform the AMF of transactions they performed which transactions in the securities of Essilor International are or transactions individuals with whom they are closely associated prohibited. As a result, on November 25, 2014, the Board approved performed in Essilor International securities on a yearly basis. changes to the Directors’ Charter, which, above all, included the These individual securities transaction declaration obligations obligation for anybody with privileged information to refrain from are covered in the Directors’ Charter, which is reviewed annually performing, having a third party perform or allowing another party to perform transactions in the Company’s securities based on this information, during the period in which this information has not by the Board. The summary statement of transactions in Essilor International securities carried out in 2014 by Corporate officers is included in Section 2.3.5. 2 2.2.2 Preparation and organization of meetings of the Board of Directors The operations of the Board of Directors and the special Board of directorships held in other French and foreign companies and, Committees are governed by internal rules adopted by the Board in the case of Executive Board Directors, seek the advice of the at its meeting of November 18, 2003, and revised several times, Board before accepting a new corporate office. Directors must and by a Directors’ Charter. These documents are reviewed consider themselves subject to an obligation of professional annually by the Board of Directors, as part of the self-assessment secrecy – which goes further than the obligation to be discreet of the operations of the Board of Directors, in order to account, provided for in Article L.225-37-4 of the French Commercial above all, for changes in regulations and in the AFEP-MEDEF Code. Code – with regard to non-public information that comes into their The main elements of these two documents are reproduced or possession in their capacity as a Board member. summarized below. The complete version of these documents is The main amendments made in 2014 to the internal rules of the also available, along with the Bylaws, on the Company’s website, Board and the charter mainly concerned the following points: in the “governance” Section. • updates in accordance with recommendations in the AFEPMEDEF Code of June 2013; 2.2.2.1 Internal rules of the Board of Directors and the Directors’ Charter • updates following the appointment of the Director representing employees (no obligation to hold shares, etc.); The internal rules of the Board of Directors and the Directors’ • the fact that any Director, and especially the Director Charter, whose current versions were updated on November 25, representing employees, may beneﬁt from training. Training 2014, describe (i) the operating methods for the Board and the may be given upon appointment or throughout the term of the committees and (ii) the rights and obligations of each Director of directorship. The Company organizes and offers this training Essilor International respectively. and the Company is responsible for the training. As part of the The charter requires each Board member to commit to attending integration procedure, each new Director may beneﬁt from a meetings of the Board of Directors and Shareholders’ Meetings suitable training plan, as regards the skills, experience and regularly, to inform the Board of Directors of any potential or knowledge of the ﬁeld of business and the Company; actual conﬂict of interest, and to refrain from participating in the • Directors’ fees: additional videoconference or telephone corresponding proceedings, including the work of special Board meetings do not require payment of Directors’ fees, unless Committees. Board members must also keep the Board informed decided otherwise by the Board of Directors. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 55 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.2 Chairman’s Report on corporate governance 2.2.2.2 Role and responsibilities of the Board 2.2.2.3 Self-assessment of the operations of Directors of the Board The Board of Directors is a collegial body whose role and A formalized assessment of the operation of the Board of Directors responsibilities – in addition to those defined by law and has been performed on an annual basis since 2004 and is included regulations – are to: in a speciﬁc item on the agenda of the Board of Directors. Such assessments often lead to changes in the internal rules of the • decide the criteria to be applied to determine whether Board of Directors and the Directors’ Charter. The results of the Directors are independent and review these criteria each year; self-assessment are presented to shareholders in the Registration • identify the Directors who meet the independence criteria; Document. The assessment covers the three objectives set out in • review and if appropriate, approve major strategic choices; Article 10.2 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code of Corporate Governance (review the operating procedures of the Board, ensure that • review (i) any acquisition or sale, as part of the new business / important issues are suitably prepared and discussed, measure new country strategy, which exceeds €100 million and (ii) any the contribution of each Director to the Board’s accomplishments). acquisition or sale other than those referred to in (i) whose value exceeds €150 million. These transactions are subject to In 2014, a new formalized self-assessment was entrusted to an formal approval by the Board; Independent Director, assisted by the Secretariat of the Board of Directors, under the authority of the Nominations Committee. • approve material restructuring and investment projects that do The Independent Directors meet at least once a year without the not form part of the stated strategy; Executive Directors in attendance, to conduct the performance • monitor implementation of the Board’s decisions; evaluation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and prior • review and approve the ﬁnancial statements; to the return of the conclusions of the 2014 self-assessment. • assess the performance of Board members (collectively and The report on the questionnaires showed that the Directors have individually) and of members of Senior Management; an overall positive assessment of the Board, which they consider to be “involved and committed”. They also have a positive view of • ensure that Essilor’s tradition of managerial excellence is its relations with Senior Management, as regards consideration of maintained; its concerns and freedom of expression in Board and Committee • discuss and if appropriate, approve the choice of candidates Meetings. The improved quality of information, the quality of the for election as Non-Executive Board Directors and their presentations, the minutes of the Board Meetings and the reports compensation recommended by the Executive officers and of the committees, as well as the capacity of the Board to work in Remuneration Committee; a team, have been recognized. • discuss and if appropriate, approve the appointment of Proposals have also been made to review the composition the members of the special Board Committees on the of the Board of Directors in terms of greater diversity, recommendation of the Nominations Committee; internationalization and the male / female ratio, with a view to • discuss and if appropriate, approve Group Senior Management reaching the minimum threshold which provides that 40% of Directors must be of the same sex by 2017. The Nominations succession plans and major organizational changes; Committee has initiated a process in this regard. Some of the • examine the procedures for identifying, evaluating, auditing results of this process will be available in 2015, but most will be and monitoring the Group’s commitments and risks; available in 2016. • monitor the Group’s ﬁnancial reporting so as to ensure that As part of the review of the tasks attributed to each of the investors receive relevant, balanced and strategic information committees, the Board retained a proposal in favor of improved on the Company’s strategy, development model and long-term coordination of the committees, especially as regards the outlook. assessment and evaluation of extra-ﬁnancial risks which are the On the recommendation of the Nominations Committee and with responsibility of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee. the approval of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Board This committee is responsible for ensuring monitoring with the may create special committees and set the rules governing their Audit and Risk Committee. remit and composition. These committees act on the authority The members of the Board of Directors are also pleased with delegated to them by the Board and make recommendations the progress made, especially with the progress of the selfand proposals to the Board. The structure of the tasks attributed assessment and the subsequent steps taken following the to each committee as well as their respective compositions are progress made in 2013. reviewed by the Board of Directors on an annual basis, as part of the self-assessment of the operations of the Board of Directors. Additional improvements could be made to further continue improving the quality of governance: • presentations that are more summary in nature, aimed at increasing the time spent in debate sessions; • increased importance given to the Company’s overall strategy, to new business and corresponding new requirements in terms of expertise and talent management; • improved information on financial market trends (analysis briefs, roadshow summaries). 56 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.2 Chairman’s Report on corporate governance GOVERNANCE 2.2.2.4 Information from the Board of Directors 2.2.2.5 Meetings of the Board of Directors in 2014 All necessary documents to inform the Board members about the The Board meets as often as necessary in the Company’s interest agenda and any matters to be discussed by the Board are enclosed and at least ﬁve times per year. The dates of the meetings of the with the notice of meeting or sent, handed to or otherwise made Board for the following year are set on August 31 at the latest, available to them reasonably in advance of the meeting. except in the event of an extraordinary meeting. The Independent Directors meet at least once a year without the Executive Directors These documents may be communicated via a secure digital in attendance, to conduct the performance evaluation of the platform within a reasonable time frame prior to the meeting. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Each Board member is required to ensure that he or she has all In accordance with the internal rules of the Board, Directors are the information they deem essential to the proper operation of convened at least seven days prior to each meeting. The Statutory the Board or the special Board Committees. If any information is Auditors are invited to attend the Board Meetings called to review not made available or if a Director believes that information may the interim and annual ﬁnancial statements, as provided for in have been withheld, he or she must ask for it to be supplied. Board members’ requests are made to the Chairman of the Board (or the Chief Executive Officer if the two positions are separated), who is Article L.823-17 of the French Commercial Code. As in prior years, the Labor-Management Committee representatives on the Board 2 attended all Board Meetings held in 2014. under the obligation to ensure that Board members are able to fulﬁll their duties. In 2014, the Board of Directors held six meetings on the dates planned in 2014. The average duration of the meetings was two Between meetings, Board members also receive all useful as well hours and thirty minutes. as business-critical information about all events or transactions that are material to the Company. In particular, they receive copies of all press releases published by the Company. ■ Increased commitment from the members of the Board As in prior years, Board members were informed of the blackof Directors out periods for 2015, during which they may not trade in Essilor In addition to participation in the meetings of the Board and International shares or any instruments that have Essilor the committees, the organization and coordination of these International shares as their underlying, either directly or through meetings require increased availability and commitment from a third party. They were also given a copy of the ethics guidelines Directors. Between meetings, Directors must spend even more drawn up by the Company, which state that Board members are time examining information and documents. More specifically, considered as permanent insiders because they regularly receive an Independent Director is appointed in order to supervise price-sensitive and other conﬁdential information. the progress of the annual self-assessment of the Board and Directors may, if they deem it necessary, receive additional the members of the Nominations Committee are contacted training in the specifics of the Company, its business and its periodically so that they may meet potential candidates for industry. Upon their appointment, the members of the Audit directorships. The Chairmen of the committees participate and Risk Committee are provided with speciﬁc details about the actively in preparing the schedule for the committees’ works and Company’s accounting, ﬁnancial and operational practices. The in preparing the agendas. internal rules of the Board and the Directors’ Charter, updated on November 25, 2014, expressly provide that any new Director is given a welcome pack including all documents pertaining to the ■ Attendance of the members of the Board of Directors governance of Essilor International and the option of participating The Company’s bylaws state that Directors may participate in in an integration procedure. certain meetings by videoconference or other telecommunications link, with the exception of those cases explicitly stipulated, such as the approval of the ﬁnancial statements and preparation of the Management Report. Under the Board’s internal rules, Directors who participate in meetings in this way are included in the calculation of the quorum and voting majority for the meeting. In 2014, none of the Directors used the videoconference or telephone resources. All the Directors were, furthermore, present at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting on May 7, 2014. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 57 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.2 Chairman’s Report on corporate governance The table below shows the number of Board and Committee attendance of the Directors at the Board Meetings was 97%, and Meetings held during 2014, as well as their members and the 99% for all the meetings of the Board and the committees. individual attendance at each of these meetings. The average Executive officers Board of Audit and Risk and Remuneration Nominations Strategy CSR Directors Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in 2014 6 4 4 4 4 3 Participation (%) Hubert SAGNIÈRES 100% 100% Philippe ALFROID 100% 100% 100% Benoît BAZIN 100% 100% 100% Antoine BERNARD DE SAINT-AFFRIQUE 83% 100% 100% Maureen CAVANAGH 100% 100% Yves CHEVILLOTTE 100% 100% 100% 100% (a) Mireille FAUGÈRE 33% 50% 50% Xavier FONTANET 100% 100% 100% Louise FRÉCHETTE 100% 100% 100% Yi HE 100% 100% Franck HENRIONNET (a) 16% Bernard HOURS 100% 100% 100% 100% Maurice MARCHAND-TONEL 100% 100% 100% 100% Aïcha MOKDAHI 100% 75% 100% 100% Olivier PÉCOUX 66% 80% Michel ROSE 100% 100% 100% 100% (a) Incoming or outgoing Directors during the ﬁscal year (see the Director records for any additional information in Section 2.1.1.2). ■ Major accomplishments of the Board of Directors in 2014 and delegation of powers to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for the issuance of ordinary bonds and the The matters discussed by the Board in ﬁscal year 2014 and the implementation of the share buyback program authorized in decisions taken covered a wide range of areas, including: the 13th resolution of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014; • business developments: at each meeting planned in the authorization to issue, sureties, endorsements and guarantees annual schedule (excluding exceptional meetings convened to and to delegate, with the power to sub-delegate, their power to deliberate on a strategic transaction), the Chairman and Chief grant the Company’s guarantee, within the overall annual limit Executive Officer presented the Company’s general position of €400 million, to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; for the previous period: changes in key ﬁnancial indicators, “key events” in the commercial and technical ﬁelds, state of • notice of Shareholders’ Meeting: examination, during two meetings, and approval of draft resolutions to submit to the competition, consolidation of acquired businesses, etc.; Shareholders’ Meetings of May 7, 2014 and May 5, 2015; • 2014 budget: examination, during two meetings, at the • governance: information regarding new internal organization beginning of the ﬁscal year; effective on September 1, 2014, according to whose terms Jean • ﬁnancial statements: examination and/or closure of the 2013 Carrier was appointed as Chief Operating Officer, alongside annual financial statements and the half-yearly financial Paul du Saillant and Laurent Vacherot (this appointment statements, the provisional ﬁnancial statements, after having involved a certain number of internal-mobility changes which heard the reports of the Audit and Risk Committee and the affected the composition of the Executive Committee); updating Statutory Auditors. On this occasion, the financial and cash of the internal rules of the Board of Directors and the Directors’ ﬂow situation was reviewed; Charter; completion of the annual self-assessment and, above all, examination, based on the proposals of the Nominations • external growth: during each meeting planned on the Committee, of its composition and predicted changes (see schedule, the Board receives information about and debates Section 2.2.2.3) and annual review of the independence acquisition transactions which are underway or are being qualiﬁcation of the members (see Section 2.2.1.5); in terms of considered. Furthermore, the Board is informed beforehand of compensation for Non-Executive Board Directors, the Board the Company’s general external growth policy, based on the has decided to change the distribution of Directors’ fees reports of the Strategy Committee; between members and determined the compensation of the • ﬁnancial authorizations: approval of renewals of authorization Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; to issue European bonds (European medium term notes) 58 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.2 Chairman’s Report on corporate governance GOVERNANCE • corporate social responsibility: examination, based on the The Audit and Risk Committee is chaired by an Independent reports of the CSR Committee, of the project to create the Director appointed by the Board of Directors on the endowment fund (see Section 4.4), review of reports in terms recommendation of the Nominations Committee. Their of extra-ﬁnancial reporting; presentation of the activities of appointment or renewal, which is proposed by the Nominations the corporate mission as well as the positioning of Essilor Committee, is subject to particularly close examination by the International in terms of extra-ﬁnancial indexes; Board of Directors. • employee-related issues: information on Company The Audit and Risk Committee is chaired by Yves Chevillotte. developments in employee-related matters in 2013 On December 31, 2014, the Audit Committee also included (workforce developments, business combinations of entities Philippe Alfroid (as of July 1, 2009), Antoine Bernard de Saintand reorganization of the distribution of instruments in Affrique, Benoît Bazin and Aïcha Mokdahi. All of these individuals France, major trade union negotiations, Company policy have, during the course of their career, undertaken tasks which regarding equal employment opportunity and pay, etc.), require ﬁnancial and accounting skills. award of capped performance-based stock subscription options and performance shares to employees in France and the major foreign subsidiaries pursuant to the 12th, 13th Role 2 and 14th resolutions of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 11, Under the Board of Directors’ internal rules and in accordance 2012 and a capital increase for employees as part of a with Article L.823-19 of the French Commercial Code and AMF company savings plan pursuant to the 15th resolution of the recommendations issued in 2010, the Audit and Risk Committee, Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014 (see Section 5.2.1.4); acting under the responsibility of the Board or Directors, examines examination of the opinion issued by the Central Company issues related to the preparation and control of accounting and Committee regarding strategic directions; ﬁnancial information. • committee reports: the Board heard, for the preparation Without encroaching upon the responsibilities of Senior Management, the Audit and Risk Committee is tasked with of its deliberations above in the areas that concern them respectively, reports by the Audit and Risk Committee (four overseeing: reports), the Nominations Committee (two reports), the Executive officers and Remuneration Committee (two reports), • processes for the preparation of ﬁnancial information; the Strategy Committee (four reports) and the Corporate Social • the effectiveness of internal control and risk management Responsibility Committee (three reports). procedures; • the statutory audit of the financial statements and, if applicable, the consolidated financial statements by the ■ Minutes Statutory Auditors; The draft minutes of each Board Meeting were sent to all Directors no later than the date of notice the next meeting. • the Statutory Auditors’ independence; • and, generally speaking, the review of all ﬁnancial statements presented during the year. 2.2.2.6 Committees of the Board of Directors The Audit and Risk Committee makes recommendations On the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, the Board concerning the choice of Statutory Auditors to be appointed by may create special committees and set the rules governing their the Shareholders’ Meeting or the body exercising an equivalent remit and composition. The latest update to the composition of function. the committees was performed during the meeting of the Board As part of its role, the Audit and Risk Committee also has to report of Directors of May 7, 2014 and the Board’s self-assessment of regularly to the collegial body in charge of the management of its November 25, 2014 prompted no new changes. These committees activities and notify it immediately of any difficulties or material act on the authority delegated to them by the Board and make problems that it encounters. recommendations and proposals to the Board. Indeed, the committees must not replace the Board, but are an offshoot which In this context, its remit also extends to analyzing the procedures facilitates its work. in place within the Company that ensure: • the integrity of the ﬁnancial statements: ■ Audit and Risk Committee • presentation of the half-yearly and annual financial statements and elements of the associated Registration Composition Document to the Audit and Risk Committee, The Board’s internal rules stipulate that the Audit and Risk • review of the key assumptions impacting the recognition Committee is to be comprised of at least three members appointed and reporting of any material changes made to the by the Board from among the Directors. At least two thirds of accounting principles; the committee members must be Independent Directors. The • the effectiveness of internal control and major risk members of the Audit Committee cannot hold senior management management procedures: positions, nor can they serve as Executive Board Directors of the Company. They should have speciﬁc expertise in accounting and • understanding of how the Company identiﬁes, evaluates, anticipates and manages its key financial, operational, ﬁnancial matters. compliance and reporting risks (on the contrary, the committee is not responsible for investigating issues related to the strategic risks and risks related to governance unless requested otherwise by the Board), Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 59 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.2 Chairman’s Report on corporate governance assessment of the competence, availability and positioning In order to successfully complete their mission, the Audit and of the organization in charge of monitoring the Company’s Risk Committee must have a minimum of ﬁve days to familiarize risk control, themselves in advance with supporting documents for the discussions and, above all, to examine the ﬁnancial statements • issuing recommendations, if necessary, for the (i) prior to publication”. implementation of corrective actions in the event of weaknesses or signiﬁcant deﬁciencies, (ii) improvement of Major accomplishments in 2014 existing procedures, and (iii), if required, the introduction of new procedures; The work of this committee is based on the recommendations of the AMF Audit Committee Working Group of June 14, 2010 and • the Audit and Risk Committee may also be consulted by the the committee’s 2012 self-assessment, updated in August 2014. Board or by Senior Management about any issues concerning procedures to control non-recurring risks; The Audit and Risk Committee met four times (with a participation rate of 96% for the year) and heard the Group’s Chief Financial • compliance with legal and statutory requirements: Officer, the Secretary General, the Group Legal Director, the • compliance with accounting regulations and proper Group’s Internal Audit Director, the Corporate Senior Vice application of the Company’s accounting principles and President, Global Engineering and the Statutory Auditors. policies, The committee discussed the following topics at these meetings: • cognizance of major disputes for the year, • financial statements: review of the financial statements for • review of actions to prevent risks related to economic the third quarter of 2013, the year 2013, a summary of 2014 regulation (compliance), budget estimates, the ﬁnancial statements for the ﬁrst quarter • compliance with securities regulations and the strict insider and ﬁrst half of 2014 (this examination was performed with dealing rules in force within the Company; sufficient time (at least two days) before the relevant meetings of the Board of Directors); • the performance, qualifications and independence of the Statutory Auditors: • internal audits and internal control: internal audit plan for 2014 as part of the multi-year “roadmap” with a monitoring of • recommendation regarding the appointment of the internal and external audits, Chairman’s Report on corporate Statutory Auditors, governance and internal control, performance indicators, • resolution of potential disagreements between the positions budget and review of the activity (productivity measurement) of the Statutory Auditors and Senior Management, of the internal audit and the internal control and associated Group risks self-assessment process, referred to as “iCare”; • review and evaluation of the qualiﬁcations, performance, fees, independence and compliance with the rules of • presentation of changes in European Regulation in terms of professional incompatibility of the Statutory Auditors, external audits, planned for implementation in 2016; including the main partner, • self-assessment of the operations of the Audit and Risk • review of the rotation regulations applicable to the main Committee performed by two members. The conclusions of partner and evaluation of the need for rotation among the this self-assessment were shared with the Board as part of Statutory Auditors, their self-assessment; • review of the Statutory Auditors’ Reports, information • ﬁnancing strategy; brought to the attention of the Board pursuant to Article L.823-16 of the French Commercial Code and the • risk control: thematic reviews (innovation and intellectual property protection, litigation risks, supplier vulnerability, liquid responses provided by Senior Management, including the assets, interest rates, trapped cash, subsidiary counterparties), quality of internal control procedures and the preparation continuity plan in some organizations, legal compliance process for ﬁnancial information; program and 2015 action plan; • the performance of internal audits: • examination of adjusted ﬁnancial indicators; • review of the Internal Audit Charter, its role and scope of • accounting and ﬁnancial integration of strategic acquisitions work, in 2014; • review of the budget, resources and means available to the • examination of the project and the process to reduce reporting internal audit team, deadlines; • review of the proposed audit plan for the year by the • litigation and fraud; Internal Audit Director, • review of the main results presented by the Internal Audit • preparation of the 2015 work schedule. Director, The committee also met with the Statutory Auditors with the Group executives not present. • review of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit Department, On February 16, 2015, the 2014 consolidated ﬁnancial statements • opinion on the appointment and replacement of the Internal were reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee. Audit Director. In accordance with the internal rules of the Board of Directors, “the committee is endeavoring to meet at least two days before the meeting of the Board, at least for meetings whose agenda involves examining ﬁnancial statements (annual and half-yearly ﬁnancial statements). 60 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.2 Chairman’s Report on corporate governance GOVERNANCE ■ Nominations Committee ■ Executive officers and Remuneration Committee Composition Composition The internal rules of the Board of Directors stipulate that the The Board of Directors’ internal rules stipulate that the Executive Nominations Committee is comprised of a maximum of six officers and Remuneration Committee is to have at least three members, at least three of whom are Independent Directors. members, all of whom must be Independent Directors. The Chairman is appointed by the Board after approval by the There are no Executive Board Directors in the committee. The members of the Nominations Committee. committee is chaired by a Director appointed by the Board who is The Nominations Committee is comprised of Xavier Fontanet an independent member. (Chairman), Yves Chevillotte, Maurice Marchand-Tonel and Michel The Executive officers and Remuneration Committee is chaired by Rose, all three of whom are Independent Directors. The Chairman Michel Rose and includes Bernard Hours and Maurice Marchandand Chief Executive Officer and a Director elected on the proposal of Valoptec Association are involved in the work of the committee. Tonel: all three are Independent Directors. Role 2 Role The role of the Executive officers and Remuneration Committee, as As described in the Board’s internal rules, the principal role of described in the Board’s internal rules, is to: the Nominations Committee, as part of the duties of the Board of Directors, is to: • make recommendations regarding the compensation of NonExecutive Board Directors (Executive Board Directors and • make recommendations to the Board concerning the choice of Directors); Directors; • supervise the Board’s self-assessment process; • make recommendations regarding the allocation of stock options and/or free “performance” shares for these Executive • make proposals to improve the functioning of the Board; Board Directors and regarding the numbers of shares from stock options or performance shares that Executive Board • identify Independent Directors to be approved by the Board; Directors must conserve until their term is over; • evaluate Director performance; • review the Company’s general compensation policies; • manage the Board’s development process and Director • submit the draft report regarding compensation to the Board performance; on an annual basis. The Shareholders’ Meeting must make a • suggest people to the Board of Directors as members of the decision regarding this report as part of an advisory vote; special committees; • make recommendations to the Board regarding the selection of • reﬂect on the composition of the Board of Directors and any Executive Board Directors; possible developments; • assist the Chairman and the Board in the Group’s Senior • prepare for a change of Directors as needed. Management succession planning and their plans for major organizational changes. Major accomplishments in 2014 The committee met four times in 2014 (with a participation rate of Major accomplishments in 2014 100% for the year). The Executive officers and Remuneration Committee met four It reviewed the following topics: times in 2014 (with a participation rate of 100% for the year for current members) to consider the following topics to submit as • preparation of the nomination of the Director representing recommendations to the Board: employees; • consideration of draft resolutions for submission to the • review of the 2013 performance of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for the final calculation of his variable Shareholders’ Meeting for the reappointment of ﬁve Directors; compensation for the ﬁscal year ended; • conﬁrmation of Independent Director classiﬁcation attributed • rules for determining the variable compensation of the to certain Directors, after a review conducted by one of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for 2014; Independent Directors (see Section 2.2.1.5); • consideration of potential candidates for directorships and • review of a benchmark for the compensation of executives of comparable companies; preparation of the reappointments over the next few years (especially in terms of improving male-female equality); • review of the budget for Directors’ fees, in preparation for the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014 and May 5, 2015; • project involving preparation of a succession plan for Executive Board Directors; • the structure and components of the compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for ﬁscal year 2014; • review of the findings of the Board’s self-assessment (see Section 2.2.2.3). • 2014 plans for free allocation of shares and stock subscription options and review of the conditions for future plans as part Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 61 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.2 Chairman’s Report on corporate governance of the preparation of draft resolutions to be submitted to the The CSR Committee is chaired by Louise Fréchette (Independent shareholders for voting during the Shareholders’ Meeting of Director), and is composed of Aïcha Mokdahi, Bernard Hours May 5, 2015. (Independent Director) and Hubert Sagnières. Role ■ Strategy Committee The main role of the CSR Committee, within the remit of the Board Composition of Directors, is to ensure that the Group is even more effective at addressing the economic and societal challenges associated with The Board’s internal rules stipulate that the Strategy Committee its mission to “improve sight,” which involves helping as many is to include all Essilor Board members. The Chairman of the people as possible to see better, in order to live better. The Group Strategy Committee is the Chairman of the Board of Directors. strives to offer products customized to each individual within its entire global scope. Role This covers all areas of corporate social responsibility relating to The role of the Strategy Committee, as described in the Board’s the Group’s mission and operations. internal rules and as part of the work of the Board of Directors, is to regularly review the Company’s product, technology, geographic The CSR Committee is also responsible for governance of the and marketing strategies. To do this, the Chief Executive Officer Group’s societal project. makes regular presentations to the Board on these issues, As such, and with particular regard to the Group’s voluntary CSR assisted where necessary by Executive Committee members. The process, the committee must: agenda is determined by a strategic steering group. • examine the main opportunities and risks for the Group and for all stakeholders regarding challenges speciﬁc to its role Major accomplishments in 2014 and activities; The Strategy Committee met four times in 2014 (with a participation rate of 99% for the year). • remain informed and help to deﬁne and approve the scope of the Group’s general CSR policy as required; The committee reviewed the following topics: • oversee the implementation and gradual roll-out of this policy • sunwear strategy; and its initiatives; • the action and initiatives undertaken in terms of corporate • guide the Board of Directors on the Group’s long-term social responsibility (especially in Brazil, China, India and development, including its economic development, through its France); CSR initiatives in matters of sight and its improvement; • research and innovation: presentation of innovation; • assess the risks, identify new opportunities, take account of the impact of the CSR policy in terms of economic performance • overview of players and business in terms of equipment and and evaluate the impact for the Group of investments with instruments; social and societal goals in the different businesses and in all • human resources: presentation of three main action areas, countries; namely talent management, the Principles and Values of Essilor International and the organization and operation of • ensure that the Group’s interests are protected and anticipate potential conﬂicts of interest regarding CSR investments and Human Resources; other Group activities; • internet sales activities; • review once a year a summary of the ratings given to the Group • lens and sunwear manufacturing activity. and its subsidiaries by rating agencies and via non-ﬁnancial After each of its meetings, a summary of the reports and analyses; discussions was presented to the Board of Directors by the Chairman. • issue an opinion regarding the CSR Report to be published pursuant to legal obligations (Article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code). ■ Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee Major accomplishments in 2014 Composition During 2014, the committee met three times (with a participation rate of 100% for the year) and discussed the following topics: The CSR Committee was established following the deliberations of the Board during their meeting of February 27, 2013. The internal • creation of the “Essilor Social Impact” fund, whose purpose is rules, which were amended for this purpose, provide that the CSR to ﬁnance CSR initiatives; Committee must be comprised of a minimum of four members and a maximum of six members. Among these members, there • review of the activity of the “corporate mission”; must be two Independent Directors, as well as the Chairman and • review of reports published in terms of CSR and especially Chief Executive Officer and a Non-Independent Director from pursuant to regulatory obligations in the French Grenelle II law; Valoptec. • updating of non-ﬁnancial reporting and positioning of Essilor The CSR Committee is chaired by an Independent Director International in terms of indexes; appointed by the Board of Directors on the recommendation of the • works of the Vision Impact Institute. Nominations Committee. 62 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.2 Chairman’s Report on corporate governance GOVERNANCE 2.2.3 Internal control procedures implemented by Essilor The system of Essilor internal control procedures exists pursuant to the legal framework applicable to companies listed on Euronext and is inspired by the reference framework for risk management and internal control mechanisms published by the AMF on July 22, 2010. 2.2.3.1 Company internal control objectives 2.2.3.2 Components of the internal control Generally speaking, internal controls at Essilor are a mechanism mechanism that is applicable to the parent company and its consolidated subsidiaries in France and abroad (“the Group”) ■ Control environment and Group values (see Section 2.2.3.3). Their aim is to ensure that: The control environment that underlies the internal control • the achievement of economic and ﬁnancial goals is conducted in accordance with the laws and regulations in force; • the instructions and guidelines set by Senior Management are mechanism plays an essential role at Essilor. It was built through a long history of commitment and a very strong entrepreneurial culture on the part of employees and executives. This foundation 2 implemented; enables Essilor to welcome, both now and in the future, an ever• the Company’s internal processes, particularly those growing number of employees and partners, while at the same time preserving its corporate culture. contributing to the protection of assets, perform properly; • the Group’s accounting and ﬁnancial information is reliable and The “Essilor Principles” document, which was prepared in 2011 by the Legal and Human Resources Departments and is the product honestly presented. of a broad consultation and gathering of proposals from around Internal control contributes to the disciplined management of the the world, is the basis of this environment and makes it possible business, the effectiveness and efficiency of operations and the to share Essilor’s mission, principles and values. This document efficient use of resources. The parent company guarantees the is organized based on three major concepts which give Essilor existence of internal control mechanisms within its subsidiaries employees and partners the feeling of sharing the reputation and that are adapted to their sizes and associated risks. responsibilities of their Group in the wider sense: a position as In practice, the purpose of internal control consists in: a world leader, rapid global expansion and a strong corporate culture. The document is currently available in 33 languages on • ensuring management actions or executions of transactions, the Group’s intranet site and on its website. and staff behavior, fall within the scope defined by the guidelines applicable to activities undertaken by the Company’s Our values foster governance, business ethics and a culture of corporate bodies. This includes compliance with applicable accountability and are based on “our entrepreneurial spirit,” laws and regulations, as well as values, standards and rules “respect and trust,” “innovation,” “working together” and “our internal to the Company; diversity.” • verifying the quality and accuracy of all accounting, ﬁnancial, Sharing and respecting our common principles and values helps legal and management information reported to the Board of us, in our day-to-day work, to live out the mission and spirit of Directors, the regulatory authorities, shareholders or the our Company, which consists of offering everyone ways to “see public; the world better.” Our mission mobilizes us in the sense that good sight is an essential asset to health and also to social and • covering all of the Company’s implemented policies and professional integration, child development and personal wellprocedures that provide reasonable assurance that business being in our day-to-day lives. is managed efficiently and effectively. At the same time, part of the charter of Valoptec, an association One of the goals of the system of internal control is to prevent comprised of active and retired Essilor employees, includes a and limit the risk of error or fraud, in particular of an economic, Code of Values. The goal of this association is to “promote the ﬁnancial and legal nature, to which the Group may be exposed. adoption by Group companies of sound business practices and However, no system of controls can provide an absolute guarantee human resources management policies.” The charter upholds that all such risks have been completely avoided, eliminated or the values of respect and trust among individuals. Members entirely brought under control or that the Company’s objectives promise to uphold this charter as the foremost condition of their will be met. Indeed, the probability of achieving these goals does membership and, even though Essilor employees who are not not depend solely on the Group’s wishes, but rather on several Valoptec members do not sign this charter personally, its spirit factors, such as the uncertainty of the outside world or the infuses the Group culture in a very real way. The members of commitment of an act of fraud. Valoptec and other employee shareholders together hold 14.2% Risk control takes into account the main characteristics of the of the Company’s voting rights. The association’s bylaws are Group: regularly updated and reviewed to ensure they are aligned with • its signiﬁcant role in international activities; its development. • its decentralized structure; • the speciﬁc nature of risks (see information on the risk factors that our Company may face in Section 1.6); • the strong corporate culture. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 63 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.2 Chairman’s Report on corporate governance ■ Organization of internal control and recommendations for improvement needed and the Audit and Risk Committee is informed of the most signiﬁcant issues. It is our intention to promote a system of internal control based on: Implementation of the recommendations is the responsibility • clear deﬁnitions of responsibilities, backed by the necessary of the audited entities. The internal audit function monitors the resources and skills, appropriate information systems, implementation of these recommendations by monitoring the procedures and processes, tools and practices; implementation of action plans decided in agreement with them in accordance with the schedule set. • internal communication of all the information needed to enable each individual to fulﬁll his or her responsibilities; Since 2011, at the instigation of the Director, the Internal Audit Department deployed a ﬁve-year roadmap which was produced • a system that aims to identify and analyze the main identiﬁable based on a study bringing together various benchmarks and risks with respect to the objectives of our Company and to good practices on the start of the art in the field of internal ensure the implementation of procedures to manage these audits. This roadmap, which is updated regularly, is organized risks; around the following themes: governance, risk management and • control procedures that are proportionate to the risks internal control, terms of office, human resources, technology, associated with each process and are designed to provide performance, quality and value creation. Action plans aimed at assurance that measures are taken to limit and, to the extent advancing the function (despite issues inherent to a company possible, manage the risks that could prevent the Company experiencing rapid growth and decentralized operations) are from fulﬁlling its objectives; reviewed and shared with the main internal audit partners and the management team. Substantial progress which has been • supervision of the internal control and risk management made in several fields – regarding its operating methods and system and regular reviews of its operations. internal efficiency – allowed ACS to win the “Innovation Prize” organized by the IFACI (French Institute of internal control) and its 2.2.3.3 Key control activities and key players partners in November 2013. This prize, for which 59 participating organizations compete, was aimed at increasing familiarity Various internal control activities help to ensure that the with and distinguishing good practices in companies and public application of standards and procedures deﬁned at the corporate organizations, as regards innovation in the internal audit and level are consistent with Senior Management’s guidelines. internal control ﬁeld. In its area of work, ACS is thus part of the The departments with specific responsibility for monitoring long tradition of innovation at all levels of Essilor. activities are: ■ Consolidation ■ Internal audit and internal control The Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements are prepared by the The ACS Department (Audit & Consulting Services) covers the Consolidation and Group Reporting Department. This department internal audits and the Group’s internal control, with a total is in charge of updating consolidation procedures which are ﬁrst dedicated workforce of 21 people as of December 31, 2014 (18 presented to the Audit and Risk Committee. With the support of for internal audits, 2 for Group internal control, and its Director). regional ﬁnancial management departments, this department is Geographically, the ACS workforce as of that date included also tasked with training the newly consolidated subsidiaries and employees located at the corporate headquarters in Charenton including them in the reporting. (6 people for Corporate, Europe and Africa operations), Dallas The Group’s consolidation is established on the basis of the local (6 people for North America operations), Singapore (6 people accounts of the various subsidiaries or existing sub-groups. for Asia/Paciﬁc and Middle East operations) and Rio de Janeiro The Consolidation and Reporting Department receives detailed (2 people for Central America and South America operations). ﬁnancial statements according to a set schedule, performs a full The ACS Director reports to one of the Chief Operating Officers. review of the statements and makes the adjustments required This Director has no authority over nor responsibility for the for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. operations they control. The internal audit team also reports on These are audited by the Joint Statutory Auditors who apply the the department’s activities to the Audit and Risk Committee. standards of the profession. The ongoing role of the internal audit team is, within the limits The reporting process ensures that the Group’s interim and of the resources allocated to it, to evaluate operation of risk annual ﬁnancial statements are reliable. To prepare for the ﬁscal management and internal control mechanisms, carry out regular periods ending June 30 and December 31, a hard close procedure checks and make any recommendations for its improvement. is performed at May 31 and November 30. Internal audits are carried out using the same methodology applied in all geographic areas. For each audit, a report is prepared and distributed to the management of the entity, the ■ Business Analysis regional Director(s) of the audited entity, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Finance Department and, depending on Each Group entity or reporting unit has its own business analysis the nature and impact of the issues raised, the Chief Operating unit responsible for analyzing performance and preparing Officers, the Legal Department of the Group and the operational or forecast cycles. The Group’s entities are supported by a business functional departments. This report summarizes the observations analysis unit in each operating division to which they are attached. 64 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.2 Chairman’s Report on corporate governance GOVERNANCE The Group’s business analysis unit defines and monitors the Committee and the Strategy Committee. It ensures that executives indicators for checking that the Group is operating in accordance throughout the organization are aware of potential liability risks with its targets. It measures the contribution of the Group’s and proposes legal solutions which contribute to strengthening various operating divisions. the control environment. It provides answers to all legal questions raised by the various departments of the Group in a French and It performs consistency tests on management reporting data international legal and regulatory environment that is increasingly to check the overall reliability of the information, working in complex and burdensome and in an operating environment of collaboration with the business analysis units in each operating increasing competitiveness. division. Legal Affairs monitors the Company’s fulfillment of some It ﬂags differences compared with targets set, identiﬁes risks and twenty thousand contractual obligations held by them at the opportunities and provides decision-making guidance. It oversees Company’s registered office, with the help of a contracts database the forecasting phases (forecasts, budget, MTP). that is constantly updated. It keeps an up-to-date list of claims and It also manages and streamlines internal ﬂows within the Group and in particular establishes transfer prices and royalties. lawsuits ﬁled by or against the Group (such as judicial disputes, industrial property disputes, tax audits or claims) and hosts information memoranda on its intranet site announcing changes 2 in legal (including intellectual property), or insurance rules or ■ Sustainable Development practices. To help enhance the reliability and quality of legal and The Corporate Sustainability Department plays a cross-functional ﬁnancial information on the many subsidiaries, the department role. This cross-functional unit is primarily responsible for has integrated a new web-enabled intranet application to anticipating and influencing changes in the business and manage and update legal and governance information on these analyzing the economic, human and environmental consequences, subsidiaries. to enable the Company and its stakeholders to benefit from The Insurance Department, which is part of Legal Affairs, also the opportunities that arise and to take account of and warn implements a policy that combines prevention, in the form of management of possible risks. The department is also responsible regular site visits and audits with our insurers and brokers, with for producing the Group’s non-ﬁnancial disclosures. protection, in the form of international insurance programs (see Section 1.6.5). ■ Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Our compliance policy for preventing legal risk is structured The Global Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Department around major legal topics related to the Group’s business reports directly to a member of the Executive Committee (the activity, especially antitrust law, confidentiality management, Corporate Senior Vice President, Global Engineering) and also and prevention of corruption. Its main purpose is to inform and has a dotted-line reporting relationship with the Corporate educate executives and managers about legal risks, communicate Sustainability Department. It is responsible for applying the and formalize good practices and guarantee that this policy is Group’s common safety strategy to protect individuals, facilities truly effective by gradually building a culture of compliance within and assets, prevent industrial risks, preserve employees’ health the Group. The legal risk prevention and management system is and protect the environment. The department leads the network aimed at raising awareness and informing, auditing, training, of EHS representatives and sets up programs and systems controlling and reporting with regard to legal action and risks. to ensure regulatory compliance and continually improve the To this end, a roadmap was developed and approved by Senior Group’s EHS performance. It also provides technical expertise in Management, the Executive Committee and the Audit and the areas of REACH compliance, chemical products management, Risk Committee. It covers the main points to be considered – fire protection, equipment safety, transportation of hazardous risk identification, assessment of existing risks, individual materials, ergonomics, etc., to the Group’s other departments. accountability, capacity and effectiveness of compliance and the necessary support of Senior Management – and continues to be rolled out gradually across the Group. ■ Legal Affairs Essilor Principles are one of the formal bases for the risk The Group’s Legal Affairs Department offers advice and prevention policy and ensure its consistent application. These assistance to all departments of the Company and its subsidiaries Principles were supplemented by the Principles governing in preventing claims and litigation. It is responsible for negotiating relations with partners, as part of external growth, allowing for and drafting contracts, including those relating to external growth, compliance with prevention policy when integrating new partners. in order to ensure that the warranties obtained are aligned with the related risks. It is located in North America, South America, Within this framework, local legal teams throughout the world China, France, India, Israel, Singapore and Switzerland. continue to take targeted action to sensitize managers (including partners’ managers) to, and inform them of, identified risks As part of its risk management policy, the Legal Affairs (competition and corruption law). This sensitizing and informative Department includes recourse to arbitration in as many contracts action is supplemented by e-learning training programs for as possible. In addition, the department plays a key role in meeting which local Human Resource Departments are responsible, in legal and regulatory compliance objectives. coordination with the Corporate Training Department. The results The department also advises the Group regarding good corporate were presented to Senior Management, the Executive Committee, governance practices. It regularly attends meetings of the and to the Audit and Risk Committee. Audit and Risk Committee, the Corporate Social Responsibility Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 65 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.2 Chairman’s Report on corporate governance The results of these sensitizing actions and a report of identiﬁed The action plan for 2015 for the deployment of the legal legal risks and actions to implement (legal audits, implementation Compliance policy was presented by the new Legal Director to the of compliance programs, good practices guide) are regularly Audit and Risk Committee and is part of the legal risk prevention presented to the Executive Committee by the Group Legal Director, and management policy implemented by their predecessor. who may also have topics or reports registered on the Executive Committee agenda in order to raise the appropriate level of awareness. At a local level, legal experts also regularly report ■ Quality compliance actions implemented alongside the improvement The “Quality and Client Satisfaction” Department reports focus points at the Subsidiary Management Committees. hierarchically to the Corporate Senior Vice President, Global As part of the continued improvement of the legal risk prevention Engineering (member of the Executive Committee). Its four core and management policy, Essilor performs the following actions: aims are to: • updating of the legal audit campaign for competition law; • satisfy clients, in terms of products and services, taking into account the diversity and variation of expectations, in • formalization of the Group compliance program for competition accordance with client segments; law, which is presented and submitted to all members of the Executive Committee, country managers and members of the • improve the efficiency and consistency of internal processes, Audit and Risk Committee. Deployment was entrusted, at the aligning them with the overall strategic objectives and level of the subsidiaries, to the local legal teams; measuring their efficiency; • deployment of e-learning training modules for the prevention • control the factual nature of decision-making processes of corruption and conﬂicts of interest for Group employees; (results focus); • pending formalization of the good practice guide at the level of • represent the Essilor group in standardization bodies and the Group for corruption and fraud prevention; promote the interests of consumers in these bodies. • updating of the Group “gifting” policy and conﬂicts of interest; To carry out its tasks, the “Quality and Client Satisfaction” Department works with local teams to increase familiarity • updating, in collaboration with the Audit and Internal Control with market realities and to increase the Company’s reactivity, Departments, of the conﬂict of interest declaration monitoring especially as regards: procedure with annual reporting of the status of signatures provided by local Human Resource Departments. • deﬁning roles and responsibilities; The legal “Compliance” center within the Group Legal Affairs • goal-setting; Department ensures coordination and consistency of the Group legal risk prevention and management policy, supporting local • deﬁning and reviewing action plans; teams who are responsible for applying this policy. • developing skills. For the purposes of promoting insider dealing rules and preventing money laundering and corruption, a memorandum ■ Mergers and Acquisitions has been available to all Group employees for several years on The Mergers and Acquisitions Department reports to the Financial the intranet for the Legal Affairs Department. This memorandum Department and deﬁnes the Group’s external growth policy and was supplemented by an audio kit popularizing the legal ﬁnancial coordinates initiatives in subsidiaries to ensure consistency. With information obligations. More generally, a memorandum, also the support of local M&A Departments which report functionally to supplemented by an audio kit, is available containing full details it, the department analyzes, monitors and validates the ﬁnancial of all the criminal risks to which the Company may be exposed aspects of the Group’s various planned business acquisitions and the consequences for the criminal liability of the Company, its and has the authority to approve the financial terms of such Directors and its employees. acquisitions or divestments. Group entities can never approve the Compliance actions are communicated regularly in internal acquisition of external companies, assets or business segments publications such as Connection, Essilook, and Repères and all or the total or partial sale of Group companies, assets or business documentation and audio kits are bilingual (French / English) or segments on their own. All external growth operations (including translated into local languages so that the compliance policy is sales) are submitted to the Board of Directors prior to being sure to be applied consistently throughout the Group. implemented. Projects representing over €100 million in the case of strategic investments in new business segments or new To provide regular information on developments in the legal geographic markets, or over €150 million for all other acquisitions, environment that is targeted to compliance topics, a monthly must be formally authorized in advance by the Board of Directors. newsletter, a tool to prevent legal risks mainly for legal experts and country managers has been established. A legal book which includes good legal practices and is fully accessible via a ■ Group Treasury dedicated website has been established. The Group Treasury Department is in charge of ensuring the funding, risk hedging and cash management of the Group. It also 66 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.2 Chairman’s Report on corporate governance GOVERNANCE provides a general advisory and assistance role for the Group The GSG is accessible online in French and English on the subsidiaries for these duties. It reports directly to the Corporate Group’s intranet site and via a dedicated extranet address. Finance Department. It is an indispensable tool, both for the preparation of ﬁnancial statements and for guaranteeing and maintaining an internal Short-, mediumand long-term financing as well as a large control environment which is adapted in the Group’s entities. The percentage of short-term investments are managed in a latest developments in the Group’s rules are covered by a speciﬁc centralized manner by the parent company, using bond loans, release at the time of inclusion in the manual (newsletter and private investments, bank loans, conﬁrmed medium-term lines intranet announcement). of credit or commercial paper. Financing of the major Group subsidiaries is guaranteed through cash pooling and shortand The application of all of the rules and procedures contained in the medium-term inter-company loans, which allow for liquidity to be GSG is the responsibility of operational and functional managers gradually centralized. (ﬁnancial managers, purchasers, etc.) at local and Group level. Cash investments are subject to a policy that encourages safety In 2013, the Audit & Consulting Services (ACS) Department and liquidity on the return. Cash surpluses are invested only in short-term instruments (investment funds, bank deposits, published the Minimum Control Standards (MCS), which show in a simple format 75 internal controls generally regarded as the most 2 negotiable debt securities), thus limiting the risk of capital loss critical to be in place. Brochures available on the ACS intranet site and making them immediately available. were specially communicated and are available in 33 languages. The MCS also form the basis for the annual internal control selfExposures to currency risk are routinely hedged by the assessment questionnaire (iCare). appropriate market instruments. Invoicing in local currency of importing or exporting companies allows the concentration of the bulk of foreign exchange risk on a small number of entities. ■ Uniﬁed reporting system Those companies that are exposed to signiﬁcant currency risk are hedged with the support of the Group Treasury Department. In order to ensure the quality and reliability of its financial The risk to other subsidiaries, although reduced, is nonetheless information, Essilor has a unified reporting system (“CARS – monitored centrally. Consolidation And Reporting System”), which enables both the production of ﬁnancial statements for the Group as well as the The interest rate management policy is to minimize the cost of reporting of financial performance indicators and provisional ﬁnancing while protecting the Group against an adverse change information. in interest rates. Since Group ﬁnancing is centralized at the parent company, interest rate risk management is also centralized there. Consolidation procedures guarantee the consistency of ﬁnancial information. A specific manual includes a glossary describing Moreover, for the above responsibilities, the Group Treasury the information to be entered for each module in accordance Department is in charge of the banking relationship. with Group rules (income statement, balance sheet, notes, cash, It also participates with the Consolidation Department in the inventory, capital expenditure and deﬁning accounting ﬂows and proper compliance with procedures related to the application of business segments). IFRS relating to ﬁnancial instruments. The glossary and all reporting instructions are available for consultation on the Group’s intranet site. They are updated each 2.2.3.4 Reference texts, standards, procedures, time a change is made and when new standards are adopted. and membership in bodies that structure Local and corporate finance managers are responsible for ensuring that the data reported in “CARS” comply with the the internal audits Group accounting policies and procedures. The use of this tool guarantees consistent treatment of the information and enables ■ Group Standard Guide us to exercise regular control over the preparation of the accounts of the various Group entities. The Group Standard Guide (GSG) sets out the mandatory policies and procedures to be followed by all Essilor units and departments in such areas as purchasing, acquisitions, communications, ■ Other reporting systems ﬁnance, legal affairs, operations, R&D and human resources. The uniﬁed reporting system now includes a twinned application, The GSG brings together the various elements of internal control “Sustainability,” which can be used to report economic, human covering diverse organizational processes, including fixed (social and societal) and environmental data as well as produce assets, inventories, sales / clients, cash, purchasing, onand the statements containing non-financial data reported by the off-balance-sheet commitments, tax, R&D and production startCorporate Sustainability Department. The procedures associated up costs, production accounting, fraud prevention, projected with Sustainability are similar to those for the consolidation benefit obligation procedures, insurance, human resources, system and it is supported by speciﬁc reporting instructions and a legal affairs, consolidation and acquisitions of companies, assets speciﬁc glossary. The information is collected from the managers and businesses. The GSG also includes ethical criteria that are concerned by local and corporate ﬁnance managers. applicable to the entire Group and focused around four themes: human rights, working conditions, the environment and the ﬁght against corruption. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 67 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.2 Chairman’s Report on corporate governance We have numerous information systems to manage, monitor, 2.2.3.5 Internal control procedures relating to the analyze and secure both upstream activities (production / production and processing of accounting logistics) and downstream activities (prescription / distribution). and ﬁnancial information Various reports or controls of outside agencies (monthly, quarterly or annual) facilitate the monitoring and control of the activity of Each operating division draws up its own three-year business plan the Group’s subsidiaries, particularly in the areas of financial, setting strategic objectives based on the overall strategy decided accounting and logistics performance, tracking business, by the Company’s Senior Management. All of these objectives are accidents at work, monitoring of health and safety controls, APAVE included in the medium-term plan presented to the Company’s controls, ISO certiﬁcations, reports on sustainable development, Senior Management. claims and loss prevention, insurance, litigation, etc. The budgeting process begins each year in August, with Moreover, each function has the responsibility to document (in line signiﬁcant input from the regional units, which provide analyses with the GSG rules) the speciﬁc procedures to follow. An Intranet of transaction volumes between the central marketing unit, Charter makes it possible to coordinate internationally the various the logistics unit and the regions. Each Group entity prepares actions related to the circulation and sharing of information via its budget on the basis of objectives issued by the regional the Essilor intranet. or operating division and of the entity’s own strategy for the coming year. ■ Indices of corporate social responsibility and adherence The budgets are presented to the Group’s Senior Management at budget review meetings held at the end of the year. The to international initiatives consolidation of all budgets ends in November or December and Essilor is included on five “Social Responsibility” indexes, is formalized in December or January of the following year. The specialized in the evaluation of the Company’s commitment to budget is then presented to the Board of Directors. The annual sustainable development: ECPI® Ethical EMU Equity, ECPI® Ethical budget is subject to a new forecast in the middle of the year, based Europe Equity, Ethibel Excellence, FTSE4Good and STOXX 50 ESG on the results of the ﬁrst half of the year. This forecast is updated Leaders. Essilor is a member of the Low Carbon 100 Europe index. in October upon establishment of the new budget. For the third consecutive year, Corporate Knights has classed The process, which concerns all Group entities, is led and Essilor International among the 100 global companies which have monitored by the Group Business Analysis unit, in order to shown the most responsibility in 2015. Announced each year at ensure that all budgets are prepared on the same basis and the World Economic Forum in Davos since 2005, the Global 100 are consistent with the overall strategic objectives of Senior classiﬁcation is considered as the most exhaustive evaluation of Management. Actual performance is monitored and analyzed on a corporate sustainability documented in ﬁgures. monthly basis via the “CARS” reporting system, which is used not only for business analysis, but also for statutory consolidation. All Essilor is a member of the Global Compact and is committed entities are managed by the system to maintain strict control over to embracing and enacting its ten universal principles within accounting and ﬁnancial information. its sphere of influence. The Company regularly reports its achievements and progress to the Global Compact Office at UN As regards statutory consolidation, the data in the income Headquarters in New York. statement, the balance sheet statement and the cash flow statement are reported on a monthly basis. The Consolidation Essilor International would like to take this opportunity to renew Department checks the ﬁgures entered by the entities and ensures for the coming year its commitments to include the ten principles that they comply with Group policies. The aims of consolidation of the Global Compact in its strategies and operations. procedures are to: Attentive to and aware of the consequences of climate change, Essilor has supported the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and • guarantee compliance with the applicable rules (IFRS, Group policies, AMF guidelines, etc.) through the implementation of Caring for Climate initiatives since their launch. The production general procedures and the issuance of speciﬁc consolidation of a pair of corrective lenses generates only a few hundred instructions to the various entities; grams of CO2 equivalents. Used for many months, these small, light, everyday objects do not consume any energy. Essilor has • provide assurance concerning the reliability of financial also been associated with the Water Disclosure Initiative since its information, through the execution of controls inherent to creation by the CDP. the system or performed by the various ﬁnance departments (business analysis, consolidation, cash) within the required The ophthalmic lens mass production plants under the direct timeframes; control of Essilor have ISO 9001-certiﬁed quality management systems (100%), ISO 14001-certiﬁed environmental management • guarantee data integrity through the system’s security. systems (100%) and OHSAS 18001-certified occupational Specific instructions are issued to entities before each health and safety systems (100%). They guarantee the regular consolidation exercise, including a detailed reporting timeline. maintenance of these systems and the renewal of their The procedures for monitoring off-balance-sheet commitments certifications in subsequent accreditation audits. Some of the and assets are included in the GSG. They stipulate the types of ophthalmic lens prescription manufacturing laboratories that commitments to be recorded on and off the balance sheet. Full essentially play a service role also have these systems, although information about these commitments is included in our reporting only when justiﬁed by their size. system. 68 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.2 Chairman’s Report on corporate governance GOVERNANCE The budgeting process and consolidation procedures enable us information deemed most relevant is presented by the Finance to constantly monitor the performance of the various entities and Department to the Audit and Risk Committee. Such meetings, to swiftly identify any variances from the budget in order to take which are also attended by the Statutory Auditors, discuss all immediate corrective action. material transactions and the main accounting options selected to address potential risks. All procedures included in the GSG are applicable by the Group companies, whether consolidated or not, and enforcement is the Finally, even though it is not an integral part of the internal control responsibility of operational management (“ﬁrst line of control” procedures, the Statutory Auditors review the accounting and in the terminology of French Audit and Internal Control Institute internal control systems to plan their audits, design their audit (IFACI)), functional departments responsible for areas of expertise strategies and test a certain number of key internal controls. The (management control, human resources, internal control, etc. or accounts of all Group subsidiaries are audited by local Auditors, “second line of control”) and the Internal Audit Department (“third most of whom are members of the networks of Statutory Auditors line of control”). Moreover, at each closing date, the financial that audit the Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 2 2.2.4 Organization of powers of management and control of the Company and powers of the Chief Executive Officer At its meeting of November 24, 2011, the Board of Directors fully exercises its oversight functions over the executive part of decided to entrust its chairmanship, effective January 2, 2012, the organization. to Hubert Sagnières, Chief Executive Officer, and thus reunite the The Senior Management functions are carried out without formal offices of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. This limitation of the powers of the Chief Executive Officer. However, structure combining the two functions, which has been adopted acquisitions and disposals as part of the “new business / new by most French corporations, ensures greater responsiveness country” strategy, as well as restructuring and signiﬁcant nonand efficiency of operations in terms of the governance and strategic investments announced, are to receive the prior approval strategic management of the Company. In addition, the presence of the Board, in accordance with Article 2 of the Internal Rules. on the Board of a high proportion of Independent Directors, three representatives of the Valoptec Association, and one employee In addition, the Chief Executive Officer is assisted by three Chief representative (while the important role of employee shareholders Operating Officers. is a key feature of the Group’s identity) ensures that the Board 2.2.5 Special procedures for shareholder participation in Shareholders’ Meetings All holders of ordinary shares are entitled to participate in 2.2.5.2 Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings Shareholders’ Meetings, regardless of the number of shares they (Article 25) own, provided such shares have been fully paid up. The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting votes on all matters involving The rights of shareholders to be represented by proxy at the Company’s interests that do not fall within the competence of Shareholders’ Meetings and to participate in the vote are Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings. exercised in accordance with the relevant laws and regulations. The Company’s bylaws do not contain any restrictions on the The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting makes all decisions that exercise of these rights. exceed the powers of the Board of Directors and that are not intended to change the bylaws. The Company’s bylaws (Section V – Shareholders’ Meetings) include the following provisions concerning the functioning of An Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting is held at least once a year, Shareholders’ Meetings, their main powers and the rights of within six months of the fiscal year-end, to deliberate on all shareholders, which are in compliance with the law: aspects of the annual ﬁnancial statements and, as applicable, of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. This meeting may be held more than six months after the ﬁscal year-end by court order. 2.2.5.1 Shareholders’ right to information Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings may validly conduct business if (Article 24) holders of at least one-ﬁfth of the voting shares are present or Under the terms and periods defined by law, all shareholders represented. have the right to receive the documents needed to allow them to If the quorum is not met, the Shareholders’ Meeting must be called make informed decisions and to form an opinion concerning the again. management and control of the Company. There is no quorum requirement for meetings held on second call. The type of documents concerned and the manner in which Resolutions of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting are adopted they are sent or made available to shareholders are determined by a majority of the votes cast by the shareholders present or according to the relevant laws and regulations. represented, including ballots cast by mail. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 69 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.2 Chairman’s Report on corporate governance 2.2.5.3 Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings Resolutions of the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting are adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast by the shareholders (Article 26) present or represented, including postal votes, except where The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting has the power to modify different legal rules apply. all provisions of the bylaws, except to change the Company’s Exceptionally, resolutions concerning an increase in capital via the nationality other than in the cases provided for by Law or to capitalization of reserves, earnings or additional paid-in capital increase the shareholders’ commitments. are subject to the quorum and voting majority rules applicable to Subject to these restrictions, the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings. Meeting may, for example, decide to increase or reduce the share The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting may also amend the capital, change the corporate purpose, change the Company’s rights of various classes of shares. However, in the event that name, extend its term or wind it up in advance, or change its legal a decision by the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting would form. affect the rights attached to a class of shares, this decision will The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting may validly conduct become ﬁnal only after it has been ratiﬁed by a special meeting business provided that the shareholders present, represented or of the shareholders for the relevant class. Regarding the speciﬁc voting by post hold at least one quarter of the voting shares on capital that it represents, said special meeting will be subject to ﬁrst call and one-ﬁfth on second call. If the quorum is not met on the legal and regulatory provisions applicable to Extraordinary either ﬁrst or second call, the meeting can be postponed for up to Shareholders’ Meetings. If none of the Company’s Directors holds two months, before being called again. shares in the class concerned, the special meeting elects its own Chairman. 2.2.6 Principles and rules applied by the Board of Directors to determine compensation and benefits of its members Information regarding compensation policy as well as the details of all the compensation information of Executive Board Directors is included in Section 2.3 of the Reference Document. Charenton, February 18, 2015 The Chairman of the Board of Directors 70 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.3 Compensation and Beneﬁts GOVERNANCE 2.3 COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 2.3.1 Board of Directors Compensation policy Directors’ fees The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014 voted to award Directors’ fees of €580,000. At its meeting on the same day, the Board of Directors decided to allocate this sum as per the rules shown in the table below which emphasize the variable component. Variable component based 2 Directors’ fees Fixed component on attendance record All Board members €6,800 €2,000 per meeting Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee €22,000 €2,200 per meeting Chairman of the Executive officers and Remuneration Committee and of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee €11,000 €2,200 per meeting Only for Directors not paid by Essilor, members of the Audit and Risk, Executive officers and Remuneration, Nominations or Corporate Social Responsibility Committees €4,200 €2,200 per meeting Members of the Strategy Committee Not applicable €1,000 per meeting Total Directors’ fees paid to members of the Board of Directors in to the Valoptec Association, net of tax and any applicable social 2014 amounted to €504,409, including €323,400 for the variable security contributions. Franck Henrionnet, appointed as Director component. representing employees, pays his Directors’ fees to a trade union organization. Aïcha Mokdahi, Yi He and Maureen Cavanagh, Directors representing employee shareholders, pay their Directors’ fees 2.3.2 Executive compensation policy Compensation of key management personnel, within the meaning The 2014 compensation package of Hubert Sagnières, Chairman of IAS 24, is presented in Note 31 to the consolidated ﬁnancial and Chief Executive Officer, is a good illustration of this policy: statements, Section 3.4. 2.3.2.1 General principles ~25% Annual performance-based variable The compensation of Executive Board Directors is set by the Board of Directors at the proposal of the Executive officers and Remuneration Committee. The guiding principles on which the Board’s decisions are based are as follows: • compensation policy should reﬂect the Company’s corporate ~25% Performance-based ~75% values and culture. In line with this principle, Essilor’s policy consists of using the compensation tools and systems that Fix compensation Component are best able to foster sustainable performance, a long-term vision, loyalty to the Company and entrepreneurial risksharing, in particular, through the ownership of a stake in the Company’s capital; • a significant portion of the Executive Board Directors’ compensation must be performance-based; ~50% • the aim should be to reward short-term performance, as Long-term incentive evidenced by the achievement of Essilor’s annual strategic Fix Component targets, through an annual bonus and through long-term Performance shares valued incentive plans whose performance targets and value are Performance-based compensation according to IFRS ultimately based on the creation of lasting value for all stakeholders. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 71 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.3 Compensation and Beneﬁts • Executive Board Directors’ compensation should be measured The Executive officers and Remuneration Committee and competitive compared with the practices of companies commissioned two benchmarking studies of senior executive in Essilor’s peer group, taking into account their business, compensation practices from an independent firm of international reach and size (as assessed by revenue, employee compensation consultants. The ﬁrst reviewed the compensation numbers and market capitalization). For the application of this paid to the Chairmen and Chief Executive Officers or the principle, the Executive officers and Remuneration Committee Chairmen of the Management Boards of French manufacturers refers to benchmarking surveys conducted by independent included in the CAC 40 and Next 20 stock indices, with market compensation consultants; capitalization and/or revenue similar to Essilor’s. The second was a pan-European comparison of Chief Executive Officers • all the compensation components (salary, annual bonus, compensation at 15 corporations (ﬁve French, ﬁve German and long-term incentive, supplementary pension beneﬁts) and the ﬁve British) similar to Essilor in terms of their revenue, workforce, balance between those components are taken into account by market value and extensive global footprint. the Board of Directors when determining the compensation of the Executive Board Directors. Fixed compensation Each year, the Executive officers and Remuneration Committee reviews the Executive Board Director’s compensation structure, The annual ﬁxed compensation of Hubert Sagnières was set at the balance between the various compensation components, and €800,000 for 2014, unchanged since 2012. the competitiveness of the compensation package as measured Variable annual compensation by the benchmarking studies. Based on this analysis, it may recommend changes to the Board of Directors. Also unchanged since 2012, the annual performance-related compensation of Hubert Sagnières for 2014 was set at €800,000 if the targets were met, or at between 0 and 1.6 times (1.5 times 2.3.2.2 Situation of Hubert Sagnières, in 2013) this amount if the targets were not met, were only partly Chairman and Chief Executive Officer met or were exceeded. The reason for increasing the maximum amount of the variable compensation was to strengthen the shortHubert Sagnières was an employee of the Group for twentyterm variable component relative to the long-term component. one years before being appointed Chief Executive Officer of Essilor on January 1, 2010. He was appointed Chairman and Chief Variable compensation for 2014 was 80%-based on financial Executive Officer of Essilor on January 2, 2012. targets and 20%-based on personal targets, broken down as follows: His employment contract was suspended on January 1, 2010 when he became Chief Executive Officer, in accordance with the • 40% on an restated net EPS target, or up to 74% if the target Company’s policy which is recognized by France’s securities were to be exceeded signiﬁcantly; regulator, AMF (see Section 2.4). • 30% on a combined growth target (1) , or up to 56% if the target Company policy consists of promoting talented internal candidates were to be exceeded signiﬁcantly; whenever possible. Employees who are promoted through this process to the top positions in the Company have demonstrated • 10% on a growth from bolt-on acquisitions target, without any increase if the target were to be exceeded; over the long term their ability to reach excellent performance and their adherence to the Group’s values and culture. Moreover, they • 20% on four personal objectives related to business strategy, have acquired the high levels of business, industrial, scientiﬁc or without any increase if the target were to be exceeded. The other expertise needed to develop a long-term vision. targets for 2014 were an in-depth review of the external growth strategy, quality of succession planning, success of the Transitions integration, and planning for the renewal of the 2.3.2.3 Compensation package of Hubert Sagnières, Board assisted by the Nominations Committee. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer In order to best reflect Hubert Sagniè res’ performance and neutralize the impact of factors beyond his control, performance against ﬁnancial targets is assessed by eliminating the distortions ■ a) Annual compensation caused by changes in exchange rates. In addition, net EPS is The annual compensation of Hubert Sagnières as Chairman and restated for the impact of non-recurring costs that cannot be Chief Executive Officer includes a ﬁxed component and a variable budgeted and for the total impact from acquisitions for the year component. Hubert Sagnières asked the Board of Directors to that are not taken into account in the “bolt-on acquisition-led waive his Directors’ fees following his appointment as Chairman growth” criterion. and Chief Executive Officer, which was endorsed by the Board in On an exceptional basis, and in line with the Group’s 2014 a formal resolution. employee-bonus policy, personal targets were also weighted by the achievement of the Group’s organic growth target. (1) Organic growth and growth from acquisitions completed in 2013, including Costa. 72 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.3 Compensation and Beneﬁts GOVERNANCE Based on a review of performance against the targets, it was determined that the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer was entitled to variable compensation for 2014 equal to 147% of his gross ﬁxed compensation for the year (versus 106% for 2013), or €1,178,400. Details of the calculation are presented in the table below: W x A x target W A WxA (€) Performance Weighted % Weighting Target measurement % achievement achievement Achievement in € 40% Restated net EPS 0 to 185% 185% 74.0% 592,000 30% Combined growth 0 to 185% 145% 43.5% 348,000 10% Bolt-on acquisition-led growth 0 to 100% 98% 9.8% 78,400 20% Personal factor result (C1 x C2) C1: Personal factor 0 to 100% 0 to 100% 100% 100% 20.0% 160,000 2 C2: Group organic growth 0 to 100% 100% 100% 147.3% 1,178,400 In 2014, Essilor achieved: between employee shareholders and external shareholders (see “Vesting conditions and lock-up period”). • published (non-restated) adjusted net earnings per share of €3.05; Performance shares and performance stock options are awarded at the same time of the year. • Combined growth of 8.6%; and • 10 bolt-on acquisitions equal to annual revenues of November 25, 2014 plan €165 million. Pursuant to the twelfth, thirteenth and fourteenth resolutions The level of achievement required for these targets was of the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of May 11, 2012, on established in a precise, rigorous manner. Details of these November 25, 2014 the Board of Directors decided to award performance measures are not disclosed for reasons of 1,544,904 performance shares and 121,505 capped performance confidentiality (in accordance with AMF recommendations and stock options to 9,554 Group employees. Compared with the the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code). Since Essilor capital at December 31, 2014, this represents 0.716% awarded as is a listed company whose only one business line (unlike its performance shares and 0.056% awarded as capped performance competitors) is ophtalmic optics, it considers that disclosure options, or 0.772% of total capital. would be detrimental to the proper execution of its strategy. Under the terms of this plan, Hubert Sagnières was awarded 40,000 performance shares compared to 45,000 in 2013 (valued ■ b) Long-term incentive plans as shown in Table 4 in Section 2.3.3), representing 2.4% of the total number of performance shares awarded (sum of performance Long-term incentives: stock option and performance shares and performance stock options awarded) and 0.019% of share awards the capital at December 31, 2014. Long-term compensation plans are a fundamental component of Vesting conditions and lock-up period Essilor’s entrepreneurial culture and its compensation policy. Essilor’s long-term compensation plans are designed to align the They contribute to: interests of employee shareholders and external shareholders. • developing a culture of entrepreneurship, which has helped The performance shares are subject to the following vesting and drive Essilor’s performance since its creation; lock-up conditions: • encouraging loyalty and long-term commitment among the • a performance condition based on growth in the Essilor share Company’s senior executives, key managers and other talents; price measured over several years; • ensuring that the Company’s overall compensation policies are • an employment condition designed to guarantee the long-term competitive. engagement of the grantees and their loyalty to the Company; Since 2006, Essilor has awarded performance shares and, where this is not possible, capped performance stock options. The • an obligation to hold the vested shares during a speciﬁed lockup period, designed to strengthen convergence between the awarding of performance shares instead of stock options is less interests of employee shareholders and external shareholders; dilutive for shareholders. Moreover, the lock-up period applicable to performance shares strengthens the convergence of interests • stricter conditions for Executive Board Directors and members of the Executive Committee. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 73 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.3 Compensation and Beneﬁts General performance condition • if the increase in the Average Price compared with the Initial This condition is applicable to all performance share grantees. Reference Price is: The number of vested performance shares is based on annualized • greater than 14.5% (representing an annualized growth growth (1) in the Essilor share price, measured as follows: of 7%), all shares initially awarded will vest provided that the employment condition is also met (see “Employment • on the award date, the Initial Reference Price is determined condition”), (corresponding to the average of the opening prices for the 20 trading days preceding the award date); • between 4% and 14.5% (corresponding to an annualized growth of between 2% and 7%), some of the shares initially awarded will • two years after the award (Y+2), an Average Price is calculated, vest provided that the employment condition is also met (see corresponding to the average of the opening prices for the three “Employment condition”), The vesting rates based on annualized months preceding the second anniversary of the award date; growth in the Essilor share price are as follows: Annualized growth: Vesting rate Less than 2% 0% Greater than or equal to 2% and less than 3% 60% Greater than or equal to 3% and less than 4% 68% Greater than or equal to 4% and less than 5% 76% Greater than or equal to 5% and less than 6% 84% Greater than or equal to 6% and less than 7% 92% Greater than or equal to 7% 100% • less than 4% (corresponding to an annualized growth of becomes null and void and employees receive no Essilor less than 2%), none of the shares will vest on the second shares. anniversary of the award date. In this case, a further The number of shares that vest is determined when the performance assessment is carried out three months annualized increase in the Average Price compared with the later using the same method (based on an annualized Initial Reference Price exceeds 2% for the ﬁrst time, even share price growth target of 2% to 7%). This performance if a higher annualized increase is subsequently observed. assessment may be repeated every three months until the As time goes by, the minimum growth in the Average Price sixth anniversary of the award date (Y+6). If the minimum required for the minimum number of Essilor shares to vest annualized growth target of 2% is not met at this point gets steadily higher, rising from 4% in Y+2, to 6.1% in Y+3, in time (corresponding to a 12.6% gain in the Average 8.2% in Y+4… and 12.6% in Y+6. Price compared with the Initial Reference Price), the plan Application of the performance condition is illustrated in the diagram below. In the interest of simplicity, the share price is assumed to be 100 on the award date. Share price in euros 160 150 150.1 7% annual growth required to receive all shares 147.6 145.1 140 142.6 140.3 137.9 135.6 133.3 130 131.1 128.9 126.7 124.6 120 122.5 120.4 118.4 116.4 114.5 110 111.0 111.5 112.1 112.6 109.9 110.4 108.2 108.8 109.3 107.2 107.7 106.1 106.6 105.1 105.6 104.0 104.6 100 If annualized growth never exceeds 2%, no share vest 90 80 0 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 6 years (1) Calculation formula: (Average Price/Initial Reference Price)^(1/Y)-1, where Y is the number of years between the award date and the performance measurement date. Y initially equals 2 and increases by increments of 0.25 if the performance target is not met until reaching a maximum of 6. 74 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.3 Compensation and Beneﬁts GOVERNANCE Employment condition Speciﬁc additional performance conditions applicable to Executive For French tax residents, the shares will only vest if the grantee Board Directors is still employed by the Company when the performance condition Awards to Executive Board Directors are subject to a second is met, which may occur between the second and the sixth performance condition based on an Average Ratio corresponding anniversaries of the award date (see above “General performance to the average achievement rate of their annual variable condition”). compensation targets over the vesting period. If the Average Ratio is less than 100%, it reduces the proportion of shares that vest For non-residents, the shares will only vest if the grantee is still pursuant to the first performance condition. If it is more than employed by the Group on: 100%, it is automatically capped at 100% and therefore has no • the fourth anniversary of the award date if the performance impact on the number of shares that vest pursuant to the ﬁrst condition is met between the second and fourth anniversaries; performance condition. • on the date when the performance condition is met, if this Executive Board Directors are required to keep one third of the occurs after the fourth anniversary of the award date. This employment condition is waived in the case of the grantee’s shares acquired under the performance share plans throughout their term of office. This restriction no longer applies when the cumulative value of shares acquired through vesting or the 2 death, disability or retirement. exercise of stock options permanently represents the equivalent Lock-up period of two years’ cash compensation (salary plus target bonus), based If the performance and employment conditions are met, the shares on compensation due in the year in which the Executive Board are transferred to the beneﬁciaries in a registered account. The Director intends to sell the performance shares. beneﬁciaries are required to comply with the holding condition In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Chairman and CEO described below: has pledged not to use any hedging strategies to manage the risk • for French tax residents, the vested shares will become related to the options and shares granted under the long-term incentive plans, until the expiration of his term of office. available for sale as of the sixth anniversary of the award date at the earliest; Pursuant to the Directors’ Charter, Executive Board Directors • for non-residents, half of the shares are subject to a two-year are required to refrain from all transactions involving the Company’s stock during the period preceding the publication lock-up period and the other half may be sold immediately to pay the related taxes. of privileged information of which they have knowledge and to respect “blackout periods” of 30 days before the publication of the Speciﬁc conditions for Executive Board Directors and members annual and interim ﬁnancial statements and of 15 days before the of the Executive Committee. publication of quarterly ﬁnancial statements. The publication date Cap applicable to awards made to Executive Board Directors of the relevant information is also part of the blackout period. The calendar for these black-out periods is prepared annually. Awards to Executive Board Directors are capped as follows: Speciﬁc additional performance conditions applicable to members of • the IFRS value of performance stock options and/or the Executive Committee performance shares awarded to each Executive Board Director may not exceed 60% of his or her total target compensation In addition to the performance condition applicable to all plan (corresponding to the sum of annual ﬁxed salary, target bonus beneﬁciaries, a second performance condition must be met by the for the year and IFRS-based value of long-term incentive); members of the Executive Committee. It is based on the average rate of achievement of the targets set for the Group-based portion • an Executive Board Director may not receive an award of their annual variable compensation during the vesting period exceeding 7% of the total awards (performance stock options + (from two to six years). If the average rate is below 100%, the performance shares) made each year by Essilor to employees. numbers of shares that vest is decreased proportionately. If it exceeds 100%, it is capped at 100% and therefore has no impact on the number of shares that vest in the Executive Committee members pursuant to the general performance condition. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 75 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.3 Compensation and Beneﬁts Assessment of performance in relation to the performance share plan targets November 25, 2010 “Non-resident” Plan At its meeting on November 25, 2010, the Board of Directors The award was contingent on two performance conditions and awarded 45,000 performance shares to Hubert Sagnières. on Hubert Sagnières being employed by the Company for at least four years after the award date. 1) Achievement of the ﬁrst performance condition, which was applicable to all plan grantees, was measured on November 25, 2012, by calculating the annualized growth in the Essilor share price, as follows: Initial Reference Price: Average opening Price for 20 trading days preceding November 25, 2010 €48.01 Average Price: Average opening Price for period from August 25 to November 25, 2012 €72.41 Increase = 50.8% Annualized growth = +22.8% Annualized growth, calculated as shown above, was greater than the performance target of 7% per year, and the ﬁrst performance condition was therefore met. 2) The second performance condition, applicable only to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, was based on an Average Ratio corresponding to the average rate of achievement of his annual variable compensation targets over the vesting period. The Average Ratio for the period 2010 and 2011 was measured as follows: Percentage to which the 2010 bonus targets were met 131.3% Percentage to which the 2011 bonus targets were met 134.0% Average Coefficient +132.7% As the Average Ratio was greater than 100% it was capped at 1 half are subject to a lock-up until November 26, 2016. As of that and therefore had no impact on the number of shares that vested date, Hubert Sagnières will be required to hold one-third of the pursuant to the ﬁrst performance condition. shares (15,000 shares) for as long as he remains in office, or until such time as he holds on a permanent basis a number of As the two performance conditions were fully met, Hubert shares (acquired over time through vesting or the exercise of Sagnières received 45,000 vested Essilor shares, registered stock options) equivalent to two years’ ﬁxed and variable cash in his name. Half of the shares were available immediately and compensation. November 27, 2012 “Resident” Plan At its meeting on November 27, 2012, the Board of Directors The award was contingent on two performance conditions and awarded 45,000 performance shares to Hubert Sagnières. on Hubert Sagnières being employed by the Company for at least two years after the award date. 1) Achievement of the ﬁrst performance condition, which was applicable to all plan grantees, was measured on November 27, 2014, by calculating the annualized growth in the Essilor share price, as follows: Initial Reference Price: Average opening Price for 20 trading days preceding November 27, 2012 €71.35 Average Price: Average opening Price for period from August 27 to November 27, 2014 €84.61 Increase = 18.6% Annualized growth = +8.9% Annualized growth, calculated as shown above, was greater than the performance target of 7% per year, and the ﬁrst performance condition was therefore met. 76 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.3 Compensation and Beneﬁts GOVERNANCE 2) The second performance condition, applicable only to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, was based on an Average Ratio corresponding to the average rate of achievement of his annual variable compensation targets over the vesting period. The Average Ratio for the period 2012 and 2013 was measured as follows: Percentage to which the 2012 bonus targets were met 123.0% Percentage to which the 2013 bonus targets were met 106.0% Average Coefficient +114.5% As the Average Ratio was greater than 100% it was capped at 1 and therefore had no impact on the number of shares that vested pursuant to the ﬁrst performance condition. As the two performance conditions were fully met, Hubert Sagnières received 45,000 vested Essilor shares, registered in • plus, for each year of service between 10 and 20 years: • 1% of the reference compensation, 2 his name. The shares are subject to a lock-up until November 27, 2018. As of that date, Hubert Sagnières will be required to hold • 1.5% of the portion of the reference compensation one-third of the shares (15,000 shares) for as long as he remains that exceeds the “tranche C” ceiling for social security in office, or until such time as he holds on a permanent basis contributions or 5% of the reference compensation, a number of shares (acquired over time through vesting or the whichever is lower. exercise of stock options) equivalent to two years’ fixed and Accordingly, the plan pays category IIIC and HC executives with variable cash compensation. at least 20 years’ seniority a maximum pension beneﬁt of up to 25% of their reference compensation (versus a maximum of 45% Proposed alteration to the long-term incentive plans provided for in the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code). During 2014, the existing performance share plans were The increase in potential rights is a maximum of 1.25% per year reviewed to determine what improvements could be made. (versus the 5% maximum recommended by the AFEP-MEDEF Following the review, the Executive officers and Remuneration Corporate Governance Code). Committee recommended that the Board of Directors extend the Hubert Sagnières had 26 years’ seniority at December 31, 2014 performance measurement period from two to three years. This and his hypothetical benefit entitlement at that date would change is designed in part to strengthen the importance of therefore be equivalent to 25% of his average compensation for performance over a longer period and in part to take account of the years 2012, 2013 and 2014 (approximately €424,000). recommendations made by the regulators and stakeholders. It will The beneﬁt obligation is accrued in the balance sheet during the take effect in 2015 subject to approval by resolution passed at the vesting period (i.e. the period during which the Executive Board Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. Director remains in office). Upon his retirement, the liability will be outsourced to an insurance company which is responsible for ■ c) Deferred compensation policy paying the beneﬁts. Supplementary deﬁned beneﬁt “loyalty-based” pension plan Termination beneﬁts Company executives in categories IIIC and HC (as deﬁned in the Hubert Sagnières is not entitled to any compensation for loss of Metalworking Industry collective bargaining agreement) who office in the event that his appointment as Chairman and Chief meet the following conditions are entitled to benefits under a Executive Officer is terminated. supplementary defined benefit pension plan (Article 39 of the His employment contract with the Company, which is currently French General Tax Code), subject to the following conditions: suspended, includes a clause agreed several years before • they have at least ten years’ seniority in the Company (versus he became a corporate officer guaranteeing him an amount equivalent to two years’ contractual compensation in the event two years recommended in the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code); that his contract is terminated by the Company. • they retire from Essilor (or a plan member company). In At December 31, 2014, his gross contractual compensation was €1,082,500, corresponding to his compensation as an employee accordance with the applicable regulations, an executive whose employment is terminated after he or she reaches the age of of the Company as of the date when his employment contract was 55 and who does accept any other paid position is considered suspended, increased by the annual average pay rises awarded to as having retired from the Company. category IIIC executives at Essilor. If both these conditions are met, the supplementary pension The maximum termination benefit that would be payable at beneﬁts are determined upon retirement as follows: December 31, 2014 would therefore be €2,165,000. • 10% of the reference compensation, corresponding to the This amount breaks down as follows: average of the ﬁxed and variable compensation paid for the three years preceding the last day worked; • termination beneﬁts payable under French labor law and the applicable collective bargaining agreement: €1,149,254. It corresponds solely to the statutory termination benefits that would be due to Hubert Sagnières pursuant to France’s Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 77 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.3 Compensation and Beneﬁts Labor Code for his 21 years of service as an employee of the rate of at least 50%, the termination beneﬁt will be determined Company before he was appointed Chief Executive Officer. on a strictly proportionate basis up to a maximum of 100% (for example, if actual results represented 90% of the target, 90% of French law stipulates that payment of this termination beneﬁt the termination beneﬁt will be paid). cannot be avoided if his employment contract is terminated by the Company, other than for serious or gross misconduct or If the performance rate is below 50%, no supplementary when he reaches normal retirement age; termination beneﬁt will be paid. • a supplementary beneﬁt of up to €1,015,746. This amount corresponds to the termination beneﬁt provided ■ d) Group death / disability and health insurance plans and for in his employment contract over and above the amount due “Article 83” deﬁned contribution pension plan in strict application of France’s labor laws and the applicable Hubert Sagnières participates in the Group death / disability collective bargaining agreement. and health insurance plans and the deﬁned contribution pension This benefit could be payable if Hubert Sagnières were to plan set up by the Company for its managers and executives. leave the Company following a change of control or strategy, Contributions paid by the Company to these plans on his behalf in and would be subject to the performance conditions described 2014, in addition to the employee contributions paid by him, were below. as follows: Performance conditions • €5,089 for the death / disability insurance plan; At its meeting of March 3, 2010, the Board of Directors reiterated • €1,227 for the health insurance plan; the performance conditions set by the Board at its meeting of March 4, 2009 upon which payment of the supplementary beneﬁt • €8,313 for the deﬁned contribution pension plan. is contingent, namely: Performance will be measured by the average rate of achievement ■ e) Beneﬁts in kind of Hubert Sagniè res’ annual targets as Chairman and Chief Hubert Sagnières is covered by an unemployment insurance Executive Officer for the three years preceding his departure. policy purchased from GSC. The related premiums, in the amount These targets are set by the Board of Directors and are used to of €7,306 in 2014, are qualiﬁed as beneﬁts in kind. calculate his variable compensation. For an average performance 2.3.3 Appendix: Compensation and benefits tables Table 1 – Directors’ fees and other compensation received by Non-Executive Board Directors (a) € 2014 2013 Philippe ALFROID 35,800 29,600 Benoît BAZIN 35,800 29,600 Antoine BERNARD DE SAINT-AFFRIQUE 33,800 29,600 Maureen CAVANAGH 22,800 20,800 Yves CHEVILLOTTE 66,600 60,400 Mireille FAUGÈRE (b) 13,717 27,400 Xavier FONTANET 35,800 29,600 Louise FRÉCHETTE 42,500 38,400 Yi HE 22,800 20,800 (b) Franck HENRIONNET 3,192 Bernard HOURS 46,600 34,000 Maurice MARCHAND-TONEL 48,800 36,200 Aïcha MOKDAHI 22,800 42,800 Olivier PÉCOUX 17,800 15,800 Michel ROSE 55,600 47,200 TOTAL 504,409 462,200 (a) No Non-Executive Board Director or non-employee has received any compensation other than Directors’ fees. (b) Director who was elected or whose term of office expired in 2014. 78 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.3 Compensation and Beneﬁts GOVERNANCE Table 2 – Summary of compensation and options and shares awarded to the Executive Board Director Hubert SAGNIÈRES 2014 2013 € Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Compensation for the year (detailed in Table 3) 1,985,706 1,655,205 Valuation of options granted during the year Valuation of performance shares awarded during the year (a) 1,565,600 1,521,000 (a) The amounts indicated correspond to the accounting fair value of the options and shares in accordance with IFRS. Accordingly, they are not the actual amounts that may be received upon exercise of the options, if exercised, or vesting of the shares, if vested. In addition, option and share awards are contingent on employment and performance conditions. Table 3 – Summary of compensation paid to the Executive Board Director 2 2014 2013 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Hubert SAGNIÈRES € Amount due Amount paid Amount due Amount paid Fixed component 800,000 800,000 800,000 800,000 (a) Variable component 1,178,400 848,000 848,000 984,000 Exceptional component Directors’ fees Beneﬁts in kind: • car • unemployment insurance 7,306 7,306 7,205 7,205 • other TOTAL 1,985,706 1,655,306 1,655,205 1,791,205 (a) Variable component for Hubert Sagnières for 2014: 147% of achievement of objectives (106% for 2013). Table 4 – Performance shares awarded to the Executive Board Director Value (Method applied Rights to performance shares in the consolidated awarded to the Executive Board Total ﬁnancial statements) Acquisition End of lock-up Performance Director in 2014 number (€) date period Plan conditions Hubert SAGNIÈRES 40,000 39.14 between Vesting date 11/25/2014 Employment 11/25/2018 (50%) and condition + share and two years later price + special 11/25/2020 (50%) condition for Executive Board Director (a) (a) In addition to the employment condition, the number of shares that vest is contingent on a performance condition based on annualized growth in the Essilor share price. A second performance condition applies speciﬁcally to Executive Board Directors: the number of shares that vest may be reduced if the average rate of achievement of the variable compensation targets (calculated during the vesting period) is less than 100%. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 79 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.3 Compensation and Beneﬁts Table 5 – Performance shares awarded to the Executive Board Director that became available during the ﬁscal year Performance shares awarded to the Executive Board Director Total that became available during 2014 Number Plan Performance conditions Employment condition + share price Hubert SAGNIÈRES 22,500 (a) 11/25/2010 + special condition for Executive Board Director (b) (a) 22,500 performance shares of the 45,000 that vested under the November 25, 2010 plan became available on November 25, 2014, subject to the speciﬁc holding requirement applicable to Executive Board Directors. (b) Apart from the employment condition, the number of shares that vest is contingent on a performance condition based on annual growth in Essilor share price. A second performance condition applies speciﬁcally to Executive Board Directors: the number of shares that vest may be reduced if the average rate of achievement of the variable compensation targets is less than 100%. Table 6 – Stock subscription or purchase options granted to the Executive Board Director during the ﬁscal year No stock subscription or purchase options were granted during the ﬁscal year. Table 7 – Stock subscription or purchase options exercised by the Executive Board Director during the ﬁscal year Exercise price Options exercised in 2014 by the Executive Board Director Total number (€) Plan Hubert SAGNIÈRES 75,935 (a) 33.17 11/27/2008 Hubert SAGNIÈRES 150,000 38.96 11/26/2009 (a) Of the 100,000 options granted, 24,065 were cancelled because of the regulations of the stock option plans which cap the gain at 100% of the exercise price. 80 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.3 Compensation and Beneﬁts GOVERNANCE Table 8 – History of capped performance stock option awards Information regarding capped performance stock options (excluding collective awards) 11/14/2007 11/27/2008 11/26/2009 11/25/2010 11/24/2011 11/27/2012 11/25/2013 11/25/2014 plan plan plan plan plan plan plan plan Date of Shareholders’ 05/11/2007 05/11/2007 05/11/2007 05/11/2010 05/11/2010 05/11/2012 05/11/2012 05/11/2012 Meeting Board of Directors’ 11/14/2007 11/27/2008 11/26/2009 11/25/2010 11/24/2011 11/27/2012 11/25/2013 11/25/2014 date Total number of 1,117,770 1,568,080 1,579,120 634,760 85,620 81,760 87,880 121,505 shares that can be subscribed of which number can be subscribed by: 2 The Executive Board 50,000 320,000 230,000 Directors: Xavier FONTANET 120,000 80,000 Philippe ALFROID 100,000 Hubert SAGNIÈRES 50,000 (a) 100,000 150,000 Option exercise 05/14/2010 11/29/2010 11/28/2011 11/26/2012 11/25/2013 11/27/2014 not yet not yet start date known, known, depends on depends on performance performance Expiry date 11/14/2014 11/27/2015 11/26/2016 11/25/2017 11/24/2018 11/27/2019 11/25/2020 11/25/2021 Subscription price €43.65 €33.17 €38.96 €48.01 €52.27 €71.35 €77.29 €87.16 (average of 20 opening prices before the Board of Directors’ date) Exercise conditions if performance if performance if performance if performance if performance if performance if performance if performance achieved and of plan of plan achieved and achieved and achieved and achieved and achieved and present in (+ special (+ special present in present in present in present in present in Company: performance performance Company: Company: Company: Company: Company: 50% after for Executive for Executive 50% after 50% after 50% after 50% after 50% after 2 years, Board Director Board Director 2 years, 2 years, 2 years, 2 years, 2 years, 100% after based on based on 100% after 100% after 100% after 100% after 100% after 3 years achievement of achievement of 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years annual variable annual variable compensation compensation targets) targets) achieved and achieved and present in present in Company: 50% Company: 50% after 2 years, after 2 years, 100% after 100% after 3 years 3 years Shares subscribed 1,018,880 1,272,270 1,183,777 313,682 22,315 3,587 as of 12/31/2014 Aggregate number 98,890 226,337 162,608 54,140 10,460 6,615 2,800 of options cancelled or lapsed Options remaining 69,473 232,735 266,938 52,845 71,558 85,080 121,505 at 12/31/2014 (a) Hubert Sagnières was not a Director in 2007. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 81 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.3 Compensation and Beneﬁts Table 9 – History of performance share awards Information regarding performance shares (excluding collective awards) 11/14/2007 11/27/2008 11/26/2009 11/25/2010 11/24/2011 11/27/2012 11/25/2013 11/25/2014 plan plan plan plan plan plan plan plan Date of 05/11/2007 05/11/2007 05/11/2007 05/11/2010 05/11/2010 05/11/2012 05/11/2012 05/11/2012 Shareholders’ Meeting Board of 11/14/2007 11/27/2008 11/26/2009 11/25/2010 11/24/2011 11/27/2012 11/25/2013 11/25/2014 Directors’ date Total number 552,491 513,775 536,116 893,458 1,193,189 1,176,340 1,279,460 1,448,464 of shares awarded to: The Executive awarded 45,000 50,000 45,000 45,000 40,000 Board Directors: 103,500 / vested 46,575 Xavier awarded FONTANET 58,500/vested 26,325 Philippe awarded ALFROID 45,000 / vested 20,250 Hubert 45,000 50,000 45,000 45,000 40,000 SAGNIÈRES Vesting date of 05/14/2010 11/29/2010 11/28/2011 residents: residents: residents: not yet vested not yet vested shares 11/26/2012 11/25/2013 11/27/2014 non-residents: non-residents: non-residents: 11/25/2014 11/24/2015 11/27/2016 Ending date of 11/14/2014 11/27/2015 11/26/2016 residents: residents: residents: depends on depends on lock-up period 11/25/2016 11/24/2017 11/27/2018 vesting date vesting date non residents non residents non residents 50% 50% 50% 11/25/2014 11/24/2015 11/27/2016 and 50% and 50% and 50% 11/25/2016 11/24/2017 11/27/2018 Performance presence + presence + presence + presence + presence + presence + presence + presence + conditions number vested number vested number vested number vested number vested number vested number vested number vested depending on depending on depending on depending on depending on depending on depending on depending on increase in increase in increase in increase in increase in increase in increase in increase in share price share price share price share price share price share price share price share price + special + special + special + special + special performance performance performance performance performance for Executive for Executive for Executive for Executive for Executive Board Director Board Director Board Director Board Director Board Director based on based on based on based on based on achievement of achievement of achievement of achievement of achievement of annual variable annual variable annual variable annual variable annual variable compensation compensation compensation compensation compensation targets targets targets targets targets Number of 245,640 503,224 522,982 836,688 558,444 548,600 2,300 shares vested at 12/31/2014 Aggregate 306,851 10,551 13,134 56,770 77,360 54,240 30,020 number of shares cancelled or lapsed Shares remaining 557,385 573,500 1,247,140 1,448,464 at 12/31/2014 82 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.3 Compensation and Beneﬁts GOVERNANCE Table 10 – Executive Board Director – detailed table Hubert SAGNIÈRES Chief Operating Officer until December 31, 2009 then Chief Executive Officer from January 1, 2010, then Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from January 2, 2012. Start of term 2008 End of term 2017 Employment contract Yes – suspended starting January 1, 2010 Non-compete beneﬁts No Supplementary pension plan Yes Termination beneﬁts No (a) Severance package or termination pay (in the event of dismissal, except for serious or gross 2 misconduct) 2 years’ salary under employment contract: the portion of compensation beyond the statutory compensation is subject to performance conditions. Restrictions on the sale of options Starting with awards granted in 2007, lock-up period for: or performance shares One third of vested performance shares or one third of the shares acquired on exercise of stock options (excluding those shares sold immediately to ﬁnance the acquisition of the shares and the payment of tax due on the capital gain). Hedging instruments Use of hedging instruments not permitted for options or performance shares Supplementary pension beneﬁts €13,951,755 (projected beneﬁt obligation) (a) There is no provision for severance pay in respect of corporate office. Details of severance pay due under the suspended employment contract are given in Section 2.3.2.3.c. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 83 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.3 Compensation and Beneﬁts 2.3.4 Compensation components due or awarded to Hubert Sagnières, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, in respect of the 2014 fiscal year To be submitted for the approval of the shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 5, 2015 Resolution 10 seeks the opinion of the shareholders on the compensation components due or allocated to Hubert Sagnières in respect of the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2014. This vote is required in accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code of June 2013 (Article 24.3), to which the Company refers in application of Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code. These components are presented in a table prepared in accordance with the recommendations contained in the AFEP-MEDEF Application Guide issued by the High Committee on Corporate Governance. Details of compensation can be found in Section 2.3. The shareholders, having read the terms of Article 24-3 of the allocated to Hubert Sagnières, Chairman of the Board of Directors AFEP-MEDEF Code and having fulﬁlled the required conditions and Chief Executive Officer, in respect of the 2014 ﬁscal year, as for quorum and majority voting for Ordinary General Meetings, presented in Section 2.3. issue a favorable opinion on the compensation components due or Compensation components Amount Comments Fixed compensation €800,000 Gross ﬁxed annual compensation effective January 2, 2012, approved by the Board of Directors on November 24, 2011 at the recommendation of the Executive officers and Remuneration Committee, amount unchanged since 2012. Variable compensation €1,178,400 At its meeting of February 18, 2015, the Board of Directors, at the recommendation of the Executive officers and Remuneration Committee and after approval of the ﬁnancial items by the Audit and Risk Committee, assessed the variable compensation payable to Hubert Sagnières in respect of the 2014 ﬁscal year. Given the quantitative and qualitative criteria approved by the Board on February 26, 2014 and the achievements recorded as of December 31, 2014, the variable portion was assessed as follows: • in respect of quantitative criteria: • restated net EPS: 185% of target achieved, • combined growth: 145% of target achieved, • bolt-on acquisition-led growth: 98% of target achieved; • in respect of qualitative criteria, the Board assessed that Hubert Sagnières had met all his personal targets set by the Board, namely progress on aspects of the acquisitions strategy, quality succession plans, successful integration of Transitions, and planning of the Board renewal with the support of the Nominations Committee. Consequently, the amount of Hubert Sagnières’ variable compensation in respect of 2014 was approved at €1,178,400, i.e. 147.3% of his 2014 ﬁxed annual compensation. Details of these criteria and their respective weighting and assessment scales are provided in Chapter 2, Section 2.3 “Compensation and Beneﬁts”. Deferred variable compensation N/A Hubert Sagnières does not beneﬁt from any deferred variable compensation. Multi-year variable compensation N/A Hubert Sagnières does not beneﬁt from any multi-year variable compensation. Attendance fees N/A Hubert Sagnières does not receive any attendance fees. Exceptional compensation N/A Hubert Sagnières does not beneﬁt from any exceptional compensation. Award of stock-subscription and N/A Hubert Sagnières does not beneﬁt from stock options. share-purchase options 84 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.3 Compensation and Beneﬁts GOVERNANCE Compensation components Amount Comments Award of performance shares Number: 40,000; At its meeting of November 25, 2014, the Board of Directors, in application accounting of the authority granted by the 12th resolution of the Shareholders Meeting valuation: of May 11, 2012, and at the recommendation of the Executive officers and €1,565,600 Remuneration Committee, awarded a maximum of 40,000 performance shares to Hubert Sagnières, valued at €1,565,600 according to the method used for the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. This corresponds to 2.4% of the total number of shares awarded (sum of performance shares and performance options allocated) and 0.019% of the capital as of December 31, 2014. As of December 31, 2014, a total of 22,500 shares (out of 45,000 shares vested in respect of the plan of November 25, 2010) were available to Hubert Sagnières Details of the vesting conditions (including maximum limits) and lock-up 2 conditions of these shares are provided in Chapter 2, Section 2.3 “Compensation and Beneﬁts”. Sign-on bonus N/A Hubert Sagnières does not beneﬁt from any sign-on bonus. Severance payment No payment Under a clause in his employment contract, which is put on hold during his term as Executive Board Director, Hubert Sagnières is entitled to a contractual severance payment in the maximum amount of €2,165,000, comprised of: • €1,149,254 in respect of beneﬁts payable under French labor law and the applicable collective bargaining agreement; • €1,015,746 in supplementary beneﬁts, entirely subject to performance conditions. In accordance with the procedure regarding related-party agreements and commitments, this commitment was authorized by deliberation of the Board on March 4, 2009, repeated on March 3, 2010, and ratiﬁed at the Shareholders’ Meetings on May 5, 2011 (4th Resolution). Details of the terms of the award of this payment are provided in Chapter 2, Section 2.3 “Compensation and Beneﬁts”. Non-compete payment N/A Hubert Sagnières does not beneﬁt from any non-compete payment. Supplementary pension plan No payment Hubert Sagnières is entitled to the deﬁned beneﬁt supplemental pension plan set up by the Company under the same terms and conditions as those applicable to the class of employees to which he belongs in terms of setting employee beneﬁts and other ancillary items of his compensation. In accordance with the procedure regarding related-party agreements and commitments, this commitment was authorized by the Board on November 26, 2009 and ratiﬁed at the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 11, 2010 (5th resolution). For example, if the calculation was done on the basis of the reference compensation (ﬁxed and variable) of the last ﬁscal year, the annual pension provided by this plan would be 25% of the average total compensation (ﬁxed and variable) actually paid to Hubert Sagnières during the 2012, 2013 and 2014 ﬁscal years (see Chapter 2, Section 2.3 “Compensation and Beneﬁts”). Group death/disability and health Hubert Sagnières is entitled to the Group death / disability and health insurance plans and deﬁned insurance plans and the deﬁned contribution pension plan set up by the contribution pension plan Company under the same terms and conditions as those applicable to the class of employees to which he belongs in terms of setting employee beneﬁts and other ancillary items of his compensation. Beneﬁts in kind €7,306 Hubert Sagnières is covered by an unemployment insurance policy. The premium was paid by the Company in 2014 in the amount of €7,306. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 85 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.3 Compensation and Beneﬁts 2.3.5 Summary statement of transactions performed in 2014 on Essilor International shares by Corporate Officers (Article 223-26 of the AMF General Regulations) First Financial Transaction Transaction Transaction name Last name Title instrument type date amount (€) Philippe ALFROID Director Shares Sale 01/13/2014 1,220,469.43 Shares Stock options exercice 01/13/2014 497,550.00 Shares Sale 09/02/2014 1,604,743.74 Shares Stock options exercice 09/02/2014 650,563.21 Maureen CAVANAGH Director Shares Acquisition 12/19/2014 2,100.30 USD Shares Acquisition 12/19/2014 1,801.80 USD Shares Acquisition 12/19/2014 2,638.80 USD Shares Acquisition 12/19/2014 2,417.10 USD Xavier FONTANET Director Shares Stock options exercice 04/30/2014 331,700.00 Shares Stock options exercice 05/07/2014 331,700.00 Shares Sale 06/26/2014 842,142.25 Shares Stock options exercice 07/02/2014 601,770.14 Shares Stock options exercice 07/17/2014 331,700.00 Shares Sale 09/01/2014 1,217,509.00 Shares Stock options exercice 09/05/2014 885,639.00 Shares Stock options exercice 10/27/2014 239,520.57 Franck HENRIONNET Director Shares Subscription 12/19/2014 10,102.03 Bernard HOURS Director Shares Acquisition 05/06/2014 14,938.51 Aïcha MOKDAHI Director Shares Subscription 12/19/2014 22,576.25 Hubert SAGNIÈRES Chairman and Shares Stock options exercice 03/04/2014 2,518,763.95 Chief Executive Shares Stock options exercice 03/19/2014 5,844,000.00 Officer Shares Sale 11/25/2014 1,784,928.00 Shares Sale 11/28/2014 1,792,648.00 He YI Director Shares Subscription 12/19/2014 64,572.62 86 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.4 Summary table of the AFEP-MEDEF Code recommendations which are not applied GOVERNANCE 2.4 SUMMARY TABLE OF THE AFEP-MEDEF CODE RECOMMENDATIONS WHICH ARE NOT APPLIED ■ Reminder of the Reference Governance Code ■ Implementation of the “Apply or Explain” Regulation The Essilor International Board of Directors declared that as of As part of the “Apply or Explain” Regulation provided in March 4, 2009, the AFEP and MEDEF Corporate Governance Code Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code and referred to for listed companies of December 2008, which was last reviewed in Article 25.1 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Company considers in June 2013 (hereinafter the “AFEP-MEDEF Code”) and is available that its practices comply with the recommendations of the on the AFEP and MEDEF websites, will be the Code to which Essilor AFEP-MEDEF Code. International refers, especially for the preparation of the report provided in Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code. Nevertheless, some provisions have been disregarded for the reasons explained in the table below: 2 Recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code (hereinafter the “Code”) Practices of Essilor International and explanations Composition of the Executive officers The Board of Directors did not wish to change the composition of the Executive officers and and Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee, which is comprised exclusively of Independent Directors. The (participation of the Director compensation of Executive Board Directors is subject to an annual debate, as part of a speciﬁc representing employees) topic deliberated by the Board of Directors and excluding the presence of the Executive Board Directors and the executive members of the Company, such that the Director representing employees can freely express their opinion prior to any decision. Furthermore, the employee shareholders are periodically invited, as part of the Valoptec Association, to discuss a certain number of topics, including the compensation of Executive Board Directors. Suspension of employment contract On November 27, 2008, on the proposal of the Executive officers and Remuneration of Executive Board Directors Committee, the Board had expressed reservations about “the obligation” to terminate the (Point 22 of the Code) employment contract of a Non-Executive Board Director were he or she appointed Chairman It is recommended that, when and Chief Executive Officer or Chief Executive Officer. While this provision would make sense an employee becomes an Executive for a Director hired externally or newly arrived within the Group, it is difficult to justify it for Board Director of the Company, a manager who has had a long and successful career within the Company and is called to the employment contract between higher responsibilities. Indeed, from an individual standpoint, this measure would weaken the him or her and the Company position of the parties in question with regard to the risks incurred in their new responsibilities or a group company be terminated, and could cause in-house candidates to refuse the position or result in an upward revision of either by conventional termination the compensation, which is certainly not the objective pursued by the AFEP and MEDEF. or resignation. This measure would detach the Non-Executive Board Directors from the Company and violate the policies of internal promotion and “sustainable management” that are, for Essilor International, the key to building strong and stable groups. Consequently, the Board of Directors of Essilor decided to continue to “suspend” the employment contracts of senior executives upon their appointment as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or Chief Executive Officer when they have been at the Company for at least 10 years. Stock options and performance The Board of Directors has not deemed it necessary make the awarding of performance shares (Point 23.2.4 of the Code) shares contingent upon an obligation to purchase due to the lock-up period for the shares Moreover, the performance shares acquired that applies to Executive Board Directors for the entire term of their office. awarded to Executive Board Directors should be made […] contingent upon the purchase of a deﬁned quantity of shares during the availability period of the shares awarded, in accordance with the terms established by the Board and made public when they are awarded. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 87 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.5 Statutory Auditors’ Report on the Report of the Chairman 2.5 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN Report of the Statutory Auditors prepared pursuant to out the information about the corporate governance system and Article L.225-235 of the French Commercial Code on the report the other disclosures required by Article L.225-37 of the French of the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Essilor International Commercial Code. (Fiscal year ended December 31, 2014) Our responsibility is to: To the Shareholders, • report our observations on the information set out in the Chairman’s report on internal control and risk management In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Essilor International and procedures relating to the preparation and processing of pursuant to Article L.225-235 of the French Commercial Code, we ﬁnancial and accounting information; and present to you our report for the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2014 prepared by the Chairman of your Company in accordance with • certify that the report contains the other disclosures required the provisions of Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code. by Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code, without being responsible for verifying their accuracy. The Chairman is responsible for preparing and submitting to the Board of Directors for approval a report describing the Company’s We conducted our audit in accordance with the professional internal control and risk management procedures and setting standards applicable in France. Information about internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of ﬁnancial and accounting information The professional standards applicable in France require us • determining whether major internal control weaknesses that to plan and perform an audit to assess the accuracy of the we would have detected as part of our audit, in relation to information set out in the Chairman’s Report on internal control the preparation and processing of financial and accounting and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and information, have been appropriately disclosed in the processing of financial and accounting information. The audit Chairman’s Report. notably consisted of: On the basis of our audit, we have no matters to report in • obtaining an understanding of internal control and risk connection with the information on internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of ﬁnancial and accounting information supporting processing of ﬁnancial and accounting information contained in the information provided in the Chairman’s R eport and the report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, prepared reviewing existing documentation; in application of the provisions of Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code. • obtaining an understanding of the work performed to support the information given in the Chairman’s Report and the existing documentation; Other information We hereby certify that the report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors includes the other disclosures required by Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Courbevoie, March 2, 2015 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Mazars Christine Bouvry Daniel Escudeiro 88 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE 2.6 Special Report of the Statutory Auditors on regulated agreements and commitments GOVERNANCE 2.6 SPECIAL REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS ON REGULATED AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS Shareholders’ Meeting to approve the financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of your company, we present to you our report on regulated agreements and commitments. to determine whether such agreements and commitments are appropriate and should be approved. Our responsibility is also, where applicable, to report to 2 shareholders as stipulated in Article R.225-31 of the French Our responsibility is to report to shareholders, based on the Commercial Code regarding the performance, during the past information provided to us, about the main terms and conditions ﬁscal year, of any agreements and commitments already approved of the agreements and commitments that have been disclosed by the Shareholders’ Meeting. to us or of which we have become aware in the performance of our audit, without commenting on their relevance or substance We performed our procedures in accordance with the professional or inquiring about the existence of other agreements and guidelines issued by the Compagnie Nationale des Commissaires commitments. Under the provisions of Article R.225-31 of the aux Comptes for this type of engagement. French Commercial Code, it is the responsibility of shareholders Agreements and commitments subject to the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting We have not been advised of any agreements or commitments that approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting pursuant to the provisions were approved during the past ﬁscal year and would require the of Article L.225-38 of the French Commercial Code. Agreements and commitments previously approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting We have not been advised of any agreements or commitments performance of which may have continued during the past previously approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting and the fiscal year. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Courbevoie, March 2, 2015 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Mazars Christine Bouvry Daniel Escudeiro Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.1 COMMENTS ON THE COMPANY’S FINANCIAL POSITION AND EARNINGS 3.1.1 Operating proﬁt 3.1.2 Net proﬁt 3.1.3 Financial position 3.2 TREND INFORMATION 3.2.1 3.2.2 Recent trends Outlook 92 92 94 94 95 95 95 3.7.1 3.7.2 NETWORKS 3 3.6 FEES PAID TO THE AUDITORS AND THE MEMBERS OF THEIR 3.7 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ESSILOR INTERNATIONAL Key ﬁgures at December 31, 2014 Income statement at December 31, 2014 166 167 167 168 3.2.3 Subsequent events 95 3.7.3 Balance sheet as at December 31, 2014 169 3.2.4 2015 Outlook 96 3.7.4 Cash ﬂow statement at December 31, 2014 170 3.3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 96 3.8 NOTES TO THE 2014 ANNUAL 3.3.1 Consolidated income statement 96 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 171 3.3.2 Consolidated balance sheet 98 3.3.3 Statement of changes in equity 100 3.3.4 Consolidated cash ﬂow statement 102 3.9 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 199 3.4 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 103 3.5 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 165 90 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 IN BRIEF 2014: A YEAR OF STRONG GROWTH € millions 2014 2013 Change Revenue 5,670 5,065 +13.4% (a) Adjusted (c) contribution from operations (b) 1,057 920 +15.0% (as a % of revenue) 18.6% 18.2% Adjusted net earnings per share (c) (€) 3.05 2.87 +6.3% (d) Free cash ﬂow 800 546 +47% Dividend per share (e) (€) 1.02 0.94 +8.5% (a) Excluding exchange rate effects. (b) Contribution from operations corresponds to revenue less cost of sales and operating expenses (research and development costs, selling and distribution costs, other operating expenses). (c) Adjusted for non-recurring items primarily related to the acquisition of Transitions Optical, Coastal.com, Costa and Xiamen Yarui Optical. (d) Cash ﬂow from transactions less changes in working capital and capital expenditures. (e) Subject to shareholder approval at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 5, 2015. DATE OF LATEST FINANCIAL INFORMATION The latest audited ﬁnancial information corresponds to ﬁnancial years 2013 and 2014 (periods from January 1 to December 31). DOCUMENTS INCLUDED BY REFERENCE THE REGISTRATION Pursuant to Article 28 of Regulation (EC) No. 809/2004 of the European Commission, DOCUMENTS AND the following information is incorporated by reference in this Registration Document: RELEASES CITED ARE AVAILABLE AT: • the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012 and the Statutory Auditors’ Report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year, which appear respectively on pages 90 to 151 and 152 of the 2012 Registration Document ﬁled with the AMF on April 2, 2013 under number D.13-0252; @www.essilor.com Investors / Publications • the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012 and the Statutory Auditors’ Report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year, which appear respectively on pages 91 to 157 and 158 of the 2013 Registration Document ﬁled with the AMF on March 25, 2014 under number D.14-0200. SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION FOR INTERIM PERIODS The Company has elected not to restate ﬁnancial information for interim periods in this Document. For the record, the consolidated results at June 30, 2014 were released on August 28, 2014. The financial statement, the consolidated income statement, consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statement of cash ﬂows at June 30, 2014 and the presentation of results for the ﬁrst half of 2014 are available on the Essilor website. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 91 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.1 Comments on the Company’s ﬁnancial position and earnings 3.1 COMMENTS ON THE COMPANY’S FINANCIAL POSITION AND EARNINGS 3.1.1 Operating profit Condensed statement of income The published 2014 financial statement contain several nonthat are adjusted for these items. Most of these adjustments are recurring items. In order to facilitate understanding of its purely accounting related with no impact on cash. operating performance, Essilor publishes ﬁnancial statements Reported Statement of Income / Adjusted Statement of Income 2014 Non-recurring 2014 2013 € millions Adjusted (b) items (c) Reported Reported Revenue 5,670 5,670 5,065 (a) Contribution from operations 1,057 (15) 1,043 917 (% of revenue) 18.6% 18.4% 18.1% Other income (expense), net (68) 247 179 (73) Operating proﬁt 989 232 1,222 843 Net proﬁt 702 284 986 646 Attributable to equity holders of Essilor InternationalI 642 288 929 593 (% of revenue) 11.3% 16.4% 11.7% Earnings per share (€) 3.05 1.37 4.41 2.82 (a) Contribution from operations corresponds to revenue less cost of sales and operating expenses (research and development costs, selling and distribution costs, other operating expenses). (b) Adjusted for non-recurring items related mainly to the Transitions Optical, Coastal.com and Costa acquisitions in 2014 and to the Xiamen Yarui Optical (Bolon) acquisition in 2013. Revenue data are not adjusted. (c) Non-recurring items primarily include the €544-million gain recognized on the full-consolidation of Transitions Optical, in application of IFRS 3 (revised), offset by (i) €118 million in impairment losses on property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill, (ii) €28 million in technical expense adjustments arising from the full-consolidation of Transitions Optical, (iii) €17 million in acquisitions costs, (iv) €54 million in restructuring costs arising from plans to unleash acquisition-related synergies, (v) €50 million in contingent consideration payments and adjustments to other provisions for contingencies, and (vi) the €30-million contribution to the Vision for Life program. The following tables and comments concern the adjusted statement of income. 92 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.1 Comments on the Company’s ﬁnancial position and earnings STATEMENTS Adjusted Statement of Income 2014 2013 € millions Adjusted (b) Adjusted (c) Change Revenue 5,670 5,065 +12.0% Gross proﬁt 3,328 2,841 +17.1% (% of revenue) 58.7% 56.1% Operating expenses 2,271 1,921 +18.2% EBITDA (d) 1,365 1,173 +16.4% (% of revenue) 24.1% 23.2% Contribution from operations (a) 1,057 920 +15% (% of revenue) 18.6% 18.2% Operating proﬁt 989 857 +15.4% Net proﬁt 702 657 +6.9% Attributable to equity holders of Essilor International 642 603 +6.5% (% of revenue) 11.3% 11.9% Earnings per share (€) 3.05 2.87 +6.3% (a) Contribution from operations corresponds to revenue less cost of sales and operating expenses (research and development costs, selling and distribution costs, other operating expenses). (b) Adjusted for non-recurring items related mainly to the Transitions Optical, Coastal.com and Costa acquisitions in 2014 and to the Xiamen Yarui Optical (Bolon) acquisition in 2013. Revenue data are not adjusted. 3 (c) The 2013 income statement has been adjusted for €3 million in contribution from operations and gross proﬁt, corresponding to step-up on inventories from the acquisition of Xiamen Yarui Optical, and for a €10-million expense, net of tax, in other expenses. (d) Corresponding to adjusted contribution from operations before recurring depreciation and amortization. Signiﬁcant factors affecting operating proﬁt These expenses included: • €188 million in R&D and engineering costs, versus €164 million in 2013; ■ Revenue For more information on revenue, refer to Section 1.5 “Performance • €1,367 million in selling and distribution costs, up from €1,118 million in 2013 as a result of (i) the costs of launching of the Group in 2014” of this Registration Document. new products, such as Transitions’ new generation photochromic lenses marketed under the Signature brand and ■ Higher adjusted gross margin (ii) a strategic increase in media spend to spur faster sales of the Varilux, Crizal, Transitions, Xperio and Kodak brands in the Adjusted gross profit (revenue less cost of sales) stood at main geographic markets. Excluding Transitions Optical, Costa, €3,328 million for the year, representing 58.7% of revenue, versus Coastal.com and Xiamen Yarui Optical, these costs increased 56.1% in 2013. The improvement mainly reﬂects the contribution by 5.3% in 2014. from Transitions Optical. ■ Higher adjusted contribution from operations ■ Adjusted operating expenses up 18.2% to €2,271 million The adjusted contribution margin widened by 40 basis points, of which: Operating expenses amounted to 40.0% of revenue, versus 37.9% in 2013. The increase came both from the consolidation of the • 10 basis points from the synergy gains arising on the integration of Transitions Optical, partially offset by a year’s acquisitions (especially Transitions Optical) and from the reinvestment in advertising; higher media spend. • 30 basis points from the accretive impact of the Transitions Optical and Xiamen Yarui Optical acquisitions, partially offset by the dilutive impact from Coastal.com. 2014 2013 Contribution from operations (a) Adjusted (b) Adjusted (c) Change € millions 1,057 920 +15% As a % of revenue 18.6% 18.2% (a) Operating proﬁt before compensation costs for share-based payment plans, restructuring costs, other income and expenses, and goodwill impairment. (b) Adjusted for non-recurring items related mainly to the Transitions Optical, Coastal.com and Costa acquisitions in 2014 and to the Xiamen Yarui Optical (Bolon) acquisition in 2013. (c) The 2013 income statement has been adjusted for €3 million in contribution from operations and gross proﬁt, corresponding to a step-up on inventories from the acquisition of Xiamen Yarui Optical, and for a €10-million expense, net of tax, in other expenses. The procedures for calculating the changes in this aggregate are explained in Note 2.3 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 93 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.1 Comments on the Company’s ﬁnancial position and earnings ■ Other income and expenses from operations The procedures for calculating the changes in this aggregate are explained in Note 2.3 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Adjusted “Other income and expenses from operations” and “Gains and losses on asset disposals” together represented a net expense of €68 million versus an expense of €63 million 2013. It Signiﬁcant changes to net sales or revenues covered: There were no signiﬁcant changes to net sales or revenues. • Charges to restructuring provisions in a total amount of €22 million, mainly related to the rationalization of the prescription laboratory network in Europe; Policies and other external factors • Compensation costs for shared-based payments (in particular The Company is not aware of any governmental, economic, ﬁscal, performance share plans), totaling €39 million; monetary or political policies or factors that could materially affect, directly or indirectly, its future operations. • Other expenses in an amount of €7 million. ■ Operating proﬁt In 2014, adjusted operating proﬁt (Contribution from operations – Other income and expenses) was up 15.4% to €989 million or 17.4% of revenue. 3.1.2 Net profit Net proﬁt attributable to Group equity holders and Most of the increase resulted from changes in the scope of consolidation and the increase in business in North America; earnings per share • €3 million in the share of proﬁts of associates, corresponding to Transitions Optical’s contribution in ﬁrst-quarter 2014. Last year, ■ Adjusted ﬁnance costs and other ﬁnancial income when Transitions was accounted for by the equity method over the and expenses, net full year, the share of proﬁts of associates stood at €22 million; This item rose to a net cost of €44 million from €20 million in • €60 million in non-controlling interests, up from €54 million in 2013, due to the increase in interest costs following the debt taken 2013 due to the non-controlling interests in companies newly on to ﬁnance the Transitions Optical, Costa, Xiamen Yarui Optical consolidated in 2014, especially Xiamen Yarui Optical (Bolon). (Bolon) and Coastal.com acquisitions. Adjusted earnings per share rose 6.3% to €3.05. ■ Adjusted attributable proﬁt up 6.5% to €642 million Profit attributable to equity holders of Essilor International is stated after: • €246 million in adjusted income tax expense, representing an adjusted effective tax rate of 26% compared with 24.1% in 2013. 3.1.3 Financial position Cash ﬂow statement to €297 million in 2013, when they included several exceptional transactions such as the acquisition of the Kodak license and the Operating cash flow (1) grew at the same rate as revenue, construction of the new R&D center in France. rising 12%, and was sufficient to finance the dividends paid to shareholders, the capital expenditure program and part of the Financial investments for the year came to €1,851 million, including purchases of ﬁnancial assets. the purchases of Transitions Optical, Costa and Coastal.com. Lastly, €36 million was invested in the buyback of 469,425 Essilor shares to offset part of the dilution from the issuance or ■ Capital expenditure and investments distribution of shares for employees. Totaling €232 million in 2014, purchases of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets covered capital expenditure to support the Company’s development and the completion of ■ Working capital requirement several new buildings, including the regional headquarters in Working capital requirement declined by €10 million in 2014, Singapore and the Sunglasses & Readers Division’s Rhode Island thanks primarily to tight inventory management and items related distribution center in the United States. These outlays amounted to accrued taxes and personnel expenses. (1) Net cash from operating activities before working capital requirement. 94 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.2 Trend Information STATEMENTS ■ Free cash ﬂow (1) at June 30, 2014 in the wake of the acquisitions of Transitions Optical, Coastal.com and Costa. In the end, capital expenditure discipline helped to increase free cash ﬂow (1) by 46.5% to €800 million for the year. Acquisitions during the year were primarily financed by the €800-million issue of seven and ten-year bonds, by a $450-million Consolidated net debt ended 2014 at €1,793 million or 1.3 times bank loan, and by commercial paper issues for the remainder. See consolidated EBITDA. This illustrates the rapid deleverage Notes 7 and 23 in Section 3.4. over the second half from a net debt of €2,166 million reported Simpliﬁed cash ﬂow statement (€ millions) 232 Capital expenditure Net cash from operations 1,022 228 Dividends (before change in WCR(a)) 36 Purchase of treasury stock +800 Change in WCR 10 1,851 Acquisition of investments, net of disposals (b) Reported change in net debt 1,424 Proceeds from share issues 67 176 Other(c) 3 (a) WCR = Working capital requirement. (b) Financial investments net of cash acquired, plus debt of newly acquired companies. (c) Other items include the positive €167-million currency effect. 3.2 TREND INFORMATION 3.2.1 Recent trends The Company is not aware of any trends affecting production, sales, inventory, costs or selling prices since the end of the last ﬁscal year. 3.2.2 Outlook The Company is not aware of any trends, uncertainties, claims, We believe that the medium and long-term growth outlook in commitments or events that would be reasonably likely to the ophthalmic lens market is good, as a large portion of the materially affect its medium-term outlook. population in the world still needs glasses, the world’s population is aging and these lenses represent the least expensive option for correcting faulty vision. Furthermore, recent advances have made lenses even more attractive in relation to competing technologies. 3.2.3 Subsequent events None. (1) Net cash from operating activities less purchases of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, according to the IFRS consolidated cash ﬂow statement. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 95 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.3 Consolidated Financial Statements 3.2.4 2015 Outlook In 2015, Essilor will step-up its growth momentum by Essilor expects to deliver revenue growth exceeding 4.5% on a strengthening in three main businesses: Corrective Lenses, like-for-like basis in 2015. Barring any new strategic acquisitions, Sunwear, and Online Sales. It will step up its consumer marketing the Company is targeting revenue growth of between 8% and 11% spend, which should total almost €200 million across the business (excluding the currency effect) and an adjusted contribution from base, and will continue to develop all the synergies generated operations (1) of at least 18.8% of revenue. from the acquisitions completed in 2014. Lastly, it will continue to Over the medium term, the broadening of the Company’s playing expand in fast-growing countries and enter new territories. ﬁeld and its increasing proximity with consumers should continue to drive faster like-for-like revenue growth and boost proﬁtability. 3.3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.3.1 Consolidated income statement € millions, excluding per share data Note Year 2014 Year 2013 Revenue 3 5,670 5,065 Cost of sales -2,355 -2,227 GROSS PROFIT 3,315 2,838 Research and development costs -188 -164 Selling and distribution costs -1,367 -1,145 Other operating expenses -717 -612 (a) CONTRIBUTION FROM OPERATIONS 1,043 917 Other income from operations 6 546 5 Other expenses from operations 6 -367 -79 OPERATING PROFIT 3 1,222 843 Finance costs, net 7 -31 -8 Other ﬁnancial income 8 297 87 Other ﬁnancial expenses 8 -312 -99 Share of proﬁts of associates 16 3 22 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 1,179 845 Income tax expense 9 -193 -199 NET PROFIT 986 646 Attributable to Group equity holders 929 593 Attributable to minority interests 57 53 Basic earnings attributable to Group equity holders per share (€) 4.41 2.82 Weighted average number of shares (thousands) 10 210,511 210,156 Diluted earnings attributable to Group equity holders per share (€) 4.32 2.78 Diluted weighted average number of shares (thousands) 11 214,820 213,057 (a) Contribution from operations corresponds to revenue less cost of sales and operating expenses (research and development costs, selling and distribution costs, other operating expenses). The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. (1) Adjusted contribution from operations corresponds to revenue less cost of sales and operating expenses (research and development costs, selling and distribution costs, other operating expenses), adjusted for non-recurring items related mainly to strategic acquisitions. 96 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.3 Consolidated Financial Statements STATEMENTS Statement of consolidated comprehensive income Year 2014 Year 2013 Attributable Attributable to Group Attributable to Group Attributable equity to minority equity to minority € millions holders interests Total holders interests Total NET PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD (A) 929 57 986 593 53 646 Items of comprehensive income that will not be reclassiﬁed subsequently to proﬁt or loss Actuarial gains and losses on pension obligations -50 -50 6 6 Tax on items that will not be reclassiﬁed subsequently 7 7 -6 -6 Items of comprehensive income that may be reclassiﬁed subsequently to proﬁt or loss Cash ﬂow hedges, effective portion 8 8 -5 -5 Hedges of net investment in foreign operations, effective portion Increase (decrease) in fair value of long-term ﬁnancial investments -1 -1 -1 -1 Translation reserves Tax on items that may be reclassiﬁed subsequently 367 -2 29 396 -2 -238 2 -18 -256 2 3 TOTAL INCOME (EXPENSE) FOR THE PERIOD RECOGNIZED DIRECTLY IN EQUITY, NET OF TAX (B) 329 29 358 -242 -18 -260 TOTAL RECOGNIZED INCOME AND EXPENSES, NET OF TAX (A) + (B) 1,258 86 1,344 351 35 386 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 97 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.3 Consolidated Financial Statements 3.3.2 Consolidated balance sheet Assets € millions Note December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Goodwill 12 4,668 2,476 Other intangible assets 13 1,532 732 Property, plant and equipment 14 1,154 998 Investments in associates 16 3 113 Non-current ﬁnancial assets 17 103 97 Deferred tax assets 9 151 112 Long-term receivables 15 17 Other non-current assets 1 1 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 7,627 4,546 Inventories 18 1,002 869 Prepayments to suppliers 20 16 Short-term receivables 19 1,327 1,192 Current income tax-assets 56 67 Other receivables 38 33 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments recognized in assets 24 43 17 Prepaid expenses 50 46 Marketable securities 23 5 Cash and cash equivalents 20 626 786 CURRENT ASSETS 3,162 3,031 TOTAL ASSETS 10,789 7,577 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 98 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.3 Consolidated Financial Statements STATEMENTS Equity and liabilities € millions Note December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Share capital 39 39 Issue premiums 360 302 Consolidated reserves 3,758 3,340 Own shares -286 -304 Hedging and revaluation reserves -121 -83 Translation difference 236 -131 Proﬁt attributable to Group equity holders 929 593 Equity attributable to parent company owners 4,915 3,756 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 32 345 285 TOTAL CONSOLIDATED EQUITY 5,260 4,041 Provisions for pensions 21 281 209 Long-term borrowings 23 1,521 607 Deferred tax liabilities Other long-term liabilities 9 25 383 394 165 517 3 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 2,579 1,498 Provisions 22 274 131 Short-term borrowings 23 926 567 Customer prepayments 31 28 Short-term payables 19 1,215 1,060 Taxes payable 58 63 Other current liabilities 25 421 156 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments recognized in liabilities 24 17 17 Deferred income 8 16 CURRENT LIABILITIES 2,950 2,038 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 10,789 7,577 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 99 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.3 Consolidated Financial Statements 3.3.3 Statement of changes in equity Fiscal year 2014 Proﬁt Equity attributable attributable Equity to Group to parent attributable to Share Issue Revaluation Translation Treasury equity company non-controlling Total € millions capital premiums reserves Reserves difference stock holders owners interests equity EQUITY AT JANUARY 1, 2014 39 302 -83 3,340 -131 -304 593 3,756 285 4,041 Capital increases • FCP Mutual funds 23 23 23 • Stock purchase options 35 35 35 • Capitalization of reserves Capital increases subscribed by minority interests 8 8 Share-based payments 34 34 34 Purchases of treasury stock (net of sales) -45 18 -27 -27 Allocation of proﬁt 593 -593 Effect of changes in scope of consolidation 34 34 -4 30 Dividends paid -198 -198 -30 -228 TRANSACTIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS 58 418 18 -593 -99 -26 -125 Total income (expense) for the period recognized directly in equity -38 -38 -38 Net proﬁt for the ﬁscal year 929 929 57 986 Translation differences and other 367 367 29 396 TOTAL RECOGNIZED INCOME AND EXPENSE -38 367 929 1,258 86 1,344 EQUITY AT DECEMBER 31, 2014 39 360 -121 3,758 236 -286 929 4,915 345 5,260 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 100 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.3 Consolidated Financial Statements STATEMENTS Fiscal year 2013 Proﬁt Equity attributable attributable Equity to Group to parent attributable to Share Issue Revaluation Translation Treasury equity company non-controlling Total € millions capital premiums reserves Reserves difference stock holders owners interests equity EQUITY AT JANUARY 1, 2013 39 311 -79 2,934 107 -239 584 3,657 257 3,914 Capital increases • FCP Mutual funds 23 23 23 • Stock purchase options 45 45 45 • Capitalization of reserves Capital increases subscribed by minority interests 2 2 Cancellation of treasury shares -77 77 Share-based payments 27 27 27 Purchases of treasury stock (net of sales) Allocation of proﬁt -27 584 -142 -584 -169 -169 3 Effect of changes in scope of consolidation 8 8 23 31 Dividends paid -186 -186 -32 -218 TRANSACTIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS -9 406 -65 -584 -252 -7 -259 Total income (expense) for the period recognized directly in equity -4 -4 -4 Net proﬁt for the ﬁscal year 593 593 53 646 Translation differences and other -238 -238 -18 -256 TOTAL RECOGNIZED INCOME AND EXPENSE -4 -238 593 351 35 386 EQUITY AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 39 302 -83 3,340 -131 -304 593 3,756 285 4,041 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 101 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.3 Consolidated Financial Statements 3.3.4 Consolidated cash flow statement € millions Notes Year 2014 Year 2013 (a) NET PROFIT 986 646 Share of proﬁts of associates, net of dividends received 25 42 Depreciation, amortization and other non-cash items 451 247 Proﬁt before non-cash items and share of proﬁts of associates, net of dividends received 1,462 935 Provision charges (reversals) 99 -2 Gains and losses on asset disposals, net -513 1 Cash ﬂow after income tax and ﬁnance costs 1,048 934 Finance costs, net 31 8 (a) Income tax expense (current and deferred taxes) 193 199 Cash ﬂow before income tax and ﬁnance costs 1,272 1,141 Income taxes paid -225 -222 Interest (paid) and received, net -25 -7 Change in working capital 10 -69 NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 1,032 843 Purchases of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets -232 -297 Acquisitions of subsidiaries, net of the cash acquired -1,836 -330 Purchases of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets -4 -3 Change in other non-ﬁnancial assets -9 -5 Effect of changes in scope of consolidation 2 Proceeds from the sale of other non-current assets 6 12 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES -2,075 -621 Capital increase (b) 67 68 (b) Net sale (net buyback) of treasury shares -36 -169 Dividends paid: • to equity holders of Essilor (b) -198 -186 • to minority shareholders of the consolidated subsidiaries (b) -30 -32 Bond issues 23 800 Increase/(Decrease) in borrowings other than ﬁnance lease liabilities 23 434 281 Acquisition of marketable securities (c) 6 Repayment of ﬁnance lease liabilities -4 -1 Other movements 1 NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES 1,039 -38 NET (DECREASE) INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS -4 184 Net cash and cash equivalents at January 1 749 580 Effect of changes in exchange rates -147 -15 NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT DECEMBER 31 598 749 Cash and cash equivalents 20 626 786 Bank credit facilities 23 -28 -37 (a) See income statement. (b) See statement of changes in equity. (c) Units in money market UCITS not qualiﬁed as cash equivalents under IAS 7. The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 102 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS 3.4 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1. Accounting principles 104 NOTE 2. Exchange rates and scope of consolidation 116 NOTE 3. Segment information 122 NOTE 4. EBITDA 124 NOTE 5. Personnel costs, depreciation and amortization 124 NOTE 6. Other operating income and expenses 125 NOTE 7. Cost of net debt 127 NOTE 8. Other ﬁnancial income and expenses 127 NOTE 9. Income tax 128 NOTE 10. NOTE 11. Change in number of shares Diluted earnings per share 129 130 3 NOTE 12. Goodwill 130 NOTE 13. Other intangible assets 132 NOTE 14. Property, plant and equipment 133 NOTE 15. Property, plant and equipment: assets under ﬁnance leases 134 NOTE 16. Investments in associates 134 NOTE 17. Other long-term ﬁnancial assets 135 NOTE 18. Inventories 136 NOTE 19. Short-term receivables and payables 136 NOTE 20. Cash and cash equivalents 137 NOTE 21. Pension and other post-retirement beneﬁt obligations 137 NOTE 22. Provisions 140 NOTE 23. Net debt and borrowings 141 NOTE 24. Financial instruments 144 NOTE 25. Other current and non-current liabilities 147 NOTE 26. Off-balance sheet commitments 148 NOTE 27. Market risks 148 NOTE 28. Environmental risks 153 NOTE 29. Litigation 153 NOTE 30. Number of employees and personnel costs 154 NOTE 31. Related party transactions 154 NOTE 32. Major not wholly-owned subsidiaries 155 NOTE 33. Subsequent events 155 NOTE 34. Scope of consolidation 156 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 103 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 1. ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 1.1 General Essilor International (Compagnie Générale d’Optique) is a société Shareholders’ Meeting for approval. The 2014 consolidated anonyme (public limited company) with a Board of Directors and is ﬁnancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on governed by the laws of France. Its registered office is located at February 18, 2015. 147 rue de Paris, 94220 Charenton-le-Pont. The Company’s main The ﬁnancial statements are prepared on a going concern basis. business activities consist of the design, manufacture and sale of ophthalmic lenses and ophthalmic optical instruments. The Group’s functional and reporting currency is the euro. All amounts are expressed in millions of euros, unless otherwise The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the speciﬁed. responsibility of the Board of Directors and presented to the 1.2 Basis of preparation of the financial statements In accordance with European Regulation 1606/2002 of July 19, Standards) as well as their interpretations since January 1, 2005, 2002, the Essilor group has applied, since January 1, 2005, all as approved in the European Union, with mandatory application international accounting standards including IFRS (International at December 31, 2014. International accounting standards can be Financial Reporting Standards), IAS (International Accounting accessed on the European Commission website (1). 1.3 New accounting standards and interpretations The accounting methods applied are the same as those used in Furthermore, the Group does not apply early the standards, the annual financial statements as of December 31, 2013. The amendments or interpretations whose application is not standards, amendments and interpretations with mandatory mandatory on or after January 1, 2014: application in or after 2014 (see below) have no material impact on Group ﬁnancial statements: • IFRIC 21 – Levies; • IFRS 10 – Consolidated Financial Statements; • IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments; • IFRS 11 – Joint Arrangements; • IFRS 14 – Regulatory Deferral Accounts; • IFRS 12 – Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities; • IFRS 15 – Revenues from Contracts with Customers; • IAS 27 revised – Separate Financial Statements; • Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 – Agriculture: Bearer Plants; • IAS 28 revised – Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures; • Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 – Clariﬁcation of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortization; • Amendments to IAS 32 – Offsetting Financial Assets and • Amendments to IAS 19 – Defined benefit plans: Employee Financial Liabilities; Contributions; • Amendments to IAS 36 – Recoverable Amount Disclosures for • Amendments to IAS 27 (revised) – Equity Method in Separate Non-Financial Assets; Financial Statements; • Amendments to IAS 39 – Novation of Derivatives and • Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 – Sale or Contribution of Continuation of Hedge Accounting; Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture; • Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 – Investment • Amendments to IFRS 11 – Accounting for Acquisitions of Entities. Interests in Joint Operations. The impact of these standards on the consolidated financial statements is currently being assessed. (1) http://ec.europa.eu/internal_market/accounting/ias_en.htm#adopted-commission. 104 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS 1.4 Use of estimates The preparation of ﬁnancial statements requires Management’s • fair values in relation to business combinations and put options use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported granted to minority shareholders (Note 1.20); amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses in the ﬁnancial statements as well as the disclosures in the notes concerning • risk assessment to determine the amount of provisions (Notes 1.31 and 1.20); contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date. The most signiﬁcant estimates and assumption concern, in particular: • measurement of retirement beneﬁt obligations (Notes 1.30 and 21). • the recoverable amount of goodwill (Notes 1.20 and 12); The ﬁnal amounts may differ from these estimates. 1.5 Basis of consolidation Companies over which the Group has direct or indirect exclusive The criteria applied to determine the scope of consolidation are control are fully consolidated. described in “Changes in the scope of consolidation” (Note 2.2). Partnerships qualified as joint business are consolidated line The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the year are by line, for up to the share effectively contributed by the Group. included in the consolidated income statement as from the date of Partnerships qualiﬁed as joint ventures are, in turn, consolidated acquisition or up to the date of disposal. In the event of a change by the equity method. in percent interest during the year, proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the parent is calculated by applying: Associates, deﬁned as companies over which the Group exercises signiﬁcant inﬂuence, are accounted for by the equity method. The accounting policies and methods applied by associates comply • the former percentage of ownership interest in the profit generated prior to the date on which the percentage of 3 ownership interest changed; and with IFRS and are the same as the Group’s accounting policies. The Transitions Group was consolidated by the equity method until • the new percentage of ownership interest in the profit generated after that date and through the year-end. March 31, 2014 (see Note 2). Based on an economic analysis of the ﬂows between Essilor and Transitions, between Transitions and In the event of a dilution of its ownership interest in a subsidiary, Essilor, and of the sales of Transitions products by Essilor to third the transaction is treated as a sale and the change in the share of parties until March 31, 2014: the subsidiary’s equity is recorded in equity in accordance with the revised IAS 27 if there has been no loss of control, and in proﬁt if • revenue recognition from transactions between Essilor and there has been a loss of control. Transitions has been canceled from Essilor’s revenue and cost of sales, in accordance with IAS 18; All intragroup profits and transactions are eliminated in consolidation. • the cost of subcontracting services provided by Transitions to Essilor has been reallocated between cost of sales and Transitions brand selling and distribution costs. 1.6 Segment information Since the adoption of IFRS 8 with effect from January 1, 2009, the has a global network of plants, prescription laboratories, edging Group’s segment information is presented in accordance with the centers and distribution centers serving eye-care professionals information provided internally to management for the purpose of throughout the world. This network is centrally managed, along managing operations, taking decisions and analyzing operational with Group research and development, marketing, intellectual performance. property and engineering functions. Such information is prepared in accordance with the IFRS used by The Equipment business segment comprises the production, the Group in its consolidated ﬁnancial statements. distribution and sale of high capacity equipment, such as digital surfacing machines and lens polishing machines, used in The Group has three operating segments: Lenses and Optical manufacturing plants and prescription laboratories for ﬁnishing Instruments, Equipment, and Sunglasses & Readers. operations on semi-ﬁnished lenses. The end customers for this The Lenses and Optical Instruments business segment comprises business segment are optical lens manufacturers. the Group’s Lens business (production, ﬁnishing, distribution and The Sunglasses & Readers business segment comprises the trading) and the Instruments business (small equipment used by production, distribution and sale of both non-prescription opticians and relating to the sale of lenses). The end customers sunglasses and non-prescription reading glasses. The end for this business are eye care professionals (opticians and customers for this segment are retailers that sell non-prescription optometrists). reading glasses to consumers. The Lenses and Optical Instruments business chain is designed as a complete network with multiple interactions. The segment Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 105 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 1.7 Consolidated cash flow statement The cash flow statement has been prepared by the indirect The effect of changes in exchange rates on cash and cash method, whereby net proﬁt is adjusted for the effects of non-cash equivalents corresponds to the effect of (i) changes in exchange transactions of a non-cash nature, any deferrals or accruals of rates between the beginning and end of the period and (ii) past or future operating cash receipts or payments, and items of differences between the closing exchange rate and the average income or expense associated with investing or ﬁnancing cash rate for the period on movements for the period. ﬂows. The amounts reported for acquisitions (sales) of subsidiaries Proﬁt before non-cash items and share of proﬁts of associates, correspond to the purchase price (sale proceeds) less the cash net of dividends received, is deﬁned as proﬁt of fully consolidated and cash equivalents of the acquired (sold) subsidiary at the companies before depreciation, amortization and provisions (other transaction date. than provisions for impairment of current assets) and other nonCash corresponds to cash and marketable securities qualifying cash items (mainly the costs of stock option plans, share grants as cash equivalents less short-term bank loans and overdrafts. and employee stock ownership plans), plus dividends received from associates. • Marketable securities, consisting mainly of units in money market UCITS, are qualified as cash equivalents when the Working capital comprises inventories, receivables and payables, investment objectives fulﬁll the criteria speciﬁed in IAS 7. other receivables and payables, deferred income and prepaid expenses. Changes in working capital are stated before the effect • Marketable securities that do not fulﬁll these criteria are not of changes in scope of consolidation. classiﬁed as cash equivalents. Purchases and sales of these securities are treated as cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities. Cash ﬂows of foreign subsidiaries are translated at the average exchange rate for the period. 1.8 Foreign currency translation The ﬁnancial statements of foreign companies are prepared in the • income statement items and cash ﬂows are translated at the entity’s functional currency. The functional currency is deﬁned as average exchange rate for the period. the currency of the primary economic environment in which the The difference between equity translated at the closing rate and subsidiary operates. the historical rate, and that resulting from the translation of net Financial statement items measured in the functional currency proﬁt at the average rate for the period are recorded in equity, are translated into euros as follows: under “Translation difference,” and reclassiﬁed to proﬁt when the foreign subsidiary is sold or wound up. • balance sheet items are translated at the closing rate; 1.9 Revenue Revenue corresponds to revenue from the sale of products and the product has been delivered to, and accepted by, the customer the provision of services. It is stated net of volume discounts, and the related receivable is reasonably certain of being collected. cash discounts, returned goods and certain revenue-based Revenue from laboratory equipment sales is recognized when commissions and deferred revenue associated with awards the risks and rewards of ownership of the equipment have been granted under customer loyalty programs. transferred to the buyer, generally corresponding to the date of Revenue from Lens sales and Sunglasses & Readers (nonphysical and technical acceptance by the buyer. prescription sunglasses and reading glasses) is recognized when 1.10 Cost of sales Cost of sales corresponds mainly to the cost of goods sold, less any cash discounts received from suppliers. 106 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS 1.11 Contribution from operations Contribution from operations corresponds to revenue less cost of selling and distribution costs, other operating expenses). sales and operating expenses (research and development costs, 1.12 Other operating income and expenses Income and expenses that cannot be inherent to the Group’s year allocation period, provisions and impairment of property, current business activities, in terms materiality, nature or plant and equipment or intangible assets of substantial unusual nature are recognized under other operating income and materiality, legal dispute costs and provisions, changes in price expenses. supplements for acquisitions made after January 1, 2010, net income on disposal of business activities and consolidated entities They include primarily costs related to restructuring, as well as in step acquisitions, the fair value revaluation of the compensation costs on share-based payments, costs related to previously held share. major strategic acquisitions, estimate adjustments to opening balance sheets of acquired subsidiaries recorded after the one1.13 Share-based payments Stock subscription options and performance share • the impact of dividends is taken into account in the model by applying a yield assumption determined by reference to the 3 grants dividend paid in the previous year; The fair value of stock options and performance shares is determined as follows: • the options’ expected life is determined based on the vesting period and the exercise period; • performance-based stock subscription options granted since • in line with French Accounting Authority (CNC) guidelines 2006, which are subject to vesting conditions based on the share performance, are measured using the Monte Carlo dated December 21, 2004, the lock-up discount applied to model; the November 2012, November 2013, and November 2014 performance share plans was determined based on the cost • performance shares granted since 2006, which are subject for the employee of a two-step strategy consisting of selling to vesting conditions based on the change in the share price the shares forward for delivery at the end of the lock-up period compared with the Reference P rice on the grant date, are and purchasing the same number of shares for immediate measured using the Monte Carlo model. delivery, with the purchase ﬁnanced by a loan. The fair value of stock subscription options on the grant date At each period-end, the probability of options or performance is recognized as an expense over the option acquisition period, shares being forfeited is assessed by the Group. The impact of taking into account the probability of the option being exercised any adjustments to these estimates is recognized in proﬁt, with a early, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. corresponding adjustment to equity. For performance shares, the acquisition period is considered as being the most probable period over which the performance Employee share issues conditions will be fulfilled, determined using the Monte Carlo model. For employee share issues, the difference between the market price of the shares on the transaction date and the price at which For the November 2012, November 2013, and November 2014 the shares are offered to employees is recognized directly in proﬁt performance share plans, a lock-up discount was applied to the and loss when the shares are issued. portion of shares that will be granted after the plan’s performance conditions have been fulﬁlled. This portion will be unavailable to IFRS 2 allows for the effect of any post-vesting transfer grantees for an estimated ﬁve years. restrictions to be taken into account, but does not provide any guidance on measuring the corresponding discount. On The model parameters are determined at the grant date: December 21, 2004, the French accounting authorities (Conseil • share price volatility is determined by reference to historical National de la Comptabilité) issued a press release containing measurement guidelines. An illiquidity discount has been taken volatilities; into account by the Group since the second half of 2007. In line • the risk-free interest rate corresponds to the government bond with CNC guidelines, the discount was determined based on rate; the cost for the employee of a two-step strategy consisting of selling the shares forward for delivery at the end of the lock-up period and purchasing the same number of shares for immediate delivery, with the purchase ﬁnanced by a loan. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 107 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 1.14 Financial income Dividend income is recognized when the amount has been Cost of gross debt consists of interest on ﬁnancing, realized gains approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting of the company making or accrued interest on interest rate derivatives, and non-utilization the distribution. fees on credit facilities. Interest receivable or payable is recognized on an accruals basis Income from cash and cash equivalents includes interest received in the period in which it is earned or due, by the effective interest and accrued on investments made by Group companies: bank method. deposits, investments in marketable securities, etc. 1.15 Foreign currency transactions On initial recognition of foreign currency transactions, the Foreign currency income and expenses are measured at the receivable or payable is translated into the entity’s functional exchange rate on the transaction date. When the foreign currency currency at the exchange rate on the transaction date. At the transaction is part of a hedging relationship qualifying as a cash period-end, they are re-translated at the closing rate. The ﬂow hedge under IAS 39, the income or expense is adjusted for the resulting gains and loss are recognized in “Other ﬁnancial income effective portion of the gain or loss from remeasurement at fair and expenses”. value of the currency hedging instrument at the transaction date. 1.16 Assets and liabilities measured at fair value In accordance with IAS 39, derivative instruments (including • fair value hedges: the gain or loss from remeasurement at fair forward purchases and sales of foreign currencies) are initially value is recognized in proﬁt or loss on a symmetrical basis recognized at cost and subsequently measured at fair value at with the gain or loss from remeasurement at fair value of the each period-end. hedged asset or liability; Changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments are • instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting: certain accounted for as follows: derivatives that in substance represent hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39. Gains and losses from • cash ﬂow hedges: the effective portion of the gain or loss from the fair value measurement of these derivative instruments remeasurement at fair value is recognized directly in equity are recognized directly in ﬁnancial income and expenses, in under “Hedging reserves” until the effective completion of accordance with the criteria of IAS 39. the scheduled transaction. When the scheduled transaction is completed, the amount recognized in equity is reclassiﬁed In accordance with IFRS 13, ﬁnancial income and expenses at fair to proﬁt: the income or expense is adjusted for the effective value are classiﬁed according to the following hierarchy: portion of the gain or loss from remeasurement at fair value of the hedging instrument. The ineffective portion of the gain or • level 1: inputs for the asset or liability that are quoted prices on an active market; loss is recognized in “Other ﬁnancial income and expenses”; • hedge of the net investment in a foreign operation: the effective • level 2: inputs for the asset or liability that are based on observable market data; portion of the gain or loss from remeasurement at fair value is recognized directly in equity under “Hedging reserves” and • level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on transferred to the “Translation difference” when the hedging observable market data. instrument expires. The amount transferred to the “Translation difference” is reclassified to profit when the investment in the foreign operation is sold or the entity is wound up. The ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognized in “Other ﬁnancial income and expenses”; 108 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS The fair values of the main ﬁnancial assets and liabilities recorded in the consolidated balance sheet are determined according to the methods summarized below: Consolidated Fair value measurement balance Input Notes Market data sheet levels to the valuation under ﬁnancial Financial instruments principles IFRS 13 statements Valuation model Exchange rate Interest rate Volatility Available-for-sale ﬁnancial Fair value 1 17 Share price N/A assets (listed securities) UCITS units Fair value 1 23 Market value N/A (net asset value) Forward foreign exchange Fair value 2 24 Discounted ECB rate Zero Coupon N/A contracts cash ﬂows curves Currency option Fair value 2 24 Black and Forward Zero Coupon At the Scholes curves, ECB curves money rate, Spot rate Interest rate swaps Fair value 2 24 Discounted N/A Zero Coupon N/A cash ﬂows curves Cross-currency swaps Fair value 2 24 Discounted ECB rate Zero Coupon N/A cash ﬂows curves Liabilities relating to business combinations or minority interests Fair value 3 24 Under IAS 32, contingent considerations payable to minority interests or within the scope of business combinations constitute ﬁnancial liabilities. The fair value of these liabilities is measured 3 by reviewing obligations on the reporting date using the method described in Note 1.20. The fair value of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities is shown in Note 23.2. 1.17 Income tax Deferred taxes are recognized by the liability method for Deferred taxes are charged or credited directly to equity when the temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets tax relates to items that are recognized directly in equity, such and liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet and their tax base. as gains and losses on cash ﬂow hedges and hedges of certain ﬁnancial assets, and actuarial gains and losses on deﬁned beneﬁt They are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply plan obligations. to the period when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or Deferred tax assets and liabilities are set off when they are levied substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. on the same taxable entity (legal entity or tax group) by the same taxation authority and the entity has a legally enforceable right Adjustments to deferred taxes resulting from changes in tax of set off. rates are recognized in proﬁt or loss. However, when the deferred tax relates to items recognized in equity, the adjustment is also Deferred taxes are recognized for all temporary differences recognized in equity. associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, except to the extent that the Group is able to control the timing of A deferred tax asset is recognized for all deductible temporary the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable proﬁt will temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. be available against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilized. The Group is subject to taxation on earnings in several countries under various tax regulations. Calculation of taxes on a global At each period-end, the Group reviews the recoverable value scale requires the use of estimates and assumptions developed of deferred tax assets of tax entities holding significant loss based on the information available at the balance sheet date. carryforwards. This value is based, by tax entity, on the strategy for medium-term recoverability of the tax loss carryforwards. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 109 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 1.18 Basic earnings per share Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share correspond to profit attributable to Diluted earnings per share are calculated by taking into account Group equity holders divided by the weighted average number of dilutive potential shares, as follows: shares outstanding during the year, excluding treasury stock. • stock subscription options: the dilution arising from stock Awards of p erformance shares are taken into account to the subscription options is calculated based on the weighted extent that the performance criteria have been met before the average number of shares plus the number of shares that balance sheet date. would be issued or sold if the options were issued at market price instead of at the adjusted exercise price. The adjusted exercise price corresponds to the exercise price as adjusted for the cost to be recognized in future periods for options that have not yet vested at the period-end; • performance share grants: the number of shares used for the calculation is determined based on the number of shares that would have been granted if the performance criterion had been applied at the balance sheet date. 1.19 Research and development costs Research costs are recognized as an expense for the period in • how the intangible asset will generate probable future which they are incurred. economic beneﬁts; Research and development costs recognized in operating expense • the availability of technical, ﬁnancial and other resources to include the operating costs of the Group’s research centers complete the intangible asset; and and engineering costs for the development of new production processes. • the reliable measurement of development expenditures. Due to the risks and uncertainties concerning market Development costs are recognized as an intangible asset if the developments and the large number of projects undertaken, the following can be demonstrated: above criteria are considered as not being fulﬁlled for ophthalmic • the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so lens development projects. Consequently, development costs for that it will be available for use or sale; these projects are recognized as an expense. • the Group’s intention to complete the intangible asset and use Instrument and laboratory equipment development costs are or sell it; recognized as an intangible asset when the above criteria are fulﬁlled. • its ability to use or sell the intangible asset; 1.20 Goodwill Recognition of acquisitions made strategic acquisitions (i.e. that represent highly significant amounts or correspond to a new area of business) are included after January 1, 2010 in operating profit, under “Other income and expenses from Business combinations recorded after January 1, 2010 are operations.” Costs related to lower-value acquisitions are included recognized by the acquisition method, in accordance with the in “Other operating expenses” as part of “Contribution from revised IFRS 3 – Business combinations, applicable to periods operations.” starting on or after July 1, 2009. Acquisitions of non-controlling interests or sales without loss of The revised IFRS 3 deﬁnes the method for recognizing business controlling interests are considered to be transactions between combinations according to the acquisition method, and introduces shareholders and are recognized directly in equity without the possibility of measuring non-controlling interests (minority impacting goodwill. interests) either at the full fair value (full goodwill method) or at the fair value of the proportion of identiﬁable net assets of the For step acquisitions, the difference between the carrying acquired entity (partial goodwill method). This option applies on amount of the investment held before the acquisition and its fair an individual transaction basis. value at the acquisition date is recognized in operating profit (“Other income and expenses from operations”), along with Costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition are the components of other comprehensive income that may be recognized as expenses for the period. Costs related to major reclassiﬁed subsequently. 110 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS Where put options have been granted to minority shareholders In certain cases, the fair values used for the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries, the amount recognized in liabilities is measured of acquisitions for the period may be temporary and changed at a at the present value of the option exercise price. This liability later date, after a ﬁnal expert assessment or additional analyses. is reclassified from “Non-controlling interests” to “Other nonAny discrepancies resulting from the final valuation shall be current liabilities” or “Other current liabilities” in the consolidated recognized as a retrospective adjustment to goodwill if they balance sheet according to its due date. The balance is allocated to take place within twelve months from the acquisition date. Any Goodwill (full goodwill method) or equity (partial goodwill method). adjustments made more than twelve months after the acquisition date will be recognized directly in profit and loss, unless they Discounting adjustments to reﬂect the accretion of discount are correspond to corrections of errors. recorded in the income statement. Goodwill arising on acquisition of associates is included in the Subsequent changes in the liability’s fair value are recognized carrying amount of the investment. through Group equity. Recognition of acquisitions made before Impairment of goodwill January 1, 2010 Goodwill subject to impairment tests is grouped into groups of cash generating units (CGUs) that correspond to the analytical Business combinations recorded after the IFRS transition date focus of senior management. (January 1, 2004), and before January 1, 2010, are recognized by the acquisition method in accordance with IFRS 3 – Business The Group has deﬁned seven CGUs that correspond to like-forcombinations. like asset groups and generate identifiable cash flows. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less Goodwill is the excess of: costs to sell and its value in use. The value in use is based on • the acquisition cost, including any directly attributable costs of forecast cash ﬂows less a pretax discount rate. the business combination; • over the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the acquisition date. Group plants that conduct manufacturing operations for several groups of CGUs form a separate group of CGUs whose cash ﬂows are reallocated to the other CGUs of the Group based on unit 3 sales. In line with this principle, the Asian plants are considered Under this method, the acquiree’s identiﬁable assets, liabilities as a shared resource allocated to the other groups of CGUs for and contingent liabilities meeting the recognition criteria of impairment testing purposes. IFRS 3 are recognized at fair value at the acquisition date, with the exception of non-current assets classiﬁed as held-for-sale which Future cash ﬂows are estimated as follows: are measured at fair value less costs to sell. Only identifiable liabilities that meet the criteria for recognition as a liability in the • the last ﬁscal year for the reference year (Y); acquiree’s accounts are recognized in the business combination. • annual budget for the year Y+1; In line with this principle, a liability for terminating or reducing the activities of the acquiree is recognized as part of allocating • cash ﬂows for the years Y+2 to Y+5 are estimated by applying to Y+1 data growth rates that are consistent with the the cost of the combination only when the acquiree has, at the Company’s projections and with the budgeted Y+1 growth rate. acquisition date, an existing liability for restructuring. These data are approved in advance by Management and take Where put options have been granted to minority shareholders account of past experience. of subsidiaries, their interest in the equity of the subsidiaries The discount rate applied in all cases is the Company’s weighted concerned is reclassiﬁed from “Non-controlling interests” to “Nonaverage cost of capital (WACC). A risk premium is added to the current liabilities” or “Other current liabilities” in the consolidated WACC for some CGUs, to reﬂect speciﬁc country risk exposures balance sheet. and local conditions. Note 12 summarizes the assumptions used. The amount recognized in liabilities is measured at the present Impairment tests are routinely performed on each CGU once value of the option exercise price. Discounting adjustments to a year at the time of the interim closing at the end of June. reflect the accretion of discount are recorded in the income However, all sensitive items are tested again at the year-end and statement. any impairment losses are increased if necessary. With regard to the accounting treatment in the consolidated CGU testing does not exempt the Group from testing subsidiaries’ balance sheet of the difference between the present value of the assets on an individual basis in the event of an indication of option exercise price and non-controlling interests in the equity impairment. Once these tests are complete, the necessary of the subsidiaries concerned, Essilor has elected to record this provisions are recorded. difference in “Goodwill.” Future changes in the recognized liability will be reported as an adjustment to goodwill. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 111 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 1.21 Other intangible assets Other intangible assets consist mainly of trademarks, contractual Trademarks with an indefinite life are not amortized. They are customer relationships, technologies, concessions, patents and considered as having an indeﬁnite life when: licenses. Trademarks, contractual customer relationships and certain technologies constitute purchase accounting adjustments • the trademark corresponds to the legal name of a legal entity and is, in fact, associated with the image and reputation of the recognized in connection with business combinations (see Company; Note 1.20). Other intangible assets are recognized at cost or fair value at the • the Group has the intention and ability to support the trademark. date of the business combination, net of accumulated amortization and impairment losses. Trademarks with an indefinite life are tested for impairment annually, along with goodwill (see Note 1.20). When the test They are amortized on a straight-line basis over the assets’ useful shows that an asset’s recoverable amount is less than its carrying lives: amount, a provision for impairment is recorded. Recoverable • software is amortized over periods ranging from 1 to 5 years; amount is deﬁned as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. • patents are amortized over the period of legal protection; Trademarks with a definite life as well as intangible assets • trademarks with a finite life are amortized over periods with a ﬁnite life are tested for impairment when the occurrence ranging from 20 to 45 years; of an event or a change of circumstances indicates that their • contractual customer relationships are amortized over periods recoverable amount may be less than their carrying amount. ranging from 5 to 20 years; The directly attributable costs of producing identifiable and • technology is amortized over periods ranging from 5 to separable intangible assets are recognized as an intangible 15 years. asset when they are controlled by the Group and it is probable that they will generate future economic beneﬁts in excess of their cost over a period of more than one year. They are reported under “Intangible assets in progress” until the asset is completed. 1.22 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less The main useful lives are as follows: accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Buildings 20 to 33 years Finance leases, defined as leases that transfer to the Group Building improvements 7 to 10 years substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the Machinery, equipment and tooling 3 to 10 years asset, are recognized in assets at amounts equal to the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, the present value of Other Property, plant and equipment 3 to 10 years the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The leased assets are depreciated by the methods Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises described below. The ﬁnance lease liability is included in debt. several parts with different useful lives, each part is recognized Lease payments under operating leases, deﬁned as leases where as a separate item and depreciated over its useful life. substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the Useful life and residual value of property, plant and equipment asset are retained by the lessor, are recognized as an expense on are reviewed at each period-end. As necessary, the occurrence a straight-line basis over the lease term. of changes to the useful life or residual value is recognized The directly attributable costs of producing identifiable and prospectively as a change in accounting estimates. separable items of property, plant and equipment are recognized Where there are any internal or external indications that the value as property, plant and equipment when they are controlled by the of an item of property, plant and equipment may be impaired, the Group and it is probable that they will generate future economic recoverable amount of the group of CGUs to which it belongs is benefits in excess of their cost over a period of more than calculated. If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying one year. amount of the group of CGUs, a provision for impairment is recorded. A review is carried out at each period-end to determine Depreciation whether any such indications exist. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis so as to write off the cost of the assets less any residual value over the assets’ useful life. 112 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS 1.23 Other long-term financial investments Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets The fair value of financial assets traded in an active market corresponds to their market price. The fair value of assets not In accordance with IAS 39, investments in non-consolidated traded in an active market is determined by reference to the companies and other long-term ﬁnancial investments qualifying market value of similar securities or the prices of recent arm’s as “available-for-sale financial assets” under IAS 39 are length transactions, or by the discounted cash ﬂows method. measured at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized directly in equity. The change in fair value of such assets is recognized in equity. The Other assets measured using the cost model amount recorded in equity is restated when the asset is disposed Loans and receivables are measured at amortized cost. of or liquidated, or if there exists objective evidence of lasting A provision is recorded for any other-than-temporary impairment impairment of such asset. in value or any collection risk. Whenever unrecognized losses are deemed to be signiﬁcant or lasting, they are recognized directly in income. 1.24 Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets held for sale are assets that the Group has and fair value net of selling costs, with an impairment charge undertaken to sell. When they are being classiﬁed, non-current recorded as necessary. Assets classiﬁed as held-for-sale are not assets held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount amortized. 3 1.25 Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of weighted average cost Net realizable value takes into account market prices, the and net realizable value. probability of the items being sold and the risk of obsolescence, assessed by reference to objective inventory levels. 1.26 Trade receivables Trade receivables due within one year are classiﬁed as current Provisions are recorded to cover any collection risk. Risk of assets. Trade receivables due beyond one year are classiﬁed as recovery is determined based on the various types of Group non-current assets. clients, most often on a statistical basis but also by taking into account speciﬁc situations if necessary. 1.27 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents correspond to cash and marketable securities” and are taken into account by the Group for the securities qualiﬁed as cash equivalents under IAS 7. calculation of net debt (see Note 23 “Net Debt and Borrowings”). Marketable securities held by the Group that do not qualify as cash In accordance with IAS 39, investment securities are recognized at equivalents under IAS 7 are reported under “Other marketable market value at the balance sheet date. Changes in market value are recorded as ﬁnancial proﬁt or losses. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 113 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 1.28 Equity Issue premiums Dividends Additional paid-in capital is the excess of the issue price of capital Dividends are deducted from equity when they are approved by increases over the par value of the shares issued. the Shareholders’ Meeting. Own shares Negative equity Treasury stock is deducted from equity at cost, including directly Where a consolidated company has negative equity, nonattributable transaction expenses. controlling interests are treated as being attributable to the Group unless the minority shareholders are liable for their share of the Capital gains and losses on sales of treasury stock are recorded losses and are capable of fulﬁlling this obligation. directly in equity, for their amount net of tax. Hedging and revaluation reserves Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests represent the portion of the net assets Hedging and revaluation reserves comprise: and net proﬁt of a consolidated entity that is not attributable to the • the effective portion of the gain or loss arising from Group, directly or indirectly. remeasurement at fair value of ﬁnancial instruments acquired Where minority shareholders of consolidated companies acquired as cash ﬂow hedges or hedges of the net investment in foreign before or after January 1, 2010 have been granted put options, operations, net of deferred tax; their amount is valued at the fair value of the put option. That • the difference between the cost of available-for-sale ﬁnancial amount is reclassified in the consolidated balance sheet from assets and their fair value, which is recognized directly in “Non-controlling interests” to “Other non-current liabilities” or equity in accordance with IAS 39, net of deferred tax; “Other current liabilities” based on their expiration date. • actuarial gains and losses on deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans, net of deferred tax. 1.29 Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognized at an amount corresponding Any difference between this amount and the redemption price to the issue proceeds net of directly attributable transaction costs. is recognized in profit and loss over the life of the debt by the effective interest method. 1.30 Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations The Essilor group companies may have obligations for the (discount rate, inflation rate) and the Company (staff turnover payment of pensions, early-retirement beneﬁts, length-of-service rates, rate of future salary increases). awards, jubilees and other post-employment beneﬁts under the The discount rate corresponds to the prime interest rate in the laws and practices applicable in their host country. country concerned for periods corresponding to the estimated Where these benefits are payable under defined contribution average duration of the benefit obligation. Discounting plans, the contributions are expensed as incurred. adjustments are recognized in operating expense. In the case of deﬁned beneﬁt plans, provisions are booked based In cases where all or part of the obligation is funded under an on the assessments of independent actuaries. external plan, a provision is recorded for the difference between the projected benefit obligation and the fair value of the plan The projected benefit obligation, corresponding to the vested assets. rights of active and retired employees, is determined by the projected unit credit method, based on estimated ﬁnal salaries. Actuarial gains and losses resulting from changes in assumptions The actuarial assumptions used differ depending on the country and experience-based adjustments are recognized in equity, under “Hedging and revaluation reserves”. 114 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS If a company introduces a defined benefit plan or changes the The provision recorded in the balance sheet correspond to the benefit formula under an existing defined benefit plan, the projected benefit obligation less the market value of any plan related change in the Company’s obligation (“past service cost”) assets. is recognized in proﬁt or loss. 1.31 Provisions A provision is recognized when the Group has a present obligation Provisions are determined based on facts and circumstances, (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable historical risk data and the information available at the balance that an outﬂow of resources embodying economic beneﬁts will sheet date. be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be Restructuring provisions are recognized when the Group has a made of the amount of the obligation. detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has announced its Contingent liabilities are not recognized in the balance sheet – main features to those affected by it. except in connection with business combinations (see Note 1.20) – No provision is recognized for future operating losses. but are disclosed in the notes to the ﬁnancial statements unless the probability of an outﬂow of resources embodying economic Provisions for warranty costs are recognized when the products beneﬁts is very remote. are sold. The corresponding charge is recognized in cost of sales. 1.32 Other current and non-current liabilities When put options have been granted to minority shareholders in the recognized liability are reported in goodwill for companies 3 of subsidiaries, their interest in the equity of the subsidiaries acquired before January 1, 2010. concerned is reclassified from “Non-controlling interests” to Following application of IFRS 3 (revised), future changes in the other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. Depending recognized liability are reported in equity for companies acquired on maturity, the liabilities are divided between “Other current after January 1, 2010. liabilities” and “Other non-current liabilities”. Contingent consideration must be recognized at its acquisitionThe amount recognized in liabilities is measured at the present date fair value as part of the consideration transferred in exchange value of the option exercise price. Discounting adjustments to for the acquiree, whether or not its payment is considered reflect the accretion of discount are recorded in the income probable. For companies acquired before January 1, 2010, statement. future changes in the additional price are recognized in goodwill. The accounting treatment in the consolidated balance sheet Following application of IFRS 3 (revised), future changes in the of the difference between the present value of the option additional price are recognized in other income and expenses exercise price and non-controlling interests in the equity of the from operations for companies acquired after January 1, 2010. subsidiaries concerned is presented in “Goodwill”. Future changes Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 115 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 2. EXCHANGE RATES AND SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION 2.1 Exchange rates of the main functional currencies Closing rate Average rate For €1 December 2014 December 2013 December 2014 December 2013 Canadian dollar 1.41 1.47 1.47 1.37 British pound 0.78 0.83 0.81 0.85 Yuan 7.54 8.35 8.19 8.16 Yen 145.23 144.72 140.31 129.66 Indian rupee 76.72 85.37 81.04 77.93 Real 3.22 3.26 3.12 2.87 US dollar 1.21 1.38 1.33 1.33 2.2 Changes in the scope of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial The consideration for the transaction totals USD1.78 billion paid statements of holding companies, asset management companies on the date of acquisition plus a deferred payment USD125 million and entities meeting one of the following two criteria: over ﬁve years. • annual revenue in excess of €1 million; Since April 1, 2014, Essilor has been consolidating 100% of Transitions Optical by the full consolidation method; until that • or property, plant and equipment in excess of €9 million. date, 49% of Transitions Optical was equity-accounted. Entities that do not fulﬁll these criteria may also be consolidated, On April 28, 2014, Essilor International completed the acquisition if their consolidation has a material impact on the Company’s of the total share capital of Coastal.com, one of the world’s leading ﬁnancial statements. online vision care retailers. The transaction was announced on Moreover, companies acquired at the very end of the year that do February 27, 2014 and approved by Coastal.com’s shareholders not have the resources to produce ﬁnancial statements according at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held on April 16, 2014 to Group standards within the time allotted shall be entered into before obtaining all the required regulatory approvals. the scope of consolidation the following January 1, if the impact of Based in Vancouver, British Columbia (Canada), Coastal.com their consolidation is not material for the Group. designs and distributes one of the widest online selection of optical equipment: contact lenses, prescription and nonStrategic Acquisitions prescription eyeglasses, sunglasses and accessories. The On April 1, 2014, Essilor International finalized the acquisition Company generated revenue of CAD 218 million in the ﬁscal year of the 51% stake in Transitions Optical held by PPG. Transitions ended October 31, 2013. Its equity totals approximately Optical is a leading provider of photochromic lenses to optical CAD 430 million, i.e., CAD 12.45 per Coastal.com share. manufacturers worldwide. Since April 28, 2014, Essilor has been consolidating 100% of the Following the transaction, Essilor owns 100% of the capital of Coastal.com group by the full consolidation method. Transitions Optical. Founded in 1990, Transitions Optical is a company based in Pinellas Park in Florida (United States). Its revenue totaled USD844 million in 2013, including USD279 million with lens manufacturers other than Essilor. 116 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS Newly consolidated companies The following companies were consolidated for the ﬁrst time in 2014: Consolidation % % Name Country Consolidated from method interest consolidated Plunkett Optical Inc. United States January 2, 2014 Full 80.00 100.00 Rooney Optical Inc. United States January 3, 2014 Full 100.00 100.00 Rooney Optical of Pennsyvania, L.L.C. United States January 3, 2014 Full 100.00 100.00 Ping Ding Shan Fangyuan Vision Optical China January 1, 2014 Full 51.00 100.00 Technology Co Ltd. (a) Shanghai Global Lens Distribution (a) China January 1, 2014 Full 100.00 100.00 Costa Inc. United States January 31, 2014 Full 100.00 100.00 Shamir Asia Pte. Ltd. Singapore March 25, 2014 Full 50.00 100.00 Intercast Europe S.R.L. Italy April 1, 2014 Full 100.00 100.00 Starclic Indústria e Comércio Ótico Ltda. Brazil April 1, 2014 Full 25.50 100.00 I-Coat Company, L.L.C. United States April 1, 2014 Full 85.00 100.00 Solarlens Thailand April 1, 2014 Full 100.00 100.00 Essilor Saudi Arabia Limited Saudi Arabia April 10, 2014 Full 50.00 100.00 Coastal Contacts (Aus) Pty Ltd Clearly Contacts Ltd Australia Canada April 28, 2014 April 28, 2014 Full Full 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 3 Lensway OY Finland April 28, 2014 Full 100.00 100.00 Coastal Japan Kabushikigaisha 2 Japan April 28, 2014 Full 100.00 100.00 Condis B.V. Netherlands April 28, 2014 Full 100.00 100.00 Lensway B.V. Netherlands April 28, 2014 Full 100.00 100.00 Asianzakka PTY Singapore April 28, 2014 Full 100.00 100.00 Eyeway AB Sweden April 28, 2014 Full 100.00 100.00 Lensco AB Sweden April 28, 2014 Full 100.00 100.00 Lenshold AB Sweden April 28, 2014 Full 100.00 100.00 Lenslogistics AB Sweden April 28, 2014 Full 100.00 100.00 Coastal Vision (US), Inc. United States April 28, 2014 Full 100.00 100.00 Just Eyewear L.L.C. United States April 28, 2014 Full 100.00 100.00 ASE Corporate Eyecare United Kingdom May 6, 2014 Full 70.00 100.00 Digitop Brazil July 1, 2014 Full 70.00 100.00 Esel Optik Turkey July 8, 2014 Full 51.00 100.00 Activisu France August 29, 2014 Full 68.29 100.00 Shamir Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore September 22, 2014 Full 50.00 100.00 Company Grandvision L.L.C. Russia September 24, 2014 Full 75.00 100.00 Lotus Flower Holding B.V. Netherlands September 24, 2014 Full 75.00 100.00 (a) Companies acquired in prior years and consolidated for the ﬁrst time during the 2014 ﬁscal year. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 117 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements The 2013 income statement also includes the contribution over the full year of the following companies that were consolidated for the ﬁrst time in 2013: Consolidation % % Name Country Consolidated from method interest consolidated MOC BBGR Russia March 1, 2013 Full 51 100 Megalux Chile March 1, 2013 Full 51 100 Servioptica Colombia April 18, 2013 Full 51 100 Impasoles Luxembourg April 18, 2013 Full 100 100 Ivortest Colombia April 18, 2013 Full 100 100 Optiminas Brazil May 1, 2013 Full 70 100 Isbir Turkey May 1, 2013 Full 73 100 Prodigy United States May 1, 2013 Full 100 100 Shih Heng Optical Taiwan Branch Taiwan May 1, 2013 Full 70 100 Deepak Lens Pvt Ltd India May 13, 2013 Full 60 100 Onbitt Korea May 14, 2013 Full 51 100 India New Vision Generation India May 17, 2013 Full 100 100 E.magine United States June 1, 2013 Full 80 100 PSA Nilo Brazil June 10, 2013 Full 51 100 Classic Optical United States July 1, 2013 Full 95 100 VIP Optical United States July 1, 2013 Full 100 100 PT Polyvisi Rama Optik Indonesia July 1, 2013 Full 49 100 PT Supravisi Rama Optik Manufacturing Indonesia July 1, 2013 Full 49 100 Polycore Optical (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Malaysia July 1, 2013 Full 50 100 B.V. Nederlandse Optische Industrie Netherlands July 1, 2013 Full 50 100 Polycore Optical (HK) Limited Hong-Kong July 1, 2013 Full 50 100 Polyvision Inc. United States July 1, 2013 Full 50 100 Polycore Optical (Pte) Ltd Singapore July 1, 2013 Full 50 100 Brazil 2.5 New vision Generation Brazil July 22, 2013 Full 100 100 Shamir Optical Co Ltd China July 30, 2013 Full 50 100 Riverside Canada August 31, 2013 Full 61 100 Active Vision Canada August 31, 2013 Full 61 100 Clearlen Canada August 31, 2013 Full 61 100 SuperLab Canada August 31, 2013 Full 61 100 UTMC Canada August 31, 2013 Full 61 100 AN Optical Canada August 31, 2013 Full 31 100 Benson Edwards Canada August 31, 2013 Full 50 100 Laboratoire d’Optique de Hull Canada August 31, 2013 Full 100 100 CPS 360 Optical Canada August 31, 2013 Full 50 100 Technologies Humanware Inc. Canada September 1, 2013 Full 63 100 Humanware Europe Ltd United Kingdom September 1, 2013 Full 63 100 Humanware USA Inc United States September 1, 2013 Full 63 100 Humanware Australia Pty Ltd. Australia September 1, 2013 Full 63 100 Essilor Management North & West Africa Morocco September 3, 2013 Full 100 100 Katz & Klein United States September 4, 2013 Full 100 100 Essilor Management Turkey Turkey October 10, 2013 Full 100 100 Xiamen Yarui Optical Co. Ltd China October 31, 2013 Full 50 100 Artgri Group International Pte Ltd Singapore October 31, 2013 Full 50 100 118 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS Consolidation % % Name Country Consolidated from method interest consolidated Xiamen Artgri Optical Co. Ltd. China October 31, 2013 Full 50 100 Cordless Network Service (Frame Displays) United States November 1, 2013 Full 80 100 Suntech Optics Inc. Canada November 25, 2013 Full 100 100 Bugaboos Eyewear Corporation Canada November 25, 2013 Full 100 100 Bugaboos Eyewear Inc. United States November 25, 2013 Full 100 100 Naked Eye Enterprises Inc. Canada November 25, 2013 Full 100 100 PureLab DLP Inc Canada December 2, 2013 Full 25.5 100 Comprol Brazil December 2, 2013 Full 51 100 R&D Cherry United States December 2, 2013 Full 80 100 Other movements • Prescription Safety Glasses Pty Limited, from 51% to 100%, on March 18, 2014; In addition, the Group’s holding in the following companies has been changed following the exercise of the partner’s put options, • Sunix Computer Consultants Pty Limited, from 50% to 100%, internal sales within the Group or transactions with third parties: • Essilor VSP Holding Co. Inc., from 65% to 100% on January 5, on March 20, 2014; • GBO Commercio de Produtos Opticos Ltda, from 74% to 76%, 3 2014; on April 15, 2014; • Barnett & Ramel Optical, from 80% to 100% on January 21, • Dac Vision SAS, from 60% to 100%, on June 16, 2014; 2014; • Dac Vision Inc., from 60% to 100%, on June 16, 2014; • Empire Optical of California Inc., from 85% to 100% on • Dac Vision HK, from 60% to 100%, on June 16, 2014; January 21, 2014; • Eyecare Express Lab, from 95% to 98% on February 1, 2014; • Essor France, from 65% to 50%, on July 1, 2014; • Manufacture Lorraine d’Optique Montroyal, from 64% to 100% • Shamir Australia, from 33% to 50% on August 1, 2014; on February 3, 2014; • Ceditop, from 76% to 70%, on August 31, 2014; • Optical Suppliers Inc, from 85% to 90%, on February 20, 2014; • MGM, from 85% to 90% on September 29, 2014. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 119 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 2.3 Impact of changes in scope of consolidation and exchange rates Balance sheet The impact of changes in the scope of consolidation on the consolidated balance sheet is analyzed below: Newly consolidated Newly consolidated Newly consolidated € millions – Transitions – other acquisitions companies – Total Intangible assets (a) 526 228 754 Property, plant and equipment 102 17 119 Other non-current assets 13 -17 -4 Current assets 168 71 239 Cash 82 -2 80 TOTAL ASSETS ACQUIRED AT FAIR VALUE 891 297 1,188 Minority interests in equity 2 2 Long-term borrowings 3 3 Other long-term liabilities 199 75 274 Short-term borrowings 2 2 Other current liabilities 113 63 176 TOTAL LIABILITIES ASSUMED AT FAIR VALUE 312 145 457 NET ASSETS ACQUIRED(b) 579 152 731 Acquisition cost 2,055 (c) 572 2,627 (b) Fair value of net assets acquired 579 152 731 Recognized goodwill 1,476 420 1,896 (a) See Note 13. (b) Or consolidated during the period. (c) This amount corresponds to the total acquisition price and the fair value revaluation of the 49% previously held. In accordance with IFRS 3 (revised) on business combinations, the Income statement Transitions Optical change in consolidation method resulted in the The methods for determining the impact of changes in scope of recognition in the 2014 ﬁnancial statements of the following: consolidation and exchange rates on the income statement are • capital gain of €544 million corresponding to the fair value explained below. revaluation, through proﬁt and loss, of the 49% previously held Changes in performance indicators (revenues and contribution and equity-accounted until March 31, 2014; from operations) are apparent when broken down by their impact • interim allocation of the Transitions Optical acquisition price, on the Group’s acquisitions (scope of consolidation impact), on primarily by recognizing intangible assets estimated by currency changes (foreign exchange impact) and on intrinsic independent experts at €526 million, including among other operations, or growth on a like-for-like basis. things a trademark and contractual customer relationships; Impact of changes in consolidation scope: • provisional goodwill in the amount of €1,476 million, recorded • impact of changes in the scope of consolidation arising from after the recognition at fair value of the identiﬁable assets and acquisitions during the year consists of the subsidiaries’ liabilities relating to Transitions Optical. income statements, from their consolidation date, until The impact of the changes in the scope of consolidation with December 31 of the current ﬁscal year; the other newly consolidated acquisitions include the impact generated by the acquisition of Coastal.com. • impact of changes in scope for companies acquired during the previous year consist of the subsidiaries’ income statements The amount recognized as goodwill is supported by projected for the year, since January 1 of the current ﬁscal year until the synergistic benefits and the growth outlook of the acquired anniversary date of their consolidation; companies within the Group. • divested companies do not impact the change in scope of The fair value used for the assets and liabilities of acquisitions consolidation since no subsidiaries consolidated in full for the period is temporary and may be changed at a later consolidation or proportionate consolidation were sold by the date, after a final expert assessment or additional analyses. Group; Any discrepancies resulting from the final valuation shall be recognized as a retrospective adjustment to goodwill if they take place within twelve months from the acquisition date. 120 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS • major strategic acquisitions, i.e., those that represent highly • as a result, the effects on the financial statements of signiﬁcant amounts or correspond to a new area of business, subsidiaries stem from the currency conversion, rather than are distinguished from “organic” acquisitions related to the currency itself. lower-value acquisitions within the Group’s core businesses Like-for-like growth is determined as the residual difference (prescription laboratories or factories). in apparent growth, less the impact of changes in the scope of Impact of foreign exchange changes: consolidation and changes in exchange rates. Organic growth is growth on a like-for-like consolidation and exchange rate basis. • this is determined on a per-subsidiary basis by applying the average conversion rate from the previous year to the income The overall effect of changes in scope of consolidation and statement for the current year for non-euro subsidiaries, exchange rates on revenue and contribution from operations was restated for scope of consolidation impacts as above, and by as follows: calculating the change in this value relative to the income statement of the previous year for each subsidiary; Organic Strategic Reported Currency acquisitions acquisitions Like-for-like As a % growth effect scope effect scope effect (a) growth Revenue 12.0 -1.4 4.9 4.8 3.7 Contribution from operations 13.7 -1.4 3.6 8.3 3.2 (a) Net of media investments. If Transitions Optical had been consolidated by the full consolidation If the companies consolidated during the year (see Note 2.2 “Newly method at April 1, 2013, the Group’s pro forma revenue, at December 31, 2013, would have been estimated at €5,216 million, compared to reported revenue at December 31, 2013 of consolidated companies”) were consolidated at January 1, 2014, the Group’s 2014 revenue would have been estimated at €5,804 million. 3 €5.065 million. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 121 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 3. SEGMENT INFORMATION 3.1 Information by business segment Fiscal year 2014 Lenses and Optical Sunglasses & € millions Instruments Equipment Readers Eliminations Group total External revenue 4,970 197 503 5,670 Intra-segment revenue 5 63 1 -69 TOTAL REVENUE 4,975 260 504 -69 5,670 Contribution from operations 949 30 64 1,043 Operating proﬁt 1,222 Finance costs, net -31 Other ﬁnancial income 297 Other ﬁnancial expenses -312 Share of proﬁts of associates 3 Income tax -193 Net proﬁt 986 Segment assets (a) 7,784 452 1,482 9,718 Non-segment assets 1,071 TOTAL ASSETS 10,789 Segment liabilities (b) 1,100 37 109 1,246 Non-segment liabilities 4,283 Equity 5,260 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 10,789 Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment & intangible assets 193 5 34 232 Amortization, depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets -327 -10 -76 -413 (a) Segment assets include goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, long-term receivables, inventories and works-in-progress, prepayments to suppliers and short-term receivables. (b) Segment liabilities include customer prepayments and short-term payables. 122 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS Fiscal year 2013 Lenses and Optical Sunglasses & € millions Instruments Equipment Readers Eliminations Group total External revenue 4,505 205 355 5,065 Intra-segment revenue 4 60 -64 TOTAL REVENUE 4,509 265 355 -64 5,065 Contribution from operations 835 33 49 917 Operating proﬁt 843 Finance costs, net -8 Other ﬁnancial income 87 Other ﬁnancial expenses -99 Share of proﬁts of associates 22 3 Income tax -199 Net proﬁt 646 Segment assets (a) 4,747 462 1,091 6,300 Non-segment assets 1,277 TOTAL ASSETS 7,577 Segment liabilities (b) 963 36 89 1,088 Non-segment liabilities 2,448 Equity 4,041 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 7,577 Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment & intangible assets 240 4 55 299 Amortization, depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets -204 -10 -39 -253 (a) Segment assets include goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, long-term receivables, inventories and works-in-progress, prepayments to suppliers and short-term receivables. (b) Segment liabilities include customer prepayments and short-term payables. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 123 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 3.2 Information by geographical area Revenue Non-current assets (a) € millions Year 2014 Year 2013 December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 North America 2,531 2,197 1,642 859 Europe 1,730 1,651 414 450 Asia/Oceania/Africa 1,012 850 665 566 Latin America 397 367 87 83 TOTAL 5,670 5,065 2,808 1,958 (a) Non-current assets include property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, investments in associates, long-term ﬁnancial investments, long-term receivables and other non-current assets. The Group’s top 20 customers accounted for 20.3% of revenue in 2014, and 20.6% in 2013. No single customer accounts for more than 10% of the Group’s revenue. NOTE 4. EBITDA EBITDA (Earnings Before Interests, Taxes, Depreciation & 2014 EBITDA was €1,363 million (€1,173 million in 2013). Amortization) is a metric deﬁned as contribution from operations before depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets and amortization of inventory revaluations generated by acquisitions. NOTE 5. PERSONNEL COSTS, DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION Personnel costs totaled €1,743 million in 2014 compared to Depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment €1,597 million in 2013 (see also Note 30 “Number of employees and intangible assets totaled €413 million in 2014, compared to and personnel costs”). €253 million in 2013. 124 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS NOTE 6. OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES € millions Year 2014 Year 2013 Capital gains on disposals of operations and assets (a) 544 Other 2 5 OTHER INCOME FROM OPERATIONS 546 5 Restructuring expenses (b) -76 -22 Compensation costs on share-based payments -39 -32 Other (c) -252 -25 OTHER EXPENSES FROM OPERATIONS -367 -79 (a) Capital gains on disposals include, for 2014, the capital gains generated in the full consolidation of 100% de Transitions, previously an equity-accounted company (See Note 2). (b) Restructuring charges are for the most part related to the streamlining of a number of production sites located primarily in Europe and North America. (c) Other operating expenses for 2014 consist mainly of: – goodwill, tangible and intangible assets impairments for €118 million, which include in particular the impact from the brand amortization policy change (see Note 13), – provisions for liabilities (see Note 22) and variations related to earn-out payments for €50 million, – other expenses related to the technical effect of the integration of Transitions on the elimination of inventory margins for €28 million, – the commitment to allocate funds for the Vision for Life program, whose aim is the implementation of all actions contributing to the ﬁght against vision problems in 3 the world at €30 million. Share-based payments Compensation costs on share-based payments are measured by the method described in Note 1.13 and breaks down as follows: € millions Year 2014 Year 2013 Stock subscription options 1 1 Performance shares (a) 37 31 Employee share issues 1 COMPENSATION COSTS ON SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS 39 32 (a) Including the employer contribution. Stock subscription options Stock subscription options granted between November 2008 and November 2014 are subject to vesting conditions based on the The exercise price of stock subscription options corresponds to share performance over a period of two to six years, as well as to the average of the share prices quoted over the 20 trading days the 100% cap on gains. preceding the date of the Board Meeting at which the grants are decided. The main assumptions used to measure compensation costs on stock options granted in 2014 are as follows: Gains on options granted since 2004 (corresponding to the difference between the average share price during the three • share volatility: 18.67% (2013 grants: 18,40%); calendar months prior to the month of exercise of the option and the exercise price) are capped at 100% of the exercise price. • risk-free interest rate: 0.27% (2013 grants: 1,03%); Stock subscription options granted in 2007 and January 2008 are • yield: 1.42% (2013 grants: 1,44%). subject to vesting conditions based on the share performance over Based on these assumptions, the fair value of options granted in a period of two to four years, as well as to the 100% cap on gains. 2014 amounted to €11.33 (€10.13 in 2013). Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 125 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements The following table analyzes changes in the number of outstanding options: Weighted average exercise price Quantity (€) STOCK SUBSCRIPTION OPTIONS AT JANUARY 1, 2014 1,703,435 44.72 Options exercised -855,848 40.89 Options canceled and forfeited -68,958 36.79 Options granted 121,505 87.15 STOCK SUBSCRIPTION OPTIONS AT DECEMBER 31, 2014 900,134 54.68 Stock subscription options at January 1, 2013 2,774,285 42.15 Options exercised -1,098,051 40.98 Options canceled and forfeited -60,679 42.16 Options granted 87,880 77.29 Stock subscription options at December 31, 2013 1,703,435 44.72 The average remaining life of outstanding options at the periodThe number of shares vested at the end of a period of two to end was 3.5 years (2013: 3.1 years). six years based on the grant date ranges from 0% to 100% of the number of shares originally granted, depending on the The weighted Average Price of Essilor shares in 2014 was €79.60 performance of the Essilor share compared with the Reference (2013: €80.60). Price on the grant date (corresponding to the average of the prices quoted over the 20 trading days preceding the Board Meeting at Performance shares which the grant is decided). Since 2006, the Essilor group has launched performance-based The maximum number of performance shares that would vest share allotment plans. assuming that the vesting conditions were met is as follows: • 2014 grants: 1,544,904 shares; • 2013 grants: 1,376,340 shares. The following table analyzes changes in the number of performance shares at each period-end: Quantity PERFORMANCE SHARES AT JANUARY 1, 2014 3,530,585 Performance shares vested -963,910 Performance shares canceled -90,320 Grants for the ﬁscal year 1,544,904 PERFORMANCE SHARES AT DECEMBER 31, 2014 4,021,259 Performance shares at January 1, 2013 2,848,274 Performance shares vested -625,369 Performance shares canceled -68,660 Grants for the ﬁscal year 1,376,340 Performance shares at December 31, 2013 3,530,585 The performance conditions of the November and December 2012 • risk-free interest rate: 0.41% (2013 grants: 1,09%); plans were deﬁnitively met in 2014. • yield: 1.42% (2013 grants: 1,44%). The main assumptions used to measure compensation costs on Based on these assumptions, the fair value of the shares granted performance shares granted in 2014 are as follows: in 2014 was €39.14 for non-residents of France (€33.80 in 2013) • share volatility: 18.67% (2013 grants: 18,40%); and €27.34 for French residents (€25.26 in 2013). 126 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS Employee share issues The main parameters used to measure the cost of employee share issues recognized in 2014 are as follows: Plan date December 2014 December 2013 Share subscription price (€) 69.72 61.83 Total discount (€) 17.43 15.46 Number of shares subscribed 337,182 377,407 Discount on the share cash price on grant date represented by the lock-up clause 20.5% 16.6% Share cash price on grant date (€) 90.53 74.30 Risk-free interest rate on the grant date 0.3% 1.2% Reﬁnancing cost 5.0% 5.0% Cost recognized in proﬁt or loss (€ thousands) 745 56 Based on these assumptions, the fair value of the shares subscribed in 2014 was €71.93 (€61.98 in 2013). NOTE 7. COST OF NET DEBT 3 € millions Year 2014 Year 2013 Cost of gross debt -49 -26 Income from cash and cash equivalents 18 18 COST OF NET DEBT -31 -8 The cost of net debt rose, compared to the previous year, due to the ﬁnancing put in place to acquire Transitions and Coastal.com. NOTE 8. OTHER FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES € millions Year 2014 Year 2013 Foreign exchange gains 296 84 Other 1 3 OTHER FINANCIAL INCOME 297 87 Foreign exchange losses -291 -86 Accretion of discount on liabilities charges -12 -10 Provisions for unconsolidated assets -9 -3 OTHER FINANCIAL EXPENSES -312 -99 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 127 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 9. INCOME TAX 9.1 Income tax gain (loss) for the period € millions Year 2014 Year 2013 Current tax -238 -200 Deferred taxes 45 1 TOTAL -193 -199 9.2 Income tax expense analysis As a % of pre-tax proﬁt Year 2014 Year 2013 Standard French income tax rate 34.4 34.4 Differences in foreign tax rate impact -6.6 -6.5 (a) Impact of reduced rates and permanent differences between book and taxable proﬁt -12.5 -3.2 Other non-deductible / non-taxable items under local tax rules 1.1 -0.5 EFFECTIVE INCOME TAX RATE 16.4 24.2 (a) Includes among other things the effect of the capital gain generated with the full consolidation of Transitions (See Note 6). Since most of the deferred tax bases for French companies were for a term of over two years, the tax rate was not changed with regard to the exceptional contribution deﬁned by the 2014 Supplementary Budget Act. 9.3 Change in deferred taxes recognized in the balance sheet The change in net deferred taxes (assets – liabilities) recognized in the balance sheet can be analyzed as follows: € millions Year 2014 Year 2013 AT JANUARY 1 -53 -30 Deferred taxes recognized in equity 5 -4 Deferred tax income (expense) for the period, net 45 1 (a) Effect of changes in scope of consolidation, exchange rate impacts and other movements -229 -20 AT DECEMBER 31 -232 -53 (a) The increase in assets and liabilities recognized in an acquisition can be attributed for the most part to the acquisition of Transitions (see Note 2). 9.4 Unrecognized deferred tax assets € millions Year 2014 Year 2013 Tax loss carryforwards 57 49 Other unrecognized deferred tax assets 45 25 UNRECOGNIZED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS 102 74 128 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS 9.5 Deferred taxes by type (net position) € millions Year 2014 Year 2013 Elimination of inter-company proﬁts 50 40 Differences in depreciation periods -3 -6 Temporarily non-deductible provisions 132 9 Actuarial gains and losses 22 14 Assets and liabilities recognized on an acquisition (a) -491 -147 Assets and liabilities recognized on tax loss carryforwards 41 38 Other 17 -1 TOTAL -232 -53 (a) The increase in assets and liabilities recognized in an acquisition can be attributed for the most part to the acquisition of Transitions (see Note 2). Tax consolidation Provision for tax risks In France, Essilor International files a consolidated tax return Following various tax audits and proceedings underway within with ESSILOR, TIKAI Vision (ex-Barbara), BBGR, BNL, DELAMARE, the Group, provisions totaling €89 million were recognized at endESSIDEV, ESSIHOLDING, INVOPTIC, NOVISIA, OMI, OPTIM, FGX 2014. Holding France, OSE (not consolidated), and VARILUX UNIVERSITY (not consolidated) and pays the corporate income tax due by the tax group. In 2014, the subsidiaries included in the tax consolidation group generated a tax expense of €5 million 3 compared to a tax income of €3 million in 2013. NOTE 10. CHANGE IN NUMBER OF SHARES The shares have a par value of €0.18. Change in real number of shares, excluding treasury stock Year 2014 Year 2013 NUMBER OF SHARES AT JANUARY 1 210,245,092 210,336,563 Exercise of stock subscription options 855,848 1,098,051 Subscription of the Essilor group FCP mutual fund 337,182 377,407 Delivery of performance shares 963,910 625,369 Net (purchases) and sales of treasury stock -469,425 -2,192,298 NUMBER OF SHARES AT DECEMBER 31 211,932,607 210,245,092 Number of treasury shares eliminated 3,959,921 4,454,406 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 129 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Change in weighted average number of shares, excluding treasury stock Year 2014 Year 2013 NUMBER OF SHARES AT JANUARY 1 210,245,092 210,336,563 Exercise of stock subscription options 386,601 612,602 Subscription of the Essilor group FCP mutual fund 11,085 11,374 Sales of treasury shares held for performance share grants 77,306 49,441 Net (purchases) and sales of treasury stock -209,107 -854,430 WEIGHTED AVERAGE NUMBER OF SHARES OVER THE YEAR 210,510,977 210,155,550 In 2014, no treasury stock was cancelled. A total of 1,500,000 shares were cancelled in 2013. NOTE 11. DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE Proﬁt used for the calculation of diluted earnings per share is €929 million (€593 million in 2013). The weighted average number of shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share is as follows: € millions Year 2014 Year 2013 Weighted average number of shares 210,510,977 210,155,550 Dilutive effect of stock subscription options 287,863 747,179 Dilutive effect of performance share grants 4,021,259 2,154,245 DILUTED WEIGHTED AVERAGE NUMBER OF SHARES 214,820,099 213,056,974 NOTE 12. GOODWILL Other changes in Provisions for Business scope and other Translation impairment € millions December 31, 2013 combination movements difference losses December 31, 2014 Gross amount 2,489 1,896 -16 330 4,699 Impairment -13 -1 -17 -31 NET AMOUNT 2,476 1,896 -17 330 -17 4,668 Other changes in Provisions for Business scope and other Translation impairment € millions December 31, 2012 combination movements difference losses December 31, 2013 Gross amount 2,101 512 34 -158 2,489 Impairment -14 1 -13 NET AMOUNT 2,087 512 34 -157 2,476 130 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS The main increases in goodwill in 2014 resulted among Goodwill for companies acquired during the year is based on the other things from the acquisitions of Transitions Optical from provisional accounting for the business combination and may be €1,476 million, of Coastal.com and of Costa. The Transitions adjusted during the 12-month period from the acquisition date. goodwill was allocated to the various Lenses CGUs based on the Since January 1, 2010, the Essilor group has for the most part destination markets’ cash ﬂows. applied the so-called “full goodwill” method for acquisitions In 2013, the main increases were attributable to the acquisitions for which there was a commitment to redeem non-controlling of Xiamen Yarui Optical, Humanware and Polycore, and of lens interests. The fair value of the non-controlling interests is then distribution companies and various laboratories, in particular, determined by estimating the future price to be paid for those in Colombia, Turkey, the United States, Brazil, South Africa and non-controlling interests. Taiwan. Moreover, most often, when there is an acquisition with no option to redeem non-controlling interests, the Group usually applies the so-called “partial goodwill” method. The carrying amount of goodwill breaks down as follows by group of CGUs: € millions December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Lenses – Europe 684 282 Lenses – North America 1,710 769 Lenses – South America 468 193 Lenses – Asia/Paciﬁc/Middle East/Africa 848 431 Laboratory equipment Sunglasses & Readers 271 687 267 534 3 TOTAL 4,668 2,476 Goodwill impairment tests were conducted on June 30, 2014, and The Group’s weighted average cost of capital for 2014 was 7% reviewed on December 31, 2014 in line with the principles and (2013: 7%). Given the risk premiums calculated, the actual methods deﬁned in Note 1.20. discount rates applied to the groups of CGUs of the Group were as follows: As a % Year 2014 Year 2013 Lenses – Europe 8 8 Lenses – North America 7 7 Lenses – South America (a) 18 14 Lenses – Asia/Paciﬁc/Middle East/Africa 9 10 Laboratory equipment 7 7 Sunglasses & Readers 7 7 (b) Plants 9 8 (a) Primarily Brazil. (b) Group of CGUs reallocated to various other groups of CGUs depending on sales volumes. The perpetuity growth rate was estimated at 0% to 2% (2013: 0% amount do not correspond to the deﬁnition of reasonable change to 2%), with the highest rates applied to emerging markets. within the meaning of IAS 36. In 2014, goodwill impairment losses were recorded in the amount A 0.5% increase in the benchmark discount rate would not of €17 million for the Lenses-Europe CGU (see Note 6 “Other generate another impairment loss on the net carrying amount of income and expenses”). No impairment losses were recognized goodwill at December 31, 2014. in goodwill in 2013. A 0.5% decrease in the growth rate at inﬁnity would not generate Changes that must be made to parameters of revenue growth any impairment loss on in the carrying amount of goodwill at and the Group’s weighted average cost of capital (WACC) in order December 31, 2014. to compare the assets’ recoverable amount with their carrying Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 131 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 13. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Translation Depreciation, Disposals difference amortization Scope and and other and impairment € millions December 31, 2013 changes Acquisitions retirements movements losses December 31, 2014 Trademarks 301 603 112 1,016 Concessions, patents and licenses 331 71 24 -3 38 461 Contractual customer relationships 328 72 14 40 454 Other intangible assets 171 39 21 -2 15 244 GROSS AMOUNT 1,131 785 59 -5 205 2,175 Accumulated depreciation -399 -9 3 -34 -204 -643 (a) NET AMOUNT 732 776 59 -2 171 -204 1,532 (a) Including €118 million in amortization recognized in the contribution of operations (See Note 4) and €86 million in impairment of intangible assets (see Note 6). Translation Depreciation, Disposals difference amortization Scope and and other and impairment € millions December 31, 2012 changes Acquisitions retirements movements losses December 31, 2013 Trademarks 232 53 27 -11 301 Concessions, patents and licenses 306 1 38 -2 -12 331 Contractual customer relationships 285 51 6 -14 328 Other intangible assets 132 11 36 -8 171 GROSS AMOUNT 955 116 107 -2 -45 1,131 Accumulated depreciation -333 -7 1 15 -75 -399 (a) NET AMOUNT 622 109 107 -1 -30 -75 732 (a) Including €75 million in depreciation and amortization recognized in the contribution of operations (see Note 4). Intangible assets in progress amounted to €8 million at end-2014 • The trademark corresponds to the legal name of a legal entity (€8 million in 2013). and is, in fact, associated with the image and reputation of the Company; The entities acquired by the Group in 2014 have as a characteristic that they hold major trademarks that were recognized in their • the Group has the intention and ability to support the opening balance sheet. Accordingly, the Group carried out a review trademark. of its trademarks portfolio. The criteria for deﬁning deﬁnite life As a result, the Group has changed the qualification of certain trademarks and indefinite life trademarks have been clarified trademarks, previously considered to have indefinite life to in relation to this. As speciﬁed in the accounting principles and trademarks with deﬁnite life. An assessment test was conducted standards (see Note 1.21), a trademark has indeﬁnite life if the on December 31, 2013, following which an impairment loss following conditions have been met: was recorded for these assets in the amount of €51 million. Impairment losses were recognized prospectively, as from January 1, 2014, for all the deﬁnite life trademarks. 132 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS NOTE 14. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Translation Depreciation, Disposals difference amortization Scope and and other and impairment € millions December 31, 2013 changes Acquisitions retirements movements losses December 31, 2014 Land 48 6 6 60 Buildings 634 78 11 -10 72 785 Plant and equipment 1,589 149 69 -76 149 1,880 Other Property, plant and equipment 474 32 96 -24 -28 550 GROSS AMOUNT 2,745 265 176 -110 199 3,275 Accumulated depreciation -1,747 -146 103 -122 -209 -2,121 NET AMOUNT 998 119 176 -7 77 -209 (a) 1,154 (a) Including €189 million in depreciation and amortization recognized in the contribution of operations (see Note 4). 3 Translation Depreciation, Disposals difference amortization Scope and and other and impairment € millions December 31, 2012 changes Acquisitions retirements movements losses December 31, 2013 Land 49 4 -1 -4 48 Buildings 606 41 31 -9 -35 634 Plant and equipment 1,592 62 76 -44 -97 1,589 Other Property, plant and equipment 457 -13 85 -30 -25 474 GROSS AMOUNT 2,704 94 192 -84 -161 2,745 Accumulated depreciation -1,704 -34 69 100 -178 -1,747 (a) NET AMOUNT 1,000 60 192 -15 -61 -178 998 (a) Including €178 million in depreciation and amortization recognized in the contribution of operations (see Note 4). The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment – including • production plant and equipment include machines and assets under ﬁnance leases – held by consolidated companies equipment for producing semi-finished and finished lenses was €1,154 million at the end of 2014 (€998 million at the end of in plants located mainly in Asia (Thailand, China, and the 2013). These assets consist mainly of buildings and production Philippines) and in the United States. plant and equipment: The prescription laboratories also have machines and equipment • buildings consist mainly of plants, prescription laboratories for surfacing, coating, edging and mounting lenses. Their locations and administrative offices. Their locations reﬂect the Group’s are extremely diverse. The largest sites are in France and in the broad international presence. The main plants, laboratories United States. and administrative offices are located in France and the United Assets under construction amounted to €73 million at end-2014 States, while other plants are located primarily in Ireland, (€60 million at end-2013). Thailand and the Philippines; Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 133 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 15. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT: ASSETS UNDER FINANCE LEASES Translation Depreciation, Disposals difference amortization Scope and and other and impairment € millions December 31, 2013 changes Acquisitions retirement movements losses December 31, 2014 Land 2 2 Buildings 13 3 16 Other Property, plant and equipment 24 4 -1 27 GROSS AMOUNT 39 3 4 -1 45 Accumulated depreciation -28 -2 1 -3 -32 NET AMOUNT 11 1 4 -3 13 Translation Depreciation, Disposals difference amortization Scope and and other and impairment € millions December 31, 2012 changes Acquisitions retirement movements losses December 31, 2013 Land 1 1 2 Buildings 14 -1 13 Other Property, plant and equipment 23 2 -1 24 GROSS AMOUNT 38 2 -1 39 Accumulated depreciation -26 1 -3 -28 NET AMOUNT 12 2 -3 11 NOTE 16. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES The changes in companies consolidated by the equity method, for the period, can be explained as follows: € millions Year 2014 Opening balance 113 Share in the net proﬁt of equity-accounted companies 4 Dividends -29 Transitions Optical change of method (a) -105 Translation differences and other movements 20 Closing balance 3 (a) See Note 2.2 Changes in the scope of consolidation. 134 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS NOTE 17. OTHER LONG-TERM FINANCIAL ASSETS Long-term ﬁnancial investments fulﬁll the criteria for classiﬁcation as “available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets” under IAS 39 (see Note 1.23). DispoTranslation Net Acquisitions sals and difference allocation Scope and new repayand other Revato € millions December 31, 2013 changes loans ments movements luation provisions December 31, 2014 Investments and other non-current assets at fair value 17 4 5 -1 -4 -5 16 Non-consolidated interests 15 4 5 -1 -3 -5 15 Other available-forsale ﬁnancial assets 2 -1 1 Investments and other non-current assets at amortized cost 80 26 -8 -7 -4 87 3 Loans, including accrued interest 82 26 -8 -7 93 Impairment -2 -4 -6 Other long-term ﬁnancial assets 97 4 31 -9 -11 -9 103 Effect of DispoTranslation Net changes in Acquisitions sals and difference allocation scope of and new repayand other Revato € millions December 31, 2012 consolidation loans ments movements luation provisions December 31, 2013 Investments and other noncurrent assets at fair value 39 -22 3 -1 -2 17 Nonconsolidated interests 37 -22 3 -1 -2 15 Other availablefor-sale ﬁnancial assets 2 2 Investments and other noncurrent assets at amortized cost 80 -3 10 -4 -3 80 Loans, including accrued interest 81 -2 10 -4 -3 82 Impairment -1 -1 -2 Other long-term ﬁnancial assets 119 -25 13 -4 -3 -1 -2 97 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 135 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 18. INVENTORIES € millions December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Raw materials and other supplies 387 327 Goods for resale 248 194 Finished and semi-ﬁnished products and work in process 562 496 GROSS AMOUNT 1,197 1,017 Valuation allowance (a) -195 -148 NET AMOUNT 1,002 869 (a) Including €13 million, for 2014, and amortization of inventory revaluations generated by the contribution of operations and €3 million for 2013 (see Note 4). NOTE 19. SHORT-TERM RECEIVABLES AND PAYABLES Short-term receivables break down as follows: € millions December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Trade receivables Gross amount 1,299 1,152 Valuation allowance -73 -65 Net amount of trade receivables 1,226 1,087 Other short-term receivables Gross amount 102 106 Valuation allowance -1 -1 Net amount of other operating receivables 101 105 TOTAL SHORT-TERM RECEIVABLES, NET 1,327 1,192 Short-term payables break down as follows: € millions December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Trade payables 564 502 Accrued taxes and personnel expense 338 276 Other short-term payables 313 282 TOTAL SHORT-TERM PAYABLES 1,215 1,060 136 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS NOTE 20. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents break down as follows: € millions December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Cash 465 396 Money market funds 105 304 Bank deposits 25 70 Other cash equivalents 31 16 TOTAL 626 786 NOTE 21. PENSION AND OTHER POST-RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS 3 The Group’s pension and other post-retirement beneﬁt obligations • retirement beneﬁts granted to employees in France and other mainly include: European countries; • supplementary pension plans in France, Germany, the United • other long-term benefits, consisting mainly of length-ofKingdom and the United States; service awards granted in France and other countries. Provisions for pensions € millions December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Non-current assets (plan surpluses) 1 1 Provisions for pensions in liabilities 281 209 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 137 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Analysis of changes in net recognized beneﬁt obligations Net recognized € millions Obligation Fair value of funds beneﬁt obligations AT JANUARY 1, 2014 313 -105 208 Cost of services rendered in the period 14 14 Interest expense on discounting 14 14 Interest income for the period -5 -5 Cost of past services -1 -1 Employee contributions 1 -1 0 Contributions to plan assets -19 -19 Beneﬁts paid -14 14 Actuarial gains and losses 63 -13 50 Plan reduction and liquidation Other movements Changes in scope of consolidation 42 -31 11 Translation difference 13 -4 9 AT DECEMBER 31, 2014 445 -164 281 of which Obligations funded in whole or in part by a fund 252 252 of which Obligations not funded by a plan assets 193 193 Net recognized € millions Obligation Fair value of funds beneﬁt obligations AT JANUARY 1, 2013 326 -114 212 Cost of services rendered in the period 11 11 Interest expense on discounting 9 9 Interest income for the period -3 -3 Cost of past services -1 -1 Employee contributions 1 -1 Contributions to plan assets -12 -12 Beneﬁts paid -18 18 0 Actuarial gains and losses -5 -1 -6 Plan reduction and liquidation -2 2 Other movements 0 0 Changes in scope of consolidation 2 2 Translation difference -10 6 -4 AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 313 -105 208 of which Obligations funded in whole or in part by a fund 160 160 of which Obligations not funded by a plan assets 153 153 138 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS Analysis of change in actuarial gains and losses recognized in equity € millions December 2014 December 2013 Actuarial gains (losses) recognized in equity at opening 90 96 Gains (losses) recognized over the period 50 -6 Actuarial gains (losses) recognized in equity at closing 140 90 Analysis of rights Engagement net € millions Obligation Funds December 31, 2014 Pensions (supplementary and guaranteed income plans) 342 -155 187 Retirement beneﬁts 65 -7 58 Other beneﬁts 38 -2 36 TOTAL 445 -164 281 Engagement net € millions Obligation Funds December 31, 2013 Pensions (supplementary and guaranteed income plans) 231 -97 134 3 Retirement beneﬁts 57 -7 50 Other beneﬁts 25 -1 24 TOTAL 313 -105 208 Actuarial assumptions used to estimate commitments in the main countries concerned A major assumption taken into account in the valuation of maturity equal to the term of the plans, or the return on government pensions and similar obligations is the discount rate. bonds when the private market has insufficient liquidity. In accordance with IAS 19, the rates were determined by monetary The return on plan assets is determined based on the allocation of zone by referring to the return on premium private bonds with a the assets and the discount rates used. The main rates used by the Group are on follows: December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 United United United United As a % Euro zone States Kingdom Euro zone States Kingdom Discount rate 2.2 4.4 3.8 3.3 5.0 4.4 Inﬂation rate 2.0 3.5 3.3 2.0 3.5 3.5 Weighted average rate of return on plan assets 10.9 3.7 Weighted average rate of salary increases 2.0 2.0 Additionally, had the discount rate been by 25 basis points lower applied, the total obligation of the Group at December 31, 2014 than the rate actually applied, the total obligation of the Group as would have been €5 million higher. of December 31, 2014 would have been by €16 million higher. If The recognized actuarial gains or losses correspond to experience the discount rate had been 25 basis points higher than the rate adjustments (differences between assumptions used and actual actually applied, the total obligation of the Group at December 31, data) and changes in ﬁnancial and demographic assumptions. 2014 would have been €15 million lower. In 2014, actuarial gains or losses in terms of projected Had salaries been by 25 basis points lower than the salaries benefit obligations at closing were -€3 million as a result of actually applied, the total obligation of the Group as of experience adjustments, +€50 million as a result of changes in December 31, 2014 would have been by €5 million lower. If the ﬁnancial assumptions and +€3 million as a result of changes in salaries had been 25 basis points higher than the salaries actually demographic assumptions. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 139 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Composition by type of plan assets As a % December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Shares 13 18 Bonds 26 33 General insurance funds 23 39 Other 38 10 Actual returns on plan assets were €5 million in 2014 (2013: Assets associated with funded obligations are invested in pension €4 million). funds or insurance companies. Investments comply with local regulations in the countries in question. At December 31, 2014, plan assets did not include any Group shares. Invested assets are managed directly by pension fund managers or insurance companies. They determine appropriate investment strategies and funding allocations. Expenses for the year Income (expenses) € millions Year 2014 Year 2013 Cost of services rendered in the period -14 -11 Interest expense on discounting -9 -6 Cost of past services 1 0 EXPENSES FOR THE YEAR -22 -17 Contributions to plan assets 10 4 Beneﬁts paid 9 8 TOTAL INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN PROVISIONS -3 -5 NOTE 22. PROVISIONS Translation Provisions Reversals Reversals difference for for not and other € millions December 31, 2013 the year the year applicable movements Scope December 31, 2014 Restructuring provisions (a) 7 32 -6 -4 29 Warranty provisions 25 4 -11 -1 2 6 25 (b) Other 99 44 -8 -1 55 31 220 TOTAL 131 80 -25 -2 53 37 274 (a) Restructuring provisions were, for the most part, related to the streamlining of a number of production sites located primarily in Europe and North America. (b) Provisions for other risks at December 31, 2014 include among other things the provisions for controls and tax audits for a total amount of €89 million and provisions for legal disputes in the amount of €71 million (see Note 29 “Litigation”). 140 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS Translation Provisions Reversals Reversals difference for for not and other € millions December 31, 2012 the year the year applicable movements Scope December 31, 2013 Restructuring provisions 8 5 -5 -1 7 Warranty provisions 25 3 -3 -1 1 25 Other risks 94 12 -5 -13 -1 12 99 TOTAL 127 20 -13 -13 -3 13 131 NOTE 23. NET DEBT AND BORROWINGS 23.1 Net debt The Group’s net debt can be analyzed as follows: 3 € millions (a) December 2014 December 2013 Long-term borrowings 1,521 607 Short-term borrowings 881 525 Short-term bank loans and overdrafts 28 37 Accrued interest 17 5 TOTAL LIABILITIES 2,447 1,174 Cash and cash equivalents -626 -786 Marketable securities (b) -5 TOTAL ASSETS -626 -791 INTEREST RATE SWAP AND CROSS CURRENCY SWAPS (c) -28 -14 NET DEBT 1,793 369 (a) Sign convention: + debt/excess cash or securities. (b) Marketable securities are included by the Group in net debt. (c) Interest rate swap and cross currency swap measured at fair value at each period end. Long-term borrowings At December 31, 2014, the Group’s long-term ﬁnancing structure was as follows: € millions December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Issue date Maturity Bonds 828 2014 2021/2024 US private placement (2 tranches) 247 217 2012 2017/2019 US private placement (7 tranches) 412 363 2013 2017/2023 Other 34 27 LONG-TERM BORROWINGS 1,521 607 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 141 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements In February 2014, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s rated Essilor • a bond of €300 million maturing on April 9, 2024, issued at the International’s short-term debt A1 and P1, respectively. Long-term ﬁxed rate of 2.375%; This was covered by an interest-hedge of debt has been rated A2 by Moody’s since March 2014. €300 million which converted the initial borrowing from ﬁxed to variable rate. This transaction is classiﬁed as a fair value As part of its EMTN program, Essilor International issued two hedge. bonds on April 9, 2014: Private placements are subject to a ﬁnancial covenant, which was • a bond of €500 million maturing on April 9, 2021, issued at the met on December 31, 2014. ﬁxed rate of 1.75%; Short-term borrowings At December 31, 2014, the Group’s short-term ﬁnancing structure was as follows: € millions December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Issue date Maturity Bilateral bank facilities 250 2007 2014 French commercial paper 246 215 2014 2015 US commercial paper (USCP) 567 2014 2015 Bank overdraft 28 37 Other 85 65 SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS 926 567 The Company also launched a US commercial paper program; its outstanding was €246 million. In accordance with the Group’s outstanding was in the amount of €567 million at December 31, policies, the commercial paper programs are backed by long-term 2014. At that date, the French commercial paper program committed facilities, totaling €2.3 billion at December 31, 2014. 23.2 Borrowings Financial debt by maturity Borrowings can be analyzed as follows by maturity: € millions December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Due within one year 926 567 Due in 1 to 5 years 551 316 Due beyond 5 years 970 291 TOTAL 2,447 1,174 142 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS Financial debt by currency Borrowings break down as follows by currency: € millions December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 US dollar 1,257 877 Euro 1,113 234 Other currencies 77 63 TOTAL 2,447 1,174 Fair value of debt The fair value of borrowings is as follows: € millions December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Long-term borrowings 1,595 626 Short-term borrowings 881 543 Short-term bank loans, overdrafts and accrued interest 45 42 TOTAL 2,521 1,211 Finance lease liabilities 3 December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 € millions Principal Interest Principal Interest Due within one year 2 Due in 1 to 5 years 6 4 Due beyond 5 years TOTAL 8 4 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 143 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 24. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 24.1 Financial instruments recognized in the balance sheet Financial instruments carried in the consolidated balance sheet at end 2014 and 2013 fall into the following categories: Category of instruments Fair value Fair value Debts at 2014 Balance recognized in recognized Loans, amortized € millions sheet value proﬁt or loss in equity (a) receivables cost Derivatives Non-current ﬁnancial assets 103 16 87 Long-term receivables 15 15 Prepayments to suppliers 20 20 Short-term receivables 1,327 1,327 Tax receivables 56 56 Other receivables 38 38 Derivative ﬁnancial assets 43 43 Cash and cash equivalents 626 626 FINANCIAL ASSETS 2,228 626 16 1,543 43 Long-term borrowings 1,521 1,521 Other long-term liabilities 394 205 189 Short-term borrowings 926 926 Customer prepayments 31 31 Short-term payables 1,215 1,215 Tax payables 58 58 Other current liabilities 421 29 392 Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities 17 17 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 4,583 234 4,332 17 (a) Assets available for sale as deﬁned by IAS 39, liabilities revalued in accordance with the accounting policies described in Note 1.32. 144 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS Category of instruments Fair value Fair value Debts at 2013 Balance recognized in recognized Loans, amortized € millions sheet value proﬁt or loss in equity (a) receivables cost Derivatives Non-current ﬁnancial assets 97 17 80 Long-term receivables 17 17 Prepayments to suppliers 16 16 Short-term receivables 1,192 1,192 Tax receivables 67 67 Other receivables 33 33 Derivative ﬁnancial assets 17 17 Marketable securities 5 5 Cash and cash equivalents 786 786 FINANCIAL ASSETS 2,230 786 22 1,405 17 Long-term borrowings 607 607 Other long-term liabilities 517 331 186 Short-term borrowings 567 567 Customer prepayments 28 28 Short-term payables 1,060 1,060 3 Tax payables 63 63 Other current liabilities 156 64 92 Derivative ﬁnancial liabilities 17 17 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 3,015 395 2,603 17 (a) Assets available for sale as deﬁned by IAS 39, liabilities revalued in accordance with the accounting policies described in Note 1.32. Financial assets and liabilities (including operating receivables and payables) at end-2014 break down as follows by contractual maturity: € millions Less than one year 1 to 5 years Beyond 5 years Total Financial liabilities other than ﬁnancial instruments -2,651 -917 -998 -4,566 Financial assets other than ﬁnancial instruments 2,104 66 15 2,185 Net fair value of ﬁnancial instruments 4 -6 28 26 NET POSITION -543 -857 -955 -2,355 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 145 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 24.2 Market value of derivative instruments Certain derivatives and certain types of transactions that in of these derivative instruments are recognized directly in ﬁnancial substance represent hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting income and expenses, in accordance with the criteria of IAS 39. under IAS 39. Gains and losses from the fair value measurement The market value of Group derivatives is presented below: Market value by instrument type December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 € millions Nominal amount Market value Nominal amount Market value Forward Currency transactions 1,258 4 1,182 -9 Currency options 68 Cross-currency swap 250 14 Interest rate swaps 524 22 109 -5 Interest rate options (caps) 91 86 TOTAL DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS 1,873 26 1,695 Market value by hedge type € millions December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Cash ﬂow hedge: • Forward / outright 4 -7 • Interest rate swaps -6 -5 Fair value hedge: • Forward / outright • Interest rate swap 28 • Cross-currency swap 14 Not allocated to a hedging relationship: • Forward / outright -2 MARKET VALUE OF DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS 26 derivative ﬁnancial instruments recognized in assets 43 17 derivative ﬁnancial instruments recognized in liabilities -17 -17 146 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS Forward foreign exchange transaction details at December 31, 2014 (nominal amount) Currency purchased € millions EUR USD CNY MXN THB Other Total Currency sold EUR 167 4 11 15 197 USD 613 87 23 4 727 CAD 214 214 GBP 37 37 AUD 2 32 34 SGD 10 10 Other 30 7 2 39 TOTAL 906 206 91 23 11 21 1,258 24.3 Profit (loss) on settling cash flow hedges The effects on the gross margin of unwinding cash ﬂow hedges set up at the end of the prior year generated income of €3 million for 2014, compared to an expense of €1 million for 2013. 3 NOTE 25. OTHER CURRENT AND NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES € millions December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Liabilities related to long-term put options granted to minority shareholders 205 331 Trade payables and liabilities on long-term ﬁnancial investments 189 186 TOTAL OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 394 517 Liabilities to suppliers related to tangible and intangible ﬁxed assets 5 6 Liabilities related to long-term ﬁnancial investments 227 57 Liabilities related to short-term put options granted to minority shareholders 169 64 Other 20 29 TOTAL OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES 421 156 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 147 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 26. OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS € millions December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Commitments given Guarantees and endorsements 115 89 Debt secured by collateral: • Net carrying amount of collateral 2 3 Commitments received Guarantees, endorsements and sureties received 2 2 Commitments under operating leases and for royalties Due within one year 29 26 In 1 to 5 years 76 64 Beyond 5 years 22 6 TOTAL OPERATING LEASING COMMITMENTS 127 96 NOTE 27. MARKET RISKS Market risks are managed by the Group Treasury Department. The Head of this department reports to the Chief Financial Officer, who is a member of the Executive Committee. Liquidity risk The Group aims to maintain continuous liquidity in order to ensure Most of the long-term ﬁnancing and credit facilities are issued its independence and growth. Key to this is substantial and steady by the parent company, which then reﬁnances its subsidiaries. cash flow. It also operates a financing policy that guarantees Some companies may, however, find it better to arrange their available funding capacity at all times at low cost. This policy own local ﬁnancing when local regulations hamper intra-Group is based on the diversification of funding sources, the use of arrangements. mediumand long-term ﬁnancing and committed credit facilities. The Group has the following confirmed credit facilities with leading banks. 148 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS Amount € millions December 31, 2014 Issue date Maturity Syndicated credit facility 850 2013 2018-2019* Club deal 412 2014 2018 Bilateral bank facilities 1,006 2012-2014 2015-2017 * With the option to extend for an additional year Drawing down on these lines is not subject to any particular credit facilities serving, among other things, as supports for the covenant. commercial paper and US commercial paper programs. At December 31, 2014, none of these lines had been drawn. The distribution of the Group’s net ﬁnancial debt and available credit lines by contractual maturity at end-2014 was as follows: The Group increased the diversiﬁcation of its means of ﬁnancing and has endeavored to spread over time the shortand long(Please also refer to Note 23 to the consolidated financial term debt repayment schedules in order to reduce the risk of statements, “Net debt and net borrowings”) reﬁnancing. It has also increased the amounts of its committed € millions 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 > 2021 Total Bonds 500 300 800 (a) Commercial paper and USCP 13 800 813 Bank borrowings 74 7 7 2 8 9 107 US private placements Bank overdraft 29 226 103 194 111 25 659 29 3 Other liabilities 9 1 1 11 GROSS DEBT 112 7 234 118 1,002 112 509 325 2,419 Cash -626 -626 (b) NET DEBT -514 7 234 118 1,002 112 509 325 1,793 Available committed credit facilities (c) 84 300 621 462 800 (c) 2,267 (a) Commercial paper and USCP are set to mature in 2018 and 2019 (maturity of credit facilities). (b) > to 0: net debt; < to 0: net cash surplus. (c) With the option to extend for an additional year. Currency risk Due to its international presence, the Group is naturally exposed The Group seeks to limit currency risk ﬁrst with natural hedges, to currency ﬂuctuations. This impacts its operations, its ﬁnancing, then by hedging residual transactional exposure through currency and the conversion into euros of the accounts of foreign forwards or options. Foreign exchange transactions are entered subsidiaries denominated in other currencies. into solely to hedge risks arising on business operations. The Company does not carry out any currency trading transactions Currency hedging is for the most part managed by Essilor without any underlying commercial transaction. International. The Group’s total net currency exposure at December 31, 2014 represented an amount equivalent to some €29 million. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 149 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Consolidated foreign exchange exposure on assets and liabilities at December 31, 2014 (assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the Company) Balance sheet amount Hedges on balance Net exposure Cash € millions before hedging (a) sheet items (b) after hedging (c) ﬂow hedges (d) Exposed currency USD 607 -539 68 131 CAD 210 -210 CNY -117 91 -26 GBP 41 -29 12 EUR -20 1 -19 2 SGD 9 -10 -1 THB -9 9 MXN 6 -2 4 19 JPY -6 -1 -7 1 Other 12 -14 -2 4 TOTAL 733 -704 29 157 (a) > to 0: Assets to be hedged; < to 0: Liabilities to be hedged. (b) > to 0: Net purchases of currencies; < to 0: Net sales of currencies. (c) > to 0: Unhedged assets; < to 0: Unhedged liabilities. (d) > to 0: Hedges of currency purchases; < to 0: Hedges of currency sales. Sensitivity of equity and proﬁt to changes in the fair value of derivatives at December 31, 2014 Sensitivity is calculated solely on the valuation of derivatives at the end of the year. The impact of a change in fair value of the derivatives following a rise or fall in the euro versus all other currencies is presented below: Impact of change € millions +5% -5% On equity 0 0 On Proﬁt before tax 34 34 The impact of the change in equity would be generated by foreign The impact of the change in financial income is generated by exchange and interest rate instruments eligible to be recorded as foreign exchange instruments not eligible to be recorded as cash ﬂow hedges. hedges and by the change in the ineffective portion of the cash ﬂow hedges. 150 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS Interest rate risk The purpose of the interest rate management policy is to minimize The vast majority of the Group’s ﬁnancing is centralized on the the cost of financing while limiting the volatility of financial parent company; interest rate risks are therefore also centralized expenses linked to interest rate variations . The major part at the parent company level. The interest rate risk on ﬁnancial of ﬁnancing is therefore kept at ﬁxed rates, either in the initial liabilities is structurally limited. agreement or via hedging. The interest rate position before and after hedging is as follows: Before hedging Hedges (a) After hedging (a) Variable Variable Variable Capped € millions Fixed rate rate Fixed rate rate Cap Fixed rate rate variable rate Gross debt 1,503 944 -104 -15 91 1,399 929 91 Cash and similar -25 -601 -25 -601 SUB-TOTAL 1,478 343 -104 -15 91 1,374 328 91 NET DEBT 1,821 -28 1,793 (a) Including the fair value of the interest rate swap of €300 million. The interest rate position, by currency, before and after hedging is as follows: (a) (a) 3 Before hedging Hedges After hedging Variable Variable Variable Capped € millions Fixed rate rate Fixed rate rate Cap Fixed rate rate variable rate EUR 816 84 -228 -690 50 588 -606 50 USD 622 558 124 419 41 746 977 41 CAD 1 -20 207 1 187 Other 39 -279 49 39 -230 SUB-TOTAL 1,478 343 -104 -15 91 1,374 328 91 NET DEBT 1,821 -28 1,793 (a) Including the fair value of the interest rate swap of €300 million. At December 31, 2014, 58% of the gross debt after hedging was at ﬁxed rate (in the same proportion as in 2013). The average weighted interest rate of the gross debt after hedging was 1.60% at end-2014 (2.10% at end-2013). A parallel shift by 1% of the interest rate curves at December 31, 2014 applied to the components of the net debt would have the following impact: € millions Cash effect on income statement 1% increase -4 1% decrease 4 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 151 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Net debt per currency Net debt after € millions Gross debt Cash and similar Hedges (a) hedging (a) USD 1,258 -78 584 1,764 CAD 1 -20 207 188 EUR 1,114 -214 -868 32 GBP -9 30 21 SGD 6 -23 10 -7 BRL -29 -29 KRW -29 -29 JPY -30 -30 CNY 14 -94 -4 -84 Other 54 -100 13 -33 SUB-TOTAL 2,447 -626 -28 1,793 NET DEBT 1,821 -28 1,793 (a) Including the market value of fair value derivatives. Counterparty risk The Group is exposed to ﬁnancial counterparty risk in its shortAt December 31, 2014, counterparties for investment and term investments, hedges and credit facilities. Default by a capital markets transactions carried out by the Group Treasury counterparty may result in an impairment (non-repayment of an Department were all rated at least A-2 (short-term) and A(longasset) or loss of liquidity (inability to draw down a credit facility). term) by Standard & Poor’s. At that date, 75% of investments made by Group subsidiaries had a minimum Standard & Poor’s To limit this risk, the Group only deals with top-tier banks with long-term rating of A-. the best credit ratings, while maintaining prudent diversiﬁcation. At December 31, 2014, all the banks providing Essilor International Available cash is invested in funds that give precedence to with credit facilities had a minimum Standard & Poor’s long-term security and liquidity over performance. The Group sets limits on rating of A-. investment periods and vehicles, as well as on concentrations of counterparty risks. Credit risk Non-provisioned outstanding customer accounts receivable due This was comprised mostly of receivables due in less than three totaled €239 million at end-2014 (€169 million at end-2013). months (74% in 2014; 89% in 2013) that were slightly past due. € millions December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Trade receivables due within one year, net 1,226 1,087 Trade receivables due beyond one year, net 15 17 TRADE RECEIVABLES, NET 1,241 1,104 Trade receivables not yet due 1,001 897 Past-due trade receivables, net 240 207 Information relating to the 20 largest Group clients is presented in Note 3 “Segment Information”. 152 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS NOTE 28. ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS The Essilor group is not exposed to any material environmental risks. NOTE 29. LITIGATION Alleged anti-competitive practices Group actions Following the settlement of charges brought by the Federal ■ Germany Trade Commission after an investigation into Transitions In late 2008, the German Competition Authority, the “Bundeskartellamt” (“BKA”), launched an investigation into Optical Inc’s business practices in 2009, around twenty motions for authorization to bring class actions were filed since late 3 March 2010 against Transitions Optical Inc, Essilor International, possible breaches of German competition law by major players Essilor of America, and Essilor Laboratories of America before US in the ophthalmic optics market, including two of our subsidiaries, and Canadian courts. The plaintiffs in these motions are alleging Essilor GmbH and Rupp & Hubrach Optik GmbH. that the companies concerned endeavored jointly to monopolize Following this investigation, on June 10, 2010, the BKA sent formal the market for the development, manufacture, and sale of notification of fines to the major ophthalmic optic companies photochromic lenses between 1999 and March 2010. A settlement in Germany. Accordingly, our two subsidiaries were officially was agreed in 2014, closing these class actions, and leaving only notiﬁed of violations representing an aggregate amount of around the action by VisionEase pending. €50 million. Essilor GmbH and Rupp & Hubrach Optik GmbH are contesting Intellectual property both the grounds for the BKA’s ﬁndings and the amount of the ﬁne Hoya ﬁled a court claim in Tokyo, Japan on July 24, 2013, alleging that they deem to be disproportionate. As a result, two appeals that some Nikon Essilor’s products sold fell within the scope were lodged against the BKA’s decisions of June 15 and 16, 2010. of a patent originally registered by Seiko and sold to Hoya on None of the ﬁnes will be paid while these appeals are pending. March 15, 2013. Hoya’s claim covers Nikon Essilor sales for the The Group is not currently in a position to forecast their outcome period March to July 2013. or timetable. In 2014, Nikon-Essilor ﬁled a motion to the Tokyo Court and the In 2014, the case was transferred to the Prosecutor’s Office at the Japanese patent office to seek invalidation of the patent. The Court of Appeal. matter is currently under investigation. ■ France Tax disputes In July 2014, the French Competition Authority’ s Inspection Due to its presence in numerous countries, the Group is subject Department made unannounced visits to a few Group subsidiaries to various national tax regulations. Any failure to observe these in France and other actors in the ophthalmic lens market related regulations may result in tax adjustments and the payment of to the online sale of ophthalmic lenses. The Group appealed the ﬁnes and penalties. court order which authorized the visits. To the Company’s knowledge, there are no current or pending legal or tax disputes, governmental or judicial proceedings or arbitration that may have or have had a signiﬁcant impact on the ﬁnancial position, income, proﬁtability, operations or assets of the Company or Group in the past 12 months. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 153 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 30. NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AND PERSONNEL COSTS Number of employees Year 2014 Year 2013 Managerial personnel 7,008 6,541 Supervisors and employees 19,216 16,721 Production 32,256 29,700 TOTAL AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES FOR THE PERIOD 58,480 52,962 € millions Year 2014 Year 2013 PERSONNEL EXPENSES 1,743 1,597 (Salaries, payroll taxes and compensation costs on share-based payments) Number of employees December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 58,032 55,129 NOTE 31. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Management compensation € millions Year 2014 Year 2013 Total compensation and beneﬁts paid to the Executive Committee (a) 15 14 Directors’ fees paid to the Executive Committee TOTAL SENIOR MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION 15 14 (a) Gross amount before payroll and other taxes paid to current members of the Executive Committee at December 31. The Executive Committee had 27 members at December 31, 2014 compared with 24 at December 31, 2013. Post-employment benefits for Executive Committee members • Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations: These obligations are payable under Group plans set up by €44,0 million at end-2014 compared to €34.8 million at endEssilor International for all employees or for certain employee 2013. categories. The obligations are funded under insured plans, with any unfunded portion covered by provisions. In addition, these • Retirement benefits: €1.3 million at end-2014 compared to obligations are fully funded by retirement provisions recorded in €1.6 million at end-2013. the Group ﬁnancial statements. 154 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS Stock options and performance shares granted to Executive Committee members The cost of these plans shown below reﬂects the recognition over the The costs recognized in 2014 for stock options and performance acquisition period of the fair value of stock options and performance shares granted to Executive Committee members were shares at the grant date (see Note 1.13 for more details). €10.4 million (2013: €7.5 million) for performance shares. Related party transactions Until March 31, 2014, the Transitions group was 49% owned by Essilor (see Note 2.2). Essilor sells stock lenses to the Transitions group, for transformation into variable-tint lenses. Essilor also distributes Transitions products across its networks. € millions 2014 2013 Product sales 10 110 Product purchases -121 -424 Trade receivables 25 Trade payables 62 Other related party transactions 3 There were no non-current transactions with members of Senior management. NOTE 32. MAJOR NOT WHOLLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARIES The Group holds some ownership interest with less than 100% The subsidiaries concerned by this are listed in Note 34. control. None of these investments contributes materially to the various aggregates in the Group’s ﬁnancial statements. NOTE 33. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Material changes in Essilor’s financial or trading position No material change in Essilor’s ﬁnancial or trading position has occurred since December 31, 2014. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 155 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 34. SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION Consolidation % Consolidation % Company Country method interest Company Country method interest Easy Vision Pty Ltd South Full 100 Essilor Lens Australia Pty Ltd. Australia Full 100 Africa consolidation consolidation Essilor South Africa (Pty) Ltd. South Full 100 Eyebiz Australia Full 70 Africa consolidation consolidation Évolution Optical South Full 51 Humanware Australia Australia Full 63 Africa consolidation consolidation Shamir Optispeed South Equity method 25 Precision Optics PTY LTD Australia Full 100 Africa consolidation Spherical Optics (Pty) Ltd. South Full 100 Prescription Safety Glasses Australia Full 100 Africa consolidation Pty Ltd consolidation Vision & Value South Full 80 Shamir Australia (Pty) Ltd. Australia Full 50 Africa consolidation consolidation BBGR GmbH Germany Full 100 Sunix Computer Consultants Australia Full 100 consolidation Pty Ltd consolidation Essilor GmbH Germany Full 100 Tasmanian Optical Cy Pty LTD Australia Full 100 consolidation consolidation Inﬁeld Safety GmbH Germany Full 100 Transitions Optical Party Ltd Australia Full 100 consolidation consolidation Neckarsee GmbH Germany Full 100 Wallace Everett Lens Technology Australia Full 66 consolidation consolidation Nika Optics Germany Full 100 Essilor Austria GmbH Austria Full 100 consolidation consolidation Rupp & Hubrach Optik GmbH Germany Full 100 De Ceynunck & Co. N.V. Belgium Full 100 consolidation consolidation Satisloh GmbH Germany Full 100 Essilor Belgium S.A. Belgium Full 100 consolidation consolidation Shamir Optic GmbH Germany Full 50 Brasilor Participacoes Sc Ltda. Brazil Full 100 consolidation consolidation Signet Armorlite Germany Germany Full 100 Brazil 2.5 New Vision Generation Brazil Full 100 Holding GmbH consolidation consolidation Signet Armorlite Optic Germany Full 100 Canto e Mello Brazil Full 70 consolidation consolidation Essilor Saudi Arabia Limited Saudi Full 50 Ceditop Brazil Full 70 Arabia consolidation consolidation AR Coating S.A. Argentina Full 96 Comopticos Brazil Full 70 consolidation consolidation Essilor Argentine S.A. Argentina Full 100 Comprol Brazil Full 51 consolidation consolidation Optovision S.A. Argentina Full 51 Digitop Brazil Full 70 consolidation consolidation City Optical Pty Ltd. Australia Full 100 Embrapol Sul Brazil Full 73 consolidation consolidation Coastal Contacts (Aus) Pty Ltd Australia Full 100 Essilor Da Amazonia Industria e Brazil Full 100 consolidation Commercio Ltda. consolidation Essilor Australia Pty Ltd. Australia Full 100 Farol Brazil Full 70 consolidation consolidation Essilor Laboratory South Australia Full 100 GBO Brazil Full 76 Australia Pty Ltd. consolidation consolidation 156 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS Consolidation % Consolidation % Company Country method interest Company Country method interest Grown Brazil Full 51 Cascade Optical Ltd Canada Full 60 consolidation consolidation Mult Block Brazil Full 51 Clearlen Systems Inc Canada Full 61 consolidation consolidation Mult Laboptical Brazil Full 51 Clearly Contacts Ltd Canada Full 100 consolidation consolidation Multi Optica Distribuidora Ltda. Brazil Full 100 CPS 360 Optical LTD Canada Full 50 consolidation consolidation Optiminas Brazil Full 70 Custom Surface Ltd. Canada Full 100 consolidation consolidation Orgalent Brazil Full 51 Eastern Optical Laboratories Ltd. Canada Full 100 consolidation consolidation PSA Nilo Brazil Full 51 Econo Optics Canada Full 60 consolidation consolidation Repro Brazil Full 70 Essilor Canada Ltd. Canada Full 100 consolidation consolidation Riachuelo Brazil Full 70 FGX Canada Corp Canada Full 100 consolidation consolidation Satisloh do Brasil Brazil Full 100 Fundy Vision Optical Laboratory Canada Full 80 Shamir Brasil Commercial LTDA Brazil consolidation Full consolidation 50 Inc Groupe Vision Optique Canada consolidation Full consolidation 100 3 Starclic Indústria e Comércio Brazil Full 25 Imperial Laboratories Inc. Canada Full 60 Ótico Ltda. consolidation consolidation Styll Brazil Full 51 K & W Optical Ltd. Canada Full 100 consolidation consolidation Sudop Industria Optica Ltda. Brazil Full 100 Laboratoire d’Optique de Hull Canada Full 100 consolidation Inc consolidation Technopark Comercio de Brazil Full 51 Laboratoire d’Optique SDL Inc Canada Full 97 Artigos Opticos S.A consolidation consolidation Tecnolens Brazil Full 71 Metro Optical Ltd. Canada Full 100 consolidation consolidation Transitions Do Brasil Brazil Full 100 Morrison Optical Canada Full 100 consolidation consolidation Unilab Brazil Full 75 Naked Eye Enterprises Inc. Canada Full 100 consolidation consolidation YTT Holding Brazil Full 51 Nikon Optical Canada Inc. Canada Full 50 consolidation consolidation Essilor Cambodia Cambodia Full 51 OMICS Software Inc Canada Full 100 consolidation consolidation Codi Sivo Cameroon Full 28 OPSG Ltd. Canada Full 100 consolidation consolidation Active Vision Lab Inc Canada Full 61 Optique Cristal Inc Canada Full 70 consolidation consolidation AN Optical Lab Inc Canada Full 31 Optique de l’Estrie Inc. Canada Full 100 consolidation consolidation Aries Optical Ltd. Canada Full 100 Perspectics Canada Full 100 consolidation consolidation BBGR Optique Canada Inc. Canada Full 100 Pioneer Optical Inc. Canada Full 100 consolidation consolidation Benson Edwards Optica Limited Canada Full 50 Pro Optic Canada Inc. Canada Full 100 consolidation consolidation Bugaboos Eyewear Corporation Canada Full 100 Purelab DLP INC Canada Full 25 consolidation consolidation Canoptec Inc. Canada Full 100 R & R Optical Laboratory Ltd. Canada Full 100 consolidation consolidation Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 157 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Consolidation % Consolidation % Company Country method interest Company Country method interest Riverside Opticalab & Canada Full 61 Xiamen Yarui Optical Company Ltd China Full 50 Subidiaries consolidation consolidation SDL Canada Full 90 Youli Optics Co Ltd China Full 51 consolidation consolidation Shamir Canada Canada Full 50 Essilor Colombia Colombia Full 100 consolidation consolidation Signet Armorlite Canada, Inc Canada Full 100 Ivortest Colombia Full 100 consolidation consolidation Stylemark Canada Canada Full 100 Servioptica Colombia Full 51 consolidation consolidation Suntech Canada Full 100 Signet Armorlite Columbia SA Colombia Full 96 consolidation consolidation Superlab Canada Full 61 Chemiglas South Full 50 consolidation Korea consolidation Technologies Humanware Canada Full 63 Dekovision South Full 50 consolidation Korea consolidation UTMC Canada Full 61 Essilor Korea South Full 50 consolidation Korea consolidation Westlab Canada Full 100 Incheon Optics South Full 40 consolidation Korea consolidation Megalux Chile Full 51 Onbitt South Full 51 consolidation Korea consolidation Chemilens Co. Ltd China Full 50 Laboratoires Sivo Abidjan Côte Full 50 consolidation d’Ivoire consolidation Danyang China Full 80 Essilor Optika doo Croatia Full 100 consolidation consolidation Essilor China Holding Co Ltd China Full 100 Essilor Danmark A.S. Denmark Full 100 consolidation consolidation Eye Buy Direct China China Full 61 Essilor Amico L.L.C. United Full 50 consolidation Arab consolidation FGX International Limited China China Full 100 Emirates consolidation Essilor Amico Middle East FZCO United Full 50 Nikon Beijing Co. Ltd China Full 50 Arab consolidation consolidation Emirates Ping Ding Shan Fangyuan Vision China Full 51 Essilor Middle East Limited United Full 100 Optical Technology Co Ltd. consolidation Arab consolidation Emirates Satisloh Trading Shenzen China Full 100 consolidation Ghanada United Full 40 Arab consolidation Satisloh Zhongshan China Full 100 Emirates consolidation GKB Emirates United Full 50 Seeworld Optical Co. China Full 51 Arab consolidation consolidation Emirates Shamir Optical (Shanghai Co. Ltd) China Full 50 Osme United Full 100 consolidation Arab consolidation Shanghaï Essilor Optical Co. China Full 100 Emirates Ltd. consolidation BBGR Lens Iberia S.A. Spain Full 100 Shanghai Global Lens China Full 100 consolidation Distribution consolidation Essilor Espana S.A. Spain Full 100 Shanghaï NVG Optical China Full 100 consolidation consolidation Essilor Optica International Spain Full 100 Tian Hong China Full 50 Holding S.L consolidation consolidation Satisloh Iberica Spain Full 100 Wanxin China Full 50 consolidation consolidation Shamir Optical Espana, SL Spain Full 50 Xiamen Artgri Optical Company Ltd China Full 50 consolidation consolidation 158 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS Consolidation % Consolidation % Company Country method interest Company Country method interest Signet Armorlite Iberica Spain Full 100 Encore L.L.C. United Full 50 consolidation States consolidation 21st Century Optics Inc. United Full 100 Epics Labs Inc United Full 80 States consolidation States consolidation Accu Rx Inc United Full 95 Essilor Laboratories of America United Full 100 States consolidation Corporation States consolidation Advance Optical United Full 95 Essilor Laboratories of America United Full 100 States consolidation Holding Co Inc. States consolidation AG Opticals Inc United Full 100 Essilor Laboratories of America, United Full 100 States consolidation Inc (inclus Laboratoires US) States consolidation Apex Optical Company Inc. United Full 100 Essilor Laboratories of United Full 100 States consolidation America, LP (inclus Avisia, States consolidation Balester Optical United Full 100 Omega, Duffens) States consolidation Essilor Latin America & United Full 100 Barnett & Ramel Optical Co. United Full 100 Caribbean Inc. States consolidation of Nebr. States consolidation Essilor of America Holding Co United Full 100 Bazell United Full 70 Inc. States consolidation States consolidation Essilor of America Inc. United Full 100 Beitler Mc Kee Company United Full 90 States consolidation Blue Optics States United States consolidation Full consolidation 80 Essilor VSP Holding Co.Inc Eye Buy Direct US United States United Full consolidation Full 100 61 3 BSA Industries United Full 100 States consolidation States consolidation Eye Care Express Lab Inc United Full 98 Bugaboos Eyewear Inc. United Full 100 States consolidation States consolidation Eyewear L.L.C. United Full 61 Carskadden Optical United Full 100 States consolidation States consolidation FGX Direct L.L.C. United Full 100 Central Optical United Full 60 States consolidation States consolidation FGX International Holdings United Full 100 Classic Optical United Full 95 Limited States consolidation States consolidation FGX International II Limited United Full 100 Coastal Vision (US), Inc. United Full 100 States consolidation States consolidation FGX International, Inc United Full 100 Collard Rose United Full 95 States consolidation States consolidation Focus Optical Labs, Inc United Full 90 Cordless Network Service United Full 80 States consolidation (Frame Displays) States consolidation Frames For America United Full 43 Costa Inc. United Full 100 States consolidation States consolidation Future Optics FL Inc United Full 92 Custom Optical United Full 100 States consolidation States consolidation Future Optics TE Inc United Full 100 Dac Vision Inc United Full 100 States consolidation States consolidation Gentex Optics Inc. United Full 100 Deschutes United Full 80 States consolidation States consolidation Gulfstates Optical Laboratories United Full 80 Dibok_Aspen Optical United Full 100 Inc. States consolidation States consolidation Hawkins Optical Laboratories United Full 100 Dioptics Medical Products United Full 100 Inc States consolidation States consolidation Hirsch Optical United Full 100 ELOA California Acquisition Corp. United Full 100 States consolidation States consolidation Homer Optical United Full 100 E-Magine Optical United Full 80 States consolidation States consolidation Humanware USA United Full 63 Empire United Full 100 States consolidation States consolidation I-Coat Company, L.L.C. United Full 85 States consolidation Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 159 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Consolidation % Consolidation % Company Country method interest Company Country method interest Interstate Optical United Full 80 Polyvision INC United Full 50 States consolidation States consolidation Jorgenson Optical Supply Cy. United Full 95 Precision Optical Co. United Full 80 States consolidation (Connecticut) States consolidation Just Eyewear L.L.C. United Full 100 Precision Optical Lab. United Full 95 States consolidation (Tennessee) States consolidation Katz & Klein United Full 100 Premier Optics Corp United Full 90 States consolidation States consolidation Lenstech Optical Lab Inc. United Full 80 Prodigy United Full 100 States consolidation States consolidation Mc Leod Optical Company Inc. United Full 52 Professional Opthalmic Lab United Full 80 States consolidation States consolidation MGM United Full 90 RD Cherry United Full 80 States consolidation States consolidation MOC Acquisition Corporation United Full 84 Rooney Optical Inc. United Full 100 States consolidation States consolidation Nassau Lens Co Inc. United Full 100 Rooney Optical of Pennsyvania, United Full 100 States consolidation L.L.C. States consolidation NEA Optical L.L.C. United Full 80 Satisloh North America United Full 100 States consolidation States consolidation Next generation United Full 100 Shamir Insight, Inc. United Full 50 States consolidation States consolidation Nikon Optical US United Full 50 Shamir USA United Full 50 States consolidation States consolidation NOA United Full 100 Signet Armorlite Inc United Full 100 States consolidation States consolidation OOGP United Full 100 Signet Armorlite USA United Full 100 States consolidation States consolidation Opt. Lab. Software Solutions United Full 100 Skaggs and Gruber, Ltd d.b.a United Full 80 States consolidation Trucker Meadows States consolidation Optical One United Full 80 Southwest lens United Full 65 States consolidation States consolidation Optical Suppliers Inc. (Hawaï) United Full 90 Speciality Lens Corp. United Full 100 States consolidation States consolidation Optical Venture Inc United Full 80 Stereo Optical Co. Inc. United Full 100 States consolidation States consolidation Optics East United Full 100 Stylemark United Full 100 States consolidation States consolidation Optimatrix United Full 100 SunStar Inc. United Full 80 States consolidation States consolidation Optisource International Inc. United Full 90 Sutherlin Optical Company United Full 100 States consolidation States consolidation Ozarks Optical Laboratories United Full 80 Transitions Optical Inc United Full 100 States consolidation States consolidation Pasch Optical Laboratory Inc. United Full 40 Tri Supreme Optical L.L.C. United Full 100 States consolidation States consolidation Pech Optical United Full 100 Ultimate Optical Lab United Full 100 States consolidation States consolidation Peninsula Optical Lab. United Full 80 VIP Optical United Full 100 States consolidation States consolidation Perferx Optical Co Inc United Full 94 Vision Web United Equity method 44 States consolidation States Personnal Eyes United Full 100 Vision-Craft Inc. United Full 100 States consolidation States consolidation Plunkett Optical Inc. United Full 80 Winchester Optical Company United Full 80 States consolidation States consolidation 160 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS Consolidation % Consolidation % Company Country method interest Company Country method interest X-Cell United Full 80 ASE Corporate Eyecare United Full 70 States consolidation Kingdom consolidation Essilor OY Finland Full 100 BBGR United Kingdom United Full 100 consolidation Kingdom consolidation Lensway OY Finland Full 100 Crossbows Optical Ltd United Full 100 consolidation Kingdom consolidation Activ Screen France Full 68 Essilor European Shared United Full 100 consolidation Service Center Ltd. Kingdom consolidation Activisu France Full 68 Essilor Ltd United Full 100 consolidation Kingdom consolidation BBGR France Full 100 FGX Europe Limited United Full 100 consolidation Kingdom consolidation BNL Eurolens France Full 100 Horizon Optical Company Ltd. United Full 100 consolidation Kingdom consolidation BNL Polyofta France Full 100 Humanware Europe United Full 63 consolidation Kingdom consolidation Dac Vision SAS France Full 100 Inﬁeld safety UK, Ltd. United Full 100 consolidation Kingdom consolidation Delamare Sovra France Full 100 Leicester United Full 80 Domlens France consolidation Full consolidation 65 Nikon Optical UK Kingdom United Kingdom consolidation Full consolidation 50 3 Essidev France Full 100 Shamir UK Limited United Full 50 consolidation Kingdom consolidation Essiholding France Full 100 Sight Station Ltd United Full 100 consolidation Kingdom consolidation Essor France Full 50 Signet Armorlite Europe Ltd United Full 100 consolidation Kingdom consolidation FGX Holding SASU France Full 100 Sinclair Optical Laboratories United Full 100 consolidation Kingdom consolidation Fred Management (Holding) France Full 100 United Optical Laboratories United Full 100 consolidation Kingdom consolidation Interactif Visual System France Full 68 Wholesale Lens Corporation United Full 100 consolidation Limited Kingdom consolidation Invoptic France Full 100 Dac Vision HK Hong Kong Full 100 consolidation consolidation IVS Technical Center France Full 68 Essilor Hong Kong Hong Kong Full 100 consolidation consolidation Mega Optic Design France Full 75 Eye Buy Direct HK Hong Kong Full 61 consolidation consolidation Mont-Royal France Full 100 Foster Grant Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Full 100 consolidation consolidation Novacel Ophtalmique France Full 75 Polycore Optical (HK) Ltd Hong Kong Full 50 consolidation consolidation Novisia France Full 100 Polylite Hong Kong Hong Kong Full 51 consolidation consolidation Omi France Full 100 Satisloh Asia and Trading Ltd Hong Kong Full 100 consolidation consolidation Optim France Full 100 Essilor Optika Kft Hungary Full 100 consolidation consolidation Satisloh SAS France Full 100 20 20 Optics India Full 70 consolidation consolidation Shamir France SARL France Full 50 Beauty Glass Pvt Ltd. India Full 88 consolidation consolidation Tikai Vision (ex-Barbara) France Full 100 Deepak Lens Pvt Ltd India Full 60 consolidation consolidation Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 161 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Consolidation % Consolidation % Company Country method interest Company Country method interest Delta CNC India Full 39 Shamir Holding Optical Israel Full 50 consolidation consolidation Delta Lens Pvt Ltd India Full 51 Shamir Israel Optical Marketing Israel Full 50 consolidation Ltd. consolidation Enterprise Ophtalmics Pvt Ltd India Full 50 Shamir Optical Industry Israel Full 50 consolidation consolidation Essilor India Pvt Ltd (ex-Esssilor India Full 100 Shamir Or Ltd. Israel Full 50 SRF Optics Ltd) consolidation consolidation Essilor Lens & Specs India Full 60 Shamir Special Optical Israel Full 50 consolidation Products Ltd. consolidation Essilor Manufacturing India India Full 100 Essilor Italia S.p.A. Italy Full 100 Pvt Ltd (ex-Indian Ophtalmic consolidation consolidation Lenses Manuf.) Inﬁeld Safety Italia, S.R.L. Italy Full 100 GKB Hi Tech India Full 50 consolidation consolidation Intercast Europe S.R.L. Italy Full 100 GKB Optic Tech Private Ltd India Full 51 consolidation consolidation LTL S.p.A. Italy Full 100 GKB Rx Lens Private Ltd. India Full 76 consolidation consolidation Oftalmika Galileo S.p.A. Italy Full 100 India New Vision Generation India Full 100 consolidation Pvt Ltd consolidation Optilens Italia S.R.L. Italy Full 100 Optics India Equipment Pvt Ltd India Full 50 consolidation consolidation Polinelli S.R.L. Italy Full 100 OSD Optics India Full 100 consolidation consolidation Satisloh Italy S.p.A. Italy Full 100 Sankar India Full 70 consolidation consolidation Shamir RX Italia S.R.L. Italy Full 50 Transitions Optical India India Full 100 consolidation consolidation Aichi Nikon Co. Ltd. Japan Full 50 Vijay Vision Pvt Ltd. India Full 88 consolidation consolidation Coastal Japan Kabushikigaisha 2 Japan Full 100 P.T Optical Support of Indonesia Indonesia Full 70 consolidation consolidation Nasu Nikon Co. Ltd. Japan Full 50 P.T. Essilor Indonesia Indonesia Full 100 consolidation consolidation Nikon – Essilor Co. Ltd Japan Full 50 P.T. Polyvisi Rama Optik Indonesia Full 49 consolidation consolidation Nikon and Essilor International Japan Equity method 50 P.T. Supravisi Rama Optik Indonesia Full 49 Joint Research Center Co Ltd Manufacturing consolidation Transitions Optical Japan Japan Full 100 Athlone Ireland Full 100 consolidation consolidation Essilor Amico Kuwait Kuwait Full 50 Essilor Ireland (Sales) Ltd Ireland Full 100 consolidation consolidation Essilor Lao Co Ltd Laos Full 100 Organic Lens Manufacturing Ireland Full 100 consolidation (succursale) consolidation Impasoles Luxembourg Full 100 Transitions Optical Ltd Ireland Full 100 consolidation consolidation Essilor Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia Full 100 Essilor Israel Holding Israel Full 100 consolidation consolidation Frames and Lenses Malaysia Full 90 Essilor Israel Laboratories Ltd Israel Full 50 consolidation (Optiplas) consolidation ILT Malaysia Malaysia Full 81 Inray Ltd. Israel Full 50 consolidation consolidation Polycore Optical (Malaysia) Sdn Malaysia Full 50 Shamir Eyal Ltd. Israel Full 50 Bhd consolidation consolidation Essilor Management North and Morocco Full 100 West Africa consolidation 162 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS Consolidation % Consolidation % Company Country method interest Company Country method interest L’N Optics Morocco Full 51 Transitions Optical Holding B.V. Netherlands Full 100 consolidation consolidation Optiben Morocco Full 80 Epodi Philippines Full 51 consolidation consolidation Sivom Morocco Full 28 Essilor Manufacturing Philippines Full 100 consolidation Philippines Inc. consolidation VST Lab Morocco Full 80 Optodev Philippines Full 100 consolidation consolidation Aai Joske’s S de RL de CV Mexico Full 100 Transitions Optical Philipinnes Philippines Full 100 consolidation consolidation Centro Integral Optico S.A de C.V Mexico Full 26 Essilor Optical laboratory Poland Full 100 consolidation Polska Sp. z o.o. consolidation Cristal y Plastico SA de CV Mexico Full 51 Essilor Polonia Poland Full 100 consolidation consolidation Essilor Mexico Mexico Full 100 JZO Poland Full 98 consolidation consolidation Shalens S.A C.V Mexico Full 26 Shamir Polska Sp. z o.o. Poland Full 50 consolidation consolidation Signet Armorlite de Mexico, SA Mexico Full 99 Rainbow Optical Puerto Rico Full 100 et CV Soﬁ de Chihuahua Mexico consolidation Full consolidation 100 Essilor Portugal Portugal consolidation Full consolidation 100 3 Essilor Norge A.S. Norway Full 100 Shamir Portugal, LDA Portugal Full 50 consolidation consolidation Sentralslip Norway Full 100 Signet Armorlite Portugal – Portugal Full 100 consolidation Unipessoal, LDA consolidation Essilor Laboratories New New Full 100 Amico Qatar Qatar Full 49 Zealand Ltd. (ex-OHL Lenses Ltd) Zealand consolidation consolidation Essilor New Zealand Ltd. New Full 100 Essilor Optika Spol S.R.O. Czech Full 100 Zealand consolidation Republic consolidation Optical Laboratories New Full 100 Omega Optrix S.R.O (Tchéquie) Czech Full 100 Zealand consolidation Republic consolidation Prolab New Full 100 Opti Express Dominican Full 51 Zealand consolidation Republic consolidation B.V. Nederlandse Optische Netherlands Full 50 Sivo Togo Togolese Full 28 Industrie E.N.O.T. consolidation Republic consolidation Condis B.V. Netherlands Full 100 Essilor Romania S.R.L. Romania Full 100 consolidation consolidation Essilor Nederland B.V. Netherlands Full 100 Company Grandvision L.L.C. Russia Full 75 consolidation consolidation Essilor Nederland Holding B.V. Netherlands Full 100 Essilor Optika OOO Russia Full 100 consolidation consolidation Holland Optical Corp. B.V. Netherlands Full 100 Luis Optica Russia Full 80 consolidation consolidation Holland Optical Instruments B.V.Netherlands Full 100 Moc BBGR Russia Full 51 consolidation consolidation Lensway B.V. Netherlands Full 100 Shamir Russia L.L.C. Russia Full 50 consolidation consolidation Lotus Flower Holding B.V. Netherlands Full 75 Artgri Group International Pte Ltd Singapore Full 50 consolidation consolidation O’max Instruments B.V. Netherlands Full 100 Asianzakka PTY Singapore Full 100 consolidation consolidation Shamir Nederland B.V Netherlands Full 50 Essilor AMERA Pte Ltd. Singapore Full 100 consolidation consolidation Signet Armorlite (Holland) B.V. Netherlands Full 100 Essilor Philippines Holding Singapore Full 51 consolidation consolidation Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 163 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Consolidation % Consolidation % Company Country method interest Company Country method interest ETC South East Asia Pte Ltd. Singapore Full 70 Satisloh AG Switzerland Full 100 consolidation consolidation ILT To Latin america Singapore Full 51 Satisloh Holding AG Switzerland Full 100 consolidation consolidation Integrated Lens Technology Singapore Full 100 Satisloh Photonics AG Switzerland Full 100 consolidation consolidation Kaleido Vision Pte Ltd Singapore Full 100 Vaco Holding S.A. Switzerland Full 100 (ex-Unique Ophtalmic) consolidation consolidation OSA Investments Holdings Pte Ltd Singapore Full 100 Polylite Taiwan Optilab Taiwan Full 51 consolidation consolidation Polilyte Asia Paciﬁc Pte Ltd Singapore Full 51 SHIH Heng Optical Taïwan Taiwan Full 70 consolidation Branch consolidation Polycore Optical (SG) Pte Ltd Singapore Full 50 SMJ Holding Pte Ltd Taiwan Taiwan Full 70 consolidation Branch consolidation Seeworld Holding Pte Ltd Singapore Full 51 Trend Optical Taiwan Branch Taiwan Full 70 consolidation consolidation Shamir Asia Pte. Ltd. Singapore Full 50 Essilor Distribution Thailand Thailand Full 100 consolidation Co. Ltd. consolidation Shamir Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore Full 50 Essilor Manufacturing Thailand Full 100 consolidation (Thaïland) Co Ltd. consolidation Signet Armorlite Asia Singapore Full 100 Essilor Optical Laboratory Thailand Full 100 (ex-Visitech) consolidation Thailande consolidation SMJ Holding Pte Ltd Singapore Full 70 Eyebiz Laboratory Co Ltd Thailand Full 70 consolidation consolidation Transitions Optical Singapore Singapore Full 100 K-T Optic CO., Ltd Thailand Full 24 consolidation consolidation Trend Optical Singapore Singapore Full 70 ShamirLens Thailand Co., Ltd Thailand Full 24 consolidation consolidation Essilor Slovakia Slovakia Full 100 Solarlens Thailand Full 100 consolidation consolidation Omega Optrix S.R.O (Slovaquie) Slovakia Full 100 Transitions Optical Thailand Ltd Thailand Full 100 consolidation consolidation Essilor D.O.O Slovenia Slovenia Full 100 Essilor Sivo Tunisia Full 55 consolidation consolidation Global Lens Lanka Sri Lanka Full 50 Sicom Tunisia Full 55 consolidation consolidation BBGR Skandinaviska Sweden Full 100 Altra Optik Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S Turkey Full 50 consolidation consolidation Essilor AB Sweden Full 100 Esel Optik Turkey Full 51 consolidation consolidation Eyeway AB Sweden Full 100 Essilor Management Turkey Turkey Full 100 consolidation consolidation Lensco AB Sweden Full 100 Ipek Turkey Full 70 consolidation consolidation Lenshold AB Sweden Full 100 Isbir Turkey Full 73 consolidation consolidation Lenslogistics AB Sweden Full 100 Opak Turkey Full 51 consolidation consolidation Essilor (Suisse) S.A. Switzerland Full 100 Yeda Tora Turkey Full 70 consolidation consolidation Reize Switzerland Full 65 Chemilens Vietnam Vietnam Full 50 consolidation consolidation 164 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.5 Statutory Auditors’ Report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS 3.5 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended December 31, 2014 To the Shareholders, In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your • the speciﬁc veriﬁcation required by law. General Meeting, we hereby report to you, for the year ended These consolidated financial statements have been approved December 31, 2014, on: by the Board of Directors. Our role is to express an opinion on • the audit of the accompanying consolidated financial these consolidated ﬁnancial statements based on our audit. statements of Essilor International; • the justiﬁcation of our assessments; I. Opinion on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. Those standards require that In our opinion, the consolidated ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial 3 we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance position of the Group at December 31, 2014 and of the results about whether the consolidated ﬁnancial statements are free of of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures, International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the using sampling techniques or other methods of selection, to European Union. obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in Without qualifying our opinion, we draw your attention to the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes Notes 1.12, 2.2 and 2.3 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and which describe the impact on the balance sheet and the income the reasonableness of accounting estimates made, as well as the statement of the acquisition, on April 1, 2014, of a 51% ownership overall presentation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. We stake in Transitions Optical. believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. II. Justiﬁcation of our assessments In accordance with the requirements of Article L.823-9 of the and assumptions used to carry out these impairment tests and French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the we veriﬁed that Note 12 provides appropriate disclosures. justiﬁcation of our assessments, we bring to your attention the These assessments were made as part of our audit of the following matters: consolidated ﬁnancial statements taken as a whole, and therefore • Goodwill is tested for impairment in accordance with contributed to the opinion we formed which is expressed in the the accounting principles described in Note 1.20 to the ﬁrst part of this report. consolidated ﬁnancial statements. We reviewed the methods III. Speciﬁc veriﬁcation As required by law and in accordance with professional standards We have no matters to report as to its fair presentation and its applicable in France, we have also verified the information consistency with the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. presented in the Group’s management Report. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Courbevoie, March 2, 2015 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Mazars Christine Bouvry Daniel Escudeiro Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 165 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.6 Fees paid to the Auditors and the members of their networks 3.6 FEES PAID TO THE AUDITORS AND THE MEMBERS OF THEIR NETWORKS Fiscal years covered: 2014 and 2013. PricewaterhouseCoopers Mazars Amount (net of VAT) As a % Amount (net of VAT) As a % Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal € thousands except percentages year 2014 year 2013 year 2014 year 2013 year 2014 year 2013 year 2014 year 2013 AUDIT Statutory Auditors, certiﬁcation, review of separate and consolidated ﬁnancial statements: • parent company 447 447 9% 10% 282 282 8% 10% • fully consolidated subsidiaries 2,638 2,318 54% 52% 2,476 2,017 69% 71% Other audit-related services: • parent company 726 922 15% 21% 358 162 10% 6% • fully consolidated subsidiaries 563 611 12% 14% 413 314 12% 11% SUB-TOTAL 4,373 4,298 90% 97% 3,528 2,775 99% 97% OTHER SERVICES PROVIDED TO CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Legal and tax advice 477 128 10% 3% 26 49 1% 2% Other 0 0 0% 0% 10 32 0% 1% SUB-TOTAL 477 128 10% 3% 36 82 1% 3% TOTAL 4,850 4,426 100% 100% 3,564 2,857 100% 100% The other work and services directly linked to the duties of the Statutory Auditor correspond principally to the work conducted within the context of acquisition transactions of companies to be included in the scope of consolidation. 166 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.7 Annual Financial Statements of Essilor International STATEMENTS 3.7 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ESSILOR INTERNATIONAL The 2014 annual ﬁnancial statements include the income statement, balance sheet, cash ﬂow statement and notes, presented below. The Statutory Auditors’ Report on the 2014 annual ﬁnancial statements is presented in Section 3.9 of this Registration Document. 3.7.1 Key figures at December 31, 2014 € thousands, except per share data which is in € 2014 2013 Income statement Revenue 830,421 800,847 Operating results 78,938 103,583 Proﬁt before non-operating items and tax 388,404 339,269 Net proﬁt 693,536 326,184 Balance sheet 3 Share capital 38,861 38,646 Equity 2,925,345 2,366,655 Net debt 2,182,434 456,519 Non-current assets, net 5,243,411 2,837,898 TOTAL ASSETS 6,183,646 3,857,618 Net dividend per ordinary share (€) 1.02 (a) 0.94 (a) Subject to the decision of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 5, 2015. Essilor International’s revenue outside of the Puerto Rico branch The net non-operating income is up €316.9 million compared to increased by 4.7% compared to 2013. Sales of corrective lenses in 2013, which is due to impairment losses on property, plant and France were up by 2.6%, led by a strong increase in internal ﬂows equipment and intangible assets as well as two particular events: within the Group. They were up 11.4% in the export market. Sales of instruments were down 5.1% in France and were up 4.5% in the • sale of 29% of the Transitions Optical Inc. securities to Essilor of America Holding with a net capital gain of €337.2 million; export market. The Puerto Rico branch recorded a slowdown in business reﬂected by a drop in revenue of 26.9%. • the recognition of a non-recurrent charge relating to the contribution of €14.9 million to the Essilor Social Impact fund. Despite an increase in activity, the operating results show a decrease of €24.6 million compared to 2013. This change is mainly The tax income recognized in the financial statements for the a result of the internationalization of the “Corporate” functions, an ﬁscal year 2014 amounted to €0.3 million. This amount reﬂects increase in the cost of performance share plans and an increase a number of factors: in consumer marketing expenses. • the impact of a full tax rate and reduced tax rate on taxable Financial income totaled €309.5 million, up 31.3% compared to income; 2013. This change is mainly due to an increase in: • tax income corresponding to the tax credits applicable • dividends received of €38.7 million (particularly from the share (especially the research tax credit), and to the tax savings from fiscal consolidation (the Company posting negative taxable in the subsidiaries Transitions Optical Ltd and Transitions Optical Holding B.V.); income on its earnings taxable at the ordinary rate). • net ﬁnancial income on loans and borrowings including loans Net profit totaled €693.5 million, up 112.6% compared to the previous ﬁscal year. of €31.4 million to subsidiaries. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 167 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.7 Annual Financial Statements of Essilor International 3.7.2 Income statement at December 31, 2014 € thousands Notes 2014 2013 Revenue 2 830,421 800,847 Production transferred to inventory 2,023 -5,127 Production of assets for own use 4,397 5,348 Reversals of depreciation, amortization and provisions 13 88,851 69,753 Other income 3 261,738 255,727 TOTAL OPERATING PROFIT 1,187,430 1,126,547 Purchases of materials and change in inventories 417,127 391,745 Other external purchases and expenses 4 227,832 205,307 Taxes and duties 30,598 27,800 Personnel expenses 16 365,754 336,223 Depreciation, amortization and provisions, net 59,055 56,369 Other expenses 13 8,127 5,519 TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES 1,108,492 1,022,964 OPERATING RESULTS 78,938 103,583 Financial income 5 309,466 235,685 PROFIT BEFORE NON-OPERATING ITEMS AND TAX 388,404 339,269 Non-operating income (expense), net 6 304,863 -12,019 Income tax expense 7 -268 1,066 NET PROFIT 693,536 326,184 168 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.7 Annual Financial Statements of Essilor International STATEMENTS 3.7.3 Balance sheet as at December 31, 2014 Assets 2014 2013 Amortizations € thousands Notes Gross amount Provisions Net amount Net amount Intangible assets 8 142,526 110,283 32,243 49,613 Tangible assets 9 375,298 261,530 113,768 123,262 Investments and other non-current assets 10 5,162,868 65,470 5,097,399 2,665,023 LONG-TERM FINANCIAL ASSETS 5,680,693 437,282 5,243,411 2,837,898 Inventories 11.1 72,884 18,476 54,409 52,613 Prepayments on orders 11.2 1,279 8 1,271 2,066 Trade receivables 11.2 304,669 4,341 300,327 282,815 Other receivables 11.2 411,154 3,941 407,213 274,263 Marketable securities 11.3 129,761 129,761 374,888 Cash 22,998 22,998 10,905 CURRENT ASSETS 942,746 26,766 915,979 997,549 Bond premium redemption Prepaid expenses 11.4 3,560 16,937 3,560 16,937 16,174 3 Conversion losses 3,759 3,759 5,998 OVERALL TOTAL 6,647,695 464,048 6,183,646 3,857,618 Liabilities € thousands Notes 2014 2013 Share capital 12.1 38,861 38,646 Issue, merger and transfer premiums 360,451 302,160 Legal reserve 3,879 3,879 Other reserves 1,776,408 1,646,408 Retained earnings 14,054 15,601 Net proﬁt 693,536 326,184 Investment grants 75 95 Untaxed provisions 37,842 36,042 Translation reserve 1.12 239 -2,361 EQUITY 12.2 2,925,345 2,366,655 PROVISIONS FOR CONTINGENCIES AND CHARGES 13.1 149,842 114,220 Other bonds 14.1 1,474,367 583,294 Borrowings and advances from credit institutions (including Group subsidiary current accounts) 14.1 815,119 229,081 Other ﬁnancial debt 14.1 45,706 29,937 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 14 2,335,192 842,312 Trade payables 14.2 165,919 136,007 Accrued taxes and personnel expenses 14.2 103,675 96,422 Other liabilities 14.2 501,243 301,033 OPERATING AND OTHER LIABILITIES 770,838 533,461 Deferred income 170 129 Conversion gains 2,259 841 OVERALL TOTAL 6,183,646 3,857,618 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 169 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.7 Annual Financial Statements of Essilor International 3.7.4 Cash flow statement at December 31, 2014 € thousands 2014 2013 Net proﬁt for the ﬁscal year 693,536 326,184 Elimination of non-cash items -242,143 68,780 Cash ﬂow 451,392 394,964 Change in working capital (a) 95,411 -142,025 NET FLOWS FROM TRANSACTIONS 546,803 252,939 Purchases of property, plant and equipment -17,720 -37,761 Acquisition of shares in subsidiaries and affiliates and other investments -920,899 -131,610 New loans extended -4,372,544 -939,604 Proceeds from disposals of ﬁxed assets 342,679 -12,692 Repayment of long-term loans and advances 2,857,003 871,407 NET FLOW ASSIGNED TO INVESTMENTS -2,111,480 -250,260 Issue of share capital 61,106 67,291 Purchases and sales of treasury stock -16,869 -64,480 Dividends paid -197,731 -185,339 Increase / decrease in borrowings 1,492,631 314,289 NET FLOWS FROM FINANCING TRANSACTIONS 1,339,137 131,761 Change in cash and cash equivalents -225,540 134,440 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 371,180 236,740 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 145,640 371,180 (a) Changes in working capital are as follows: € thousands 2014 2013 Change Prepayments to suppliers 1,271 2,066 795 Inventories 54,409 52,613 -1,796 Operating receivables 325,475 305,118 -20,357 Other receivables 382,066 251,381 -130,685 Accrued interest on loans and dividends receivable 3,027 1,962 -1,065 Operating liabilities -372,825 -322,355 50,470 Other liabilities -398,013 -210,528 187,485 Accrued interest -10,034 -2,405 7,629 Accruals and conversion gains and losses 18,267 21,202 2,935 TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL 3,643 99,054 95,411 Cash and cash equivalents correspond to cash and short-term deposits, less short-term bank loans and overdrafts. 170 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements STATEMENTS 3.8 NOTES TO THE 2014 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1. Accounting principles 172 NOTE 2. Revenue 177 NOTE 3. Other income 178 NOTE 4. Other external purchases and expenses 178 NOTE 5. Financial income 178 NOTE 6. Non-operating income (expense), net 179 NOTE 7. Income tax 179 NOTE 8. Intangible assets 181 NOTE 9. Property, plant and equipment 182 NOTE 10. NOTE 11. Financial assets Current assets 183 184 3 NOTE 12. Shareholders’ equity 186 NOTE 13. Provisions 189 NOTE 14. Liabilities 190 NOTE 15. Off-balance-sheet commitments 193 NOTE 16. Information on personnel 194 NOTE 17. Fees charged by statutory auditors and members of their networks 197 NOTE 18. Post-balance sheet events 197 NOTE 19. Results (and other features) of the last ﬁve ﬁscal years 198 The following notes provide additional information about items The parent company is Essilor International, hereinafter referred reported in the balance sheet at December 31, 2014, which shows to as “Essilor.” total assets of €6,183,646 thousand, and the income statement, All amounts are presented in thousands of euros, unless which shows a net proﬁt of €693,536 thousand. otherwise speciﬁed. The ﬁnancial statements cover a 12-month period from January 1 to December 31, 2014. Signiﬁcant events of the year Commercial revenue Acquisition of Transitions Optical Essilor International’s revenue outside of the Puerto Rico branch On April 1, 2014, Essilor announced the successful completion of increased by 4.7% compared to 2013. Sales of corrective lenses in the acquisition of 51% of the capital held by PPG in Transitions France were up by 2.6%, led by a strong increase in internal ﬂows Optical, the leading global supplier of variable-tint lenses for within the Group. They were up 11.4% in the export market. Sales manufacturers in the optical industry. of instruments were down 5.1% in France and were up 4.5% in the On September 30, 2014, Essilor also sold 29% of its shareholding export market. The Puerto Rico branch recorded a slowdown in in the Transitions Optical Inc. securities to its subsidiary Essilor of business reﬂected by a drop in revenue of 26.9%. America Holding with a net capital gain of €337.2 million. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 171 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements New ﬁnancing The Company also proceeded to launch a US commercial paper program; its outstanding amount is €567 million at The volume of acquisitions effected in 2014 and the repayment of December 31, 2014. At this date, the outstanding amount of a bank loan of €250 million led Essilor International to request a French commercial paper program is €246 million. In line with the credit rating and to launch several reﬁnancing operations. Group’s policy, these US and French commercial paper programs In February 2014, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s assigned the are covered by long-term credit facilities totaling €2.3 million at ratings A1 and P1 respectively to Essilor International’s shortDecember 31, 2014. term debt. Its long-term debt has been rated A2 by Moody’s since March 2014. Income tax As part of its EMTN program, Essilor International proceeded to issue two bonds on April 9, 2014: The tax liability recognized in the financial statements for ﬁscal year 2014 amounted to €0.3 million. This amount reﬂects • a €500 million bond maturing on April 9, 2021, issued at a ﬁxed a number of factors: rate of 1.75%; • a €300 million bond maturing on April 9, 2024, issued at a ﬁxed • the impact of a normal tax rate and a reduced tax rate on taxable income; rate of 2.375%. • tax income corresponding to the tax credits applicable (especially the research tax credit), and to the tax savings from ﬁscal consolidation. NOTE 1. ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 1.1 General The annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with of October 15, 2014) which annuls and constitutes a recodiﬁcation the French General Accounting Plan 2014 corresponding to the of the General Accounting Plan 1999, supplemented by regulations Regulation ANC No. 2014-03 of June 5, 2014 (approved by the published since this date and with generally accepted principles. order of September 8, 2014, published in the Official Gazette (JO) 1.2 Intangible assets Intangible assets correspond primarily to purchased goodwill, parameterization and the preparation of the software for its concessions, patents, licenses and software. Intangible assets intended use, that are evidenced by invoices (external developers) are measured at acquisition or production cost and are amortized: or time sheets (internal developers). • either by work unit; Intangible assets are tested for impairment when the occurrence of an event or a change of circumstances indicates that their • or on a straight-line basis over the following estimated useful lives. recoverable amount may be less than their carrying amount. Software 1 to 10 years When the test shows that an asset’s recoverable amount is less than its carrying amount, a provision for impairment is recorded. Patents Period of legal protection The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value and value in use. Internally generated software development costs are capitalized The initial cost of the asset includes related transaction costs. only when it is probable that they will generate future Conversely, the Company has not used the option to record economic beneﬁts. Qualifying costs include the costs of organic borrowing expenses in the initial cost of the intangible assets. analyses, programming, tests and test decks, documentation, 172 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements STATEMENTS 1.3 Research and development costs Research costs are recognized as an expense for the period in • the availability of adequate technical, financial and other which they are incurred. resources to complete the development and to use or sell the intangible asset; Development costs are only capitalized if the following are demonstrated: • the reliable measurement of development expenditures. • the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so Due to the risks and uncertainties concerning market that it will be available for use or sale; developments and the large number of projects undertaken, the above criteria are considered as not being fulﬁlled for ophthalmic • the Group’s intention to complete the intangible asset and use lens development projects. Consequently, development costs for or sell it; these projects are recognized as an expense. • the Group’s ability to use or sell the intangible asset; Instrument development costs are capitalized when the above • how the intangible asset will generate probable future criteria are fulﬁlled. economic beneﬁts; 1.4 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at acquisition or All internal and external costs of producing items of property, production cost. plant and equipment are capitalized, with the exception of Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated on a straight-line basis or a declining method basis over the following administrative, start-up and pre-operating costs. Property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment when 3 estimated useful lives. the occurrence of an event or a change of circumstances indicates that their recoverable amount may be less than their carrying Buildings 20 to 33 years amount. Building improvements 7 to 10 years When the test shows that an asset’s recoverable amount is less than its carrying amount, a provision for impairment is recorded. Machinery, equipment and tooling 3 to 20 years The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value Other 3 to 10 years and value in use. The initial cost of the asset includes related transaction costs. Land is not depreciated. Conversely, the Company has not used the option to record borrowing expenses in the initial cost of property, plant and Differences between straight-line depreciation and reducing equipment. balance depreciation charged for tax purposes are included in untaxed provisions on the liabilities side of the balance sheet (regulated provisions). 1.5 Financial assets Investment securities are recognized at acquisition cost. Own shares bought back by the Company are recorded under Acquisition costs for the investment securities are included in the “Other long-term investments” at cost. A provision for impairment initial costs. is recorded for any shares whose cost is greater than their Average Price for the last month of the ﬁscal year, except where The value in use of shares is estimated each year, generally on the the shares have been bought back in order to be canceled and basis of the proportion of equity and by discounting future cash those shares covered by a provision for risks because they were ﬂows. In this case, the discount rate used is the weighted average intended to hedge performance share plans and stock options. cost of the capital. For other investments, a provision for impairment is recorded Loans and receivables are stated at nominal value. Foreign when their recoverable amount, deﬁned as the higher of fair value currency loans and receivables are converted into euros at or value in use, is less than their carrying amount. the year-end at the closing exchange rate or the hedging rate. Provisions are recorded to cover any risk of non-recovery. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 173 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements 1.6 Inventories Raw materials and goods inventories are stated at cost, including At each period-end, the gross value and net realizable value incidental expenses, determined by the weighted average cost of inventories are compared and the lower of the two values is method. Production inventories are stated at actual production retained. Net realizable value is determined in reference to market cost, which includes the cost of raw materials and direct and prices, sales prospects and the risk of obsolescence, assessed on indirect production costs. the basis of objective inventory levels. 1.7 Receivables and payables Receivables and payables are stated at nominal value. Receivables • creation of a provision for unrealized exchange losses. and payables are converted as follows: Receivables are written down when their net realizable value, • translation of all receivables and payables denominated in estimated by reference to the risk of non-recovery, is less than foreign currencies, including hedged receivables and payables, their carrying amount. at the closing rate; • recognition of differences compared to the amounts at which these items were initially recognized as translation adjustment assets or liabilities in the balance sheet; 1.8 Marketable securities Marketable securities, consisting primarily of units in SICAV A provision is recorded if the net asset value of the mutual fund mutual funds and bank deposits, are recognized at cost. units represents less than their cost. 1.9 Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are used only to hedge risks basis with the loss or gain on the hedged item. They are based on commercial transactions and identified foreign currency on the forward rate at the balance sheet date for the remaining receivables and payables via forward exchange contracts. period to maturity. The Company uses derivative financial instruments solely The Company’s interest rate management policy consists of for hedging purposes. All foreign exchange transactions are hedging interest rate risks. To hedge interest rate risks, Essilor processed within predetermined management limits with the mainly uses interest rate and caps. purpose of optimizing exchange rate risk hedging. Financial expenses and proﬁt related to interest-rate derivatives Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments are are recognized in income symmetrically to the gain or loss on the recognized in the year in which they are settled, on a symmetrical hedged item. 1.10 Foreign currency transactions Any transactions that are not hedged are converted at the or “Conversion gains” on the assets or liabilities side of the exchange rate on the transaction date. balance sheet. At the year-end, unhedged foreign currency receivables and A provision is booked for conversion losses. payables are converted at the closing exchange rate. Differences Foreign currency bank balances are converted at the closing arising from conversion are recorded under “Conversion losses” exchange rate. 174 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements STATEMENTS 1.11 Pension, length-of-service obligations and other awards The Company has obligations towards employees for the payment • actuarial gains and losses resulting from changes in of pensions, early-retirement beneﬁts, length-of-service and other assumptions and experience-based adjustments are awards. These obligations are subject to provisions. recognized in profit by the corridor method. This method consists of amortizing over the expected average remaining Where these benefits are payable under defined contribution service lives of plan participants only the portion of the net plans, the contributions are expensed as incurred. cumulative gain or loss that exceeds the greater of 10% of In the case of deﬁned beneﬁt plans, provisions are booked to cover either the projected beneﬁt obligation or the market value of the unfunded projected beneﬁt obligation, as follows: the plan assets; • the projected beneﬁt obligation, corresponding to the vested • if a company introduces a deﬁned beneﬁt plan or changes the rights of active and retired employees of the Company, is benefit formula under an existing defined benefit plan and determined by the projected unit credit method, based on rights under the new or modiﬁed plan are unvested, the related estimated final salaries, actuarial assumptions concerning change in the Company’s obligation is recognized in proﬁt on discount rate, inflation, staff turnover rates and the rate of a straight-line basis over the expected average remaining salary increase; service lives of the plan participants. If rights under the new • the discount rate corresponds to the prime interest rate in the or modiﬁed plan vest immediately, the resulting change in the Company’s obligation is recognized in proﬁt immediately; country concerned for periods corresponding to the estimated average duration of the beneﬁt obligation; • provisions recorded in the balance sheet correspond to the • in cases where all or part of the obligation is funded under projected beneﬁt obligation less the market value of any plan assets, the value of unrealized actuarial gains and losses and an external plan, a provision is recorded for the difference unrecognized past service costs. between the projected beneﬁt obligation and the market value of the plan assets; 3 1.12 Translation of financial accounts from the foreign branch The Essilor Industries ﬁnancial statements are prepared in US Balance sheet amounts were converted into euros, at the balance dollars. sheet closing date rate, except for: The financial statement conversion process for the Essilor • equity items, which were translated at the historical rate; Industries branch, which is considered an autonomous institution, is as follows: • net proﬁt, which was translated at the hedging rate. The difference arising on translation is recorded in equity under Income statement items were translated at the average hedging “Translation reserve.” rate for the year. 1.13 Income tax (Group relief) Essilor International ﬁles a consolidated tax return with ESSILOR, The tax savings arising from the use of the tax losses of tax group BBGR, OPTIM, INVOPTIC, ESSILOR ACADEMY EUROPE, NOVISIA, members, which are returnable to them by Essilor, are recognized ESSIDEV, OSE, TIKAI VISION, BNL EUROLENS, FGX HOLDING, as a liability through the recognition of a debt in the Company’s DELAMARE SOVRA, OMI and ESSIHOLDING and pays the corporate balance sheet. income tax due by the tax group. Each company in the tax group records the income tax charge that would apply if it were not a member of the tax group (with no impact on the parent company’s ﬁnancial statements). Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 175 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements 1.14 Recognition and measurement of provisions Regulated provisions acquisition cost. Where applicable, a provision is recorded to cover the difference between the option exercise price and the These mainly comprise provisions for excess tax depreciation. weighted Average Price of the corresponding shares held at the year-end. Provisions for contingencies and charges Grant of performance shares: A provision is recognized when there is an obligation towards a third party and it is probable or certain that an outflow of • a provision is recorded for the cost of performance shares, resources generating economic benefits will be necessary to corresponding to the number of shares that are expected settle the obligation without any benefit of at least equivalent to vest multiplied by the weighted Average Price of our own value being expected in return. treasury stock at the ﬁscal year-end. The estimate takes into account staff turnover rates and share price assumptions. Contingent liabilities are not recognized in the balance sheet but are disclosed in the notes to the ﬁnancial statements unless Effective from 2008, this provision is recognized over the the probability of an outﬂow of resources generating economic performance share vesting period in accordance with Regulation beneﬁts is remote. CRC 2008-15 of December 4, 2008; one of the vesting conditions is the grantee’s employment by the Company. Since the granting of stock options and performance shares ■ Provisions for customer warranties constitute a compensation item, these provisions are recognized The provision is calculated: as personnel expenses. • by multiplying revenue for the warranty period by a percentage corresponding to the ratio of average annual warranty costs to ■ Provisions for losses from subsidiaries and affiliates annual revenue; An impairment loss is recognized for investments whose current • when the estimated product return period is shorter, by value is less than their carrying amount. As necessary, the multiplying revenue for the estimated return period by a provision is allotted in the following order: securities, current percentage corresponding to the ratio of average annual account, long-term receivables and provision for risk for up to the warranty costs to annual revenue. contingent amount. However, this provision for risk is recognized only under the following conditions: ■ Provisions for treasury shares • the legal form implies that Essilor is indeﬁnitely and jointly responsible for the liability; or Shares held under stock option plans: • parent company shares held for stock option plans granted • for the amount of the commitments undertaken by Essilor, for the other legal forms. to Group employees are carried at cost on the balance sheet under “Other long-term investments”. They are recognized at 1.15 Loan issuance charges Loan issuance charges may be: The choice between these two methods is made when a loan is issued and cannot be changed subsequently for that same loan. • kept in expenses in their entirety in the year they are incurred; • or distributed over the term of the loan. 176 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements STATEMENTS NOTE 2. REVENUE 2.1 Net revenue per business sector 2014 Change % € thousands France Export Total 2014/2013 Corrective lenses 347,355 302,144 649,499 5.1% Optical instruments 30,589 61,403 91,991 1.1% Industrial equipment 215 11,863 12,078 -28.3% Other sales 15,673 61,180 76,853 2.8% TOTAL 393,832 436,589 830,421 3.7% 2013 Change % € thousands Corrective lenses France 338,404 Export 279,869 Total 618,273 2013/2012 12.0% 3 Optical instruments 32,246 58,762 91,008 9.1% Industrial equipment 133 16,709 16,841 -25.3% Other sales 14,963 59,762 74,725 -6.1% TOTAL 385,746 415,101 800,847 8.6% 2.2 Net revenue distribution between France and export, Group and outside of Group Change % € thousands 2014 2013 2014/2013 France: • Group 81,038 68,097 19.0% • Non-Group 312,794 317,649 -1.5% SUB-TOTAL 393,832 385,746 2.1% Export: • Group 420,282 397,015 5.9% • Non-Group 16,307 18,085 -9.8% SUB-TOTAL 436,589 415,101 5.2% TOTAL 830,421 800,847 3.7% Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 177 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements NOTE 3. OTHER INCOME € thousands 2014 2013 Royalties and rebilling of expenses to Group companies 261,652 255,448 Other 86 280 TOTAL 261,738 255,727 NOTE 4. OTHER EXTERNAL PURCHASES AND EXPENSES € thousands 2014 2013 Outsourcing 60,457 52,221 Rentals, maintenance and insurance 25,629 24,399 Studies, research and documentation 24,970 28,014 Temporary staff 14,982 13,867 Fees 30,833 27,203 Communication and advertising 33,984 26,361 Telecommunications, commissions and business travel 28,871 31,311 Other 8,107 1,931 TOTAL 227,832 205,307 NOTE 5. FINANCIAL INCOME € thousands 2014 2013 Interest expense -35,223 -12,765 Financial income • Dividends 270,372 231,640 • Investment income 2,482 3,381 • Interest income from loans 71,843 21,104 Net discounts -4,029 -3,676 Provision charges -6,569 -1,116 Currency exchange 11,563 2,542 Other -974 -5,424 TOTAL 309,466 235,685 178 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements STATEMENTS NOTE 6. NON-OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE), NET € thousands 2014 2013 ON REVENUE TRANSACTIONS -14,087 -2,533 Other income and expenses from revenue transactions (a) -14,087 -2,533 ON CAPITAL TRANSACTIONS 334,840 112 (b) Disposal of investments 336,922 Other extraordinary income and expenses from capital transactions -2,082 112 UNTAXED PROVISIONS AND COST TRANSFER -15,890 -9,597 Untaxed provisions -1,809 -3,904 Cost transfer 305 Other (c) -14,386 -5,694 TOTAL 304,863 -12,018 (a) In 2014, other income and expenses on management operations mainly include an irrevocable commitment to contribute €14.95 million to the Essilor Social Impact fund. (b) Transactions on the disposal of ﬁnancial investments are mainly composed of transactions relating to the sale of Transitions Optical Inc. securities. (c) The item “Other” mainly consists of impairment losses on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. 3 NOTE 7. INCOME TAX 7.1 Profit excluding overriding tax assessments € thousands 2014 2013 Net proﬁt 693,536 326,184 Income tax expense -268 1,066 Pre-tax proﬁt 693,268 327,250 Change in regulated provisions 1,800 3,904 Proﬁt before tax, excluding overriding tax assessments 695,068 331,154 Besides a tax charge of €33,057 thousand, taxes recognized and tax consolidation income of €4,644 thousand. Essilor tax at Essilor include income related to the research tax credit of income ended up totaling €268 thousand. €23,632 thousand (of which €4,529 thousand from previous years) Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 179 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements 7.2 Allocation of income tax Income tax expense breaks down as follows between operating and non-operating items: 2014 € thousands Before tax Corresponding tax After tax Proﬁt before non-operating items and tax (a) 388,404 5,073 393,478 (b) Non-operating income (expense), net 304,863 -4,805 300,058 NET PROFIT 693,536 (a) Of which €270,372 thousand in dividends subject to the parent company-subsidiary treatment and €155,926 thousand in royalties taxed at the reduced rate of 15%. (b) Including €337,311 thousand net long-term capital gains arising from the disposal of Transition Optical Inc. securities. 2013 € thousands Before tax Corresponding tax After tax Proﬁt before non-operating items and tax 339,269 1,948 341,216 Non-operating income (expense), net -12,019 -3,014 -15,033 NET PROFIT 326,184 7.3 Increases and reductions in future tax liabilities Assets No deferred tax assets are recognized in the balance sheet. € thousands 2014 2013 Pension plan 30,894 29,514 Provisions for paid vacation (a) 12,304 12,349 Other 20,638 19,231 TOTAL 63,836 61,094 TAX LOSS CARRYFORWARDS (b) 228,940 241,030 Or a corresponding tax of 38% 111,255 114,807 (a) The Company has elected to apply the provisions of Article 8 of the 1987 French Finance Act, allowing the deduction of vacation pay on a cash basis. The provision is therefore not deductible, giving rise to a future tax saving. (b) This cumulative tax loss carryforward corresponds to the tax loss carryforward of the tax group. The tax savings arising from the use of the tax losses of tax group members, which are returnable to them by Essilor, are recognized as a liability through the recognition of a debt in the Company’s balance sheet. This debt amounts to €3,910 thousand at December 31, 2014. The Company thinks it could utilize its tax loss carryforwards. Liabilities No deferred tax liabilities are recognized in the balance sheet. Recognition of deferred taxes on the timing differences shown below would have the effect of increasing income tax expense by €14,409 thousand. At 2012 2013 2013 At 2013 2014 2014 At 2014 € thousands year-end increase decrease year-end increase decrease year-end Provisions for: • Special depreciation allowances 32,138 10,438 6,535 36,042 10,184 8,384 37,842 • Other 236 -141 95 -20 75 TOTAL 32,374 10,298 6,535 36,137 10,164 8,384 37,917 Future tax liability (38%) 11,687 13,732 14,409 180 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements STATEMENTS NOTE 8. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Value at the start Provisions Reversals Value € thousands of the year Acquisitions Disposals Movements for the year for the year at year-end 2014 R&D expenditure 7,466 1,111 -3,133 5,444 Patents, trademarks, licenses 127,496 2,414 1,924 5,351 133,336 Goodwill 434 434 Other intangible assets 5,406 2,625 -4,721 3,311 GROSS VALUE 140,802 6,150 1,924 -2,503 142,525 Amortization, depreciation and impairment 91,189 21,648 2,555 110,283 NET VALUE 49,612 32,243 2013 R&D expenditure 4,752 2,714 7,466 3 Patents, trademarks, licenses 117,659 7,709 648 2,776 127,496 Goodwill 434 434 Other intangible assets 8,153 -2,746 5,406 GROSS VALUE 130,998 10,423 648 29 140,802 Amortization, depreciation and impairment 83,072 8,765 648 91,189 NET VALUE 47,926 49,612 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 181 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements NOTE 9. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Value at the start Provisions Reversals Value € thousands of the year Acquisitions Disposals Movements for the year for the year at year-end 2014 Land 13,957 49 645 14,652 Buildings 158,482 1,742 297 673 160,601 Plant and equipment 139,344 7,121 955 2,623 148,133 Other property, plant and equipment 45,797 588 184 158 46,359 Property, plant and equipment in progress 5,640 1,697 0 -1,793 5,544 Advances and deposits 120 0 0 -111 9 GROSS VALUE 363,341 11,197 1,436 2,196 375,298 Amortization, depreciation and impairment 240,079 22,771 1,320 261,530 NET VALUE 123,262 113,768 2013 Land 13,894 73 10 13,957 Buildings 116,204 14,877 406 27,807 158,482 Plant and equipment 137,922 7,973 6,904 353 139,344 Other property, plant and equipment 45,072 1,998 1,303 30 45,797 Property, plant and equipment in progress 32,067 2,522 -28,950 5,640 Advances and deposits 120 33 -33 120 GROSS VALUE 345,279 27,477 8,623 -792 363,341 Amortization, depreciation and impairment 230,224 18,044 8,188 240,079 NET VALUE 115,056 123,262 182 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements STATEMENTS NOTE 10. FINANCIAL ASSETS 10.1 Summary table Value at 2014 the start Provisions Reversals Value € thousands of the year Increases Decreases Movements for the year for the year at year-end Equity held (a) 1,842,706 930,059 10,203 17,054 2,779,615 Receivables from companies in which an equity interest is held (b) (Loans to subsidiaries / Advances on share issues) 559,420 4,372,544 2,843,778 2,088,186 Other long-term investments (own shares) 305,537 35,864 52,733 288,668 Other loans 44 44 Other long-term ﬁnancial investments (c) 14,908 11,524 3,022 -17,054 6,355 3 GROSS VALUE 2,722,614 5,349,992 2,909,737 5,162,868 Impairment 57,591 19,779 11,900 65,470 NET VALUE 2,665,023 5,097,399 (a) Increases: – acquisition of 51% of Transitions Optical Holding B.V., 51% of Transitions Optical LTD, 28.6% of Coastal Contacts Inc., 70% of ASE Corporate Eyecare and 60% of Inﬁeld France for an overall total of €810.1 million; – capital increases for Canoptec Inc. and Essilor Middle East Ltd. for an amount totaling €102.5 million; – supplementary acquisition of 40% of Dac Vision SAS to come to 100%, and 40% of Dac Vision Inc. to come to 100% for an overall total of €14.2 million; – additional price for Onbitt Co., Ltd. of €2.5 million. Decreases: – sale of 65% of Essor France securities; – sale of 29% of Transitions Optical Inc. securities; – liquidation of Polylite Asia Paciﬁc Pte. Ltd. Movements: – long-term assets of various acquisition fees (€17.1 million). (b) The increases and decreases are mainly related to the renewal of loans to subsidiaries, particularly those granted to Essilor of America, Inc. (c) Balance comprising various acquisition fees attached to ongoing acquisitions. Value at 2013 the start Provisions Reversals Value € thousands of the year Increases Decreases Movements for the year for the year at year-end Equity held 1,811,968 43,873 13,941 805 1,842,706 Receivables from companies in which an equity interest is held (Loans to subsidiaries / Advances on share issues) 476,264 1,007,225 924,069 559,420 Other long-term investments (own shares) 241,057 251,465 186,985 305,537 Other loans 44 44 Other long-term ﬁnancial investments 6,463 10,207 957 -805 14,908 GROSS VALUE 2,535,796 1,312,771 1,125,953 2,722,614 Impairment 66,147 17,243 25,799 57,591 NET VALUE 2,469,650 2,665,023 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 183 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements 10.2 Table of subsidiaries and shareholdings Subsidiaries and affiliates whose gross value as a percentage of Essilor International’s share capital Carrying amount Dividends of shares held Loans and Guarantees cashed advances and by the granted endorsements Net revenue Proﬁt for company Share Other by the given by the for the last the last over the € thousands capital equity Gross Net Company Company ﬁscal year ﬁscal year ﬁscal year A IS GREATER THAN 1% French companies 113,462 274,821 268,693 252,743 429,957 69,427 35,660 International subsidiaries 804,469 1,888,480 2,509,152 2,460,883 1,516,650 53,133 6,120,914 465,264 234,659 B DOES NOT EXCEED 1% French companies 3,066 66 International subsidiaries 3,410 33,677 1,770 778 86,468 128,022 13,021 0 10.3 Maturities of long-term asset receivables € thousands 2014 2013 (a) More than one year 1,684,524 319,034 Less than one year 410,061 255,337 TOTAL 2,094,585 574,371 (a) The increase in maturities to more than a year is related to the loans granted to Essilor of America, Inc. mainly within the context of the acquisition of Transitions Optical. NOTE 11. CURRENT ASSETS 11.1 Inventories € thousands 2014 2013 Raw materials and other supplies 36,569 37,452 Goods for resale 9,990 8,464 Finished and semi-ﬁnished products and work in process 26,326 24,369 SUB-TOTAL 72,884 70,286 Provisions: • Raw materials and other supplies -12,452 -11,591 • Goods for resale -1,774 -2,422 • Finished and semi-ﬁnished products and work in process -4,250 -3,660 SUB-TOTAL -18,476 -17,673 TOTAL 54,409 52,613 184 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements STATEMENTS 11.2 Maturities of current asset receivables € thousands 2014 MORE THAN ONE YEAR 32,089 Trade receivables 32,089 Other receivables (b) LESS THAN ONE YEAR 676,722 Prepayments on orders 1,271 (a) Trade receivables 268,238 (b) Other receivables 407,213 TOTAL 708,812 (a) The portion related to commercial paper represents €438.2 thousand. (b) The “Other receivables” line primarily includes current accounts with regard to subsidiaries of €342 million and a carry-back receivable of €17.4 million. 11.3 Marketable securities € thousands Gross 2014 Net Gross 2013 Net 3 SICAV (a) 104,566 104,566 304,119 304,119 Currency options 482 482 TOTAL 104,566 104,566 304,601 304,601 Bank deposits 25,195 25,195 70,287 70,287 TOTAL 129,761 129,761 374,888 374,888 (a) SICAV mutual funds held at closing are comprised solely of money market funds. Available cash is invested in accordance with the two overarching investment and capital markets transactions carried out by the principles of security and liquidity. Essilor sets limits on Group Treasury Department were all rated at least A-2 (shortinvestment periods and vehicles, as well as on concentrations term) and A(long-term) by Standard & Poor’s. of counterparty risks. At December 31, 2014, counterparties for 11.4 Prepaid expenses € thousands 2014 2013 Prepaid expenses: • Operating results 12,987 12,046 • Financial income 3,950 4,128 TOTAL 16,937 16,174 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 185 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements 11.5 Accrued income € thousands 2014 2013 Investments and other non-current assets Receivables from companies in which an equity interest is held 3,027 1,962 Receivables Clients – invoices to raise 63,294 63,639 Other receivables 3,448 3,697 TOTAL 69,769 69,298 NOTE 12. SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 12.1 Composition of capital Number of shares At the start of the Par value Number of shares, except per share data ﬁscal year Issued Canceled Exchanged At year-end (€) Ordinary shares 214,699,498 1,193,030 215,892,528 0.18 TOTAL 214,699,498 1,193,030 215,892,528 0.18 Of which treasury shares: Number of shares at the Exercises of Number start of the Share Exercises of Performance of shares Number of shares ﬁscal year purchases Cancellation Options shares at year-end Long-term investments 4,454,406 469,425 -963,910 3,959,921 TOTAL 4,454,406 469,425 -963,910 3,959,921 186 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements STATEMENTS 12.2 Variation in equity capital Reserves and Share Issue retained Result for the Untaxed Government Translation Total € thousands capital premiums earnings ﬁscal year provisions grants reserve (a) equity TOTAL EQUITY AT JANUARY 1, 2014 38,646 302,160 1,665,888 326,184 36,042 95 -2,361 2,366,655 Capital increase • FCP Mutual funds 61 23,451 23,512 • Stock subscription options 154 34,840 34,994 Capital reduction Other movements over the ﬁscal year 1,800 -20 2,600 4,380 Allocation of proﬁt 326,184 -326,184 Dividends paid -197,731 -197,731 Net proﬁt for the ﬁscal year 693,536 693,536 EQUITY AT DECEMBER 31, 2014 38,861 360,451 1,794,341 (a) The translation difference relates to the Puerto Rico branch. 693,536 37,842 75 239 2,925,345 3 2014 2013 Capital totaled €38,861 thousand, corresponding to an increase of Capital totaled €38,646 thousand, corresponding to a decrease of 1,193,030 ordinary shares following: 24,542 ordinary shares following: • subscriptions to Essilor group FCP mutual funds (377,182 • a reduction of capital via cancellation of treasury shares shares); (-1,500,000 shares); • stock subscription options (855,848). • subscriptions to Essilor group FCP mutual funds (377,407 shares); New shares were entitled to dividends starting January 1, 2014. • stock subscription options (1,098,051 shares). New shares were entitled to dividends starting January 1, 2013. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 187 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements 12.3 Stock subscription and purchase options, performance shares and employee share issues Stock subscription and purchase options during the three calendar months prior to the month of exercise of the option and the exercise price) are capped at 100% of the The exercise price of stock subscription or purchase options exercise price. corresponds to the average of the share prices quoted over the 20 trading days preceding the date of the Board Meeting at which Stock subscription options granted since November 2008 the grants are decided. Gains on options granted since 2004 are subject to performance conditions based on the share (corresponding to the difference between the average share price performance over a period of two to six years, as well as to the 100% cap on gains. The following table analyzes changes in the number of stock subscription options at the year-end: Number Number of subscription Options of subscription options Exercise canceled Grants for options at Jan. 1, 2014 of options and forfeited the ﬁscal year at Dec. 31, 2014 Share stock subscription options 1,703,435 -855,848 -68,958 121,505 900,134 TOTAL 1,703,435 -855,848 -68,958 121,505 900,134 Performance shares The number of shares vested at the end of a period of two to six years based on the grant date ranges from 0% to 100% Since 2006, the Essilor group has launched performance-based of the number of shares originally granted, depending on the share allotment plans (performance shares). performance of the Essilor share compared with the Reference Price on the grant date (corresponding to the average of the prices quoted over the 20 trading days preceding the Board Meeting at which the grant is decided). The following table analyzes changes in the number of performance shares at the year-end: Number of Number of performance performance shares Performance Performance Grants for the shares at Jan. 1, 2014 shares vested shares canceled ﬁscal year at Dec. 31, 2014 Performance shares 3,530,585 -963,910 -90,320 1,544,904 4,021,259 TOTAL 3,530,585 -963,910 -90,320 1,544,904 4,021,259 Employee share issues The main features of employee share issues are: € 2014 2013 Share subscription price 69.73 61.83 Total discount amount 17.43 15.46 Number of shares subscribed 337,182 377,407 188 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements STATEMENTS NOTE 13. PROVISIONS 13.1 Provisions for contingencies and charges Reversals Reversals 2014 Value at the Provisions for the year for the year Value € thousands start of the year for the year (used) (unused) at year-end Provisions for pensions and other post-employment beneﬁts 29,514 5,628 4,248 30,894 Provisions for losses in subsidiaries and affiliates 300 300 Provision for losses on performance shares 55,767 87,746 63,986 79,527 Other provisions (a) 28,638 26,403 15,583 337 39,121 TOTAL 114,220 119,777 83,818 337 149,842 (a) At end 2014, “Other provisions” were comprised primarily of the provision for tax audits, provision for currency loss and provisions for the restructuring program relating to the rationalization of the production site of the Puerto Rico branch. 3 Reversals Reversals 2013 Value at the Provisions for the year for the year Value € thousands start of the year for the year (used) (unused) at year-end Provisions for pensions and other post-employment beneﬁts 30,050 4,196 4,731 29,514 Provisions for losses in subsidiaries and affiliates 300 300 Provision for losses on performance shares 36,166 55,231 35,631 55,767 Provisions for restructuring 15 15 Other provisions (a) 14,927 18,507 4,207 589 28,638 TOTAL 81,460 77,934 44,570 604 114,220 (a) At end 2013, “Other provisions” were comprised primarily of the provision for tax audits, provision for legal disputes and provisions for operating risks and other provisions. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 189 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements 13.2 Asset depreciation Value at the start Provisions Reversals € thousands of the year for the year for the year Value at year-end 2014 ASSET DEPRECIATION 89,991 41,976 40,073 91,894 Inventories 17,673 18,476 17,673 18,476 Receivables 14,719 4,063 10,500 8,282 Shares in subsidiaries and affiliates 56,098 19,271 10,573 64,796 Receivables from companies in which an equity interest is held 1,327 1,327 Other long-term investments 166 166 332 Other 8 8 2013 ASSET DEPRECIATION 108,276 38,473 56,758 89,991 Inventories 17,662 17,673 17,662 17,673 Receivables 24,460 3,557 13,298 14,719 Shares in subsidiaries and affiliates 62,662 17,077 23,641 56,098 Receivables from companies in which an equity interest is held 3,485 2,158 1,327 Other long-term investments 166 166 Other 8 8 NOTE 14. LIABILITIES 14.1 Financial debt maturities Analysis of total liabilities by maturity and by category € thousands 2014 2013 DUE IN LESS THAN ONE YEAR 876,268 262,224 Loans from subsidiaries 35,641 29,405 (a) Interest on bonds and US private placement 15,433 3,196 (a) US and French commercial paper programs 813,499 215,379 Total borrowings 11,695 14,244 DUE IN ONE TO FIVE YEARS 514,359 290,044 US private placements (a) 514,359 290,044 DUE IN MORE THAN FIVE YEARS 944,565 290,044 Bonds (b) 800,000 US private placements (a) 144,565 290,044 TOTAL 2,335,192 842,312 (a) The nature and amount of 2014 funding are presented under “Signiﬁcant events of the year”. (b) As part of its EMTN program, Essilor proceeded to issue two bonds whose redemption price is at par. 190 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements STATEMENTS Analysis by currency (ﬁnancial debt) € thousands 2014 2013 EUR 1,079,144 205,433 USD 1,230,091 608,664 GBP 3,738 600 THB 11,278 21,082 MXN 336 942 PLN 6,616 5,591 CNY 3,989 TOTAL 2,335,192 842,312 Covenants The Company’s ﬁnancing is not subject to any particular ﬁnancial covenants. Only the USD 300 and USD 500 million US private placements subscribed in 2012 and 2013 are subject to a speciﬁc ﬁnancial ratio. This was complied with at December 31, 2014. 14.2 Maturities of other liabilities 3 Analysis of total liabilities by maturity and by category € thousands 2014 2013 DUE IN LESS THAN ONE YEAR 770,838 528,112 Operating liabilities (b) 372,825 322,933 (a) (b) Other liabilities and 398,013 205,179 DUE IN ONE TO FIVE YEARS 5,349 Operating liabilities Other liabilities 5,349 DUE IN MORE THAN FIVE YEARS Operating liabilities Other liabilities TOTAL 770,838 533,461 (a) The “Other liabilities” line primarily includes current accounts with regard to subsidiaries of €329 million. (b) The portion related to commercial paper was zero in 2014. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 191 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements 14.3 Accruals € thousands 2014 2013 Accrued interest on borrowings 16,854 4,067 Trade payables 75,787 51,375 Accrued taxes and personnel expenses • Vacation pay 36,828 36,055 • Discretionary proﬁt sharing 6,614 5,975 • Other 34,137 29,666 Other operating liabilities • Discounts and allowances to be granted 90,147 83,816 • Amounts due to customers 6,115 578 • Credit notes to be issued 6,969 6,111 • Affiliates, dividends to be paid Liabilities on long-term assets and related accounts 588 3,528 TOTAL 274,038 221,170 14.4 Items concerning related companies Related parties are companies that are fully consolidated in the There are no signiﬁcant transactions with these companies that Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Businesses with which have not been concluded under normal market conditions. the Company has capital ties correspond to other Group companies. Net amount concerning other companies with which Balance sheet the Company € thousands Related parties has capital ties Other Total assets Equity held 1,900,935 813,470 2,714,405 Receivables from companies in which an equity interest is held 2,079,964 7,516 706 2,088,186 TOTAL LONG-TERM FINANCIAL ASSETS (NET) 3,980,899 820,986 706 4,802,591 Trade receivables 217,469 17,071 65,787 300,327 Other receivables 341,169 119 65,926 407,213 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS (NET) 558,638 17,190 131,713 707,540 TOTAL ASSETS 4,539,537 838,176 132,419 5,510,131 Trade payables 77,142 5,631 83,146 165,919 Other operating liabilities 8,382 192 198,331 206,906 Other liabilities 380,864 17,149 398,013 TOTAL LIABILITIES 466,388 5,823 298,626 770,838 192 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements STATEMENTS Net amount concerning other companies with which Income statement the Company Total income € thousands Related parties has capital ties Other statement Financial expense (a) 33,869 594 329,997 364,459 Financial income (b) 399,907 169,270 104,749 673,926 (a) Financial expense breaks down as follows: Financial expenses reported under “Related parties” correspond mainly to impairment losses on shares in subsidiaries, impairment losses on loans and subsidiary current accounts, interest on advances from the cash pool and interest on borrowings. Financial expenses reported under “Unrelated parties” correspond mainly to interest on borrowings and swaps. (b) Financial income breaks down as follows: Financial income reported under “Related parties” corresponds mainly to dividend income, reversals of impairment losses on shares in subsidiaries, interest on loans, account updates. Financial income reported under “Capital ties” mainly concern deposited dividends. Financial income reported under “Unrelated parties” corresponds mainly to gains on investments (SICAV mutual funds and bank deposits), interest on borrowings and reversals of provisions for impairment losses on shares. NOTE 15. OFF-BALANCE-SHEET COMMITMENTS 3 15.1 Financial commitments Commitments given and received € thousands 2014 2013 Projected beneﬁt obligations given Guarantees and endorsements (a) 109,938 342,335 Projected beneﬁt obligations received Guarantees, endorsements and sureties received (a) Guarantees by Essilor mainly granted to its subsidiaries and affiliates. Conﬁrmed lines of credit undrawn at December 31, 2014 amounted to €2,267 million. Forward foreign exchange contracts Foreign exchange forward transactions at December 31, 2014 are the following: Contractual amounts Market value at € thousands (initial price) December 31, 2014 Foreign currency sell position 213,823 -10,450 Foreign currency buy position 208,432 10,415 TOTAL -35 Essentially, the Company is in a net selling position for AUD and CAD while it is a net buyer of GBP. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 193 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements Interest rate products At the year-end, currency options were as follows: Market value € thousands Notional at December 31, 2014 USD interest rate swaps 150,000 -3,116 EUR interest rate swaps 400,000 25,310 EUR interest rate caps 50,000 USD interest rate caps 50,000 TOTAL 22,194 15.2 Commitments under finance leases There have been no commitments under ﬁnance leases since 2006. 15.3 Commitments for future payments Future minimum payments Contractual obligations 2014 € thousands up to 1 year 1 to 5 years over 5 years Total Non-cancelable operating leases 3,507 13,632 11,656 28,795 TOTAL 3,507 13,632 11,656 28,795 15.4 Commitments relating to the sale of put options on minority interests Essilor granted put options to the minority shareholders of various controlled subsidiaries. At December 31, 2014, the valuation of all of these put options if they were fully exercised totaled €41,624 thousand. NOTE 16. INFORMATION ON PERSONNEL 16.1 Pension, length-of-service obligations and other awards Supplementary pensions The Company’s obligation to management and management-level Measured in this way, the obligation totaled €63,839 thousand, employees for supplementary pensions was updated in 2014, of which €1,386 thousand has already been paid into pension using a retrospective method. 2014 actuarial assumptions were funds managed by an independent insurance company by the end as follows: inﬂation rate (2%), staff turnover rate, rate of future of 2014. salary increases (4%) and discount rate (2.15%). 194 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements STATEMENTS € thousands 2014 2013 Current value of projected beneﬁt obligations 63,839 41,953 Market value of plan assets -16,600 -9,843 Deferred items (a) -40,907 -25,176 PROVISION RECORDED IN THE ACCOUNTS 6,331 6,934 (a) Deferred items correspond to actuarial losses or gains and costs for past services. In 2014, these items include a withdrawal of €2.3 million corresponding to the reclassiﬁcation to assets of the surplus from pension plan Article 39. The balance of €6.3 million corresponds to the commitment under Article 83. Length-of-service awards The Company’s obligation for the payment of length-of-service according to a retrospective method, at €2,685 thousand at awards in application of French labor laws, collective bargaining December 31, 2014, based on a discount rate of 2.15%. agreements and trade union agreements was estimated, € thousands 2014 2013 Current value of projected beneﬁt obligations 2,685 2,355 Market value of plan assets PROVISION RECORDED IN THE ACCOUNTS 2,685 2,355 Retirement beneﬁts The Company’s obligation for the payment of retirement beneﬁts for all types of retirement was estimated, according to a retrospective method, at €38,921 thousand at December 31, 2014 based on a discount rate of 2.15%. 3 € thousands 2014 2013 Current value of projected beneﬁt obligations 38,921 34,100 Market value of plan assets Deferred items (a) -18,723 -14,894 PROVISION RECORDED IN THE ACCOUNTS 20,198 19,206 (a) Deferred items correspond to actuarial losses or gains and costs for past services. Expenses for the year € thousands 2014 2013 Cost of services rendered in the period -4,137 -4,025 Interest expense on discounting -2,516 -2,458 Contributions paid 3,000 Beneﬁts paid 4,232 3,790 Expected return on plan assets 405 516 Actuarial losses (gains) -3,196 -3,319 Cost of past services -302 -302 EXPENSES FOR THE YEAR -2,514 -5,798 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 195 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements 16.2 Average number of employees Breakdown of average number of employees 2014 2013 Managerial personnel 1,336 1,327 Supervisors and employees 1,196 1,268 Production 773 830 TOTAL 3,305 3,425 16.3 Compensation of executives € thousands 2014 2013 Executive bodies Compensation received (a) 1,655 1,791 Length-of-service award payable on retirement (actuarial value) 581 740 Supplementary retirement beneﬁt obligations (actuarial value) 13,952 10,040 Value of performance share rights granted during the year (b) 1,566 1,521 TOTAL 17,753 14,092 Administrative bodies Compensation received 504 462 TOTAL 504 462 (a) Compensation paid by Essilor International SA or any other consolidated subsidiary. (b) The amounts indicated are the fair-value accounting amounts of the options and stocks in accordance with IFRS. These are, therefore, not real amounts which may be realized upon acquisition of the stock, if vested. It should also be noted that awards of shares are subject to employment and performance conditions. 16.4 other information relating to personnel Individual training entitlement (“DIF”) The cumulative number of hours training available to employees under the “DIF” incentive was 336,333. The cumulative number of hours for which no training request had been received at the balance sheet date was 291,618. 196 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements STATEMENTS NOTE 17. FEES CHARGED BY STATUTORY AUDITORS AND MEMBERS OF THEIR NETWORKS PricewaterhouseCoopers Mazars Amount As a % Amount As a % € thousands, except for percentages 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Audit Statutory audit, certiﬁcation, review of individual and consolidated accounts 447 447 38% 33% 282 282 44% 63% Other audit-related services 726 922 62% 67% 358 162 56% 37% SUB-TOTAL 1,172 1,369 100% 100% 640 444 100% 100% Other beneﬁts Legal and tax advice Other SUB-TOTAL 3 TOTAL 1,172 1,369 100% 100% 640 444 100% 100% NOTE 18. POST-BALANCE SHEET EVENTS Sale at the start of the fiscal year 2015 At January 1, 2015, Essilor sold the whole of its shareholding in Dac Vision Inc. to the company Satisloh North America for the sum of €32 million. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 197 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.8 Notes to the 2014 Annual Financial Statements NOTE 19. RESULTS (AND OTHER FEATURES) OF THE LAST FIVE FISCAL YEARS Capital at year-end € thousands 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Share capital 38,861 38,646 38,650 38,527 38,098 Number of ordinary shares outstanding 215,892,528 214,699,498 214,724,040 214,038,296 211,655,342 o/w treasury stock 3,959,921 4,454,406 4,387,477 5,363,126 2,894,112 Number of preferred, non-voting shares outstanding (without voting rights) Transactions and results for the year € thousands 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Net revenue 830,421 800,847 737,543 678,430 680,533 Proﬁt before tax and calculated expenses (amortization and provisions) 749,634 373,329 445,205 300,219 362,900 Income tax expense -268 1,066 11,294 -14,408 -5,077 Employee proﬁt-sharing due for the year Proﬁt after tax and calculated expenses (amortization and provisions) 693,536 326,184 407,376 273,061 341,947 Total dividends 216,171 197,630 185,096 177,374 173,272 Earnings per share € thousands 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Earnings per share, after tax and employee proﬁt-sharing, but before calculated expenses (amortization and provisions), excluding treasury stock 3.54 1.77 2.06 1.51 1.76 Earnings per share, after tax, employee proﬁt-sharing, calculated expenses (amortization and provisions), excluding treasury stock 3.27 1.55 1.94 1.31 1.64 (a) Net dividend per ordinary share 1.02 0.94 0.88 0.85 0.83 Net dividend per preferred, non-voting share (a) Subject to the decision of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 5, 2015. Personnel € thousands, except for the average number of employees 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Average number of employees in the year 3,305 3,425 3,457 3,464 3,528 Total payroll 175,783 172,407 167,943 161,028 157,673 Total beneﬁts 99,676 97,673 96,729 81,492 79,270 198 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 FINANCIAL 3.9 Statutory Auditors’ Report on the ﬁnancial statements STATEMENTS 3.9 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended December 31, 2014 To the Shareholders, I n compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your • the justiﬁcation of our assessments; General Meeting, we hereby report to you, for the year ended December 31, 2014, on: • the speciﬁc veriﬁcations and information required by law. These ﬁnancial statements have been approved by the Board of • the audit of the accompanying ﬁnancial statements of Essilor Directors. Our role is to express an opinion on these financial International; statements based on our audit. I. Opinion on the ﬁnancial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards well as the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements. We applicable in France. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the ﬁnancial statements are free of material misstatement. An believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. 3 In our opinion, the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view audit involves performing procedures, using sampling techniques of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the or other methods of selection, to obtain audit evidence about the Company at December 31, 2014 and of the results of its operations amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements. An audit also for the year then ended in accordance with French accounting includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies principles. used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made, as II. Justiﬁcation of our assessments In accordance with the requirements of Article L.823-9 of the French application of these accounting methods and ensured that the notes Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the justiﬁcation of to the ﬁnancial statements contained appropriate disclosures. our assessments, we bring to your attention the following matters: These assessments were made as part of our audit of the ﬁnancial Note 1.5 to the ﬁnancial statements describes accounting policies statements, taken as a whole, and therefore contributed to the and methods applied to investment securities. opinion we formed which is expressed in the ﬁrst part of this report. As part of our assessment of the accounting principles and policies applied by the Company, we veriﬁed the appropriateness and correct III. Speciﬁc veriﬁcations and information We have also performed, in accordance with professional (Code de commerce) relating to remuneration and beneﬁts received standards applicable in France, the speciﬁc veriﬁcations required by the directors and any other commitments made in their favor, we by French law. have veriﬁed its consistency with the ﬁnancial statements, or with the underlying information used to prepare these ﬁnancial statements We have no matters to report as to the fair presentation and the and, where applicable, with the information obtained by your Company consistency with the ﬁnancial statements of the information given from companies controlling it or controlled by it. Based on this work, in the management report of the Board of Directors, and in the we attest the accuracy and fair presentation of this information. documents addressed to the shareholders with respect to the ﬁnancial position and the ﬁnancial statements. In accordance with French law, we have veriﬁed that the required information concerning the purchase of investments and controlling Concerning the information given in accordance with the interests and the identity of shareholders and holders of the voting requirements of Article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code rights has been properly disclosed in the management report. Neuilly-sur-Seine and Courbevoie, March 2, 2015 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Mazars Christine Bouvry Daniel Escudeiro Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 199 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.1 INTRODUCTION 4.2 SOCIAL INFORMATION 4.2.1 4.2.2 4.2.3 Employment Organization of labor Labor / management relations 202 205 205 208 208 4.4.4 Fair practices 4 4.4.2 Relationships with persons or organizations interested in the Company’s business activities, particularly inclusion associations, educational establishments, environmental protection associations, consumer associations and neighboring populations 4.4.3 Subcontractors and suppliers 225 226 227 4.2.4 Health and Safety 210 4.4.5 Other initiatives undertaken to promote 4.2.5 Training 211 human rights 229 4.2.6 Equal opportunities 213 4.2.7 Promotion and upholding of the Fundamental Conventions of the 4.5 NOTE ON METHODOLOGY 230 International Labour Organization 214 4.6 INDEPENDENT THIRD-PARTY REPORT 4.3 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 215 ON THE CONSOLIDATED CORPORATE, 4.3.1 4.3.2 General environmental policy Pollution and waste management 215 217 SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL 4.3.3 Sustainable use of resources 219 INFORMATION INCLUDED 4.3.4 Climate change 221 IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT 235 4.3.5 Safeguarding biodiversity 222 4.7 LOCATION OF GRI ELEMENTS 237 4.4 INFORMATION ON SOCIETAL ENGAGEMENT TO PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 223 4.4.1 Regional, economic and social impacts of the Company’s activities 223 200 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 IN BRIEF Improving lives by improving sight “Our mission lies at the heart of a unique business model that has demonstrated beyond doubt that it can create is our fundamental commitment shared value for all our stakeholders. We are proud of what we have achieved so far, but there is still much and contribution to sustainable to be done. At present, there are still too many barriers that prevent a third of the inhabitants of our planet from and responsible development. getting the eye care they need. Providing everyone, everywhere with access to visual health remains a major challenge. Too many people do not even know what it means to see well, and yet very simple solutions exist to enable people to enjoy good sight and take advantage of it in their daily lives. Thanks to our Corporate Mission Division, we can now really put our expertise to work. We can capitalize on and even extend our geographical range, develop innovative ideas and strategies to address this global issue of uncorrected vision, and continue to create more shared value. Vision for Life (a), the program supported by two endowment funds recently created by the Group, will help to boost initiatives aimed at eradicating poor sight and promote visual health by raising awareness, organizing vision-care clinics and setting up a basic professional infrastructure. We are incorporating all aspects of sustainable and responsible development into our operations so that we can address one of today’s most basic needs and contribute to future economic prosperity, while at the same time making a substantial positive social impact. For all of these reasons, I am pleased to renew our long-term commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, both in our strategy and in our day-to-day operations, and to share our progress in this chapter of our 2014 Registration Document.” Hubert Sagnières Chairman and Chief Executive Officer ESSILOR INTERNATIONAL WAS PRESENTED WITH A “GOLDEN GOVERNANCE” AWARD FOR ITS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT THE 11TH AGEFI (FRENCH FINANCIAL EXPERTS GROUP) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AWARDS IN 2014. Low Carbon 100 Europe Index® (a) More information in Section 4.4. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 201 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.1 Introduction 4.1 INTRODUCTION Fiscal year 2014 is the second year to beneﬁt from the work done • bring the Group’s reporting into stricter compliance with by the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee of the Board of international standards, including Version G4 of the Global Directors. This unique method of governance makes it possible to Reporting Initiative (GRI). make the various aspects of what is now known as sustainable This materiality analysis was preceded by a review of the Group’s development an integral part of Essilor’s strategy. corporate communications based on its 2013 Annual Report and In 2014, Transitions conducted its reporting as a pilot project, Registration Document, internal and external publications, rating but Essilor International decided not to include it in the reporting agency reports, and a report on the Group’s position following a perimeter of ﬁrst-year ﬁnancially consolidated companies. As a comparison of its non-ﬁnancial communications with those of ﬁve result, the reporting perimeter has slightly less coverage than other multinational companies and ﬁve other companies operating the previous period for the time being (69% coverage versus in the same vision care sector or an associated healthcare 72.4% in 2013). The Company is committed to achieving its target sector. Essilor International belongs to subsector 4537 “Medical of 85% coverage in terms of number of employees by 2017. Supplies,” the “Healthcare Equipment and Services” sector, and The Group is unable to commit to 100% coverage and wishes to the “Health” supersector and industry sector. The study was maintain a reserve of 15% to anticipate a situation where one accompanied by an in-depth examination of the media coverage or more companies with a large workforce are acquired within of the Group and of ophthalmic lens industry stakeholders. a single ﬁscal year, but are unable to report their non-ﬁnancial The materiality analysis was based on 33 interviews conducted and ﬁnancial information within the same period when included externally with prescribers, customers, shareholders, suppliers, in Essilor’s ﬁnancial statements for the ﬁrst time. Refer to the non-government bodies, rating agencies and banks, and “Methodology” Section in this Chapter. internally with a wide variety of operational or support functions In 2014, the Company produced a materiality analysis, which represented at the Group’s Executive Committee and relating to enabled it to: key businesses or major geographical regions. • maintain its lead, continue to update the CSR component of The results of this work are illustrated in the chart below, with its strategy at regular intervals, anticipate risks, and take the degree of importance as assessed internally (by Essilor) on advantage of opportunities stemming from its day-to-day the horizontal x-axis, and the degree of importance as assessed operations; by independent stakeholders on the vertical y-axis. The chart highlights the 20 most signiﬁcant topics out of a total of 54 topics • reﬁne and thus simplify its integrated reporting by highlighting considered to be signiﬁcant, and places them in three categories: the indicators pertaining to the most relevant issues and “priority,” “important” and “ongoing.” monitoring them as a priority, given that they present the greatest material impact; • consult with its stakeholders in more depth, thereby taking advantage of this ideal opportunity; Four “priority” topics on which Essilor has already taken action and has long been achieving results: • Two have traditionally strengthened the Group’s very nature by • One attests to the creation of additional environmental value, creating additional social value and will continue to do so both in the past, present and future. This increased significantly now and in the future: in the middle of the last century with the invention of ORMA • providing visual health to populations through high-quality (ORganic MAterial), which immediately eliminated the need products and services; for the Group to manufacture breakable mineral lenses and • promoting the creation of inclusive economic models allowed it to gradually reduce its environmental footprint at a for greater access to vision care channels for everyone, time when the very notion of sustainable development had yet including people at the bottom of the pyramid. to be conceptualized. Today Essilor continues this process of ongoing improvement, which is the hallmark of a group where • One attests to what has been one of the Group’s key values innovation, positive challenging of what exists and the constant since its establishment, namely the creation of additional quest for progress are evident on a daily basis: corporate value – a twofold economic and human objective that has been and will continue to be part of its corporate mission: • optimizing water use. • attracting, following and retaining talent. 202 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND 4.1 Introduction ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Ten “important” topics, which are also part of this same process and have also enjoyed longstanding success: • Four have created, are creating and will continue to create • Three have created, are creating and will continue to create additional social value: additional shared value: • investment in local communities and participation in their • individual employee development; development; • quality of life in the workplace; • inclusion of CSR in the Group’s strategy and integration of • organizing Health and Safety. performance indicators in the Group’s overall performance; • quality and safety of the products and services placed on • Three have created, are creating and will continue to create additional environmental value: the market; • ethical business conduct in a competitive environment. • optimizing energy use; • optimizing the use of raw materials and consumables; • complying with environmental standards. Six “ongoing” topics, which are also clearly part of this same process and have also clearly enjoyed longstanding success: • Two have created, are creating and will continue to create • Two have created, are creating and will continue to create additional social value: additional environmental value: • responsibility toward our products and services; • minimizing waste and promoting recycling; • anti-corruption efforts. • examining environmental criteria in more detail when assessing supplier CSR. • Two have created, are creating and will continue to create additional corporate value: • occupational health and safety; • anti-discrimination. Results of the materiality review of CSR topics Final results PRIORITY Optimization of water use TOPICS 4 Ensure good vision quality and eye care of the populations Importance for stakeholders Talent retention IMPORTANT TOPICS Individual development of employees Promotion of social business or BOP models ONGOING TOPICS Integration of CSR Investments in local communities and criteria in the monitoring promotion of communities development Fight against discrimination of economic performance of any kind Optimization of materials Waste minimisation and consumption recycling optimisation Compliance regarding environment Fight against corruption Optimization of energy Supplier assessment consumption Quality of life at work regarding environment Compliance regarding product Health and wellness responsibility obligations Organisation of health and safety at work Safety and quality of products put on the market Fight against anti-competitive behavior Importance for ESSILOR Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 203 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.1 Introduction Essilor International has been reporting on its corporate, social Finally, since the 2012 ﬁscal year, and following the introduction of and environmental performance for 12 years (since ﬁscal year the Grenelle 2 Law, Essilor International has continued to use the 2002). At the beginning, this information was provided in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and gradually extend Annual Report. In 2003 it was published in a separate report the reporting perimeter to cover most of Essilor’s legal entities entitled “Seeing the World Better/2003. Our contribution to ﬁnancially consolidated. sustainable development.” That report was distributed at the As a result, the Group’s annual Registration Document fully Essilor International Shareholders’ General Meeting and made complies with the Grenelle 2 Law format and thanks to the available to all stakeholders. It was primarily intended for internal materiality test performed in 2014 will soon comply with Version use as a means of making employees aware of sustainable G4 of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, which the development in action issues and the Company’s social and Group has adopted for many years. societal responsibility. Following the entry into force of Article 225 of the Grenelle 2 Law In 2004 and 2005, reporting on these matters was included in the and its application decree of April 24, 2012, and as from ﬁscal Annual Reports for those years. In 2006, the Group published a 2013, the reports issued by KPMG Audit include a certification second, separate report entitled “Seeing the World Better/2006. of inclusion and reasoned opinion on the fairness of the CSR Our contribution to sustainable development.” The purpose of Information published in the Management Report and in Chapter 4 that document was to take stock of the progress achieved in the of the Registration Document. three years since the initiative was formally implemented and review the Group’s sustainable development actions. The report The numerous corporate, social and environmental data included was mainly targeted at an external audience and distributed in in this report are generally collected over a period of 12 months large quantity to stakeholders worldwide following distribution at from October 1, 2013 to September 30, 2014. the Shareholders’ General Meeting. The few data collected for the January 1, 2014 to December 31, Since the 2007 ﬁscal year, reporting on these matters has been 2014 ﬁscal year are followed in the text or in the indicator tables included in the annual Registration Document in an effort to by an “at” symbol in superscript: @. produce an integrated report. 204 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND 4.2 Social information ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.2 SOCIAL INFORMATION Essilor’s policy is to contribute to its employees’ personal development and fulﬁllment by offering them career opportunities in a global, multi-cultural and decentralized organization; to provide a working environment that respects employees’ physical and moral integrity, whatever their origins; to treat all employees fairly, in all circumstances; to enhance their employability, inside and outside the organization by facilitating their access to training throughout their career and increasing their empowerment and responsibilities in order to enrich their work and deepen their experience; and to help them become Company shareholders by implementing a responsible employee stock ownership policy. Essilor’s employee shareholding structure is a key characteristic of the Group’s social policy. It is not only of beneﬁt to employees but also shareholders by aligning their common interests regarding the Company’s performance and the value created as a result. It brings the Group a particularly positive affectio societatis, which goes well beyond a simple sense of pride or of belonging. Essilor’s social policies have followed the Group’s international orientation. They were implemented in the early decades by expatriate French executives. The policies then followed, and continue to follow, the Group’s ongoing globalization through an approach to human resources management generally applied by local executives, who are responsible for running operations in their respective countries. 4.2.1 Employment Total workforce and breakdown of employees by gender, age and geographical area As of December 31, 2014, Essilor had 58,032 employees Essilor does not employ many temporary workers (European worldwide (including all those working in proportionately Regulation 809/2004/EC, Appendix 1, Paragraph 17.1). consolidated companies). The average workforce for 2014 was 58,480 (employees corresponding to the amount reported for consolidated employee beneﬁts expense for the period). 2014 2013 2012 (@) (@) LA 01 Workforce at the end of the 58,032 55,129 50,668 LA 01 period for the entire year 2014(@) Average workforce 58,480(@) 52,962(@) 50,212 4 for the entire year 2014(@) LA 01 Breakdown of workforce North America 12,105 (@) (20.9%) 12,548 (@) (22.7%) 12,875 (25.6%) by geographical region Europe 10,029 (@) (17.3%) 10,768 (@) (19.6%) 11,613 (23.1%) (out of 55,129 employees (@) (@) at year end entire year Latin America/Africa/ 35,898 (61.8%) 31,813 (57.7%) 25,724 (51.3%) in 2014) (@) Asia/ Australia/ Middle East/ Russia LA 01 Workforce covered by 2014 40,371 39,937 34,075 reporting on the period Coverage 69.0% 72.4% 67.3% LA 01 Breakdown of workforce Women 21,306 (52.8%) 22,061 (55.2%) 18,998 (55.8%) by gender (out of 40,371 Men 19,065 (47.2%) 17,876 (44.8%) 15,077 (44.2%) reported for the period) LA 01 Breakdown of workforce by Production 32,256 (@) (55.1%) 29,700 (@) (56.1%) 29,888 (59.5%) category (@) (out of an average Supervisors and 19,216 (@) (32.9%) 16,721 (@) (31.6%) 14,062 (28.0%) workforce of 58,480 over all employees of 2014) (@) Managerial personnel 7,008 (@) (12.0%) 6,541 (@) (12.3%) 6,262 (12.5%) Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 205 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.2 Social information 2014 2013 2012 LA 01 Breakdown of workforce Under 18 years 177 (0.44%) 128 (0.32%) 50 (0.15%) by age group (out of 40,371 18 to 24 years 3,839 (9.51%) 4,095 (10.25%) 3,451 (10.13%) reported for the period) 25 to 34 years 12,112 (30.00%) 11,936 (29.89%) 10,265 (30.12%) 35 to 44 years 11,623 (28.79%) 10,649 (26.66%) 8,907 (26.14%) 45 to 54 years 7,941 (19.67%) 7,700 (19.28%) 6,651 (19.52%) 55 to 59 years 2,850 (7.06%) 2,963 (7.42%) 2,572 (7.55%) 60 years and over 1,829 (4.53%) 2,466 (6.18%) 2,179 (6.39%) New hires and layoffs relevant at the worldwide level since too many factors come into play and vary from year to year, one of the most important being Workforce at the end of the period for the entire year in 2014: 58,032 @ the Group’s growth. For the same reasons, just comparing total Workforce at the end of the period for the entire year in 2013: 55,129 workforce year on year does not provide sufficiently detailed information with regard to the number of new hires and layoffs. Workforce at the end of the period for the entire year in 2012: 50,668 This is why one of the ways for Essilor International to resolve 2014/2013 change: +5.27%(@) this complex issue and better assess the number of new hires and The staff turnover calculation is known and measured in each layoffs worldwide is to refer to staff turnover. legal entity but is currently not consolidated. That would not be 2014 2013 2012 LA 02 Staff turnover 8.9% 8.9% 8.5% Note: for entities not yet reporting this data, the turnover rate is assessed on the basis of the entities’ own multi-pronged assessment. Salary changes Total salaries in 2014: €1,743 million(@) Average weighted salary changes could be calculated but this would not be relevant globally since there are too many variants Total salaries in 2013: €1,597 million from one year to the next (the Group’s growth being one of the Total salaries in 2012: €1,550 million major variants). 2014/2013 change: +9.1%(@) Employee incentive plans and proﬁt-sharing agreements There are three types of special incentives available to employees Under French law, these proﬁt shares are not treated as salary. of the French parent company. As a result, they are exempt from payroll taxes but are subject to personal income tax and the CSG-CRDS taxes. ■ 1 Discretionary proﬁt-sharing plan Individual proﬁt shares are calculated as follows: The three-year profit-sharing agreement signed on June 15, • 40% prorated to the period of employment with the Company 2013 and governed by Articles L.3311-1 et seq. of the French during the ﬁscal year; Labor Code is still in force. This agreement expires at the end of • 60% prorated to the reference salary. ﬁscal year 2015. This salary is subject to a €80,000 ceiling and a €25,000 ﬂoor. Discretionary profit-sharing is designed to motivate employee The amount of the discretionary proﬁt-sharing bonus is capped beneﬁciaries and recognize collective effort. as follows: As such, it complements other variable and collective compensation components offered by Essilor International • the total amount of profit shares distributed is capped at 20% of the aggregate gross salaries and, if applicable, the to its employees as a means of linking them to the Company’s annual salary or business income of grantees referred to in performance. Article L.3312-3 of the French Labor Code, paid to eligible Discretionary proﬁt-sharing bonuses are calculated according to employees during the ﬁscal year of calculation; two criteria: • independently of the overall ceiling, there is an individual • criterion 1: the Group’s consolidated revenue growth (excluding ceiling according to which the discretionary profit-sharing strategic acquisitions); bonus is capped for each employee at half the annual Social Security ceiling. • criterion 2: net margin organic growth. Both criteria have the same weighting. 206 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND 4.2 Social information ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Discretionary proﬁt shares paid over the last ﬁve ﬁscal years were ■ 3 Proﬁt-sharing bonus as follows: Article 1 of the French Finance Law 2011-894 of July 28, 2011 • 2014: €5,975,000 for 2013; amending the social security provisions for 2011 provides for a • 2013: €5,172,000 for 2012; proﬁt sharing bonus arrangement for companies that normally have a workforce of 50 or more as deﬁned in Article L.3222-2 and • 2012: €4,474,000 for 2011; L.3222-4 of the French Labor Code, when such company pursuant • 2011: €4,154,000 for 2010; to Article L.232-12 of the French Commercial Code grants to its partners or shareholders a dividend per partner interest or per • 2010: €4,304,000 for 2009. share that is higher than the average dividend per partner interest or per share paid in previous years. ■ 2 Statutory proﬁt-sharing plan Management has therefore decided to grant a per-person bonus The proﬁt-sharing reserve for eligible employees is calculated of €450 gross as proﬁt share to all full-time employees in service according to a legally-prescribed formula based on profit for in ﬁscal year 2013. the year, equity at the year-end, gross salaries and the valueThis amount is prorated to the length of time the person was added generated by the Company. Under the terms of an employed during that fiscal year, and is exempt from social agreement signed with employee representatives, the amount security contributions but is subject to the CSG and the CRDS as determined according to the legally-prescribed formula is well as to income tax. increased by 50%. In accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned law, In view of the level of the parent company’s equity, no amounts all beneﬁciaries were employees of Essilor International, with a have been credited to the profit-sharing reserve for eligible French employment contract and in service in ﬁscal year 2013. employees. Employees – Essilor’s main shareholder Since its founding, Essilor has been committed to a strong internal aligned with those of shareholders. The employee shareholding is shareholding policy, and today nearly one in four employees is a multi-faceted and tailored to the legal framework of each country. company shareholder. Employees are Essilor’s main shareholder, It has a unique structure comprising more than seven thousand and this has given rise to an original method of governance that employees and is managed by non-profit group Valoptec encourages dialogue and involves employees in the Group’s Association, which is governed by the French law of 1901. key decisions. It also means that the interests of employees are 2014 2013 2012 Number of employee shareholders Percentage of employee shareholders 12,558 21.5% 12,041 22.7% N/C N/A 4 Note: Percentage calculation based on an average workforce of 58,480 for the entire year 2014. Essilor International’s Employee Shareholders’ Department sets As of December 31, 2014, active and retired employees held 8.4% up and manages employee share ownership plans in all Essilor of the share capital and 14.5% of voting rights. companies. Note that all Essilor International shareholders who keep their With eight multilingual employees, the department helps establish registered shares for at least two years have a double voting right. rules for these plans and manages shareholder transactions on a daily basis. It provides regular information to employee shareholders, as it does for other shareholders. In 2014, new plans were set up with our partners in the following countries: Brazil, Canada, China, the Republic of Korea and the United Kingdom. Performance shares were also distributed. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 207 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.2 Social information 4.2.2 Organization of labor Organization of working hours When it comes to working hours, decisions are made locally based on at least the following main principles, which are just four of Working hours vary considerably within the Essilor group. Each many others either existing or possible: legal entity has the autonomy to decide the most appropriate working hours. Essilor International is unable to prepare a • meeting customer requirements; comprehensive document listing the working hours at each • discussion with employees either via their representatives establishment. through any possible means, or directly, for smaller entities; • compliance with all local laws relating to the organization of working hours; • optimal operating efficiency. Absenteeism 2014 2013 2012 LA 07 Rates of injury, occupational illnesses, lost days, Rate of 4.8% 4.7% 4.8% absenteeism and total number of work-related fatalities absenteeism See LA 07 indicator table below for details Note: for entities not yet reporting this data, the absenteeism rate is assessed on the basis of the entities’ own multi-pronged assessment. 4.2.3 Labor / management relations Organization of dialogue between management The European Works Council, which at Essilor International is called the Essilor European Dialogue and Information Committee and employees, especially procedures for (EEDIC), holds an annual plenary meeting. In 2014, this took place providing information to employees and the in Madrid, Spain on May 21, 22 and 23. consulting and negotiation process This plenary session featured extensive presentations on Dialogue between management and employees varies widely at this year’s implementation in Europe of the structure that will Essilor. Each legal entity has complete autonomy to decide on the be called by the generic name of “Country Management” to most appropriate labor-related dialogue. Essilor International is coordinate and manage brands at the national level, with a special unable to prepare a comprehensive document listing labor-related focus on Spain. dialogue at each establishment. The Group’s Human Resources policy and its two main thrusts: When it comes to dialogue between management and employees, Essilor promotes listening, discussion and transparency in local • a strong corporate culture based on the Group’s principles and values; decision-making. It also encourages open communication with employees and strives to ensure that everyone can participate • the need to anticipate changes and adapt to and follow through without hierarchical boundaries. on them, especially when these changes involve organizational or skills-related development and as a result will require Labor-related dialogue is generally organized by employee training. representatives through any possible means or directly for the smallest entities or those not wishing to be represented by one The Group’s long-term development policy was reviewed, or more third parties. Such dialogue covers more than 90% of the especially its core mission, which is to provide access to vision Group’s total workforce. care to the 2.5 billion people around the world who currently have limited or no access to vision care whatsoever. Representative bodies include: Optical Union in Brazil; Shanghai Essilor Optical Company Limited Trade Union in China; Essilor The commitment to continue sharing information and make it European Dialogue and Information Committee (EEDIC) in Europe; more readily available to everyone is illustrated by the ease with Karmika Sangha in India; Confederation of Filipino Workers, which all documents relating to office and plenary meetings may Essilor Manufacturing Philippines Incorporated Chapter in the be viewed on the intranet in the EEDIC archives. This is not only in Philippines; Essilor Workers’ Union of Thailand in Thailand; and keeping with the key goal of making EEDIC more visible and more numerous activity committees, communication committees, active in Europe in compliance with the new EU directive, but more employee committees, factory committees, safety committees, importantly, it demonstrates how genuinely committed Essilor welfare committees and similar bodies. 208 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND 4.2 Social information ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING has always been to high-quality labor-related communication and Staff consultation also takes on a wide variety of forms depending dialogue. on the legal entity, but Essilor consistently promotes this throughout the world as a key factor of success, performance and Like every year, the Board met three times in ordinary session and strategic alignment. twice in extraordinary session. Similarly, staff negotiations vary from one establishment to Reporting procedures can vary from one legal entity to another another, but Essilor consistently promotes these throughout the depending on the nature of the information, but Essilor world as a factor in employee satisfaction. consistently promotes these procedures throughout the world as a key factor in operating success and strategic alignment. Global staff opinion polls continue to be conducted periodically within the Group. One of the many examples is the reporting procedure relating to the minimum notification period required in the event of a substantial change to operating activity. See GRI indicator LA 05. LA 04 Percentage of employees covered Essilor’s management style is deeply rooted in the Group’s history and its by collective bargaining agreements twofold economic and humanitarian objective and is underpinned in particular by the distribution, understanding and application of the rules contained in a document translated into 27 languages and entitled Essilor Principles. It encourages dialogue between management and employees, whether or not the employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. All Group employees have access to health and social security cover, which varies according to local characteristics and is the result of communication between employees and management. The Group’s well-developed employee shareholder structure fosters an understanding of subjects linking economic and employee-related issues, and aligns the interests of salaried associates with those of shareholders. LA 05 Minimum notice period(s) regarding Notice is generally provided more than six months in advance. signiﬁcant operational changes, including whether speciﬁed in collective agreements Collective bargaining agreements performance by virtue of their expertise and/or talent. The vast majority of collective bargaining agreements pertain to the There are a vast number of collective bargaining agreements per introduction of both long-term benefits (medical coverage, establishment or group of establishments, or per country. Each pensions, health and disability insurance, life insurance, etc.) as legal entity has the autonomy to implement collective bargaining agreements. Essilor International is not in a position to provide the complete list of collective bargaining agreements in a well as short-term beneﬁts (performance bonuses, distribution of performance shares, shareholding, etc.). 4 comprehensive document. Most collective bargaining agreements are renewed at regular intervals, often after being reviewed and improved. Essilor promotes collective bargaining agreements as a way to attract and retain employees who contribute to the Group’s The 2014 collective bargaining agreements generally ﬁt this trend. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 209 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.2 Social information 4.2.4 Health and Safety Health and safety in the workplace Action plans have been implemented with speciﬁc objectives and targets for better prevention and reduction of occupational health With a staff that includes experts in occupational health and safety, and safety risks. chemical management and ergonomics, the Global Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Department provides the network of EHS OHSAS 18001 guidelines represent an entry point to occupational correspondents throughout the organization with assistance and health and safety policies at all facilities. One of the goals of these support in these areas. policies is to improve occupational health and safety awareness, training and communication. In line with Essilor’s decentralized management policy, which focuses on empowering local front-line managers, the individual In 2014, the ad hoc working group continued to implement entities have their own health, safety and environment experts. action plans that successfully brought Essilor into compliance with REACH. The Group is made up of managers and/or experts Occupational health and safety management systems that address in purchasing, legal affairs, sustainable development, the local objectives were set up at the beginning of the millennium environment, workplace health and safety, and research and and are maintained at Essilor’s upstream plants. Production development. It also uses an external consultant and the Technical facilities in Brazil (1), China (1), the United States (1), France (3), Center of a professional body. It will continue to monitor REACH Ireland (1), Mexico (1), the Philippines (2), Puerto Rico (1), and compliance over the long term, undertaking upgrade programs as Thailand (1) were OHSAS 18001-certiﬁed as of December 31, 2014 required. The working group members include representatives of and, in fact, have been since December 31, 2008. In 2014, an old the Instruments Division and other Essilor subsidiaries and legal production site was shut down and a new site opened at which the entities. certiﬁcation process has not yet begun. As a result, the percentage of certiﬁed health and safety management systems of the Group’s The Global EHS Department also uses a tool to manage safety data upstream production facilities remains at 92% (12/13). sheets worldwide. The tool applies the directives of the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) and is used in combination with an HSE In 2014, inspection audits were carried out as planned. guide for new products and projects, which was updated in 2013 In addition to the mass production sites mentioned above, some and is a further means of improving EHS risk management. of the larger prescription and service laboratories in terms of volume handled have set up and maintain occupational health and safety systems. They are OHSAS 18001-certiﬁed whenever Occupational health and safety agreements signed relevant. with trade unions or employee representatives Other prescription and service laboratories and smaller To our knowledge, there are strictly speaking no agreements to entities for which the formal installation of an occupational date signed with trade unions or employee representatives limited health and safety management system is not justified ensure solely to occupational health and safety issues. that occupational health and safety, ergonomics and working Agreements signed on such issues typically have a broader conditions are handled in a similar fashion. This is done by their framework in respect of general working conditions and therefore ad hoc committees, typically a local version of France’s committee include occupational health and safety. for hygiene, safety and working conditions (CHSCT), as part of a continuous improvement process, much like the Plan-Do-CheckPlease also refer to the above description of the health and safety Act (PDCA) cycle. management systems. Workplace accidents, particularly frequency and seriousness 2014 2013 2012 LA 07 Rates of injury, occupational illnesses, Accidents with lost work time 172 192 216 lost days, absenteeism and total number Accidents without lost work time 338 386 638 of work-related fatalities Fatal accidents 0 0 0 Lost work days 4,379 4,179 2,735 Rate of absenteeism 4.8% 4.7% 4.8% (@) Frequency rate for the period 2.0 2.6 3.5 Severity rate for the period 0.05 (@) 0.06 0.08 210 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND 4.2 Social information ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Occupational illnesses Identifying and monitoring the possible occurrence of disorders (MSDs). An ergonomics position has been created within occupational illnesses is the task of each establishment but to the Global EHS Department to initiate and monitor programs date their quantiﬁcation has not been consolidated. It is therefore set up to reduce the existing number of cases and prevent the not included in GRI indicator LA7. The vast majority of reported occurrence of new ones. These programs were continued in 2014. occupational illnesses fall within the category of musculoskeletal LA 08 Education, training, counseling, prevention, The Group takes action in this area whenever necessary. In 2005, it formed and risk-control programs in place to a health watch unit tasked in particular with monitoring avian ﬂu. In 2009, assist workforce members, their families, the unit established an action plan to monitor changes in inﬂuenza type A or community members in the event of (H1N1) and provide support as necessary. Still on the alert in 2014, the watch serious illness unit continues to work closely with contracted health experts who follow the recommendations of the World Health Organization. The watch unit can be activated immediately in the event of a new crisis. 4.2.5 Training Training policies A global initiative was undertaken in 2014 to raise awareness of available training resources and make better use of the materials Throughout the world, Essilor entities invest in training. Such available to support the development of Group entities. It brought investment underpins the Group’s operational excellence, together more than 45 players involved in human resources, ensures ongoing employee training and increases employees’ professional development or training at the international level, knowledge, experience and professional proﬁle. Training policies and led to a strengthening of the role of e-learning in talent vary enormously from one establishment to another, depending on development. Almost 500 modules were made available to some the main business activity. However, they have many elements in 15,000 Group managers through the e-learning platform already common, the three main ones being: in use in the United States. With modules featuring customized • training tailored to the activity of the facility and focused on the corporate content (Essilor Principles and compliance), businessline content (products and sales), and management-specific facility’s operating strategies (mass production, prescription and service laboratories, distribution centers, distribution content (developed in the United States in collaboration with subsidiaries, etc.) that the Human Resource Departments the Center for Creative Leadership), the teams have developed translate into new skills; • individual support provided to employees to improve their curricula fully in tune with the skills needed in the key businesses, which will help improve the Company’s performance. 4 performance within their business area; and Known as “Essilor University,” the global training offer now gives all employees a fairly comprehensive overview of all the • development of talent and employability. resources available to them to further their careers. The main goal of training policies is to help staff successfully In 2014 numerous training courses were held on quality perform their daily work in the short and medium term. These management, not only relating to products but also to processes, policies follow changes in the Company and are tailored to customer service and satisfaction, the environment, and its strategies. Particular attention is paid to offering training occupational health and safety. Essilor also continued to invest programs that use all methods of learning. The use of independent in the professional development of its managers, with the help of trainers, or courses and exchange programs with other companies training programs created in 2012, as part of its ongoing goal to help acquire new know-how and offer openings beyond the support the Group’s growth momentum. boundaries of the Company. While in-house programs are obviously adapted to local needs, they also result in the sharing In connection with its talent management policy, Essilor focused of best practices between entities based on common standards on Group managers who are key to its success and whose regarding skills. Distance learning (e-learning) provides complete professional development is important. The programs have been access to general-interest content or content that is designed for constructed to apply to several management levels: new hires. • the General Management Program (GMP) is aimed at those Programs where employees take responsibility for their who primarily work with their teams to perform strategyown development are also offered. Communication with line related operational tasks. It offers a selection of business management is fully transparent and new skills are approved so topics (strategy, marketing, operations, finance) as part of that progress can be recorded and the virtuous cycle of win-win the continuous learning program underpinned by Harvard development can be continued. ManageMentor®. Organized in three major regions, the Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 211 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.2 Social information program is run in partnership with three management schools Vision Essilor is an orientation program for new managers and has a common curriculum to which an appropriate local consisting of an entire week dedicated to direct discussions with component is added. Leadership is an integral part of the general management. The purpose is to identify challenges, program which prepares managers to constantly steer change seize opportunities, share good practices, and instill awareness in a more effective manner; of the Group’s culture and values, which are regularly enriched by new partners joining the Group. Essilor’s principles are • the Advanced Management Program (AMP) is aimed at those widely communicated at these sessions. In a strong sign of the who are primarily involved in transforming key strategic remarkable investment by the Group’s general management objectives and then sharing them with their operating teams. in the professional development of its managers, a session This program has a dual purpose. Firstly, it develops a strategic was organized for 110 managers from more than 20 countries approach for steering change, and secondly, it develops the plus 10 partner companies, led by 25 experts who were either qualities needed to lead teams in this context of change. Executive Committee members or their direct employees. A portion of the program is held in a high-growth country for greater insight into the growth opportunities such markets With regard to diversity, 37% of participants in these programs offer; were women, with more than 35 different countries represented, which is an accurate reﬂection of the Group’s diversity. • a Senior Management Program (SMP) will be developed in 2015. It will be aimed at managers with a direct role in To support the Group’s strategy and improve their integration, strategic development. With new roles being introduced in training has been developed specifically for our partners, the organization, especially at the country and regional level, combining academic and in-house content. The ﬁrst participants aligning the content of this program with the Group’s strategy were a group of 30 managers from China whose training program demands careful and serious thought. began in 2013 and ended in 2014. Other initiatives can be quickly developed by drawing on the experience gained from Group In 2014, three groups took part in the GMP (one per region) and programs over the last few years and using local language one new group began the AMP, for a total of 143 managers. As resources more effectively for wider dissemination of content to the 2013 AMP group (33 managers) ﬁnished its training course in the teams involved. India, the next group began its program, which will ﬁnish in Turkey in 2015. In 2015, the global offer will be expanded with content more tailored to the Group’s talent development policy. A leadership program is also available to complement the Greater emphasis will be placed on senior executives, who GMP and AMP and better prepare future leaders. Based on are spearheading the Company’s future through their own the principles of self-assessment and joint development, this professional development and that of their teams. The program program has had a major impact on our managers who not only will call for a variety of educational resources and will be based get immediate beneﬁt from the training but can use it to develop on feedback and peer coaching. their future careers. A session for 30 managers took place in the second half of the year, and the program will be expanded to include regional formats in 2015 in order to meet demand. Total number of training hours For this indicator, the increase in the number of employee training perimeter by the most recently acquired entities. As was noted hours exceeds that of the increase in workforce. This is related during the last ﬁscal year, more supervisory staff are required for to improvements made either to the measurement itself or to its new talent management programs in a trend that is continuing. 2014 2013 2012 LA 10 Average number Number of employee hours 318,164 282,969 399,438 of training hours per year, Number of management hours 238,167 161,895 138,083 per employee TOTAL 556,331 444,864 537,521 212 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND 4.2 Social information ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.2.6 Equal opportunities Measures taken to promote gender equality disability in respect of employment, the job itself or promotional opportunities. Essilor entities have introduced various measures to preserve gender equality. Aware of the value that diversity brings to the Company’s performance, Essilor offers the same promotional Anti-discrimination policy opportunities to men and women. Job-related decisions are In the case of indicator HR 04, Essilor complies in particular with based on merit, qualiﬁcations and individual ability. Essilor does Fundamental Conventions Nos. 100, covering equal pay, and 111, not engage in any discrimination based on a person’s gender in covering discrimination (employment and occupation). The few respect of employment, the job itself or promotional opportunities. allegations brought to us each year and which have triggered a procedure to classify incidents of discrimination (on average two Measures taken to promote the employment to ﬁve a year Group-wide) have not been proven. There was no procedure leading to sanctions in 2014. and integration of people with disabilities Essilor entities fight all forms of discrimination. Aware of the Similarly, Essilor entities have introduced measures to promote value that diversity brings to the Company’s performance, Essilor the employment and integration of people with disabilities. offers everyone the same promotional opportunities. Job-related Recruitment procedures allow such individuals real and decisions are based on merit, qualiﬁcations and individual ability. interesting job opportunities. All reasonable efforts are made to Essilor does not engage in any discrimination based, for example, adjust work stations so that they are accessible to persons with on a person’s color, religion, gender, disability, nationality, age disabilities whose performance might otherwise be affected. or sexual orientation in respect of employment, the job itself or Essilor does not engage in any discrimination based on a person’s promotional opportunities. 2014 2013 2012 HR 04 Total number of incidents of discrimination 0 0 0 and corrective actions taken. LA 13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown Currently, this diversity indicator is known and measured locally of employees per employee category according when the laws permit, but is not consolidated as a whole. to gender, age group, minority group membership, At December 31, 2014, the Essilor International Board and other indicators of diversity of Directors was composed of three women and twelve men (20% and 80% respectively). LA 14 Ratio of basic salary of women to men by employee category Currently, this diversity indicator is known and measured locally but is not consolidated as a whole. 4 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 213 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.2 Social information 4.2.7 Promotion and upholding of the Fundamental Conventions of the International Labour Organization As a signatory to the Global Compact, Essilor supports, promotes In the case of GRI indicators HR 05 and LA 04, Essilor complies in and complies with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights particular with Article 20 of the Universal Declaration of Human corresponding to the ﬁrst and second of its ten principles, and the Rights, namely that: eight Conventions of the ILO, corresponding to the third, fourth, ﬁfth and sixth of its ten principles. • everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association; and • no one may be compelled to belong to an association. Compliance with the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining In the case of GRI indicators HR 05 and LA 04, Essilor complies in right to organize and collective bargaining. To date, no activity has particular with Fundamental Conventions Nos. 87, covering union been identiﬁed as presenting a compliance risk in this area. freedom and the protection of union rights, and 98, covering the 2014 2013 2012 HR 05 Operations identiﬁed in which the right to exercise 0 0 0 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at signiﬁcant risk, and actions taken to support these rights The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation In the case of indicator HR 04, Essilor complies in particular with to ﬁve a year Group-wide) have not been proven. There was no Fundamental Conventions Nos. 100, covering equal pay, and 111, procedure leading to sanctions in 2014. covering discrimination (employment and occupation). The few See also “Anti-discrimination policy” above in the “Equal allegations brought to us each year and which have triggered a opportunities” Section. procedure to classify incidents of discrimination (on average two 2014 2013 2012 HR 04 Total number of incidents of discrimination 0 0 0 and corrective actions taken Elimination of forced or compulsory labor In the case of indicator HR 07, Essilor complies in particular with covering the abolition of forced labor. To date, no activity has been Fundamental Conventions Nos. 29, covering forced labor, and 105, identiﬁed as presenting a compliance risk in this area. 2014 2013 2012 HR 07 Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents 0 0 0 of forced or compulsory labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor The effective abolition of child labor In the case of indicator HR 06, Essilor complies in particular with 182, covering the worst forms of child labor. To date, no activity Fundamental Conventions Nos. 138, covering minimum age, and has been identiﬁed as presenting a compliance risk in this area. 2014 2013 2012 HR 06 Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of 0 0 0 child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor 214 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND 4.3 Environmental information ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.3 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION As a signatory to the Global Compact, and in its desire to comply with, support and promote within its sphere of inﬂuence the seventh, eighth and ninth of the Compact’s 10 principles in particular (as well as others), Essilor adopts a precautionary approach vis-à-vis the environment, researching initiatives to promote environmental responsibility and encouraging the development and dissemination of environmentally friendly technologies. The Group is committed to participating in sustainable development initiatives by helping to protect the environment and by promoting recyclable products. It also complies fully with all applicable environmental regulations, regardless of application scope or geographical region. By its very nature, Essilor’s business has only a limited impact on the environment. Nevertheless, a voluntary process has long been in place to accurately determine the environmental impact, however slight, of its activities. Essilor manages several hundred thousand stock-keeping units and its products must be kept immaculately clean throughout the production process. By optimizing the use of natural resources (water and energy, for example) on an ongoing basis, and by keeping premises clean and orderly, the Group’s environmental management systems contribute signiﬁcantly to plant efficiency. Already in the low carbon economy and listed for many years in the Low Carbon 100 Europe Index, Essilor’s “green revolution” began in the middle of last century with the introduction of the famous ORMA (ORganic MAterial) lens as a replacement for mineral lenses. This technological breakthrough paved the way to the abandonment of traditional manufacturing methods which consisted of extracting silica, treating it with heavy minerals (potash, soda, metal oxides, etc.) and melting it in high-temperature furnaces. Today this substitution is almost complete in mature markets but requires further encouragement in most emerging markets if the same levels of success are to be achieved. To convince eyeglass wearers of the beneﬁts of this simple solution to the integrity, health and safety of the eye, Essilor is now promoting only the lightest, most resistant and most environmentally friendly corrective lenses made of thermoset resins or thermoplastics. Corrective lenses made from thermoplastic materials can be recycled to manufacture new items, but may not be used again in the manufacture of corrective lenses. This means that it is not possible to introduce a circular economy in the optics businesses. One pair of corrective lenses does not represent signiﬁcant ﬁnal waste for the environment. Against this backdrop, the Group is still steadily reducing its use of resources per corrective lens produced and delivered, and working hard to make even more improvements in this area. The French Innovation and Technology Center (CIT) in Créteil is the world’s largest research center entirely dedicated to ophthalmic optics. Its goal is to strengthen the capacity for innovation at Essilor, which has a global network in keeping with its ambitions as market leader. What makes it unique is the multi-disciplinary collaboration between almost a thousand employees from departments as varied as R&D, Engineering, Worldwide Operations, Logistics, Purchasing and Quality. This strengthens the teams’ operational efficiency and increases the number of issues that can be dealt with upstream, making it easier for the Group to anticipate, adapt and respond to them during the early stages of product and service development. It also improves time to market optimally and safely by minimizing or eliminating retroactive corrective actions, including those related to environmental issues. In this regard, the use by the project teams of the EHS project guide, one of the Group’s key documents, which was updated in 2013 and accompanies the EHS Project Charter, also makes it easier for the Group to anticipate, adapt and respond to environmental and occupational health and safety requirements. 4 4.3.1 General environmental policy Organization of the Company to take into account ISO 14001-certiﬁed as of December 31, 2014 and, in fact, have been since December 31, 2005. In 2014, an old production site environmental issues and, where appropriate, was shut down and a new site opened at which the certiﬁcation processes for environmental assessment process has not yet begun. As a result, the percentage of certiﬁed or certiﬁcation environmental management systems of the Group’s upstream production facilities was 92% (12/13). Staffed in particular with experts in environment and chemical management, the Global Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) In 2014, inspection audits were carried out as planned. Department provides the network of EHS correspondents In addition to the mass production sites mentioned above, throughout the organization with assistance and support in these and whenever relevant, some of the largest prescription and areas. service laboratories in terms of volume handled have also set up In line with Essilor’s decentralized management policy, which environmental management systems that are ISO 14001-certiﬁed. focuses on empowering local front-line managers, the individual Other prescription and service laboratories, as well as smaller entities have their own health, safety and environment experts. entities for which the formal installation of an environmental management system is not justified, ensure that preventative ISO 14001-certified environmental management systems environmental impact management is handled in similar addressing local targets and objectives were set up at the start fashion by their ad hoc committees, which are composed of of the new millennium, and are maintained at Essilor’s upstream general service or maintenance experts, as part of a continuous plants. All of the production facilities worldwide, i.e. in Brazil (1), improvement process, much like the Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) China (1), the United States (1), France (3), Ireland (1), Mexico (1), cycle. the Philippines (2), Puerto Rico (1), and Thailand (1) were Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 215 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.3 Environmental information In 2014, the relevant Essilor prescription laboratories stepped up The goal is to help site employees implement the principles of their efforts to reduce water and energy consumption, continuing the Group’s EHS policy both locally and practically. This teaching the initiatives already well under way at mass production plants. is usually done in the presence of a team or site manager who A total of 112 laboratories in North America (USA and Canada), uses these modules to support training and interaction on local South America (Brazil), Europe and the AMERA (Asia/ Pacific, speciﬁcities. The modules can also be used individually as part of Middle East, Russia, Africa) region (effectively, the rest of the an online training course. world) have been singled out to create speciﬁc action plans and Available in English, they are distributed to the entire EHS network set themselves targets for 2015. for on-site use and made available to new entities joining the Group during their ﬁrst meeting with the Global EHS Department. Employee training and information on environmental protection Means employed to prevent environmental The ISO 14001 program provides for the introduction of an and pollution risk environmental policy at each site. One of the recurring aims of For the 12-month reporting period from October 1, 2013 to this policy is to improve training and internal communication on September 30, 2014, a total of €2,740,500 (versus €3,710,000 in environmental issues. 2013) was spent or invested to help prevent environmental risk In 2014 numerous training courses were held on aspects of and pollution. environmental management in the various entities. The Global Annual target-based action plans are drawn up to help prevent Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Department continued the and reduce environmental risks. Lastly, and despite the very roll-out of a program developed in 2012 to raise awareness of the low risk, each site has set up a structure to deal with pollution EHS policy and the tools for managing EHS risks. It comprises ﬁve incidents that could have consequences – however small – on the modules: environment beyond the Company’s facilities. • “When everyone plays their part, we all win”; • “Dealing with the problem at its source”; Amount of provisions and guarantees • “Observe and understand”; for environmental risk, except in cases where • “Taking action”; such information is likely to cause serious damage • “EHS Management: an essential set of guidelines”. to the Company in an ongoing dispute Essilor made no provision for environmental risk in 2014. Such risks are self-insured. 216 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND 4.3 Environmental information ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.3.2 Pollution and waste management Measures to prevent, reduce or repair air, essentially CO 2 related to power consumption, by controlling energy consumption and streamlining logistics and shipping. water and soil discharges that seriously impact the environment The prevention and reduction of water discharges are taken into account whenever relevant. This involves investing in waste Environmental impact assessments of Essilor’s operations water treatment systems, from single or combined filtering, are the basis for the environmental management systems that neutralization, settling and degreasing processes to complete use ISO 14001. They help identify the risk of air, water and soil processing units, puriﬁcation plants or similar treatment facilities. discharge. To date, no risk of air, water or soil discharge has been These measures are designed to reduce loads in existing effluent, identiﬁed as likely to have signiﬁcant impact on the environment. which, in the case of prescription laboratories, are essentially The prevention and reduction of air discharges are taken into suspended solids related to surfacing that are ﬁltered at the job account whenever relevant. For example, the Group’s entities site and sent to a dump as solid waste. invest in devices to treat volatile organic compound (VOC) The possibility of soil discharges likely to impact the emissions, ranging from simple on-site extractors to computerenvironment, even slightly, has been assessed and has led to the controlled bioﬁlters and activated carbon ﬁlters or similar devices implementation of appropriate prevention measures, such as adapted as needed. They set reduction objectives and targets retention devices to deal with accidental spills or the outﬁtting for existing discharges and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, and special management of chemical storage premises. EN 21 Total water discharges by quality The Group controls the quality of its water discharges. Suspended materials, and destination COD, ﬁve-day BOD, heavy metals and other general criteria like pH or other more speciﬁc ones depending on the requirements of local water agencies are monitored locally through the environmental management systems. The consolidation of the local data reported in EN21 is not considered relevant information. The Group’s water discharges are treated in compliance with local regulations. Measures to prevent, recycle and dispose of waste ■ Emissions, effluents and waste 4 2014 2013 EN 22 Total weight of waste by type Total quantity of solid waste 22,360 t 22,727 t and disposal method Of which: Ordinary waste: 16,101 t 17,111 t (still called non-hazardous) Special waste: 6,259 t 5,616 t (still called hazardous) EN 23 Total number and volume of signiﬁcant spills 0 2 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 217 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.3 Environmental information ■ Products and services EN 26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental The wide range of Airwear ophthalmic lenses includes corrective lenses impacts of products and services, made from thermoplastic recyclable material. For reasons of quality, the use and extent of impact mitigation of this recycled material is not possible in the manufacture of new lenses. Such materials are used for other products. The objectives and targets regularly deﬁned in the environmental management systems are essentially designed to reduce the environmental impacts, and in particular to reduce, recycle and reuse resources as much as possible, including production consumables. EN 27 Percentage of products sold and their In 2007 Essilor Worldwide Operations launched an excellence initiative called packaging materials that are reclaimed the Change Accelerating Program (CAP) based on the fundamentals of the EFQM by category model. A key strategic initiative, CAP makes it possible to structure and update economic, customer, supplier, human (social and societal) and environmental targets over three years and to develop systems to achieve them. The results are shared with all employees through meetings and other communications tools, such as booklets, which are distributed to all employees in all languages. The program has led to solid strategies, especially concerning the development of human capital, relationships and partnerships with customers, and environmental safeguarding. The Group has initiated permanent measures to reduce, reuse and recycle its packaging materials. All of Essilor’s ranges of ophthalmic lenses are delivered to eye care professionals in cardboard boxes or envelopes made of recycled paper. Cupless® packaging, which has been used for several years and received an innovation award when it was launched at a packaging materials trade show, has made it possible to eliminate the use of several hundred million plastic cups. The elimination of eyewear at the end of the life cycle is not a signiﬁcant environmental nuisance. ■ Compliance 2014 2013 EN 28 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes 0 (@) 0 (@) EN 28 Total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance 0 0 with environmental laws and regulations Preventing waste generation starts with consistently good results • the invention of a revolutionary blocking system by the from quality-control management systems, which signiﬁcantly Equipment Division that will pave the way for the entire limits the potential occurrence of manufacturing defects. This is industry to gradually replace the traditional systems adopted followed by recycling and reusing materials and/or components to block and to surface ophthalmic lenses while still using whenever appropriate. Three good examples of this are: metal alloys that are sometimes used in surfacing treatments. • the recycling of more than 95% of elastomer gaskets used in Essilor entities have a waste sorting system to manage their large-scale manufacturing and which are cleaned, ground and ordinary and special industrial waste. This waste is recorded and ﬁnally mixed with 5% new material to produce new joints; taken away by certiﬁed specialist companies. • the use of Cupless boxes, an innovation in cardboard packaging that offers a number of beneﬁts, including dispensing with the Consideration of noise pollution and any plastic cup previously used to protect the lens inside, without altering the level of protection; other form of pollution speciﬁc to an activity No complaints about noise, odor or any other form of specific pollution were received in 2014. 218 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND 4.3 Environmental information ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.3.3 Sustainable use of resources Water used Essilor International was able to continue reducing the consumption of water per lens produced. The current challenge for the Group, which has already been working on this for the past ﬁfteen years with good results, lies generally in conquering the ultimate additional percentages of reduction. The circulation of good practices among all entities of the Group helps achieve this objective. 2014 2013 EN 08 Total water withdrawal Total water use 3,755,782 m3 4,061,716 m3 Water supply based on local restrictions Consumption of raw materials and measures Most Essilor sites are generally located in industrial or urban taken to improve the efficiency of their use areas where access to water is provided by local authorities. As part of its Environment, Health and Safety medium-term rolling ■ Materials action plan, the Group has incorporated the reduction of water One of the key measures employed by Essilor on a daily basis and energy consumption into its Change Accelerating Program for more efficient use of raw materials is the quality-control (CAP) and made this a priority. Within the Group’s worldwide management systems set up and maintained at the Group’s scope, targets have been set regarding the overall reduction upstream production facilities, prescription and service in the amount of water used per lens produced. This reduction laboratories, and distribution centers. Where appropriate, these corresponds to an ongoing improvement under the “three Rs systems are ISO 9001-certified, such as those at the Group’s program,” introduced to “reduce, reuse and recycle” this resource. upstream production facilities. They operate in a number of Ophthalmic lenses contain no water. Consequently, Essilor’s net different ways, depending on the activity. The Group also conducts water consumption is negligible since consumption consists a more general EFQM process across all disciplines. of withdrawing, treating, using, treating and restoring almost This continuous improvement in total quality management helps all volume consumed, with the exception of slight evaporation optimize returns and minimize manufacturing waste. and human consumption at site canteens. The use of water in The quality of Essilor’s logistics operations is also particularly production primarily consists of multiple rinsing stages to keep crucial: every day the Group delivers around a million corrective the lens surfaces immaculate throughout the various stages lenses to eye care professionals (its customers) around the world. of production and during surfacing itself. Water is also used in sanitary networks. A number of entities use recycled production water or collected rainwater for sanitary networks. These lenses are then passed on to some half-million customers, who not only have different names but also different prescriptions. 4 Thanks to the vast array of methods used by Essilor to manage the quality of its products and services, the Company delivers products to its customers that have the correct name and are medically exact, thus limiting the risk of dissatisfaction, returns and re-manufacture. This substantial ﬂexibility also allows the Group to react quickly in the event of a sudden surge in customer demand in the ophthalmic optics sector in general. Lastly, Essilor uses all methods to streamline the use of its consumable goods, reduce factory waste, and recover, reuse or recycle materials whenever possible. 2014 2013 (@) EN 01 Materials used Raw materials – standard substrates 7,400 t 7,547 t (@) Raw materials – other substrates 8,326 t 8,025 t EN 02 Percentage of materials used that are recycled In general, the Group cannot use recycled materials to manufacture its input materials corrective lenses. It recycles all input materials that can be realistically recycled, sometimes in very signiﬁcant proportions (95% for elastomer gaskets, for example). For reasons of quality, the use of recycled organic materials cannot be considered in the manufacture of ophthalmic lenses. Such materials are used for other products. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 219 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.3 Environmental information Energy consumption and measures taken To date it is still difficult for most sites to use renewable energies, except in countries where these are available and offered as an to improve energy efficiency and the use option to industrial customers by energy providers. of renewable energies One of the three online training sessions available on the Essilor Essilor has been steadily improving energy efficiency at its sites Academy to Save Energy (EASE) intranet site is designed to for many years, consistently deﬁning objectives and targets as provide training and a continuous flow of information on good part of programs to control energy consumption related to the practices, and monitor energy-saving technological developments. medium-term rolling action plan, which is reviewed annually by Essilor International was able to continue reducing the the Global EHS Department. The ﬁrst nine sections of this plan consumption of energy per lens produced. The current challenge are devoted to energy. for the Group, which has already been working on this for the past Gains have been made in the most traditional areas and the ﬁfteen years with good results, lies generally in conquering the general need now is to continue to make strides in at least two ﬁnal percentage reductions, which are currently more generally directions that are less immediately practical and feasible, found in areas with high use of capital (energy balance of old namely: buildings, production processes. • improving energy efficiency in existing buildings with a view to This approach has now been incorporated in a new strategy possibly rebuilding them; and called Lean Initiative For Excellence (LIFE) that has been set up • producing detailed energy studies of proven production within the Group’s Worldwide Operations and is based on Lean Manufacturing. processes in view of making changes in the future while continuing to adhere to strict manufacturing quality criteria. 2014 2013 EN 03 Direct energy Electricity 501.2 GWh 518.0 GWh consumption by primary Gas 64.4 GWh 68.9 GWh energy source Liquid fuel 8.3 GWh 8.6 GWh TOTAL 573.9GWH 595.5 GWH EN 04 Indirect energy consumption by primary Transportation is assessed for energy consumption in four separate energy source categories: primary (from manufacturing unit to distribution center), secondary (from distribution center to subsidiary), tertiary (from subsidiary to customer) and professional travel. In 2014, the ﬁrst two categories were calculated and translated into tons of CO2 equivalent emitted, which are provided under EN17. A second assessment of emissions of CO2 equivalent from tertiary transportation, of the order of a thousand tons, was once again performed in 2014. Its reporting perimeter included measuring ﬂows directly to the end customers of six high-volume global prescription laboratories plus the ﬂows from the last kilometer of prescription laboratories in France and the United States. Emissions related to business travel recorded for a population group of 1,500, of whom at least half are considered “major travelers,” are also reported in EN17. The use of corrective lenses does not require any energy source. Their end-of-life impact is negligible. Use of soil Essilor carries out its business in industrial buildings, usually is therefore not used in the Group’s operations per se, but rather located in existing industrial zones or commercial premises. Soil is associated with the buildings the Group occupies. 220 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND 4.3 Environmental information ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.3.4 Climate change Greenhouse gas emissions • CO 2 emissions related to a signiﬁcant portion of professional travel were assessed at 7,514t in 2014 (2013: 6,810t). CO2 emissions related to energy consumption (electricity, liquid and gaseous fuel) provided under EN3 in the above table were This made a total for 2014 of 24,691t (2013: 22,620t). assessed at 58,473t for 2014 (2013: 60,908t). This figure is The assessment of CO2 emissions related to tertiary transportation provided in the EN16 indicator table below, under “Total direct and (the so-called last-kilometer deliveries to eye care professionals) indirect greenhouse gas emissions.” continued in 2014 by expanding the measurements to cover The following three headings are totaled in the EN17 indicator a broader perimeter, including deliveries to Group customers table below, under “Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas across a large portion of the United States, France, part of the rest emissions.” These include: of Europe, and part of Asia. The calculation for 2014 conﬁrms the need to add approximately 2,000 tons to the quantities measured • CO 2 emissions related to primary transportation (from a and documented for primary and secondary transportation, as has production unit to a distribution center) were assessed at been done for the last eight years. This ﬁgure always refers to a 7,302t for 2014 (2013: 4,830t). The sharp year-on-year reporting perimeter that is not sufficiently signiﬁcant. As indicated increase is due to the reclassification of some secondary in previous documents, it underscores once again that the ﬁnal transportation as primary transportation; kilometer tends to have relatively little impact on the total. The • CO 2 emissions related to secondary transportation (from a reason, which is counterintuitive but applies across all Group businesses, is that the products transported are light and compact distribution center to a subsidiary) were assessed at 9,875t for 2014 (2013: 10,980t). The sharp year-on-year drop is due to the and delivery schedules are streamlined. Throughout the world, no reclassiﬁcation of some secondary transportation as primary truck leaves with only one pair of lenses for delivery to a single transportation. eye care professional if it is to return empty. Deliveries are made via all means of transport available at a Group supplier, including Note: Overall, the assessment of CO2 emissions related to in some cases electric vehicles and cargo tricycles. primary and secondary transportation (17,177t) was up 8.6% year on year (15,806t in 2013); 2014 2013 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (t CO2eq.) 58,473 t (@) 60,908 t EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (t CO2eq.) 24,691 t (@) 22,620 t Note: For ﬁscal year 2014, Essilor uses the following conversion factors: – 86 grams of CO2 equivalent per kilowatt-hour of electricity; – 200 grams of CO2 equivalent per kilowatt-hour of gas; – 300 grams of CO2 equivalent per kilowatt-hour of fuel oil. They have been applied to the total consumption of the entities that report it. The same factors were applied for ﬁscal year 2013, which makes the comparison easier. 4 Listed in the Low Carbon 100 Europe® Index, Essilor International spectacles is only rarely thrown away when a new pair is received. is already in the low carbon economy thanks to the light In general, it is kept. When it is ﬁnally thrown away, the end-of-life environmental footprint of its products and services, particularly impact is negligible. with regard to greenhouse gases. Corrective lenses from the Airwear range of products are made The Group’s greenhouse gas emissions are largely indirect from thermoplastic material which can be recycled at the end of emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) generated by the manufacture its life cycle to produce items other than corrective lenses. The and distribution of corrective lenses and the Group’s peripheral logistics involved in the recovery of this material are complicated activities. However, they are limited to a few hundred grams per and the economic and ecological tally remains negative to date. lens produced. In most countries, the service life of a lens far Recovery initiatives are currently being developed by the recycling exceeds one year. centers with which the Group works. These initiatives to recycle old spectacles for re-use are gradually being discontinued In terms of an analysis of the ecological life cycle, a corrective because of their complexity, ineffectiveness and limits in terms of lens delivered to a customer by an eye care professional requires visual accuracy and aesthetic acceptance. no energy to “function.” Contrary to any logic, an old pair of Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 221 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.3 Environmental information 2014 2013 EN16 + EN17 Total emissions related to EN16 and EN17 83,157 t 83,528 t EN 19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 0t 0t EN 20 NOx, SOx and other signiﬁcant air emissions by type and weight 3 t (@) 3 t Note: The Group’s NOx and SOx emissions are insigniﬁcant and therefore a negligible amount is reported as 3 in the table for indicator EN20. Adapting to the consequences of climate change As a signatory to the United Nations Caring for Climate initiative, identify all possible risks, including those of natural disasters Essilor International is aware of the challenges related to climate related to climate change. Essilor wants to protect against such change in general. risks as much as possible and react early and optimally should they occur. From the first stages preceding the potential acquisition of a new partner to the implementation of specific action plans in To this end, the Group pays particular attention to the locations of environmental management systems, the Company strives to its manufacturing plants. 4.3.5 Safeguarding biodiversity Measures taken to safeguard or develop biodiversity 2014 2013 2 EN 11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected 0m 0 m2 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN 12 Description of signiﬁcant impacts of activities, products, and services See note below See note below on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity outside protected areas Note: Finding potential signiﬁcant impacts on biodiversity is one of the aims of the environmental management systems. No such signiﬁcant impact has been identiﬁed at this time. Should a potential signiﬁcant impact come to be identiﬁed following a change in existing conditions, the environmental management systems making such a discovery will also be used immediately to conduct analyses and then implement target and objective-based action plans. This new information will be automatically incorporated into the continuous system improvement process to ﬁnd an effective solution. Essilor uses biodiversity mapping at all of its sites around the world. This method supplements the Group’s traditional reporting procedures and provides information on indicator EN11 in particular. The mapping is updated at regular intervals and is extremely useful for characterizing a location’s biodiversity during the due diligence process. 222 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND 4.4 Information on societal engagement to promote sustainable development ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.4 INFORMATION ON SOCIETAL ENGAGEMENT TO PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Essilor’s products and services have great social utility and a light environmental footprint. The Company’s mission therefore ﬁts very naturally with the economic, human and environmental objectives of sustainable development and several of the Millennium Development Goals. Giving everyone access to visual health is Essilor’s main sustainable development challenge and opportunities. It combines the Group’s economic operations and its contribution to society, since the principle of good sight for a better life has a very strong positive impact and is a major societal challenge. This mission, which is summed up in the motto of the Group (“Seeing the World Better”) and of its Foundation (“Better Life Through Better Sight”), is geared toward eye care professionals and is what drives the Group to serve an ever increasing number of countries, given that equal sight for all is still not guaranteed around the world for those who were not born with perfect eyes and perfect sight. The Company’s strategy and mission, along with the commitment of its employees, is therefore entirely dedicated to this goal, which is both economic and human. To eliminate poor vision, Essilor International has created the Vision For Life program, a pioneering step in the Group’s mission to improve lives by improving sight. The Group has initially committed €30 million to this initiative, which is supported by two endowment funds, making it the world’s largest strategic giving program dedicated to eliminating Uncorrected Refractive Error (URE). Poor vision is the most common disability in the world, with an estimated 2.5 billion people failing to receive the vision correction they need. Visual impairment has signiﬁcant social and economic repercussions and is estimated to be worth as much as USD 272 billion in lost global productivity per year. Vision For Life aims to accelerate innovative initiatives targeting poor vision through more awareness campaigns and creating basic vision-care facilities. The development of permanent local vision care centers will create jobs, help alleviate poverty and bring socio-economic development to individuals and the communities in which they live. Vision For Life will fund a variety of public interest projects. These range from community vision-care actions led in conjunction with nonproﬁt organizations, including local Essilor foundations, to the opening of vision centers and skills development in areas without access to primary eye care. The program will also support awareness campaigns to improve understanding of the importance of good vision. 4.4.1 Regional, economic and social impacts of the Company’s activities 4 Impact on employment and regional development The production and distribution of corrective lenses, which are a The Group’s global purchasing guidelines pertain to materials, useful product by their very nature, has only a light environmental components or equipment used directly in the manufacture footprint. As a rule, it does not bother local populations, who of corrective lenses. This controlled, sound approach ensures warmly welcome these products. compliance with the international quality criteria established by the Group, their reproducibility and the ease with which sites can The Group’s activities generate direct and indirect jobs. On diversify their production as needed. average, local suppliers and subcontractors represent around 50% of a production site’s purchasing, a percentage that is often In addition to the development generated by the Group’s activities, considerably higher for a prescription laboratory or distribution products are often distributed regionally. subsidiary. EC 01 Direct economic value generated The Group’s economic value breaks down into many components (revenue, operating and distributed, including revenues, expenses, employee expenses, donations, income and payroll taxes, dividends, etc.) operating costs, employee that are itemized in this 2014 Registration Document. Refer to the corresponding compensation, donations and other pages. community investments, retained Essilor’s socio-economic footprint for ﬁscal year 2014 can be summarized by the earnings and payments to capital following items in descending order of importance: providers and governments • revenue: €5,670 million; • trade payables: €2,176 million; • employees: €1,743 million; • income and payroll taxes: €193 million; • shareholders: €228 million; and • ﬁnancial expenses: €31 million. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 223 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.4 Information on societal engagement to promote sustainable development EC 02 Financial implications and The Group is not usually exposed to natural risks. It is not concerned by emission other risks and opportunities permits. It has been reporting its CO2 emissions and water consumption to the for the organization’s activities Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and Water Disclosure Project since these two CDP due to climate change programs were launched in France. It is also one of the ﬁrst signatories of Caring for Climate, a U.N. Global Compact initiative. Needs relating to the protection of eyes through corrective lenses in a context where climate change may inﬂuence the quantity and/or the nature of harmful rays have not yet been evaluated with enough precision. However, the protective function of corrective lenses can be incorporated into it, especially against the harmfulness of ultraviolet light in general, which is ﬁltered by Xpério and many other ranges of sunglasses with various ESP® indices or against the retinal phototoxicity of a particular type of blue-spectrum rays that are ﬁltered selectively by the Preventia range of glasses. EC 03 Coverage of the organization’s The Group offers employees a wide variety of pension and savings plans in countries deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations around the world. Refer to the corresponding pages of this 2014 Registration Document. EC 04 Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance The Group enjoys total operational independence. received from government Impact on local and neighboring populations in conducting screening campaigns (mostly in schools) under the oversight of its customers and prescribers, followed by eyesight Essilor’s activities generate employment directly and indirectly. tests and equipment manufacturing. These activities beneﬁt employees and their families and extend to the entire community. Alongside these initiatives, which focus on Essilor’s core business and the skills of its employees, Essilor spearheads other By providing training, the Group helps raise the skill levels charitable actions that are usually related to solving problems and employability of local workers. The association and close and seeking opportunities related to what is most needed in the correlation between Vision and Development allows Essilor to community. They are conducted under the aegis of the Essilor undertake initiatives that link education professionals with eye Vision Foundation network. care professionals. For Essilor, most of these initiatives consist EC 06 Policy, practices and proportion of In order to ensure consistency in its supplies and the quality of its ﬁnished products spending on locally based suppliers at and compliance with universal good production practices, Essilor has a centralized signiﬁcant locations of operation purchasing policy. This policy is applied to raw materials and the various key products or services used in the composition or production of ophthalmic lenses and other products and services that Essilor group offers its customers. The Group also generates signiﬁcant business ﬂows with its local suppliers by preferring short supply chains for products and services outside the scope of central referencing. Local distributors of products and services referenced by Group contracts also beneﬁt from the local economic impact of the Group’s purchasing. The result is a balanced situation, the Group estimating that 50% of its procurement is sourced centrally and 50% locally. The Group has a responsible purchasing policy that includes items featured in a Responsible Purchasing Charter based primarily on the goal of complying with the 10 principles of the Global Compact. EC 07 Procedures for local hiring and The Group encourages the local recruitment of management teams in its proportion of senior management subsidiaries and, more generally, enforces the principle of local decision-making. hired at signiﬁcant locations of The proportion of senior managers hired locally at the main operational sites is operation greater than 80%. EC 08 Development and impact of The global indicator EC 08 is not relevant to the Group’s industry segment. infrastructure investments and It is therefore not reported. services provided primarily for public beneﬁt through a commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagement 224 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND 4.4 Information on societal engagement to promote sustainable development ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.4.2 Relationships with persons or organizations interested in the Company’s business activities, particularly inclusion associations, educational establishments, environmental protection associations, consumer associations and neighboring populations Conditions for interacting with the above In general, Essilor does not have a direct relationship with the end consumer. Its products and services require a prescription, set-up The Group’s key stakeholders are its employees, customers, and adjustment by an eye care professional. Therefore, it is to eye prescribers, shareholders, suppliers and various local authorities care professionals that consumer associations turn. However, if in the countries in which it operates. Relationships with these and Essilor customers or prescribers have insufficient information to other stakeholders are generally handled locally by the facilities, answer questions from consumer associations about corrective departments, services and individuals concerned, under the lenses, Essilor will provide these eye care professionals with supervision of the Legal Entity Department. additional details on its products and services. Inclusion associations are managed by local departments as It is also essentially these professionals who manage relationships part of their relationships with stakeholders. When a program with corrective lens wearers, relationships that lead to innovation is initiated or developed and has global scope, it is managed at and improvements or additions to the Group’s range of products the Group level. One such example would be Special Olympics, and services. Essilor’s consumer relations departments typically an international charitable association operating in 170 countries refer consumer questions to the professionals who have helped and which supports some 200 million mentally disabled people, them individually. both adults and children, offering them sporting activities and educational and health programs, including visual health. Essilor Relationships with neighboring populations are handled locally, supports all Special Olympics events and provides athletes with usually through resident associations. A number of the Group’s corrective lenses. plants organize open days where local residents can visit the site to see how it operates. The visits are arranged so that circulation Relationships with educational establishments also fall under within workshops is limited, intellectual property is protected and the responsibility of local departments. These logically pertain safety and security are maintained. to establishments teaching topics related to jobs in the eye care industry but are not solely limited to this field. Again, when a program aimed at an educational establishment is initiated or Partnership or sponsorship initiatives developed and has global scope, it is managed at the Group level. Partnership or skills sponsorship initiatives at Essilor take on An example of a program managed at Group level is the Vision a variety of forms and may be local or international. When a and Development International Forum, which was organized in partnership is initiated or developed and has international scope, partnership with Unesco in 2004, 2005 and 2006 for World Sight it is managed at the Group level. Day. It brought together educational professionals and sight professionals. There is in fact a close correlation between good sight and an individual’s development when they have access One such partnership is that set up by Essilor International with the Lions Clubs International Foundation. The partnership 4 has a number of targeted actions, the key one being the longto education, science and culture. To the extent possible, Essilor term establishment of self-sufficient, long-lasting optics and makes a modest contribution to Unesco ’s Education for All eyewear dispensaries in ophthalmic hospitals, whose activity had movement and to achieving the second Millennium Development previously been largely limited to cataract operations. Goal: universal primary education. In addition to helping individuals, this support fosters the harmonious development of The program began in 2005 in one country, Madagascar, at the societies as a whole. Antananarivo Ophthalmology Hospital. It was co-financed by the Sight First program and the Madagascan Lions Clubs, which A good example of a program managed by Group employees at the teamed up with Sight First Madagascar. The pilot project had all Foundation level is the Adopt-A-School program. the elements for success, from training eye care professionals to Relationships with environmental protection associations are managing the optics and eyewear center. Support was provided in also handled locally by local departments and their environmental large part by the Group’s retired specialists, who provided training experts. These relationships are part of local environmental for a career as an optician. The center became self-sufficient management systems. The Group’s Corporate Sustainability within ﬁve years. Department represents Essilor International on official bodies For the Lions Clubs International Foundation and Essilor, the and associations or in global initiatives, particularly, although not experience was mutually beneficial and demonstrated how a limited to, those related to United Nations environmental actions. traditional charitable, humanitarian approach can gradually be To the extent possible, Essilor makes a modest contribution to transformed into an inclusive-economy model in which local achieving the seventh Millennium Development Goal: ensuring responsibility consists in generating an economy based on environmental sustainability. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 225 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.4 Information on societal engagement to promote sustainable development building entrepreneurial skills. This success led the two partners that they will be setting up to create better sight and a better life to extend their collaboration by signing a long-term agreement for the people of Malawi and the jobs to keep it going. aimed at developing this model in other countries. To the extent Essilor group runs purely charitable projects in all countries possible, Essilor makes a modest contribution to achieving around the world under the aegis of the Essilor Vision Foundation the eighth Millennium Development Goal: instituting a global network. The Vision for Life program has been added just recently. partnership for development. The Foundation was created in 2007 in the United States based In this respect, the 2014 merger between Essilor International on two programs, Adopt-A-School and Kids Vision for Life. Its and the Brien Holden Vision Institute is a major step in setting goal is to eliminate poor sight and its consequences throughout up partnerships. The multi-local company formed by Essilor a person’s lifetime. It provides expertise to Essilor entities and International and the Brien Holden Vision Institute, which is the supervises projects that fall within its selection standards. It also ﬂagship NGO for the education of eye care professionals, social consistently studies the impact of actions undertaken. innovation and the development of polymorphous partnerships in the public sector, private sector and in the social entrepreneurship In 2014, Essilor Vision Foundations were created in India and sector, ﬁlls a need to activate their synergies, complementarities Singapore. A partnership has been set up between one of the and various areas of expertise. To illustrate this historic merger in Essilor Vision Foundations and one of the biggest foundations in concrete terms, in 2014 in Malawi, the two organizations launched, China. among other initiatives, a broadly comprehensive five-year As a result, numerous initiatives are being planned in more than program to build a visual health network and set up a dedicated ten countries. In France, successful programs have been run with infrastructure. This large-scale project starts by training eye care SAMU Social, Secours Populaire, Action Enfance and Assistance professionals and supporting them in managing the vision centers Publique – Hôpitaux de Paris. SO1 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any The Group is aware of its role in the communities in which its employees live and programs and practices that assess work. Its presence generates business for local entrepreneurs and jobs for local and manage the impacts of operations populations. in communities, including entering, Environmental commitments and impacts are assessed in the context of the operating and exiting Group’s environmental management systems. The many examples of the Group’s contributions to communities are provided on the Company’s website (www. essilorvisionfoundation.org). Refer to the above. 4.4.3 Subcontractors and suppliers Social and environmental challenges incorporated This charter is brought to the attention of all new entities joining the Group. They are invited to use it as inspiration and, in their own into the Company’s purchasing policy turn, apply the responsible purchasing principles that underpin Since 2003, Essilor has included environmental and social criteria them, adapting them to their own existing practices and activities, in its general purchasing conditions. and to cascade the guidelines to their own suppliers. Essilor’s purchasing and supply policy is aligned with the Essilor Principles and contains a Responsible Purchasing Charter based Importance of subcontracting and taking account on the principles of the Global Compact signed by Essilor in 2003. of the social and environmental responsibility The policy is based on compliance of its suppliers and the quality of suppliers and subcontractors of their products and services. Adherence to the Responsible Purchasing Charter and compliance with its principles are an Subcontracting is largely limited to activities outside the core integral part of supplier evaluation, on a par with the assessment business of manufacturing and distributing corrective lenses, of their competitiveness and control over the quality of their pre-mounted lenses and sunglasses. The Group estimates that it products or services. accounts for almost 10% of total sales. The purpose behind supplier dialogue is to achieve continuous Like suppliers, subcontractors are subject to Essilor’s purchasing improvement. and supply policy, its Responsible Purchasing Charter and, of This charter is communicated to suppliers and to Group employees course, its general purchasing conditions. involved in purchasing and supply. Specific awareness-raising modules have been created. They contain methods enabling those involved to link elements of the Responsible Purchasing Charter with supplier evaluation. 226 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND 4.4 Information on societal engagement to promote sustainable development ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.4.4 Fair practices To promote fair practices in its business, one of the many steps identify and prevent legal risk upstream by ensuring that our taken by Essilor International is the dissemination, understanding actions comply with the rules of law. The new division deﬁnes and and use of various documents based on its existing Guide to Group carries out awareness and information campaigns, performs legal Standards. For example, the document entitled Minimum Control audits, and assists Group employees in their compliance effort. Standards serves as a point of reference for internal control. It is To fulﬁll its remit, the Legal Compliance Division focuses as much part of the following series of documents: on company stakeholders as it does on compliance with the rules • Essilor Principles; of law in order to: • Minimum Control Standards; • educate stakeholders about the fact that compliance depends on their behavior; • Guide to Group Standards; • Detailed Rules and Policies (local, regional and/or Group level). • provide information on compliant behavior; It is divided into 19 sections as follows: • make the basic concepts of law easier to understand; • Group requirements – general guidelines; • shape, accordingly, judgment to promote best practices; • Information systems; • instill a sense of reﬂection and vigilance. To achieve the above, the division has to be familiar with practices, • Roles and responsibilities; and therefore it: • Business continuity plan; • performs legal audits to understand and improve behavior; • Purchasing and supplies; • identiﬁes risks and the compliance actions to be implemented; • Fixed assets; • deploys the Group’s compliance policy in collaboration with • Inventories; local legal advisors and reports on this policy along with the • Sales and receivables; associated legal risks; • Cash and ﬁnancing; • formalizes and disseminates the rules of conduct in legal matters. • Reporting and consolidation; • Legal affairs and tax laws; Anti-corruption initiatives • Tax policy; The sector in which Essilor operates is not considered a sector in which corruption is a characteristic challenge. This does not • Insurance policy; • Intellectual property policy; prevent the Group from taking action within its sphere of inﬂuence against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. As a signatory to the Global Compact and member of Transparency 4 • Legal compliance; International®, Essilor complies with, supports and promotes the • Personnel management and human resources; UN convention against corruption. • Health, safety and the environment; One of the documents on the list of Rules and Policies speciﬁed • Acquisitions; at local, regional and/or Group level is dedicated to corruption issues. • Capital transactions. Translated into local languages, it is formally presented to staff, Translated into more than 30 languages, it is available on the usually by managers and/or local and global experts. AwarenessGroup’s internal audit portal. raising modules, called “audio-video kits,” have been developed to In addition, the increasingly strict legal and regulatory contexts adapt the document to the local culture and legal environment of have required compliance efforts to be stepped up to protect each country. against legal risk. Group employees receive regular information and education Legal compliance consists in implementing procedures for on the Group’s gifts policy and conﬂicts of interest, and speciﬁc internal control and preventing the legal risk posed by the training has been introduced for Group buyers. Anti-corruption Company’s activities. information is provided on a regular basis on the Group Legal The Group Legal Affairs and Development Department therefore Department’s intranet site, in the section reserved for the Legal created a Legal Compliance Division in January 2009 that meets Compliance Division. the new legal requirements. Its cross-disciplinary role is to Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 227 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.4 Information on societal engagement to promote sustainable development ■ Corruption 2014 2013 SO 02 Percentage and total number of business units 3 % 3 % analyzed for risks related to corruption See note below SO 03 Percentage of employees trained in The number of employees trained as a percentage is not currently the organization’s anti-corruption policies reported. Training in the local language follows educational programs and procedures rolled out gradually by the Group’s Executive Committee. All Group senior managers received training, except for a few rare exceptions due to being hired too recently or other exceptional circumstances. SO 04 Actions taken in response to incidents Termination for cause. Sanctions are listed in the Internal Regulations of corruption and/or other relevant documents. Note : As needed, certain areas of strategic activities, including but not limited to acquisitions, are analyzed for corruption risks. Hence the negligible percentage for the 3 SO 02 indicator noted in the table. ■ Public policies SO 05 Public policy positions and participation The Group is not involved in political activities. It collaborates in public policy development and lobbying with public sector stakeholders as and when necessary. It participates in the compilation of international standards and in other global activities of interest to its business. It is a member of professional associations related to its industry. ■ Compliance 2014 2013 (@) SO 08 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total Signiﬁcant ﬁnes 0 0 number of non-monetary sanctions for SO 08 Non-monetary sanctions 0 (@) 0 non-compliance with laws and regulations Measures taken regarding consumer health Consequently, Essilor assesses the quality of its corrective lenses in tests conducted on human wearers only. Wearers are asked to and safety compare several lenses being assessed. This process, which takes Essilor International ophthalmic prescription lenses are several months and calls for hundreds of people, allows Essilor’s considered to be Class 1 medical devices. Neither invasive nor in Research and Innovation Departments to continually enhance and direct contact with human tissue, they are ﬁrst prescribed and perfect the visual experience. then, after taking the patient’s measurements to obtain an exact Furthermore, no new chemical component requiring toxicology mount, inserted into spectacle frames that are adjusted to the tests is used in the Group’s innovations. Should this be the patient’s face by an eye care professional. case in the future, alternatives to animal testing would be used Essilor International believes that, as a precaution, it is important systematically, such as OECD cell culture tests, since Essilor does to gather all relevant information concerning the non-toxicity not perform any toxicology tests on animals. and safety of each of its new products before they are placed on The Group invests heavily in research and development and its the market so that the end wearer is assured of safe use even in international teams develop new, innovative and sophisticated unpredictable situations. products that people enjoy wearing and that offer benefits in Essilor International does not conduct any tests on animals. terms of visual comfort, eye safety and improved vision. In Sight is a combination of optical factors and unique neurological and its mission to enable people to “see the world better,” Essilor sensory factors resulting in parameters of visual comfort, acuity and International is constantly concerned about protecting the wonder, which can in no way be replicated in animal testing. integrity, health and safety of the eye. ■ Consumer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety Hygiene, health and safety aspects are taken into consideration both impacts of products and services are assessed upstream and downstream for all categories of products and services. for improvement and percentage of signiﬁcant The HSE Charter for products and the HSE project guide to which it products and services categories subject to such refers have been established on the basis of knowledge and analysis of procedures steps in the life cycle. 228 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND 4.4 Information on societal engagement to promote sustainable development ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING ■ Products and services labeling PR3 Type of product and service information required This information is in multiple forms based on the products and services by procedures and percentage of signiﬁcant offered as a whole. Each Group distribution subsidiary has information in products and services subject to such information the local language and complies with these information requirements. requirements ■ Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, Each of the distribution subsidiaries monitors its own compliance with and voluntary codes related to marketing local current applicable laws, standards and voluntary codes. communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship ■ Compliance 2014 2013 PR9 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non-compliance with laws and 0 (@) 0 regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 4.4.5 Other initiatives undertaken to promote human rights The sector in which Essilor operates is not considered a sector in In addition to promoting good sight, these activities restore a which human rights are usually a challenge. However, this does good or better sense of well-being in day-to-day living. They are not prevent the Group from respecting human rights and ensuring also designed to be accompanied by the respect, recognition and they are respected within its sphere of inﬂuence. Essilor pays very dignity inherent in any relationship with someone with whom one close attention to the selection of its local suppliers in countries is communicating for the beneﬁt of their health and who is being considered more exposed to human rights challenges. offered a selection of new products of world-class quality. The Group’s dual economic and human goal, which partly originates 165 years ago in its beginnings as a production workers’ cooperative with an original governance model that Most of these initiatives are designed to facilitate access to good sight through vision screening, eye examinations and spectacle manufacture under the supervision of eye care professionals. 4 continues today in the form of a strong employee shareholding A number of other initiatives are being led outside the world of ethic (with the Valoptec association being a prime example of a ophthalmic optics, all of which beneﬁt populations in need. true corporate democracy), brings together all human, social and More specifically, the success of the long-time partnership societal aspects as the core of its corporate mission. with Special Olympics is due to the involvement of Essilor Despite the highly intangible nature of this aspect of sustainable employees, customers, prescribers and suppliers, as well as other development and corporate societal responsibility, in 2014, the stakeholders, who are equally generous in offering “Better Life Group mapped its human-rights-related risks. This precautionary Through Better SightSM” to a minority group among the world’s initiative has strengthened the Group’s understanding of the most disadvantaged populations, which has often been ignored. subject and opened some further avenues to add to the continuous Discovering or recovering the beneﬁts of good or improved sight improvement initiatives introduced in several Group networks, has certainly contributed to the life-changing power and joy of where this theme may have real relevance and be developed sport for mentally disabled children and adults. further. This may be the case in Responsible Purchasing to the This partnership is helping to change the world’s view of this extent that some countries are regarded as presenting risks that community, enhancing its visibility and giving it importance and need to be monitored. respect. All charitable activities in which Essilor group entities are involved Essilor International is a member of the EDH association around the world under the auspices of the Essilor Vision Foundation (Entreprises pour les Droits de l’Homme / Companies for Human can be considered to make a modest, indirect contribution to Rights). promoting, respecting and enforcing the protection of international law relating to human rights within its sphere of inﬂuence. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 229 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.5 Note on methodology 4.5 NOTE ON METHODOLOGY Reference to the Global Compact Essilor International has been a signatory to the Global Compact Essilor International summarized its sustainable development since 2003 and assiduously follows its recommendations for policy as one of the key components of its overall performance providing information about progress (COP). in the long term and in providing transparency in the economic, human (social and societal), and environmental aspects of its With the publication of its 2013 Communication on Progress, businesses. The report on its non-ﬁnancial information, which has Essilor International renewed its commitment to make the been published since 2002, is therefore an important part of this 10 principles of the Global Compact an important part of its summary of the Group’s contribution to sustainable development strategy and daily operations. This will continue the success of its and the progress it continues to make when carrying out its corporate mission and ensure that one day each and every person operations. on our planet can enjoy a “Better Life through Better Sight,” to quote the Essilor Foundation’s motto, and appreciate “Seeing the World Better,” to quote the Group’s motto. Reference to the Millennium Development Goals Because of the nature of its products and services, which offer refraction errors for visual health)], the seventh (protect the both daily well-being, have true utility and social impact and environment) and the eighth (institute a global partnership for offer clear social advantages, Essilor International contributes development). indirectly to the achievement of several of the Millennium Goals, Essilor’s activities thus also play a significant role in fighting the most correlated of which are the second (primary education poverty, the ﬁrst of these objectives. for all), the sixth [fight diseases (blindness and uncorrected Reference to the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises In line with the 43 member governments, France is committed The updated OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises were to encouraging companies operating in their own countries to adopted on May 25, 2011. As a multi-local French company, Essilor respect, wherever they carry on their business, a set of widely respects these guidelines in France and abroad. recognized principles and standards aimed at ensuring that they act responsibly. Reference to the International Labour Organization Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy Essilor International intends to contribute positively to economic recommending the establishment of a new international economic and social progress and to minimize the problems that its order and initiatives such as the United Nations Global Compact business operations may create and resolve them, taking and Millennium Development Goals. into account, if necessary, the United Nations resolutions 230 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND 4.5 Note on methodology ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Reference to ISO 26000 Early this century, while the Group was installing or finishing publication or referring to its identifying number. In doing so, it installing quality, environment and health and workplace safety has focused initially on the most material and pertinent aspects management systems in target plants, Essilor International of its activities around the world as they affect communities, local participated in the AFNOR (SD 21000) standardization program, development, labor relations and conditions, the environment, fair which led to the publication on November 1, 2010 of the ISO 26000 practices, human rights, and (through eye care professionals and standard, which collates the guidelines on societal responsibility. prescribers and customers) issues of concern to wearers of visual equipment (called consumers in the standard), thus formalizing Based on the central principle of good governance that is since 2002 the Group’s contribution to sustainable development. solidly rooted in its culture, Essilor has progressively put in place various features of this standard without waiting for its Reference to the Company’s contribution to Sustainable Development The ultimate goal of this non-financial reporting is therefore A major competition to award sustainable development medals to ensure that each and every employee working for the Group is held on a regular basis and has contributed to the sharing and takes into consideration the many elements and aspects that dissemination of best practices. constitute sustainable development. Created in 2002, the Group The existence of management systems in quality control and Department of Sustainable Development wanted to be a small environmental and occupational health and safety has led to unit at the Corporate level backed by the operational divisions and the establishment of virtuous circles as part of a process of the Corporate support functions and Business Unit management continuous improvement. Anticipating and preventing risks has teams around the world. These teams have all learned the issues resulted in innovation and the constant discovery of new areas of and conveyed them to their staff, creating over time sustainable opportunity and savings. development ambassadors who today act as an example in their daily life and work, in their communities and in the Company’s The presence of a strong employee shareholder structure sphere of inﬂuence, which very often is well beyond its traditional encourages this sense of buy-in of sustainable development boundaries. issues that are frequently forward-looking. This goes well beyond a sense of belonging and is very closely correlated with the The publication of the Essilor Principles in all of the Group’s Company’s economic and human objectives. languages is part of the effort to ensure compliance with the Group’s fundamental principles, to share its key values, and adapt to the Group’s many different global cultures. 4 Goal and quality of reporting In addition to an annual publication that marks progress and • duplicate the same reporting tool in two very specific is useful on a daily basis as an integral part of a continuing applications but whose common thread, features, activation improvement process, non-ﬁnancial reporting provides the reader and control procedures, user-friendliness, tool knowledge, with information that supplements what is normally provided in continuous training to keep up with changes, and updates of ﬁnancial reporting. In this respect, very careful attention has been general shared information are identical or similar; paid to the quality of the non-ﬁnancial reporting, the aim being to put it on a par with ﬁnancial reporting. This explains Essilor • include the report of its non-ﬁnancial information, often called a “Corporate Sustainability Report,” in the annual Registration International’s decision to: Document, thus making it easier to consolidate data and • rely on the Group’s Finance Departments to produce these two review all useful information so that the reader can judge the reports; Company’s overall performance in a single document. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 231 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.5 Note on methodology Reporting standards used Until the 2012 fiscal year, Essilor International published its known as the “Grenelle 2 Law,” and continues to adhere to version non-financial information in accordance with two very distinct G3 of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) regarding guidelines and standards. The ﬁrst complied with the structure in Article 116 of performance indicators. the French New Economic Regulations (NRE) Law, known as the The new presentation of the Registration Document with this “NRE Law,” and the second followed the guidelines of the Global dedicated fourth Chapter means that the information using Reporting Initiative (GRI). these two standards can be coordinated, streamlined and better Since the fiscal year 2012, Essilor has complied with the Law integrated. of July 12, 2010 on “national commitment to the environment,” Selection and relevance of the indicators The core indicators used are those of the GRI. Only certain relevant The Company’s main sustainable development challenge is that of indicators are published. In some cases, indicators are divided into access. We believe that 4 billion or more out of a little over 7 billion many sub-categories. For example, the indicator for “Materials people on Earth need visual correction. To date, approximately used” (EN 01) collects information on several dozen products 1.5 billion can see well. By contrast, approximately 2.5 billion selected on the basis of their role in the production process of cannot. corrective lenses. The Group’s mission is summarized in its motto, “Seeing the World Essilor belongs to one of the speciﬁc sub-sectors in the APE / NAF better” and in the motto of its Foundation, “Better Life through 33 sector, which covers the manufacture of medical, precision and Better Sight.” optical instruments, and to sub-sector 4537, “Medical Supplies,” The Group’s Corporate Sustainability policy is perfectly aligned of the “Industry Classification Benchmark” (ICB). In terms of with its mission, the ideal pairing of its economic, strategic and sustainable development, Essilor deals with speciﬁc aspects that human objectives, and is the foundation for its position as a are directly linked to the nature of its products and services. It responsible business. is consequently difficult to make a comparative evaluation of the Group. Viewed from this standpoint, the economic indicators of sustainable development take on added importance. This is To overcome this difficulty, Essilor uses the main GRI indicators why the Group decided to closely align all the ﬁnancial and nonthat are most relevant to its operations. ﬁnancial indicators. Speciﬁc methodologies for the indicators The calculation methodologies used for certain social indicators The “Frequency rate” and “Severity rate” indicators published in may differ widely because of the variation of deﬁnitions in France 2014 are generated by a tool developed by the Global Environment, and the rest of the world. For the “Absenteeism” indicator in Health and Safety Department and cover a different reporting particular, French sites use the social assessment definition, perimeter to that of the other indicators. In the long term, the which is different from the deﬁnition recommended by the Group’s Global Environment, Health and Safety Department will continue to reporting procedures. collect data in this monthly reporting tool, which is used for direct operational management. Eventually the data will be automatically As a result, absenteeism under the social assessment definition loaded into the Hyperion® Sustainability reporting tool. (business days not worked / number of business days × average fulltime eq. employees) results in absentee data reported in business Lastly, some data are obtained from estimates, for instance when days, and the average number of employees as “full-time equivalent,” they are from billing that has a date other than that of the year end, while Group procedures recommend reporting absenteeism in or when such data are difficult or impossible to collect. In such calendar days based on the average number of employees (calendar cases, calculations corresponding to best estimates are recorded days absent/365 × average number of employees). and kept by the reporting unit. If the situation changes so that estimates are no longer necessary, the normal procedure will be Consequently, for entities not yet reporting this data, the Turnover reverted to and advised accordingly. The same applies to all other (LA 02) and Absenteeism (LA 07) indicators are subject to a multitypes of changes in data collection, such as when data is read pronged assessment. directly from a meter on a given date rather than taken from billing. 232 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND 4.5 Note on methodology ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Reporting perimeter Until ﬁscal 2011, the affiliated companies were not included in the For fiscal 2014, the amount of data published in absolute non-ﬁnancial reporting. Only the companies whose operations were terms has only slightly increased from the previous year. As managed directly by Essilor on a day-to-day basis reported their Transitions’s reporting was only still in pilot phase and therefore non-financial data. The Group is continuing to pursue a process not included, the reporting scope for 2014 as a percentage of initiated in 2011 that consists of gradually adding existing or future workforce covered shrank slightly to 69.0% (from 72.4% in 2013). ﬁnancially consolidated companies to its non-ﬁnancial reporting. The reporting perimeter in terms of the total number of training hours for ﬁscal 2014 covered 37% of the Group’s workforce. Joint ventures were not included in the scope of non-financial reporting. They will now be included gradually. Reporting period To streamline the organization, coordination and integration of the Interim reporting is done each year at the end of March and Financial and Non-Financial Reports in the ﬁnance departments aggregates the non-financial results from October 1 of the of Group entities, Essilor collected most of its corporate, social previous year to March 30 of the current year. This provides an and environmental information over a period of 12 months from update and allows the Group to identify and perform with enough October 1, 2013 to September 30, 2014. time any corrective actions that may be necessary in the entities that are reporting their data for the first time, and to prepare Information collected for the ﬁscal year from January 1, 2014 to them for the first real reporting at the end of the year for the December 31, 2014 is followed in the text or in GRI indicator tables period aggregating non-ﬁnancial results from October 1 of the by an “at” symbol in superscript: (@). previous year to September 30 of the current year. Reporting tool Non-financial information is collected and consolidated via a existing reporting channels, aside from guaranteeing simplicity, special software application that since 2003 uses the Global reliability and efficiency, presents the following four main Reporting Initiative (GRI) benchmark, and its G3 version since advantages: 2006. The materiality test performed in 2014 and regular further development of Group supplier assessment since the introduction • each unit’s ﬁnance and accounting teams are the best equipped to handle non-ﬁnancial data reporting, due to their familiarity 4 of the Responsible Purchasing Charter is expected to permit an with the Group’s reporting systems and procedures; upgrade to version G4 of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and its recommendations, aiming for its implementation on reports • the finance and accounting teams have the skill sets and issued after December 31, 2015. experience to report the necessary data in compliance with standard quality criteria; The application is a twin version of the application used for ﬁnancial reporting. This is a ﬁnancial closing application from the • each unit’s ﬁnance teams, working in close cooperation with Oracle group, known as Hypérion®, which has been copied in CARS senior management, are no longer conﬁned to working solely Figures for ﬁnancial reporting and CARS Sustainability for nonon financial data. These teams, which are better informed, ﬁnancial reporting. CARS in an internal Essilor group name that involved and aware, participate in the search for new ways stands for Consolidation And Reporting System. to improve the economic, human (social and societal) and environmental aspects of sustainable development and enable The Group’s Finance Departments are responsible for entering the Group’s legal entities to learn the issues; the data that they collect from specialists within each unit. These specialists rely on local reporting systems to process • experts in each unit continue to use the day-to-day operational non-ﬁnancial data, which they measure and monitor as part of management tools that are familiar to them and are often their daily operational management duties. The decision to use designed for and always geared to their speciﬁc needs. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 233 4 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.5 Note on methodology Procedures for collecting, consolidating and controlling data Collection is performed by the Group’s Finance Departments As consolidation and control of the non-ﬁnancial information is from specialists in each unit, generally the Human Resources performed using a speciﬁc data application and a twin to the one Department or the Health, Hygiene and Safety Department for the used for ﬁnancial reporting, the non-ﬁnancial reporting tool has social information, from Management or the Finance Departments similar functionalities. themselves for societal information, and from the Purchasing Ultimately, it is the Corporate Sustainability Department that is Department in collaboration with the Environment Department or responsible for the general control and publication of the nonGeneral Services Department for the environmental information. ﬁnancial reporting. Independent veriﬁcation Following the entry into force of Article 225 of the Grenelle 2 Law Information published in the Management Report and in Chapter 4 and its application decree of April 24, 2012, and as from ﬁscal of the Registration Document. 2013, the reports issued by KPMG Audit include a certification The audit covers all the published CSR Information. of inclusion and reasoned opinion on the fairness of the CSR Conclusion The non-financial reporting of the Essilor group is part of Note that for the years 2003 and 2006, this information was a process of ongoing improvement driven by the following presented in separate documents titled “Seeing the World objectives: Better / 2003: Our Contribution to Sustainable Development” and “Seeing the World Better / 2006: Our Contribution to Sustainable • to continue to make sustainable development one of the Development” The corresponding information for 2002, 2004 and fundamentals supporting the Group’s development strategy; 2005 was provided in the Annual Reports for those years. • not to isolate its economic aspects from its human (social and Since 2007, it has been provided in the annual Registration societal), environmental or governance aspects; Document. For future ﬁscal years, Essilor reserves the right to • to integrate it accordingly within a single document that publish all or part of this information in another communications provides ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information. document. For any information, please contact the Corporate Sustainability Department. 234 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 4.6 Independent third-party Report on the consolidated corporate, social INFORMATIONS EN MATIÈRE SOCIALE, and environmental information included in the Management Report ENVIRONNEMENTALE ET SOCIÉTALE 4.6 INDEPENDENT THIRD-PARTY REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT Fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as an independent third party appointed by Essilor the year ended December 31, 2014 presented in the Management International S.A., accredited by COFRAC (the French Accreditation Report (hereinafter the “CSR Information”) pursuant to the Committee) under number 3-1049 (1), we present our report on the provisions of Article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code. consolidated corporate, social and environmental information for Company’s responsibility It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to prepare a (hereinafter: the “Protocol”), a summary of which is contained in management report that includes the CSR Information provided the Management Report and which is available on request at the for in Article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code and company’s registered office. to do so in accordance with the protocol used by the company Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by the rules and regulations, the implemented a quality control system that includes documented ethical code of the profession, and by the provisions of Article L.822-11 of the French Commercial Code. In addition, we have policies and procedures to ensure compliance with ethical rules, professional standards and applicable laws and regulations. 4 Responsibility of the independent third party It is our role, on the basis of our work, to: parties conduct their work and, concerning the reasoned opinion of accuracy, ISAE 3000 (2). • certify that the CSR Information required is disclosed in the Management Report or, if omitted, an explanation pursuant to paragraph 3 of Article R.225-105 of the French Commercial 1. Certiﬁcation of disclosure of CSR Information Code (Certiﬁcation of presence of CSR Information) is provided; We reviewed, based on interviews with officials of the relevant • conclude that we are moderately assured of the fact that the departments, the presentation of guidelines for sustainable CSR Information, considered as a whole, is presented truthfully development based on the social and environmental in all material respects in accordance with the Protocol consequences related to the company’s activities and its social (Reasoned opinion on the accuracy of CSR Information). commitments and, where appropriate, the actions or programs Our work was carried out by a team of five people between arising from them. October 2014 and February 2015 over a period of approximately We compared the CSR Information presented in the Management eight weeks. To help us carry out our work, we called upon our Report with the list set out in Article R.225-105-1 of the French experts in CSR. Commercial Code. We conducted the work described below in accordance with Where some consolidated information had been omitted, we the professional standards applicable in France, the decree of verified that explanations were provided in accordance with May 13, 2013 determining the manner in which independent third the provisions of Article R.225-105, paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code. (1) Further details are available at www.cofrac.fr. (2) ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical ﬁnancial information. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 235 4 INFORMATIONS EN MATIÈRE SOCIALE, ENVIRONNEMENTALE ET SOCIÉTALE 4.6 Independent third-party Report on the consolidated corporate, social and environmental information included in the Management Report We verified that the CSR Information covered the scope of verified, on the basis of surveys, the calculations and data consolidation, namely, the company and its subsidiaries as deﬁned consolidation and we veriﬁed its consistency and agreement by Article L.233-1 as well as the entities it controls as deﬁned with the other information contained in the Management by Article L.233-3 of the French Commercial Code, based on the Report; limits speciﬁed in the methodology note in paragraph 4.5 of the Management Report. • for a representative sample of entities (2) that we selected based on their activity, their contribution to the consolidated On the basis of our work and in light of the limits mentioned indicators, their location, and a risk analysis, we conducted above, we conﬁrm that the required CSR Information is disclosed interviews to verify the correct application of procedures and in the Management Report. implemented detailed tests on the basis of sampling, which consisted of verifying calculations and reconciling data in supporting documents. The sample selected represents an 2. Reasoned opinion on the accuracy of the CSR average of 21% of employees and between 18% and 35% of Information the quantitative environmental data. For other consolidated CSR I nformation, we assessed its ■ Nature and scope of work consistency in line with our knowledge of the company. We conducted approximately twenty interviews with the Finally, we assessed the relevance of the explanations, if any, of persons responsible for preparing the CSR Information from the the total or partial absence of certain information. departments in charge of the processes of information gathering We believe that the sampling methods and sample sizes we and, where applicable, responsible for internal control procedures selected whilst exercising professional judgment allow us to and risk management in order to: formulate a conclusion of limited assurance; a higher level of • assess the suitability of the Protocol regarding its relevance, assurance would have required more extensive review. Because completeness, neutrality, understandability and reliability, by of the use of sampling techniques as well as other limits inherent taking into consideration, if need be, the best practices of the in the operation of any information and internal control system, sector; the risk of not detecting a material misstatement in the CSR Information cannot be completely ruled out. • verify the implementation of a process of collecting, compiling, processing and auditing for the completeness and consistency of the CSR Information and to review the internal control and ■ Caveat risk management procedures relating to the development of the CSR Information. In our work, it became apparent that for the Turnover rate and Absenteeism rate indicators, in the absence of reporting by some We determined the nature and extent of our tests and checks entities, the information from these is based on a ﬂat rate and not in view of the nature and signiﬁcance of the CSR Information in on on-site ﬁndings. relation to: the characteristics of the company, the social and environmental challenges of its business activities, its sustainable development guidelines and best practices of the sector. Conclusion For the CSR Information that we considered most signiﬁcant (1) : Based on our work and subject to this caveat, we did not identify • at the parent company, we consulted the documentary sources any material anomalies likely to call into question the fact that the CSR Information, considered as a whole, is presented truthfully, in and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (organization, policies, actions), we implemented accordance with the Protocol. analytical procedures for the quantitative information and Paris La Défense, March 2, 2015 KPMG S.A. Philippe Arnaud Alphonse Delaroque Partner Partner Department of Climate Change & Sustainable Development (1) Social information: Quantitative information: Total workforce (distribution by sex and age), turnover rate, lost-time injury frequency rate, total number of hours of training, the proportion of local executives/managers; qualitative information: Health and safety in the workplace, equal opportunities policy. Environmental information: Quantitative information: Total energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions related to energy consumption, water consumption, raw materials used (monomers and polymers), total quantity of waste products; qualitative information: The company’s organization to take account of environmental issues and, where appropriate, processes for environmental assessment or certiﬁcation; greenhouse gas emissions. Company-speciﬁc information: Qualitative information: The territorial, economic and social impact of the company’s business activities on regional employment and development as well as on local populations, the terms for engaging with persons or organizations interested in the company’s business activities, the importance of subcontracting and how the social and environmental responsibility of suppliers and subcontractors is taken into account in relationships with them, actions undertaken to promote human rights. (2) Essilor International (France), BBGR (France), Essilor Manufacturing Thailand Co. Ltd (Thailand), Optodev (Philippines), Essilor Manufacturing Philippines Inc. (Philippines), Shamir Optical Industry Ltd (Israel), Essilor GmbH (Germany). 236 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 CORPORATE, SOCIAL AND 4.7 Location of GRI elements ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4.7 LOCATION OF GRI ELEMENTS Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization page 201 Chapter 4 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities pages 27 and next Section 1.6 Organizational proﬁle 2.1 Name of organization page 240 Section 5.1 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services page 9 Section 1.3 2.3 Operational structure of the organization page 9 Section 1.3 2.4 Location of the organization’s headquarters page 240 Section 5.1 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates pages 11 and next Section 1.3 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form page 240 Section 5.1 2.7 Markets served pages 11 and next Section 1.3 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization pages 11 and next Section 1.3 2.9 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period […] pages 230 and next Section 4.5 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period page 201 Chapter 4 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period for the information provided page 233 Section 4.5 3.2 Date of the most recent previous report (if any) page 233 Section 4.5 3.3 Reporting cycle page 233 Section 4.5 3.4 Person to contact page 234 Section 4.5 3.5 Process for deﬁning report content pages 230 and next Section 4.5 3.6 Report scope and boundary page 233 Section 4.5 3.7 State any speciﬁc limitations on the scope […] page 233 Section 4.5 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures page 233 Section 4.5 3.9 3.10 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations […] Explanation of the effects of any re-statements […] page 234 Provided as needed Section 4.5 4 3.11 Signiﬁcant changes page 233 Section 4.5 3.12 Table identifying the location of the GRI Standard Disclosures page 237 Section 4.7 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report page 234 Section 4.5 Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization pages 34 and next Section 2.1 4.2 Indicate if the Chairman of the Board of Directors is also an executive officer page 35 Section 2.1 4.3 [...] indicate the number of independent and/or Non-Executive Board members pages 34 and next Section 2.1 4.4 Mechanisms [...] recommendations or direction to the Board of Directors pages 51 and next Section 2.2 4.5 Linkage between compensation […] and the organization’s performance pages 71 and next Section 2.3 4.6 Processes in place for the Board of Directors to ensure conﬂicts of interest are avoided page 54 Section 2.2 4.7 Process for determining the […] qualiﬁcations and expertise […] page 52 Section 2.2 4.8 [...] statements of mission or values, Codes of Conduct and principles […] pages 63 and next Section 2.2 4.9 Procedures of the Board of Directors for overseeing […] pages 63 and next Section 2.2 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board of Directors’ own performance […] pages 63 and next Section 2.2 4.11 How the precautionary approach is addressed by the organization pages 223 and next Sect ion 4.4 4.12 Externally developed […] charters, principles or other initiatives […] page 201 Chapter 4 4.13 Memberships in associations […] pages 225 and next Section 4.4 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization pages 202, 203, 225 and next Section 4.1 4.15 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage pages 202, 203, 225 and next Section 4.1 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement […] pages 202, 203, 225 and next Section 4.1 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement […] pages 202, 203, 225 and next Section 4.1 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 237 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 5.1 COMPANY 5.1.1 5.1.2 5.1.3 5.1.4 5.1.5 Company name and registered office Date of formation and term of the Company Legal form Corporate purpose Conditions governing changes in capital 240 240 240 240 240 240 5.2 SHARE CAPITAL 5.2.1 Change in share capital 5.2.2 Essilor shares 5.2.3 Essilor stock and rights held by members 5.2.4 5 of the management, governance and supervisory bodies Stock subscription options 242 242 247 251 251 5.1.6 Fiscal year 241 5.1.7 Shareholders’ Meetings 241 5.2.5 Performance shares 252 5.1.8 Disclosure threshold provisions 242 5.2.6 Stock ownership 259 5.2.7 Dividend policy 260 238 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 IN BRIEF DISTRIBUTION OF CAPITAL AT DECEMBER 31, 2014 DISTRIBUTION OF VOTING RIGHTS AT DECEMBER 31, 2014 Number of outstanding shares: 215.9 millions Number of voting rights: 228.6 millions Treasury stock Non-resident institutional 1.8% investors (a) Public 58.7% 85.5% Employee shareholders, retirees and Employee partners shareholders, retirees and 8.4% Resident partners Individual institutional (a) shareholders (a) 14.5% 22.5% 8.6% (a) December 31, 2014 estimates. 16,482 8.2% of capital Internal shareholders(b) in 52 countries representing: 14.2% of voting rights (b) Current and former employees and retirees. SHARE PRICE AND DIVIDEND € The base for the CAC 40 chart was changed to the Essilor share price at January 1, 2004 100 Essilor: +13.9%(d) 80 60 40 CAC 40: +1.1%(d) 20 0 €0.38 €0.47 €0.55 €0.62 €0.66 €0.70 €0.83 €0.85 €0.88 €0.94 €1.02 (c) 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (c) Subject to the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 5, 2015. (d) CAGR (Compound annual growth rate). Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 239 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 5.1 Company 5.1 COMPANY 5.1.1 Company name and registered office The Company’s name is Essilor International (Compagnie Générale The registered office of the Company is located at 147, rue de d’Optique), hereinafter “Essilor”, the “Company” or the “Group”. Paris – 94220 Charenton-le-Pont – France. The phone number of the headquarters is +33 (0)1 49 77 42 24. 5.1.2 Date of formation and term of the Company The Company was formed on October 6, 1971 for a 99-year term Essilor International is registered with the Crèteil Trade and expiring on October 6, 2070. Companies Register under No. 712 049 618. The APE business identiﬁer codes are 3250B (Essilor) and 7010Z (Headquarters). 5.1.3 Legal form Essilor is a joint stock company (société anonyme) with a Board of Directors under French law, governed by Book II of the French Commercial Code. 5.1.4 Corporate purpose In accordance with Article 2 of the bylaws, the Company’s • provide any and all services and assistance related to the corporate purpose, in any and all countries, is to: above activities, including consulting, accounting, audit, logistics and cash management services. • design, manufacture, purchase, sell and trade in any and all eyewear and optical products, including the manufacture, More generally, the Company may perform any financial, purchase and sale of frames, sunglasses, protective lenses and commercial or industrial transactions or any transactions other protective equipment, and eyeglass and contact lenses; involving either real estate or securities directly or indirectly related to the above-mentioned purposes or any similar or related • design and/or manufacture, purchase, sell and/or market purposes, or that would facilitate their extension or development any and all ophthalmic optical instruments and materials or make them more proﬁtable. as well as any and all material and equipment for the screening, detection, diagnosis, measurement or correction of It may perform such transactions for itself, on behalf of third physiological disabilities, for professional or private use; parties or through any and all forms of participation, including creating new companies, acquiring shares in existing companies, • design and/or develop, purchase and/or sell computer forming partnerships, merging companies, advancing funds, software applications and programs and related services; purchasing or selling securities and rights to equity instruments, • perform research, clinical trials, wearer tests, training, selling or leasing out all or part of its real estate, securities or technical assistance and engineering services in relation to related rights, or otherwise. the above activities; 5.1.5 Conditions governing changes in capital The Company’s bylaws do not contain any restrictions over and above the applicable legal provisions in relation to capital increases. 240 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, 5.1 Company ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 5.1.6 Fiscal year The Company’s ﬁscal year runs from January 1 to December 31. 5.1.7 Shareholders’ Meetings Notice of meeting meeting, and no such transactions will be taken into account by the Company, regardless of any agreement to the contrary. All holders of ordinary shares are entitled to participate in Shareholders’ Meetings, regardless of the number of shares they Shareholders who are not resident in France, within the meaning own, provided such shares have been paid up to the extent called. of Article 102 of the French Civil Code, may ask their custodian institution to transmit their votes in accordance with the applicable Shareholders’ Meetings are called and conduct business in laws and regulations. accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. Since the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 11, 2012, “pure” or “administered” registered shareholders will have the option Pre-meeting disclosure of temporary holdings of receiving their invitation and/or the Shareholders’ Meeting Pursuant to their legal obligations, any individual or legal entity preparatory documents by email. (with the exception of those referred to in Article L.233-7-IV-3 of the French Commercial Code) who, as a result of one or more temporary sales or similar transactions as defined in Right to attend meetings Article L.225-126 of the French Commercial Code, individually To attend a Shareholders’ Meeting in person or by proxy: or jointly owns shares representing more than 0.5% of the voting rights of the Company, must inform the Company as well as the • for holders of “pure” registered or “administered” registered Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF) of the number of shares shares must be listed as the shareholder of record at midnight, owned temporarily, no later than midnight (Paris time) of the Paris time, on the second business day before the meeting second business day before the Shareholders’ Meeting. date, Paris time; Disclosures and statements can be sent to the Company at the • holders of bearer shares must be listed as the shareholder following address: Invest@essilor.com of record at midnight, Paris time, on the second business day before the meeting date. Ownership of the shares will Any undisclosed temporarily held shares as deﬁned above will be be evidenced by a certificate of ownership (attestation de stripped of voting rights for that Shareholders’ Meeting and at all participation) issued by the custodian institution that keeps other Shareholders’ Meetings until the temporarily held shares the shareholder’s securities account, to be submitted with the are sold or returned. postal voting form/proxy or the request for an attendance card The email must contain the following information: issued in the shareholder’s name. A certiﬁcate of ownership can also be issued to shareholders wishing to attend the • name or company name and a contact person (name, position, meeting who have not received their attendance card by telephone, email address); midnight, Paris time, on the second business day before the • identity of the seller (name or company name); date of the meeting; • type of transaction; • Shareholders may give proxy only to their spouse, to another • number of shares acquired in the transaction; shareholder or to an individual or legal entity of their choosing • ISIN code of the shares listed on NYSE Euronext Paris; in accordance with laws and regulations, particularly those stipulated in Article L.225-106 I of the French Commercial Code. Each shareholder present or represented at the • transaction expiration date; 5 meeting has a number of votes equal to the number of shares • voting agreement (if any). represented, directly or by proxy, without limit. This information will be published on the Company’s website. Shareholders who have sent in a postal voting form or proxy or requested an attendance card via their custodian institution can 2015 Shareholders’ Meeting nevertheless sell all or some of their shares before the meeting. However, if the sale occurs before the second business day The Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting preceding the meeting at midnight, Paris time, the Company shall will be convened on May 5, 2015. accordingly invalidate or amend, as appropriate, the postal voting For information about the ﬁnancial authorizations to be put to the form, proxy or attendance card or certificate of ownership. In vote at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting on May 5, 2015, this case, the custodian institution will be required to notify the see Section 5.2.1.4. Company or the Company’s registrar of the transaction, including all necessary information. For information about the proposed renewal of the share buyback program, to be put to the vote at the Ordinary Shareholders’ However, the custodian institution will not be authorized to notify Meeting on May 5, 2015, see Section 5.2.2.3 “Share buyback the Company or the registrar of any transactions carried out after programs.” midnight, Paris time, on the second business day preceding the Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 241 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 5.2 Share capital 5.1.8 Disclosure threshold provisions In addition to the statutory disclosures, the Company’s bylaws Disclosure is also required, within the same maximum period, of state that any individual or legal entity who, acting alone or any reduction in the percentage of voting rights held to below any in concert with others, directly or indirectly, owns 1% of the of the above thresholds. voting rights must inform the Company thereof within ﬁve days, Any undisclosed shares in excess of the above disclosure by registered letter with return receipt requested, sent to the thresholds will be stripped of voting rights in accordance with the Company’s registered office. The same formalities are required law at the request of one or several shareholders together holding whenever a shareholder exceeds or falls below the threshold in at least 5% of the capital at the time of the meeting. further increments of 2%. 5.2 SHARE CAPITAL 5.2.1 Change in share capital 5.2.1.1 Breakdown of share capital in 2014 Number Number of At December 31, 2014 of shares % voting rights % Internal shareholders (current, former and retired employees) • FCPE Valoptec International 5,138,786 2.4% 10,212,138 4.5% • Essilor group 5 and 7-year FCPE 4,850,547 2.2% 9,300,092 4.1% • Funds for employees outside France 771,871 0.4% 792,079 0.3% • Pure or administered registered shares held directly by employees 6,995,113 3.2% 12,205,511 5.3% SUB-TOTAL 17,756,317 8.2% 32,509,820 14.2% Partner shareholders (a) Pure or administered registered shares held by partners 343,240 0.2% 686,480 0.3% SUB-TOTAL 18,099,557 8.4% 33,196,300 14.5% Treasury stock • Own shares 3,959,921 1.8% • Liquidity contract SUB-TOTAL 3,959,921 1.8% PUBLIC 193,833,050 89.8% 195,372,367 85.5% TOTAL 215,892,528 100% 228,568,667 100% (a) Partner Shareholders refers to the Essilor International shares held by employees, senior managers and, if applicable, former employees and senior managers of companies in which Essilor International held a stake that was subsequently sold in full. 242 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, 5.2 Share capital ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP At December 31, 2014, the share capital amounted to a par value of €0.18 subscribed by the Essilor group ﬁveand €38,860,655.04, divided into 215,892,528 fully paid-up ordinary seven-year FCPE; shares, each with a par value of €0.18. • €154,052.64 increase, excluding original issue premium, Taking into account the double voting rights attached to registered corresponding to the issue of 855,848 new shares, each with a shares held for at least two years and the absence of voting rights par value of €0.18 on exercise of stock options. attached to treasury shares, the total number of exercisable There were no material changes in the share ownership position voting rights attached to the Company’s shares at December 31, as of January 31, 2015. 2014 was 228,568,667. Changes in share capital during the ﬁscal year were as follows: • €60,692.76 increase, excluding original issue premium, corresponding to the issue of 377,182 new shares, each with ■ Maximum dilution at ﬁscal year-end Taking into account all shares that could be issued after December 31, 2014 due to the exercise of the existing options, regardless of their strike prices, the maximum dilution would be as follows: Number of Number of At December 31, 2014 shares % voting rights % Position at year end 215,892,528 228,568,667 Outstanding stock subscription options 900,134 0.4% 900,134 0.4% Outstanding performance share rights 4,021,259 1.9% 4,021,259 1.8% TOTAL POTENTIAL DILUTION 4,921,393 2.3% 4,921,393 2.2% Total capital diluted at year end 220,813,921 233,490,060 The breakdown of changes in share capital in 2014 is presented in Note 10 Section 3.4 of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and Note 12 Section 3.8 of the annual ﬁnancial statements. 5.2.1.2 Breakdown of share capital in 2012 and 2013 Number Number At December 31, 2013 of shares % of voting right % Employee shareholding (current, former and retired employees) • Valoptec International FCPE 5,592,064 2.6% 11,171,131 4.9% • Essilor group 5 and 7-year FCPE 4,969,207 2.3% 9,492,757 4.2% • Funds for employees outside France 736,958 0.3% 749,621 0.3% • Registered shares held directly by employees SUB-TOTAL 6,332,600 17,630,829 2.9% 8.1% 10,960,386 32,373,895 4.8% 14.3% 5 Partner shareholders (a) Registered or administered shares held by partners 343,240 0.2% 686,480 0.3% SUB-TOTAL 17,974,069 8.4% 33,060,375 14.6% Treasury shares • Treasury shares 4,454,406 2.1% • Liquidity contract SUB-TOTAL 4,454,406 2.1% PUBLIC 192,271,023 89.6% 193,751,842 85.4% TOTAL 214,699,498 100% 226,812,217 100% (a) Partner shareholders refers to the proportion of Essilor International shares held by employees, senior managers and, if applicable, former employees and senior managers of companies in which Essilor International held a stake that has subsequently been sold in full. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 243 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 5.2 Share capital Number Number At December 31, 2012 of shares % of voting right % Employee shareholding (current, former and retired employees) • Valoptec International FCPE 5,762,620 2.7% 11,496,529 5.1% • Essilor group 5 and 7-year FCPE 5,014,279 2.3% 9,580,964 4.2% • Funds for employees outside France 710,944 0.3% 720,420 0.3% • Registered shares held directly by employees 5,988,153 2.8% 10,047,121 4.5% SUB-TOTAL 17,475,996 8.1% 31,845,034 14.1% Partner shareholders (a) Registered or administered shares held by partners 343,240 0.2% 386,480 0.2% SUB-TOTAL 17,819,236 8.3% 32,231,514 14.3% Treasury shares • Treasury shares 4,387,477 2.0% • Liquidity contract SUB-TOTAL 4,387,477 2.0% PUBLIC 192,517,327 89.7% 193,777,630 85.7% TOTAL 214,724,040 100% 226,009,144 100% (a) Partner shareholders refers to the proportion of Essilor International shares held by employees, senior managers and, if applicable, former employees and senior managers of companies in which Essilor International held a stake that has subsequently been sold in full. 244 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, 5.2 Share capital ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 5.2.1.3 Changes in share capital Aggregate Changes in share capital New number over the last ﬁve years Number issued of shares of € thousands of shares Par value Premium capital the Company SHARE CAPITAL AT DECEMBER 31, 2009 38,792 215,509,972 Subscription of shares reserved for the Essilor group FCPE 541,767 98 20,192 38,889 216,051,739 Exercise of subscription options 1,912,549 344 56,201 39,234 217,964,288 Cancellation of treasury shares -6,312,636 -1,136 -267,115 38,097 211,651,652 Issuance of shares on conversion of OCÉANE bonds 3,690 1 98 38,098 211,655,342 Capital increase paid up by capitalizing reserves 38,098 211,655,342 SHARE CAPITAL AT DECEMBER 31, 2010 38,098 211,655,342 Subscription of shares reserved for the Essilor group FCPE 521,316 94 21,708 38,192 212,176,658 Exercise of subscription options 1,861,638 335 60,996 38,527 214,038,296 Capital increase paid up by capitalizing reserves 38,527 214,038,296 SHARE CAPITAL AT DECEMBER 31, 2011 38,527 214,038,296 Subscription of shares reserved for the Essilor group FCPE 385,354 69 21,927 38,596 214,423,650 Exercise of subscription options 2,700,390 486 95,417 39,082 217,124,040 Cancellation of treasury shares -2,400,000 -432 -113,122 38,650 214,724,040 Capital increase paid up by capitalizing reserves 38,650 214,724,040 SHARE CAPITAL AT DECEMBER 31, 2012 38,650 214,724,040 Subscription of shares reserved for the Essilor group FCPE 377,407 68 23,267 38,719 215,101,447 Exercise of subscription options 1,098,051 198 44,800 38,916 216,199,498 Cancellation of treasury shares -1,500,000 -270 -77,530 38,646 214,699,498 Capital increase paid up by capitalizing reserves 38,646 214,699,498 SHARE CAPITAL AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 38,646 214,699,498 Subscription of shares reserved for the Essilor group FCPE 337,182 61 23,451 38,707 215,036,680 Exercise of subscription options 855,848 154 34,840 38,861 215,892,528 Cancellation of treasury shares 38,861 215,892,528 Capital increase paid up by capitalizing reserves 38,861 215,892,528 SHARE CAPITAL AT DECEMBER 31, 2014 38,861 215,892,528 5 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 245 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 5.2 Share capital 5.2.1.4 Delegations and authorizations granted to the Board of Directors ■ Summary table of currently valid delegations Issued and unissued authorized capital (1) the table below summarizes the currently valid delegations granted by the Shareholders’ Meetings of May 11, 2012 and May 7, 2014 to the Board of Directors relating to capital, and indicates the use of these delegations. Date of Shareholders’ Overall Meeting Period use at Delegation type (resolution number) (expiration date) Maximum amount authorized 12/31/2014 Share capital increases for employees and executive corporate officers Share capital increase reserved May 7, 2014 21 months 1.5% of the share capital 0.16% for employees (15th) (February 6, 2016) (at the issue date) Free share award (bonus shares) for May 11, 2012 38 months 2.5% of the share capital 1.94% employees and executive corporate (12th) (July 10, 2015) (at the award date) officers Stock options award for employees and May 11, 2012 38 months 1% of the share capital 0.13% executive corporate officers (13th) (July 10, 2015) (at the award date) Share capital increases Capital increase through a share issue May 7, 2014 26 months One-third of the share None with preemptive subscription rights (16th) (July 6, 2016) capital (at the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting) Maximum of €1,500 million for debt securities Capital increase through a share issue May 7, 2014 26 months 10% of the share capital (at the None without preemptive subscription rights (17th) (July 6, 2016) date of the Shareholders’ Meeting) €1 billion for debt securities Greenshoe option (applicable May 7, 2014 26 months 15% of the initial issue None under Resolutions 16, 17 and 20) (18th) (July 6, 2016) Capital increase in payment for a capital May 7, 2014 26 months 10% of the share capital at the date None contribution in kind (19th) (July 6, 2016) of the Shareholders’ Meeting Allotment of shares to qualiﬁed investors May 7, 2014 26 months 10% of the share capital None or a small circle of investors (20th) (July 6, 2016) (at the date of the (Art. L.411-2 II of the French MFC) Shareholders’ Meeting) Share issue based on price terms May 7, 2014 26 months 10% of the share capital None alternative to those laid down (21th) (July 6, 2016) (at the date of the in Resolutions 17 and 20 Shareholders’ Meeting) Overall limit of authorizations without May 7, 2014 26 months 10% of the share capital (at the None pre-emptive subscription rights or (22nd) (July 6, 2016) date of the Shareholders’ Meeting) reserved for contributions in kind This ceiling is deducted from (Resolutions 17, 18, 19, 20) the overall ceiling of one-third of the share capital (Resolution 16) Capital increase through incorporation of May 7, 2014 26 months €500 million None reserves, proﬁt, premiums or other items (23th) (July 6, 2016) Buyback by the company of its own shares Purchase by the Company of its own May 7, 2014 18 months 10% of the share capital 469,425 shares (13th) (November 7, 2015) at the purchase date shares or 0.22% Reduction in share capital by cancellation of shares Cancellation of shares acquired May 7, 2014 24 months 10% of the share capital None by the Company under Article L.225-209 (14th) (May 6, 2016) on the day of cancellation of the French Commercial Code per 24-month period (1) Article L.225-100 of the French Commercial Code. 246 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, 5.2 Share capital ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP ■ Financial authorizations to be put to the vote not exceed the equivalent of 1.5% of the capital at the time of each at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 5, 2015 issue. The duration would be 21 months. The Board of Directors is seeking authorization to issue new The Board of Directors is further seeking authorization to grant shares for cash and to grant newly issued shares or share performance shares to Group employees and executive officers, equivalents to employees, in accordance with the law including and also grant stock options to Group employees, to give them a Articles L.225-129, L.225-129-6 and L.225-138 of the French stake in the Company’s performance. Commercial Code and Article L.3332-18 of the French Labor For information about the proposed renewal of the share buyback Code. These issues and grants would be made to members of an program, to be put to the vote at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Employee Stock Ownership Plan set up by Essilor International or Meeting on May 5, 2015, see Section 5.2.2.3 “Share buyback a related company, within the meaning of Article L.225-180 of the programs.” Commercial Code. Shares issued under this authorization would 5.2.2 Essilor shares The Essilor share trades on Euronext Paris – Euronext – Essilor stock is also included in three indices that specialize in Local stocks – Compartment A, under ISIN and Euronext socially responsible investment (SRI indices): code FR0000121667. The shares are eligible for the Deferred Settlement Service (SRD). • FTSE4Good, published by the Financial Times and the London Stock Exchange (FTSE); The Essilor stock is included in the following indices: CAC 40, SBF 120, SBF 250, Euronext 100, EURO STOXX 50, STOXX All Europe • Ethibel Excellence index; 100 and FTSEuroﬁrst 300. • ECPI® Ethical Index EURO® index. In addition, Essilor has been included in the Low Carbon 100 Essilor is included in the Euronext FAS IAS® Index launched Europe® Index since it was launched. This index launched by NYSE by Euronext and the Fédération Française des Associations Euronext on October 24, 2008 measures the performance of the d’Actionnaires Salariés et d’Anciens Salariés (FAS). It is composed 100 largest European companies that emit the lowest levels of of all the stocks in the SBF 250 with significant employee CO2 in their sectors. shareholding: at least 3% of the capital in shares held by more than one-fourth of the employees. For more information about employee share ownership, refer to Section 5.2.6.3. The shares are freely transferable and cannot be jointly owned. 5.2.2.1 Key stock market data (Source: Reuters, Bloomberg and Euronext) Share price (€) Number of Market capitalization at outstanding shares December 31 (a) Session high Session low Closing price at December 31 (€ millions) 2014 93.26 70.51 92.68 215,892,528 17,942 2013 89.99 71.90 77,28 214,699,498 14,882 2012 2011 78.24 57.72 54.50 46.61 76,02 54,55 214,724,040 214,038,296 14,578 10,968 5 2010 51.17 40.84 48,18 211,655,342 9,741 2009 42.00 26.08 41,75 215,509,972 8,395 2008 44.39 26.87 33,57 211,019,922 7,065 (a) Used in the CAC40 index (before capital increase related to the convertible bonds and the company savings plan). Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 247 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 5.2 Share capital 5.2.2.2 Share prices and trading volumes (Sources: Bloomberg, Reuters and Euronext Paris) Stock markets: Euronext Paris, Turquoise, Bats Europe, Chi-x Alternative, Equiduct, London Stock Exchange, SmartPool, QMTF, XOME, TOM1,AQXE, XAQU. Share price (€) Trading volume Trading volume, (millions of shares) in capital (€ millions) Session high Session low 2013 September 20.71 1,685 84.10 79.06 October 22.00 1,725 80.39 76.06 November 17.13 1,316 79.47 75.12 December 16.64 1,240 77.54 72,00 2014 January 22.76 1,800 83.75 73.93 February 17.70 1,354 79.42 74.32 March 22.85 1,668 74.74 70.51 April 20.50 1,520 80.69 71.47 May 15.31 1,189 79.68 75.30 June 18.06 1,415 80.90 76.11 July 18.82 1,405 78.17 72.44 August 19.16 1,432 81.00 71.16 September 25.08 2,200 87.90 80.60 October 29,99 2,486 88.55 76.65 November 16.55 1,452 90.36 85.29 December 19.68 1,758 93.26 82.75 2015 January 24.71 2368 100.5 88.72 248 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, 5.2 Share capital ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 5.2.2.3 Share buyback programs For this reason, the Company bought 469,295 shares between January 1 and December 31, 2014 at an average gross price of In May 2014, the Shareholders’ Meeting renewed the Board of €76.25 and did not sell any shares on the market. The related Director’s authorization to buy back Essilor International shares average trading fees (including commissions net of tax) amounted representing up to 10% of the Company’s capital on the date to €0.02 per share, increasing the average net cost per share to of purchase, as allowed under Articles L.225-209 et seq. of the €76.27. French Commercial Code, for a term of 18 months expiring on November 6, 2015. At December 31, 2014, Essilor held 3,959,921 of its own shares, representing 1.83% of share capital. The par value of these shares In application of Article L.225-211 of the French Commercial Code, was €712,785.78 and their book value was €286.2 million (i.e. an as amended by Order 2009-105 of January 30, 2009, the Board of average net cost of €72.28 per share). Directors reports that during ﬁscal year 2014 it made use of the authorizations given by the Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings of May 16, 2013 and May 7, 2014. ■ Liquidity contract The main objective of the program was to hedge the employee The Company was not a party to any liquidity contracts in 2014. share-based payment programs. ■ Share buybacks In accordance with Article L.225-211 of the French Commercial Code as amended by Order 2009-105 of January 30, 2009, no shares were reallocated in 2014. 2014 Treasury shares Number of shares at start of period – January 1 4,454,406 Stock purchase options exercised Delivery of performance shares -963,910 Delivery of convertible bonds Cancellation of treasury shares Purchase of treasury shares 469,425 Number of shares at end of period – December 31 3,959,921 Position at January 31, 2015 Percentage of capital held directly and indirectly 1.83% Number of shares canceled in the last 24 months 1,500,000 Number of shares held in portfolio 3,959,921 Book value of portfolio (€) 286,657,450 Market value of portfolio (a) (€) (a) On the basis of the closing price on January 31, 2015. 392,309,373 5 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 249 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 5.2 Share capital Total gross ﬂows from March 1, 2014 to January 31, 2015 Open positions at January 31, 2015 Purchases Sales Cancellations Open buy positions Open sell positions Calls Puts Forward Calls Puts Forward bought sold purchases bought sold sales Number of shares 469,425 Average maximum maturity Average transaction price, (€) 76.25 Total amount, (€) 35,873,082 ■ Renewal of the ﬁnancial authorization to implement a share Main characteristics of the new buyback program: buyback program • securities: Essilor International ordinary shares (traded on In accordance with Article 241-2 of the AMF’s General Regulations, Euronext Paris in Compartment A); the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 5, 2015 is asked to renew the • maximum percentage of shares that may be held according authorization to buy back shares solely for the purposes set out to the resolution tabled at the Combined Ordinary and below. The actual order in which the buyback authorization will be Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 5, 2015: 10% of used will be needand opportunity-based. capital, or, for example 21,597,961 shares based on capital at The main objectives of the program will be: January 31, 2015; • to hedge the stock purchase option plans or other allotments • maximum percentage of share capital that may be bought of shares intended for employees, notably the grant of bonus back, taking into account the number of own shares held as shares set forth in Articles L.225-197-1 et seq. of the French of January 31, 2015: 8.16%, i.e., by way of example 21,597,961 Commercial Code intended for Group senior managers and 3,959,921 = 17,638,040 shares based on the capital at employees; January 31, 2015; • to buy shares for cancellation, notably in order to offset the • maximum purchase price per share: €130 (as adjusted if dilutive impact of stock subscription options granted to Group necessary to take into account the effects of any equity capital senior managers and employees; transactions). The shares may be purchased, sold or transferred and paid for • to potentially hedge debt securities that can be converted by any appropriate method on the regulated market or overinto or exchanged with Company shares, by buying shares for delivery (in the case of delivery of existing shares as part the-counter (including through straight purchases, or the use of the rights conversion operation) or by buying shares for of ﬁnancial instruments or derivatives or the implementation of cancellation (in the case of new shares created as part of the options strategies). The entire share buyback program may be rights conversion); carried out through a block purchase. The authorization is being sought for a period of 18 months • to support the price of the shares under a liquidity contract that expiring on November 4, 2016. complies with the AMAFI Code of Ethics endorsed by the AMF (Autorité des Marchés Financiers); • the subsequent use of the shares in exchange or presentation 5.2.2.4 Share cancellations and capital reductions as consideration for future external growth transactions up to The Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting a maximum of 5% of the capital; of May 7, 2014 authorized the Board of Directors to reduce the • to implement any market practice that may be acknowledged capital by canceling all or some of the shares held by the Company, by regulations or the Autorité des Marchés Financiers. provided that the number of shares canceled during any 24-month The shares held under the buyback program may not represent period does not exceed 10% of total share capital. In 2014, Essilor more than 10% of the Company’s capital at any given time. International did not cancel any shares. 250 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, 5.2 Share capital ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 5.2.3 Essilor stock and rights held by members of the management, governance and supervisory bodies Position at December 31, 2014 Employees and executive officers – Members of the Board of Directors Hubert Aïcha Maureen SAGNIÈRES Yi HE MOKDAHI CAVANAGH Shares 337,034 19,690 15,820 1,122 Performance share rights • November 24, 2011 2,310 1,320 • November 27, 2012 2,000 1,200 • December 14, 2012 • November 25, 2013 45,000 2,200 2,000 2,000 • December 20, 2013 20 20 • November 25, 2014 40,000 2,200 2,000 2,000 • December 19, 2014 20 Independent Directors At December 31, 2014, the Independent Directors did not hold any stock subscription (or purchase) options or performance share rights. They held 12,729 Essilor shares. 5.2.4 Stock subscription options Stock subscription options, if exercised, trigger the issuance of Under capped plans, the maximum profit that can be made by new ordinary Essilor shares. each grantee is capped at 100% of the value of the option grants. As of December 31, 2014, the total number of shares that may Capped performance plans are, in addition, subject to the share be created as a result of the exercise of the stock subscription price reaching a certain level (in the same way as the performance options was 900,134. shares described in Section 5.2.5) and can be canceled if the target is not met. The subscription price is equal to the average of the opening prices quoted for the Company’s shares over the twenty trading days preceding the Board of Directors’ decision to grant the options. 5 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 251 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 5.2 Share capital Number Granted to Subscription Number of options Number of options of options Executive price outstanding at outstanding at Date granted (a) granted Committee (€) December 31, 2014 January 31, 2015 November 14, 2007 (b) 1,117,770 148,000 43.65 (b) November 27, 2008 1,568,080 430,000 33.17 69,473 66,630 November 26, 2009 (b) 1,579,120 314,160 38.96 232,735 224,656 November 25, 2010 (b) 634,760 48.01 266,938 194,228 November 24, 2011 (b) 85,620 52.27 52,845 48,045 (b) November 27, 2012 81,760 71.35 71,558 70,458 (b) November 25, 2013 87,880 77.29 85,080 84,940 November 25, 2014 (b) 121,505 21,000 87.16 121,505 121,505 TOTAL 5,276,495 913,160 900,134 810,462 (a) Plans prior to that of November 14, 2007 no longer have stock subscription options outstanding. (b) Capped performance plans. The stock purchase options situation is presented below: Information is provided only for those plans for which options or rights are currently outstanding. At December 31, 2014 o/w in 2014 At January 31, 2015 o/w in 2015 (a) Options granted 5,276,495 121,505 5,276,495 Options canceled (a) 561,850 68,958 564,436 2,586 (a) Options exercised 3,814,511 855,848 3,901,597 87,086 (a) and (b) Options remaining 900,134 810,462 (a) Plans from November 14, 2007 to November 25, 2014. (b) 0.42% of the capital at December 31, 2014. 5.2.5 Performance shares If the performance shares rights are exercised, grantees will be 5.2.5.1 Vesting conditions for shares and holding allocated either existing or new ordinary Essilor shares. obligation At its meeting of November 22, 2006, the Board of Directors decided Essilor’s long-term compensation plans were designed to to set up the Company’s ﬁrst performance share plan. The decision encourage the alignment of interests of employee shareholders was preceded by an assessment of the beneﬁts of this type of plan. and external shareholders. The conclusions from this assessment were as follows: The main terms of the plans between 2006 and 2014 inclusive are • the potential dilutive impact of performance shares is less than governed by performance-share plan regulations with conditions half that of stock options offering an equivalent potential gain; that have changed since 2006. • the grant system makes it easier for grantees to keep their Since 2010, the ﬁnal award of performance shares is contingent on: shares, unlike with shares acquired on exercise of stock subscription (or purchase) options, some or all of which are • a performance condition based on the progress of the trading almost always sold by the grantees to ﬁnance the exercise price; price of the share measured over several years; • it was decided to limit the granting of shares to employees • an employment condition in order to guarantee the longresiding in France; non-residents will continue to receive stock term commitment of the beneﬁciaries and their loyalty to the subscription (or purchase) options; Company; • In light of this restriction, the terms of the performance • an obligation to hold vested shares to strengthen the share grants are designed to ensure that the potential gain convergence between the interests of employee shareholders for grantees is as close as possible to that for holders of and external shareholders; stock options. The performance shares are subject to vesting conditions based on growth in the Company’s share price to • stricter conditions for Non-Executive Board Director. ensure that the interests of grantees converge with those of shareholders. 252 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, 5.2 Share capital ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP ■ Performance condition subsequently rises. Over time, the minimum threshold (increase of share price) to be reached to receive a minimum number of The vesting of shares and the number of shares vested are subject Essilor shares will increase: 4% at N+2, 6.1% at N+3, 8.2% at N+4, to a performance condition based on the annualized progress of etc. and 12.6% at N+6. the Essilor share price over a period of between two and six years (from N+2 to N+6) from their award date. If, at the end of N+6, the minimum threshold of a 12.6% rise in the trading price has not been achieved, the plan becomes null and At the time they are awarded, the Initial Reference Price (equal to void and the employees receive no Essilor shares. the average of the 20 opening prices preceding the award date) is determined. Two years after the award (N+2), an Average Price equal to the ■ Employment condition average of the opening prices for the three months preceding the For French residents, the award of shares is subject to the date of the second anniversary of the award is calculated. beneficiary’s employment with the Group on the date the If the increase between the Average Price and the Initial Reference performance condition is achieved, which may occur between the Price is: second anniversary and the sixth anniversary of the award. For non-French residents, the employment condition is set at: • greater than 14.5% (an annualized increase (1) increase of 7%), all shares initially awarded are deﬁnitively acquired subject to compliance with the employment condition (detailed in the • the fourth anniversary of the award if the achievement of the performance condition occurs between the second and fourth Section “Employment condition”); anniversary; • greater than or equal to 4.0% and less than 14.5% • on the day of the achievement of the performance condition if (corresponding respectively to an annualized (1) increase that day occurs after the fourth anniversary of the award. greater than or equal to 2% and less than 7%), only a portion This employment condition is waived in the event of death, of the shares initially awarded is deﬁnitively acquired subject disability, layoff or retirement of the beneﬁciary. to compliance with the vesting condition (detailed in the Section “Employment condition”); • less than 4.0% (for an annualized increase of less than 2%), ■ Holding condition no shares are acquired. In this case, another evaluation of Once the performance condition is achieved, the shares acquired performance will be made three months later with annualized must be kept. French tax residents may sell the shares acquired share price benchmarks (1) between 2% and 7%. This as from the six-year anniversary of the initial award. For nonmeasurement of performance may be repeated until the sixth French tax residents, half of the shares acquired must be kept for anniversary date of the award (N+6). a minimum period of two years, and the other half may be sold The ﬁrst time that the annualized increase between the Average immediately for payment of taxes. Price and the Initial Reference Price crosses the 2% threshold Refer also to Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements (as an annualized increase) is when the number of shares vested (Section 3.4). is determined once and for all, even if the annualized increase 5 (1) Calculation formula: (Average Price/Initial Price)^(1/N) -1 where N is the number of years between the award and the performance measurement date. N =2 then, if the performance condition is not achieved, 2.25 and so on up to a maximum of six. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 253 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 5.2 Share capital 5.2.5.2 Outstanding performance share rights Initial reference Granted to share price Number of Number of Number of Executive (used to measure outstanding rights outstanding rights Date granted (a) rights granted Committee performance) (€) at December 31, 2014 at January 31, 2015 November 25, 2010 893,458 341,800 48,01 December 20, 2010 74,355 195 48,01 November 24, 2011 1,193,189 346,800 52,27 557,385 555,630 December 21, 2011 74,445 195 52,27 2,730 2,730 November 27, 2012 1,176,340 335,500 71,35 573,500 571,450 December 14, 2012 98,640 280 71,35 3,740 3,740 November 25, 2013 1,279,460 347,500 77,29 1,247,140 1,244,740 December 20, 2013 96,880 280 77,29 91,860 91,680 November 25, 2014 1,448,464 404,000 87.16 1,448,464 1,448,464 December 19, 2014 96,440 300 87.16 96,440 96,240 TOTAL 6,431,671 1,776,850 4,021,259 4,014,674 (a) Plans prior to that of November 24, 2011 no longer have any performance share rights to vest. Performance share rights are presented below: At December 31, 2014 o/w in 2014 At January 31, 2015 o/w in 2015 Rights granted (a) 6,431,671 1,544,904 6,431,671 Rights canceled (a) 240,560 90,320 247,145 6,585 Rights exercised (a) 2,169,852 963,910 2,169,852 Rights outstanding (a) (b) 4,021,259 4,014,674 (a) Plans from November 25, 2010 to December 25, 2014. (b) 1.64% of the capital at December 31, 2013. 5.2.5.3 Grant and exercise of stock options during the year Granted and exercised: • stock subscription options; • stock purchase options; Weighted • performance share rights; Average granted to employees other than Non-Executive Board Total Price Directors. number (€) Maturity date Related plans Stock options granted in ﬁscal year 2014 by the issuer or by any company in the scope of the option grants, to the ten employees of the issuer and of any company in this scope, with the highest number of stock options granted (comprehensive data) 59,900 87.16 November 25, 2021 November 25, 2014 Rights to performance shares granted in ﬁscal year 2014 by the issuer or by any company in the scope of the stock option November 25, 2020 grants, to the ten employees of the issuer and of any company or 2022 and November 25, 2014 in this scope, with the highest number of stock options granted December 19, 2020 and December 19, (comprehensive data) 238,600 87.16 or 2022 2014 Options held on the aforementioned issuer and companies, November 14, 2007 exercised in ﬁscal year 2014, by the ten employees of the issuer November 27, 2008 and of any company in this scope, with the highest number of stock options granted (comprehensive data) November 26, 2009 82,135 43.15 November 25, 2010 254 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, 5.2 Share capital ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 5.2.5.4 History of stock option and performance share rights For more information about performance shares, also refer to Section 5.2.5 “Performance shares.” Plan November 14, 2007 November 27, 2008 November 26, 2009 November 25, 2010 Date of the Shareholders’ Meeting May 11, 2007 May 11, 2007 May 11, 2007 May 11, 2010 Date of the Board of Directors Meeting November 14, 2007 November 27, 2008 November 26, 2009 November 25, 2010 Type of plan Capped performance Capped performance Capped performance Capped performance share subscription share subscription share subscription share subscription options (a) options (a) options (a) options (a) Total number of shares that can Maximum 1,117,770 Maximum 1,568,080 Maximum 1,579,120 Maximum 634,760 be subscribed or bought By Non-Executive Board Directors 320,000 230,000 • Philippe Alfroid 100,000 • Xavier Fontanet 120,000 80,000 • Hubert Sagnières 100,000 150,000 By the ten largest employee 206,000 170,000 194,000 75,000 beneﬁciaries Exercise start date May 14, 2010 November 29, 2010 November 28, 2011 November 26, 2012 Expiration date November 14, 2014 November 27, 2015 November 26, 2016 or November 25, 2017 2017 Subscription or purchase price (€) 43.650 33.170 38.960 48.010 Number of beneﬁciaries 1,800 2,286 2,412 1,362 Terms of exercise Non-residents: Non-residents and Non-residents and Non-residents and cannot exercise residents: cannot residents: cannot residents: cannot until performance is exercise until exercise until exercise until achieved. Then up to performance is performance is performance is 50% in the third year achieved. Then up to achieved. Then up to achieved. Then up to and the remainder in 50% in the third year 50% in the third year 50% in the third year subsequent years. and the remainder in and the remainder in and the remainder in subsequent years. subsequent years. subsequent years. Cancellation possible. Residents: none. Cancellation possible. Cancellation possible. Cancellation possible. Number of shares subscribed 1,018,880 1,272,270 1,183,777 313,682 at December 31, 2014 Subscription options or performance 98,890 226,337 162,608 54,140 share rights canceled Remaining subscription options 69,473 232,735 266,938 or performance share rights (a) Capped performance plans. Capped performance plans are, in addition, subject to the share price reaching a certain level (in the same way as the performance shares) and can be canceled if the target is not met. 5 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 255 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 5.2 Share capital Plan November 25, 2010 December 20, 2010 November 24, 2011 November 24, 2011 December 21, 2011 Date of the Shareholders’ May 11, 2010 May 11, 2010 May 11, 2010 May 11, 2010 May 11, 2010 Meeting Date of the Board of Directors November 25, 2010 November 25, 2010 November 24, 2011 November 24, 2011 November 24, 2011 Meeting Type of plan Performance share Performance share Capped performance Performance share Performance share rights rights (Group Plan share subscription rights rights (Group Plan France) options (a) France) Total number of shares that can Maximum 893,458 Maximum 74,355 Maximum 85,620 Maximum 1,193,189 Maximum 74,445 be subscribed or bought By Non-Executive Board 45,000 15 50,000 Directors • Xavier Fontanet • Hubert Sagnières 45,000 15 50,000 By the ten largest employee 200,000 150 28,300 180,000 150 beneﬁciaries Exercise start date Residents: Residents: November 25, 2013 November 25, 2013 December 21, 2013 (c) November 26, 2012 December 20, 2012 or 2015 (b) Non-residents: Non-residents: November 25, 2014 November 23, 2014 Plan end date November 25, 2016 December 20, 2016 November 24, 2018 November 25, 2017 December 21, 2017 or 2018 or 2018 or 2019 or 2019 Subscription or purchase price (€) 52,270 Number of beneﬁciaries 3,116 4,957 232 5,037 4,963 Terms of exercise Non-residents: Non-residents: Non-residents and Non-residents: Non-residents: Award subject Award subject residents: cannot Award subject Award subject to performance. to performance. exercise until to performance. to performance. Cancellation Cancellation performance is Cancellation Cancellation possible. 50% possible. 50% achieved. Then up to possible. 50% possible. 50% sellable at award, sellable at award, 50% in the third year sellable at award, sellable at award, 50% locked-in until 50% locked-in and the remainder in 50% locked-in until 50% locked-in November 25, 2016 until Tuesday, subsequent years. Friday, November 24, until Thursday, or 2018 depending December 20, 2016 2017 or 2019 December 21, 2017 Cancellation on vesting date. or 2018 depending depending on vesting or 2019 depending possible. on vesting date. date. on vesting date. Residents: Award subject Residents: Residents: Residents: to performance. Award subject Award subject Award subject Cancellation to performance. to performance. to performance. possible. Sellable Cancellation Cancellation Cancellation from November 25, possible. Sellable possible. Sellable possible. Sellable 2016 or 2018 from December 20, from November 24, from December 21, depending on vesting 2016 or 2018 2017 or 2019 2017 or 2019 date depending on vesting depending on vesting depending on vesting date date date Number of shares subscribed 836,688 68,625 22,315 558,444 66,315 at December 31, 2014 Subscription options or 56,770 5,730 10,460 77,360 5,400 performance share rights canceled Remaining subscription options 52,845 557,385 2,730 or performance share rights (a) Capped performance plans. Capped performance plans are, in addition, subject to the share price reaching a certain level (in the same way as the performance shares) and can be canceled if the target is not met. (b) Shares will be granted to residents provided that the estimated annualized Average Price is 2% higher than €52.27. Shares may be granted to non-residents on November 24, 2015 at the earliest. (c) Shares will be granted to residents provided that the estimated annualized Average Price is 2% higher than €52.27. Shares may be granted to non-residents on December 21, 2015 at the earliest. 256 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, 5.2 Share capital ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP Plan November 27, 2012 November 27, 2012 December 14, 2012 November 25, 2013 November 25, 2013 Date of the Shareholders’ May 11, 2012 May 11, 2012 May 11, 2012 May 11, 2012 May 11, 2012 Meeting Date of the Board of Directors November 27, 2012 November 27, 2012 November 27, 2012 November 25, 2013 November 25, 2013 Meeting Type of plan Capped performance Performance share Performance share Capped performance Performance share share subscription rights rights (Group Plan share subscription rights options (a) France) options (a) Total number of shares that can Maximum 81,760 Maximum 1,176,340 Maximum 98,640 Maximum 87,880 Maximum 1,279,460 be subscribed or bought By Non-Executive Board 45,000 20 45,000 Directors • Xavier Fontanet • Hubert Sagnières 45,000 20 45,000 By the ten largest employee 32,900 193,750 120 34,350 201,500 beneﬁciaries Exercise start date November 27, 2014 Residents: Residents: November 25, November 25, 2015 (f) November 27, 2014 December 15, 2014 2015 (e) Non-residents: Residents: November 27, December 15, 2014 (d) 2016 (c) Plan end date November 27, 2019 November 27, 2018 December 14, 2018 November 25, 2020 November 25, 2019 or 2020 or 2020 or 2021 Subscription or purchase price (€) 71.350 77.29 NS (b) Number of beneﬁciaries 216 5,035 4,932 248 5,775 Terms of exercise Non-residents and Non-residents: Non-residents: Non-residents and Non-residents: residents: cannot Award subject Award subject residents: cannot Award subject exercise until to performance. to performance. exercise until to performance. performance is Cancellation possible. Cancellation possible. performance is Cancellation possible. achieved. Then up to 50% sellable at 50% sellable at achieved. Then up to 50% sellable at 50% in the third year award, 50% lockedaward, 50% locked50% in the third year award, 50% lockedand the remainder in in until Tuesday, in until Friday, and the remainder in in until Monday, subsequent years. November 27, 2018 December 14, 2018 subsequent years. November 25, 2019 or 2020 depending on or 2020 depending on or 2021 depending on Cancellation Cancellation vesting date. vesting date. vesting date. possible. possible. Residents: Residents: Residents: Award subject Award subject Award subject to performance. to performance. to performance. Cancellation possible. Cancellation possible. Cancellation possible. Sellable from November 27, 2018 or 2020 depending on Sellable from December 14, 2018 or 2020 depending on Sellable from November 25, 2019 or 2021 depending on 5 vesting date vesting date vesting date Number of shares subscribed 3,587 548,600 88,080 2,300 at December 31, 2014 Subscription options or 6,615 54,240 6,820 2,800 30,020 performance share rights canceled Remaining subscription options 71,558 573,500 3,740 85,080 1,247,140 or performance share rights (a) Capped performance plans. Capped performance plans are, in addition, subject to the share price reaching a certain level (in the same way as the performance shares) and can be canceled if the target is not met. (b) If performance shares are granted, they will be allocated out of the Company’s treasury stock. (c) Shares may be granted to non-residents on November 27, 2016 at the earliest. (d) Shares may be granted to non-residents on December 14, 2016 at the earliest. (e) Options may be granted provided that the estimated annualized Average Price is 2% higher than €77.29. (f) Shares may be granted to residents provided that the estimated annualized Average Price is 2% higher than €77.29. Shares may be granted to non-residents on November 25, 2017 at the earliest. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 257 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 5.2 Share capital Plan December 20, 2013 November 25, 2014 November 25, 2014 December 19, 2014 Date of the Shareholders’ Meeting May 11, 2012 May 11, 2012 May 11, 2012 May 11, 2012 Date of the Board of Directors Meeting November 25, 2013 November 25, 2014 November 25, 2014 November 25, 2014 Type of plan Performance share Capped Performance share Performance share rights (Group Plan performance rights rights (Group Plan France) share subscription France) options (a) Total number of shares that can be subscribed Maximum 96,880 Maximum 121,505 Maximum 1,448,464 Maximum 96,440 or bought By Non-Executive Board Directors 20 40,000 • Xavier Fontanet • Hubert Sagnières 20 40,000 By the ten largest employee beneﬁciaries 120 59,900 238,600 200 Exercise start date December 20, November 25, November 25, December 19, 2015 (c) 2016 (d) 2016 (e) 2016 (f) Plan end date December 20, 2019 November 25, 2021 November 25, 2020 December 19, 2020 or 2021 or 2022 or 2022 Subscription or purchase price (€) NS (b) 87.16 NS (b) NS (b) Number of beneﬁciaries 4,844 256 6,410 4,822 Terms of exercise Non-residents: Non-residents and Non-residents: Non-residents: Award subject residents: cannot Award subject Award subject to performance. exercise until to performance. to performance. Cancellation possible. performance is Cancellation possible. Cancellation possible. 50% sellable at achieved. Then up to 50% sellable at 50% sellable at award, 50% locked50% in the third year award, 50% locked-in award, 50% lockedin until Friday, and the remainder in until Wednesday, in until Saturday, December 20, 2019 subsequent years. November 25, 2020 December 19, 2020 or 2021 depending on Cancellation possible. or 2022 depending on or 2022 depending on vesting date. vesting date. vesting date. Residents: Residents: Residents: Award subject Award subject Award subject to performance. to performance. to performance. Cancellation possible. Cancellation possible. Cancellation possible. Sellable from May be sold from Sellable from December 20, 2019 November 25, 2020 December 19, 2020 or 2021 depending on or 2022 depending on or 2022 depending on vesting date the vesting date vesting date Number of shares subscribed at December 31, 2014 800 Subscription options or performance share 4,220 rights canceled Remaining subscription options or performance 91,860 121,505 1,448,464 96,440 share rights (a) Capped performance plans. Capped performance plans are, in addition, subject to the share price reaching a certain level (in the same way as the performance shares) and can be canceled if the target is not met. (b) If performance shares are granted, they will be allocated out of the Company’s treasury stock. (c) Shares may be granted to residents provided that the estimated annualized Average Price is 2% higher than €77.29. Shares may be granted to non-residents on December 20, 2017 at the earliest. (d) Options may be granted provided that the estimated annualized average is 2% higher than €87.16. (e) Shares may be granted to residents provided that the estimated annualized average is 2% higher than €87.16. Shares may be granted to non-residents on November 25, 2018 at the earliest. (f) Shares may be granted to residents provided that the estimated annualized average is 2% higher than €87.16. Shares may be granted to non-residents on December 19, 2018 at the earliest. 258 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, 5.2 Share capital ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 5.2.6 Stock ownership Fully paid-up shares may be held in either registered or bearer • the agreements covering the Company’s bank facilities also form, at the shareholder’s discretion. include a change of control acceleration clause. The Company may, at any time, subject to compliance with the Other items that could have an impact in the event of a public applicable laws and regulations, request information from the offering as set forth in Article L.225-100-3 of the Commercial clearing organization about the numbers of securities held as well Code: as the name, corporate name, nationality, year of birth or year of formation of holders of shares and securities that are convertible, • employees and partners hold 8.4% of the Company’s capital and 14.5% of the voting rights. They may exercise these voting redeemable, exchangeable or otherwise exercisable now or in the rights directly or give proxy to the representatives of the future for shares carrying rights to vote at Shareholders’ Meetings. Essilor seven-year FCPE and the Valoptec Association. To the Company’s knowledge, there are no shareholders that To the best of the Company’s knowledge, there are no shareholder directly, indirectly or in concert hold 5% or more of the voting pacts, pre-emptive rights agreements or other agreements that rights. may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the Company. 5.2.6.1 Different voting rights As from June 22, 1974, double voting rights have been attributed 5.2.6.3 Employee shareholding to all fully paid-up shares registered in the name of the same Represented and managed independently and autonomously holder for at least two years. throughout the world by Valoptec Association, a French nonThe holding period was raised to ﬁve years at the Extraordinary proﬁt association, Essilor’s strong network of active employee Shareholders’ Meeting of June 11, 1983, and reduced to two years shareholders provides the Company with major leverage to at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of March 3, 1997. achieve sustainable performance, strategic alignment and operating excellence. In the case of capital increase paid up by capitalizing reserves, proﬁt or additional paid-in capital, the registered bonus shares The Group actively encourages employee savings. It offers various allotted in respect of existing shares with double voting rights also possibilities for investment in plans or funds in various countries. carry double voting rights. As a result, 16,482 Group employees currently hold Essilor If the Company is merged with and into another company, the shares. They represent 8.2% of capital and 14.2% of voting rights. double voting rights will be exercisable at Shareholders’ Meetings Employees of the Essilor group may become shareholders in of the surviving company, provided that the bylaws of the latter various ways. include double voting right provisions. If any registered shares are converted to bearer shares or transferred to another shareholder, the double voting right on ■ Employee stock ownership plans those shares is forfeited. Employees of the Essilor group may become shareholders by However, double voting rights will not be forfeited if registered purchasing, through various stock purchase plans, shares held shares are transferred by way of succession, or liquidation of directly, units in FCPE mutual funds or shares held outside of marital estate, or gift between spouses or to a relative in the direct France. line of succession, and such change of ownership is not taken into These shares or units are generally purchased with the ﬁnancial account in determining the two-year minimum holding period help of the Group subsidiary concerned and are either issued referred to above. through a capital increase or bought directly on the market. In accordance with the law, double voting rights may not be abolished by a Shareholders’ Meeting unless this decision is ﬁrst The shares are subject to a lock-in period between two and seven years depending on the country. 5 approved by a special meeting of holders of shares with double voting rights. • FCPEs affected: FCPE Valoptec International, Essilor group ﬁve-year FCPE, Essilor group seven-year FCPE, FCPE Essilor As of December 31, 2014, the Company’s bylaws did not contain International. any restrictions on the exercise of voting rights, • Shareholdings outside of France: Essilor Shareholding Plan (USA), Australian Shareholding Plan, Share Incentive Plan (UK), Irish Shareholding Plan, ESPP Korea. 5.2.6.2 Arrangements resulting in a change in control of the Company and shareholders’ pacts • Direct share purchase plans: Austria, Brazil, China, Croatia, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Norway, Romania, Contracts that could have an impact in the event of a public offering South Africa, Spain, Sweden and Taiwan. as set forth in Article L.225-100-3 of the Commercial Code: • the joint venture agreement with Nikon Corporation contains a clause allowing Nikon to acquire Essilor’s 50% stake in the Nikon-Essilor joint venture or to require the joint venture to be wound up following a change of control of Essilor International, subject to certain conditions; Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 259 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 5.2 Share capital ■ Stock options ■ Performance shares Employees can also acquire shares by exercising stock The various performance share plans will also enable employees subscription (or purchase) options. For French employees, the to receive and hold Essilor shares, provided that the vesting exercise price may be paid by funds released from the Corporate conditions – based on the Essilor share performance – speciﬁed Savings Plan; in which case the shares are registered in the in the plans’ rules are met. employee’s name and then locked-in for ﬁve years in the Plan. 5.2.7 Dividend policy The Company has not established a dividend policy. Every year, the dividend is recommended by the Board for approval by vote of the Shareholders’ Meeting. 2015 dividend for ﬁscal year 2014 The recommended dividend represents almost one third of consolidated net proﬁt attributable to equity holders of Essilor For fiscal year 2014, the Board will recommend to the International. It reﬂects the Company’s solid performance in 2014. Shareholders’ Meeting of May 5, 2015, an 8.5% increase in the net dividend to €1.02 per share for 2013 from €0.94 per share for the The dividend will be paid on or after May 21, 2015, in cash only. previous year. History of the overall dividend distribution and growth Total dividends for 2014 and the previous six years were as follows: Proﬁt attributable Amount Ratio Net dividend Date of € millions to Group equity holders distributed (payout ratio) (€) payment 2014 642 (a) 216 (b) 34% 1.02 (b) May 21, 2015 2013 593 198 33% 0.94 May 27, 2014 2012 584 185 32% 0,88 June 4, 2013 2011 506 177 35% 0,85 May 29, 2012 2010 462 173 37% 0,83 May 19, 2011 2009 391 148 37% 0,70 May 28, 2010 2008 382 136 36% 0,66 May 26, 2009 (a) Adjusted for non-recurring items related mainly to the acquisition of Transitions Optical, Coastal.com and Costa in 2014, and of Xiamen Yarui Optical (Bolon) in 2013. (b) Based on treasury shares at January 31, 2015 and subject to the decision of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 5, 2015. Dividends not claimed within ﬁve years are time-barred, in accordance with the law. Paying agent CACEIS Corporate Trust – 14, rue Rouget-de-Lisle – 92862 Issy-les-Moulineaux – France – Phone: +33 1 57 78 00 00. 260 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS SHARE CAPITAL AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 5 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 261 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 6.1 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE 6.1.1 Person responsible for the Registration Document 6.1.2 Statement by the person responsible for the Registration Document 264 264 264 6.3 PUBLIC DOCUMENTS 6.4 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES 6.4.1 Registration Document 6 6.4.2 Annual Financial Report 266 267 267 270 6.4.3 Management Report 271 6.2 AUDITORS 265 6.2.1 Incumbent and alternate Statutory Auditors 265 6.2.2 Information about Auditors who resigned 265 262 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 IN BRIEF COMPANY NAME The Company’s name is Essilor International (Compagnie Générale d’Optique), hereinafter “Essilor”, the “Company” or the “Group”. MARKET-RELATED INFORMATION Unless otherwise stated: • information on market shares and market positions is based on volumes sold; • marketing information relating to the market and the ophthalmic PERSONS RESPONSIBLES industry or Essilor’s market share and positions comes from Essilor and from internal assessments and studies, which may be based on external market surveys. Hubert Sagnières, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer THIRD-PARTY INFORMATION STATUTORY AUDITORS When information comes from a third party, it has been accurately reproduced and, as far as the Company is aware and able to ascertain from PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit the information published by such third party, no facts have been omitted 63, rue de Villiers that would render the reproduced information inaccurate or misleading. 92208 Neuilly-sur-Seine Mazars 61, rue Henri-Regnault TRADEMARKS 92075 Paris-La Défense Cedex Orma®, Varilux®, Varilux Comfort®, Varilux® S™ Series, Varilux® E Series™, Varilux® Physio®, Crizal®, Crizal Forte®, Crizal® Prevencia®, Light Scan®, Swim Control™, I-Relief™, SynchronEyes®, Nanoptix®, Eyezen™, E -SPF®, Xperio®, Xperio® Gradient Polar, Xperio® Colors, Sunmax™, Optifog®, Deﬁnity®, Gemcoat®, Myopilux®, Myopilux®Plus, Myopilux®Max, Myopilux® Lite, Your Eyeprint™, M’Eye Fit®, Mr Blue® 2.0., Mr Orange®, M’Eye Sign™, Visioffice® 2, Neksia™, Triplets™, Essilor® Anti-fatigue, Mieux Voir Le Monde™, Intuitiv™, Neva® Blue™, Neva® Max UV™, Sirus® Plus, Vision Booster™, Ergonomic Technology™, Foster Grant®, Foster Grant® Multi Focus™, Gargoyles®, Magnivision®, Corinne McCormack®, Crystal Vision®, Ryders Eyewear™, Infokus™, SolarShield®, Costa®, Native®, Transitions®, Transitions® Signature™, Transitions® Signature™ VII, Chromea7™ MC-280-X™, Small Box Coater™, On Block Manufacturing™, ART ™, 2.5 New Vision Generation™, Essilor Vision Foundation™, Better Life Through Better Sight™ and Vision for Life™ are brands of the Essilor Group. Vision Impact Institute™ is a brand of the Company Vision Impact Institute. Prodigi Duo™ is a brand of the Company Technologies Humanware Inc. Shamir Autograph® III, Eye-Point Technology III™, Worn Quadro™ and IntelliCorridor™ are brands of the Company Shamir Optical Industry Ltd. Bolon™ and Molsion™ are brands of the Company Xiamen Yarui Optical Co. Ltd. Kodak® is a brand of the Company Eastman Kodak Company. Nikon®, SeeCoat Blue™, SeeCoat Blue Premium™ are brands of the Company Nikon Corporation. Activisu ® and Deep Lights™ are brands of the Company IVS. Ironman® is a brand of the Company World Triathlon Corporation. Nine West® is a brand of the Company Nine West Development LLC. Dockers® is a brand of the Company Levi Strauss & Co. Reebok® is a brand of the Company Reebok International Limited. Hello Kitty® is a brand of the Company Sanrio, Inc. Disney® is a brand of the Company Disney Consumer Products, Inc. Polaroid and Polaroïd Pixel are registered trademarks. Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 263 6 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 6.1 Persons Responsible 6.1 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE 6.1.1 Person responsible for the Registration Document Hubert Sagnières, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is the person responsible for the information given in the Registration Document. 6.1.2 Statement by the person responsible for the Registration Document I declare that, having taken all reasonable care to ensure that The historical ﬁnancial information presented in this document such is the case, the information contained in this Registration has been the subject of the Statutory Auditors’ reports contained in Document is, to my knowledge, in accordance with the facts and Sections 3.5 and 3.9 of this document. In addition, information for contains no omission that might affect its import. ﬁscal years 2013 and 2012 is incorporated by reference. For ﬁscal 2014, the Statutory Auditors have included in their report on the I declare that, to my knowledge, the financial statements have Company’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements contained in Section been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards 3.5 of this document, a comment on the impact on the balance and present fairly the assets, ﬁnancial position and results of the sheet and proﬁt and loss account of the acquisition of a 51% stake Company (as well as those of the companies forming part of the in Transitions Optical. consolidated Group). The information pertaining to the Management Report (provided in the cross-reference table in Section 6.4.3) I have obtained an audit completion letter from the Statutory presents fairly the changes in business, results and financial Auditors in which they state that they have audited the information position of the Company and of the companies forming part of the relating to the ﬁnancial position and accounts contained in the consolidated Group, and includes a description of the principal risks Registration Document and read said document in its entirety. and uncertainties they face. Charenton-le-Pont, March 12, 2015 Hubert Sagnières 264 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT 6.2 Auditors THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 6.2 AUDITORS 6.2.1 Incumbent and alternate Statutory Auditors ■ Incumbent PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Mazars 63, rue de Villiers 61, rue Henri-Regnault 92208 Neuilly-sur-Seine 92075 Paris-La Défense Cedex First appointed: June 14, 1983. First appointed: May 11, 2007. (Befec, Mulquin and Associés, merged with Price Waterhouse Reappointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 16, 2013 for and was renamed Befec-Pricewaterhouse in 1995, and six years. subsequently merged with Coopers & Lybrand to become Mazars is represented by Daniel Escudeiro (registered member PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit in 2002). of Compagnie Régionale des Commissaires aux Comptes de Reappointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 16, 2013 for Versailles). six years. The alternate Auditor for Mazars is Jean-Louis Simon (registered PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit is represented by Christine Bouvry member of Compagnie Régionale des Commissaires aux Comptes (registered member of Compagnie Régionale des Commissaires de Versailles). aux comptes de Versailles). The alternate Auditor for PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit is Étienne Boris (registered member of Compagnie Régionale des Commissaires aux Comptes de Versailles). 6.2.2 Information about Auditors who resigned No Auditors resigned in 2014. 6 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 265 6 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 6.3 Public Documents 6.3 PUBLIC DOCUMENTS The bylaws and other corporate documents are available for Document and Annual Report will be available as of the date of consultation at the Company’s headquarters (147, rue de Paris – the Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the annual ﬁnancial 94220 Charenton-le-Pont – France). statements on May 5, 2015. Paper copies of the last three years’ Registration Documents Essilor regularly provides its shareholders with transparent, and Annual Reports are available on request from the Investor accessible information about the Group, its activities and its Relations & Financial Communications Department at the ﬁnancial results via a large range of resources. Company’s headquarters. Paper copies of the 2014 Registration Information published by the Company in the past year Documents published in the BALO may be viewed at • analyst presentations and webcasts of certain analyst http://balo.journal-officiel.gouv.fr/ meetings, when available; Conduct searches using the Company’s name • financial news releases and, when available, webcasts of (Essilor International) or SIREN number (712049618). analyst conference calls; The Group’s website www.essilor.com also contains the following • Annual Reports and Registration Documents (containing public information: historical ﬁnancial information) for the last ﬁve years; • regulatory information as deﬁned by the Autorité des Marchés • information on Shareholders’ Meetings, including notices Financiers (AMF); of meeting, draft resolutions, instructions on how to attend meetings and results of voting on resolutions; • AMF ﬁlings that are required to be published on the Company website; • information on sustainable development. 266 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT 6.4 Cross-reference tables THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 6.4 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES 6.4.1 Registration Document The following regulated information described in Article 221-1 of • the Chairman’s Report on corporate governance and internal the AMF’s General Regulations is provided in this document: control. • Annual Financial Report; The cross-reference table below identiﬁes the main information provided for in Appendix 1 of European Commission Regulation • Information concerning Auditors’ fees; 809/2004/EC. • a description of the share buyback program; 1 Persons Responsible page 264 Section 6.1 2 Statutory Auditors page 265 Section 6.2 3 Selected Financial Information 3.1 Selected historical ﬁnancial information page 2 Key Figures 3.2 Selected ﬁnancial information for interim periods page 91 In brief, Chapter 3 4 Risk factors page 27 Section 1.6 5 Information about the Company 5.1 History and development of the Company 5.1.1 Legal and commercial name of the Company page 240 Section 5.1 5.1.2 Place of registration and registration number page 240 Section 5.1 5.1.3 Date of formation and length of life of the Company page 240 Section 5.1 5.1.4 Registered office, legal form, governing law, corporate purpose and page 240 Section 5.1 ﬁscal year 5.1.5 Important events in the development of the Company’s business page 6 Section 1.1 5.2 Investments page 26 § 1.5.5 6 Business Overview 6.1 Core businesses page 9 Section 1.3 6.2 Principal markets page 9 Section 1.3 6.3 Exceptional factors page 19 § 1.5.1.4 6.4 Dependence on patents, licenses, industrial, commercial or ﬁnancial contracts or page 21 § 1.5.2.4 new manufacturing processes 6.5 Competitive position page 9 § 1.3.1.2 7 Organizational Structure 7.1 Description of the Group page 10 § 1.3.1.3 7.2 List of subsidiaries and related party transactions page 156 Chapter 3 Note 34 8 Property, Plant and Equipment 8.1 Material property, plant and equipment page 133 Chapter 3 Note 14 8.2 Environmental issues page 215 Section 4.3 9 Operating and Financial Review 9.1 9.2 Financial position Operating results page 94 page 92 § 3.1.3 § 3.1.1 6 9.3 Net proﬁt page 94 § 3.1.2 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 267 6 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 6.4 Cross-reference tables 10 Liquidity and Capital Resources 10.1 Information on capital resources page 100 Section 3.3.3 10.2 Cash ﬂows page 102 Section 3.3.4 10.3 Information on borrowing requirements and funding structure page 141 Chapter 3 Note 23.1 10.4 Restrictions on the use of capital resources N/A 10.5 Anticipated sources of funds N/A 11 Research and development, patents and licenses page 20 § 1.5.2 12 Trend Information pages 95 and 155 Section 3.2 and Chapter 3 Note 33 13 Proﬁt Forecasts or Estimates N/A 14 Management, Governance and Supervisory Bodies and Senior Management 14.1 Members of the management, governance and supervisory bodies page 34 Section 2.1 14.2 No potential conﬂicts of interest page 54 § 2.2.1.6 15 Compensation and Beneﬁts 15.1 Compensation of the members of the management, governance page 71 Section 2.3 and supervisory bodies 15.2 Awards of stock options and performance shares page 78 § 2.3.3 15.3 Supplementary deﬁned beneﬁt, loyalty-based retirement plan page 77 § 2.3.2.3 15.4 Termination beneﬁts page 77 § 2.3.2.3 16 Management and Governance Practices 16.1 Expiration dates of terms of office, tenure in office and management page 35 § 2.1.1.2 and governance practices 16.2 Information about the service contracts of members of the management page 53 § 2.2.1.5 and governance bodies: absence of service contracts 16.3 Information about the Audit and Risk Committee and the Executive officers and page 59 § 2.2.2.6 Remuneration Committee 16.4 Compliance by the Company with France’s corporate governance system page 69 § 2.2.5 17 Employees 17.1 Number of employees, by location and type of activity pages 154 and 205 Chapter 3 Note 30 and Section 4.2 17.2 Ownership interest and stock options page 251 § 5.2.4 17.3 Discretionary and non-discretionary proﬁt-sharing agreements page 206 § 4.2.1 18 Major shareholders 18.1 Ownership structure and voting rights page 242 § 5.2.1.1 18.2 Different voting rights page 259 § 5.2.6.1 18.3 No external control of the Company page 242 Section 5.2 18.4 Arrangements resulting in a change in control of the Company and shareholders’ pacts page 259 § 5.2.6.2 19 Related Party Transactions page 154 Chapter 3 Note 31 20 Financial Information Concerning the Company’s Assets and Liabilities, Financial Position and Proﬁts and Losses 20.1 Historical ﬁnancial information page 96 Section 3.3 20.2 Pro-forma ﬁnancial information N/A 20.3 Financial Statements page 96 Section 3.3 20.4 Audit of the historical annual ﬁnancial information 20.4.1 Statements by legal Auditors and fees paid to the Auditors and the members pages 165, Section 3.5, of their networks by the Group 166 and 199 Section 3.6 and Section 3.9 20.4.2 Scope of audited information pages 165 Section 3.5 and and 199 Section 3.9 20.4.3 Unaudited ﬁnancial information N/A 268 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT 6.4 Cross-reference tables THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 20.5 Latest ﬁnancial information page 91 In brief, Section 3 20.6 Interim and other ﬁnancial information 20.6.1 Quarterly and half-yearly ﬁnancial information N/A 20.6.2 Interim ﬁnancial information covering the ﬁrst six months N/A of the following ﬁscal year 20.7 Dividend policy pages 260 § 5.2.7 and and 198 Section 3.8 Note 19 20.8 Legal and arbitration proceedings page 29 § 1.6.3 20.9 Material changes in Essilor’s ﬁnancial or trading position page 155 Chapter 3 Note 33 21 Additional Information 21.1 Share capital 21.1.1 Subscribed capital, changes in share capital and Essilor shares page 242 Section 5.2 21.1.2 Shares not representing capital N/A 21.1.3 Stock held by the Company page 249 § 5.2.2.3 21.1.4 Convertible securities, exchangeable securities, securities with warrants, page 251 § 5.2.3 stock subscription options, stock purchase options and rights to performance shares 21.1.5 Terms governing any acquisition rights and/or obligations in relation to page 246 § 5.2.1.4 subscribed but unpaid capital or to any undertaking to increase the capital 21.1.6 Capital of any member of the Group under option or agreement page 25 § 1.5.4.1 21.1.7 Changes in share capital page 245 § 5.2.1.3 21.1.8 Financial authorizations to be put to the vote at the Extraordinary page 246 § 5.2.1.4 Shareholders’ Meeting 21.2 Bylaws (Charter and Articles of Association) 21.2.1 Corporate purpose page 240 § 5.1.4 21.2.2 Provisions relating to members of the Board of Directors and senior page 55 § 2.2.2 management 21.2.3 Rights, preferences and restrictions attaching to each class of shares pages 251, 252 § 5.2.4, § 5.2.5 and 259 and § 5.2.6 21.2.4 Changes in shareholders’ rights page 241 § 5.1.7 21.2.5 Shareholders’ Meetings page 241 § 5.1.7 21.2.6 Change of control provisions page 259 § 5.2.6.2 21.2.7 Disclosure threshold provisions page 242 § 5.1.8 21.2.8 Conditions governing changes in capital page 240 § 5.1.5 22 Material Contracts pages 21 and 259 § 1.5.2.4 and § 5.2.6.2 23 Third-Party Information, Statements by Experts and Declarations of Any Interest 23.1 Expert statements or reports N/A 23.2 Information from a third party page 263 In brief, Section 6 24 Public Documents page 266 Section 6.3 25 Information on Holdings page 156 Chapter 3 Note 34 6 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 269 6 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 6.4 Cross-reference tables 6.4.2 Annual Financial Report Statement by the person responsible for the document page 264 Section 6.1 Management Report Operating and ﬁnancial analysis page 92 Section 3.1 Risk factors page 27 Section 1.6 List of authorizations with respect to the increase in the capital of the parent company page 246 § 5.2.1.4 and consolidated Group (Art. L.225-100 and L.225-100-2 of the French Commercial Code) Information relating to share buybacks (Art. L.225-211, Para. 2 of the French Commercial Code) page 249 § 5.2.2.3 Items that could have an impact in the event of a public offering page 259 § 5.2.6.2 (Art. L.225-100-3 of the French Commercial Code) Financial Statements Annual ﬁnancial statements page 167 Section 3.7 Report of the Auditors on the ﬁnancial statements page 199 Section 3.9 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements page 96 Section 3.3 Report of the Auditors on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements page 165 Section 3.5 Auditors’ fees page 166 Section 3.6 Chairman’s Report on the preparation and organization of the Board’s work and internal page 51 Section 2.2 control procedures implemented by the Company. Report of the Auditors on internal control page 88 Section 2.5 270 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT 6.4 Cross-reference tables THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 6.4.3 Management Report Activity Report Status and activity of the Company during the year pages 9 16 92 Section 1.3, Section 1.5 and Section 3.1 Research and development page 20 § 1.5.2 Operations page 23 §1.5.3 Acquisitions and partnerships page 24 §1.5.4.1 Financial information for the year pages 26 and 92 §1.5.5 and Section 3.1 Description of principal risks and uncertainties page 27 Section 1.6 Subsequent events pages 95 and 155 §3.2.3 and Section 3.4 Note 33 Evolution and future prospects page 96 §3.2.4 Information relating to share capital page 242 §5.2.1 Financial statements and appropriation of proﬁt pages 167 and 198 Section 3.7 and Section 3.8 Note 19 Governance Financial authorizations to be put to the vote at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting page 246 §5.2.1.4 Compensation of corporate directors and officers page 71 §2.3.2 List of directorships and positions held in any company by Directors page 35 §2.1.1.2 Corporate social responsibility Corporate, social and environmental reporting page 201 Chapter 4 Information on societal engagement to promote sustainable development page 201 Chapter 4 Key environmental and social indicators page 201 Chapter 4 6 Registration Document 2014 | Essilor 271 272 Essilor | Registration Document 2014 The information presented in this Registration Document was prepared primarily by the Essilor International Finance Department, Legal Department and Investor Relations Department. The English language version of this Registration Document is a free translation from the original, which was prepared in French. All possible care has been taken to ensure that the translation is an accurate representation of the original. However in all matters of interpretation of information, views or opinion expressed therein the original language version of the document in French takes precedence over the translation. Investor Relations Department Essilor International 147 rue de Paris 94227 Charenton Cedex France Tél. : + 33 (0)1 49 77 42 16 Fax : + 33 (0)1 49 77 43 24 E-mail : invest@essilor.com Internet : www.essilor.com Crédits photo © Photothèque Essilor pages 4 and 200 (Chapters 1 and 4) © Franck Dunouau/ Essilor page 32 (Chapter 2) © Gabo Morales/Capa Pictures/ Essilor page 90 (Chapter 3) © Stewart Cohen / Capa Pictures / Essilor page 238 (Chapter 5) © Thierry Borredon / Essilor page 262 (Chapter 6) Cover concept: Design and production: Essilor International (Compagnie Générale d’Optique) 147, rue de Paris 94220 Charenton-le-Pont France Phone: + 33(0)1 49 77 42 24 A French Limited Company (Société Anonyme) with capital of €38,860,655.04 Créteil trade and Company registry n°712 049 618 RCS www.essilor.com
