LG Chem 2014 S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t ABOUT THIS REPORT LG Chem MATERIAL ISSUES 20 Issue 1. Value Creation through 22 Purpose of the Report I Since 2006, LG Chem has published an annual sustainability report 2014 Technological Innovation every year to disclose the company’s sustainability vision, strategy, and activities to stakeholdIssue 2. Product Responsibility 26 ers and incorporate stakeholder input into its sustainability policy and decision-making. Issue 3. Climate Change Response 30 Issue 4. Occupational Safety, Reporting Principles I This report was prepared in accordance with the Core option of the 34 S u s ta i n a b i l i t y Health and Environment Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) G4 guidelines and reflects the principles and content elements R e p o r t Issue 5. Shared Growth with suggested by the International Integrated Reporting Council(IIRC) Framework. The financial 40 Business Partners data contained in this report are presented in accordance with the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards(K-IFRS). Furthermore, the report includes the required elements of Issue 6. Human Resources Development 44 the UNGC 10 Principles, ISO 26000 and EICC. Issue 7. Social Contribution Activities 48 Reporting Period I This report covers the period from January to December 2014 and contains data for the previous three years, from 2012 to 2014, to identify trends in performance. Some activities from before 2014 and during 2015 are also included in the report if they are considered important. Introduction 02 Reporting Scope I This report covers the company’s operations in Korea, including the headCEO Message 02 quarters in Seoul, 10 manufacturing facilities in Yeosu, Cheongju, Ochang, Ulsan, Gimcheon, Overview and Business Areas 04 Naju, Iksan, Daesan, and Paju, and Research Park(based in Daejeon). For overseas operations, Philosophy and Vision it includes the Chinese regional holding company(LGCCI) and all of its manufacturing subsid16 iaries, such as eight manufacturing subsidiaries in China, namely, Nanjing(LGCE NJ), Dagu(LG Materiality Assessment 18 DAGU), Tianjin(LGCC TJ), Beijing(LGCE BJ), Guangzhou(LGCC GZ), Bohai (LG BOHAI), Botian (LG BOTIAN), and Yongxing(LG YX), as well as those in Taiwan(LGCE TP), U.S.(LGCMI), Vietnam(LG Management Report 52 VINA), India(LGPI), and Poland(LGCE WR)(those that were newly established or started operaSustainability Governance 54 tion in 2014 have been excluded). Creation and Distribution of 62 Furthermore, the economic data provided in the report covers the entire company’s operaEconomic Value tions, and for the social and environmental data, the reporting scope has been specified sepaTalent Management 64 rately for each data if different from others. Safety, Health and Environment 69 Management External Assurance I The content of the report has been assured by DNV GL based on the three AA1000AS(2008) principles(inclusiveness, materiality, and responsiveness) to ensure the Appendix 74 reliability of the data contained in the report. The assurance statement can be found on pages Participant Information 74 76 to 77. Independent Assurance Statement 76 More Information I This report has been published in Korean and English to increase accesSustainability Management Index 78 sibility for a variety of stakeholders, and is also available at the official website of LG Chem Memberships/Awards and Recognitions 84 (http://www.lgchem.com). 02 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Introduction CEO Message 03 CEO Message Dear Stakeholders, We would like to express our deepest gratitude for your continued support for LG Chem. Last year, even in the midst of tough business environment with sluggish demand, resulting from the slow global economic recovery, and declining product prices, from intensifying competition, LG Chem made notable achievements towards market leadership by solidifying our technical and business leadership in each business area. We strengthened our competitiveness in the basic materials and chemicals business including EP; expanded the global customer base in the technology-based business such as SAP and SSBR; developed the world’s first 100 lm/w OLED panel; and signed the supply contracts on automotive batteries with global automakers based on the world’s top competitiveness. We will build the foundation and competitiveness for sustainable growth. This year is expected to be another year of slow global economic growth, and tough business environment will persist. However, LG Chem intends to overcome these difficulties by setting our sight on “market leadership,” taking on challenges and executing in a decisive manner. We will maximize the value of our existing businesses and intensively nurture future growth engines while also making forays into new materials businesses, and ultimately build the foundation and competitiveness to achieve sustainable growth. We will become a global materials company that grows along with society. Growing along with society is vital to a company’s sustainable growth. As a global materials company that supplies materials essential to modern society, LG Chem intends to contribute to resolving social and environmental issues facing us by striving to develop innovative technologies and products. We focus on developing materials that enhance the environmental friendliness of products and developing highly efficient products that consume less energy. We are also leading the growth of the green energy solutions market with our automotive batteries and energy storage systems. LG Chem will become a company that continuously grows along with society by identifying the needs of society one step ahead, providing innovative solutions that exceed expectations, and thereby creating new values. We will always adhere to the fundamentals and principles. LG Chem will create a culture where the fundamentals, standards and principles which should never be forgotten during the course of growth are always adhered to. By putting safety and the environment first across all business operations, we will continuously monitor and make improvements to ensure that our employees, business partners and local communities of all global operations can live in a safe and clean environment. In addition, based on Jeong-Do Management, LG’s own code of conduct, we will root out corruption and unethical practices and create a fair trading culture. Based on the belief that our responsibility towards society is to share growth with our business partners and contribute to a balanced economic growth, we will create a virtuous cycle in which our growth becomes a cornerstone for business partners’ growth and turn business partners’ capabilities into our own capabilities. In 2014 Sustainability Report of LG Chem, which is the ninth report, we included the activities and efforts on how we tried to build sustainable competitiveness and grow along with society in the past year. The report, in particular, covers the activities of all of its global operations in Europe, U.S., and other Asian regions in addition to Korea and China with an aim to communicate to stakeholders our responsibility as a global company conducting business worldwide. LG Chem acknowledges that creating sustainable and sound performances is more important than focusing on short-term results. We, therefore, will continue to implement a systematic management of a variety of issues in social and environmental aspects which have mutual influences on our business and become a responsible company growing along with society. Your continued support and engagement will be greatly appreciated. Thank you. June 2014 Vice Chairman & CEO Jin-Soo Park 04 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Introduction Overview and Business Areas 05 About LG Chem Since its founding in 1947, LG Chem has steadily grown to become South KoOverview (As of late December 2014) Financial Snapshot (Unit :100 million KRW) 2014 rea’s leading chemical company that has contributed to the nation’s economic Total Assets 181,277 Name LG Chem, Ltd growth and the enhancement of people’s quality of life through continuous Total Liabilities 58,618 technological development, new products and quality innovation. Headquarters LG Twin Towers, 128, Yeoui-daero, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, South Korea Total Equity 122,659 LG Chem has established a global network of production, sales, and R&D at Sales 225,778 home and abroad to expand its operations to the global market. The company Foundation January 1947 aims to become the world’s leading supplier of innovative materials and soluOperating Income 13,108 Employees 24,928(13,623 in Korea, 11,305 Overseas) tions by adding higher values to its existing businesses and nurturing future Net Income 8,540 growth engines, centering on IT & Electronic Materials and Energy Solutions, as well as by actively expanding into new materials businesses. Global Network ● OFFICE ● Manufacturing Facilities Operations Location Operations Location Major Products Head ● 1 LG Chem, Ltd. Korea ●1 Yeosu Plant NCC, SM, LDPE, HDPE, PVC, VCM, ABS, quarters SAN, PS, EPS, Acrylate, Oxo-alcohol, Beijing 2 19 NPG, SBS, MBS, SB Latex, BPA Tianjin 11 12 ● 2 L G Chem(China) Investment Co., Ltd. China 13 16 ● 3 Ningbo LG Yongxing Chemical Co., Ltd. ●2 Cheongju Plant Electrolytes, Cathode materials, PCM, 17 18 Nanjing Photoresists, Rechargeable batteries ● 4 LG Chem Hong Kong Ltd Hong Kong Ningbo ●3 Ochang Plant 1 Rechargeable batteries, Display 3 14 ● 5 LG Chem America, Inc USA materials, Optical materials Market● 6 LG Chem Brasil, Ltd. Brasil Huizhou 20 ing ●4 Ochang Plant 2 Separators 21 Taipei Sub● 7 LG Chem Europe GmbH Germany Korea Guangzhou 15 ●5 Ulsan Plant Plasticizers sidiary 4 ● 8 LG Chemical India Private Ltd. Hongkong India ●6 Daesan Complex NCC, EO/ EG, SM, BD, MTB E, B-1, PE, ● 9 L GC Petrochemical India Private Ltd. PP, Synthetic rubber, PVC, VCM ● 10 LG Chem Japan Co., Ltd Japan ●7 Iksan Plant ABS compounds, EP Wroclaw 12 Moscow ● 11 LG Chem TK Kimya Sanayi Ve Turkey ●8 Naju Plant Octanol, Butanol, Plasticizers, Acrylic acid Ticaret Limited Sirketi EUROPE AMERICA ● Frankfurt 7 24 9 Gimcheon Plant SAP ● 12 LG Chem, Ltd. Moscow Office Russia ● 10 Paju Plant LCD glass substrates 27 Astana 2 Troy ● 13 LG Chem, Ltd. Bangkok Thailand 11 Istanbul Repre● 11 Tianjin LG DAGU Chemical Co., Ltd. PVC Michigan 22 5 New York sentaRepresentative Office 10 Tokyo ● 12 Tianjin LG BOHAI Chemical Co., Ltd. VCM, EDC 3 10 Paju Plant tive ● 14 Hochiminh Office Vietnam 23 Los Angeles ASIA Office ● 13 Tianjin LG BOTIAN Chemical Co., Ltd. SBS 1 Headquarters ● 15 Jakarta Office Indonesia New Delhi 8 ● 16 Singapore Office Singapore ● 14 Ningbo LG YONGXING Chemical Co., Ltd. ABS, SAN, SBL, EP 25 Visakhapatnam Mumbai 9 6 ● 15 LG Chemical(Guangzhou) Engineering EP Bangkok 13 Daesan Complex Plastics Co., Ltd 14 26 Ho Chi Minh 3 4 Ochang Plant ● R&D 16 LG Chem(Tianjin) Engineering Plastics Co., Ltd China ● EP 16 Singapore 2 Cheongju Plant Research Park 1 ● 17 LG Chem(Nanjing) Information & Rechargeable batteries, Polarizers 15 Jakarta Operations Location Electronic Materials Co., Ltd. 9 Gimcheon Plant Brazil Iksan Plant 7 5 Ulsan Plant ●1 Research Park Korea ● 18 LG Chem(Nanjing) New Energy Battery Co., Ltd. Rechargeable batteries ●2 LG Chem Power Inc. USA ● 19 LG Chem Display Materials(Beijing) Co., Ltd. Polarizers for TFT-LCD 8 1 Yeosu Plant ●3 LG Chem, Ltd. Japan R&D Center Japan ● 20 CNOOC & LG Petrochemicals Co., Ltd. ABS, SAN Naju Plant Sao Paulo 6 ● 21 LG Chem(Taiwan), Ltd. Taiwan Polarizers ● 22 LG Chem Michigan Inc. Lithium-ion batteries, Battery packs USA ● 23 LG NanoH2O, Inc. Water treatment filter ● 24 LG Chem, Poland Sp. z o.o. Poland Polarizers, EP ● 25 LG Polymers India Private Ltd. India PS, EPS ● 26 LG Vina Chemical Company Ltd. Vietnam DOP ● 27 KLPE E LLP Kazakhstan Ethylene, PE *As of late 2014 06 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Introduction Overview and Business Areas 07 LG Chem's Sustainability at a Glance Input Inside LG Chem Output 1 2 3 Conducting Business in Investing in Technological Innovation to Consideration of Social Creating Value Business Activities Create Innovative Value and Environmental Factors through Products Investing in Business Operation and Expansion R&D Innovation Activities by Business Area Business Activities Based on Social Responsibility Creating Economic Value ·Investing in human resources ·Investing in global business ·Reinforcing ethical ·Hiring local employees and ·Increasing sales through market leadership in each expansion ·Developing technologies in the management enhancing their capabilities at business area p.44-47, 64-67 New next-generation new business area global subsidiaries p.4-5, 47 Businesses p.58-59 p.8-15, 62 ·Investing in R&D and strengthening key platform and Platform p.47, 65 p.23, 25 ·Investment risk management technologies ·Protecting employees’ Technologies p.60-61 p.23 human rights and ·Strengthening safety Creating Social and Environmental Value ·Investing in environmental guaranteeing labor rights assessments and management management p.64, 66-68 systems at manufacturing sites p.69 p.35-37 ·Ensuring user safety and increasing satisfaction with quality ·Developing functional polymers, ·Employee health care Basic p.26-29 eco-friendly/high-functional activities and benefits ·Creating a culture of fair trading Materials and materials, and catalyst-based p.39, 67 and fair trading systems ·Contributing to resolving environmental issues through Chemicals technologies and processes p.42, 59 green products Purchasing Raw Materials/Equipment and p.9, 23 p.9, 11, 13, 15 Services ·Strengthening chemical ·Managing safety and 4 ·Developing materials in the management of purchased environmental risks in the IT & Electronic Materials display, green energy, circuit and Manufacturing Activities to Reduce materials supply chain and assisting semiconductor areas Environmental Impacts Sharing Values with p.27 in enhancing capabilities p.11, 24 p.27, 37, 42 External Stakeholders and ·Prohibiting the use of conflict ·Improving energy efficiency ·Creating a toxic chemical Local Communities minerals ·Expanding local purchases p.29 at global subsidiaries and reducing greenhouse management system gas emissions p.27, 72 ·Promoting shared growth with p.63 ·Developing display materials and Advanced p.30-33, 73 business partners including battery materials ·Developing and producing Materials Stakeholder Communication and Engagement financial and technical support p.13 ·Strengthening wastewater green technologies/products p.40-43 and waste management p.9, 11, 13, 15, 22-24 and reducing discharges ·Operating communication channels by key stakeholder group and increasing participation p.38, 70, 72 p.18-19, 57 ·Strengthening monitoring ·Developing battery materials and of air and water pollutants Energy Distributing Economic Value Input of Resources Solutions small-/medium and large-sized p.38, 71 batteries p.15, 24 ·Distributing profits to internal and external stakeholders ·Input of environmental ·Reuse and recycling of p.63 resources such as energy resources and water p.70-72 ·Returning to local communities through social p.70, 71, 73 *More details on R&D areas are available at www.lgchem.com contribution activities and donations p.48-51 08 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Introduction Overview and Business Areas 09 Basic Materials & Chemicals LG Chem has sharpened its competitive edge in the basic materials and chemicals area by expanding the premium product line, and efDuring the first half of 2014, North America played a central role in accelerating shale gas development to overcome high oil prices. During ficiently adapted to market environments by expanding its core businesses globally. With the development of high-functional green prodthe second half, however, chaos ensued as Middle East oil supplies increased with growing oil production and oil prices fell drastically on ucts, the company is leading the petrochemicals market by achieving cost competitiveness at the world level through collaboration among the stronger dollar. Despite uncertainties in the business environment, LG Chem has produced solid results through innovative endeavors businesses, and constructing innovative processes based on its expertise and technology. and technological leadership to strengthen its capabilities. 2014 HIGHLIGHTS Achieved cost competitiveness Increased ratio of metalloceneExpansion of EPC into global for NCC at world’s best level by based innovative PO auto markets improving energy intensity Sales of innovative products Sales of EPC for car application (1,000 tons) 234 280 (1,000 tons) 65 79 3 5 7 6 2 1 4 1 NCC 3 PVC/Plasticizers 5 S ynthetic Rubbers 6 Acrylates/SAP 7 EP and Specialty Polymers Through pyrolysis of naphtha, LG Chem produces baLG Chem produces general-purpose LG Chem provides products for LG Chem remains a major LG Chem produces high-funcsic oil fractions such as ethylene, propylene, BD and plastic products used as construction a variety of applications, incluplayer in the SAP business tional engineering plastic matebenzene, and supplies them as materials for plastic and household materials. For its worldding butadiene-based synthetand strives for sustainable rials that are used in such appliproducts at home and abroad. class quality and production capacity, ic rubbers for tires and packing, growth in the propylene decations as electrics/electronics, the company has been a leader in doimpact modifier MBS, latex for rivatives business. auto parts, and IT and electronmestic production and market share.* paper coating and gloves, and ic parts. Through its innovative, asphalt and plastic modifier SBS. high-value added products, the *Based on 2014 data from Korean Petrochemical Industry Association company is leading the market. 2 PO 4 ABS Creating Environmental Value through Products LG Chem produces and supplies polyLG Chem is leading domestic and inolefin products for various applicaternational ABS markets by producing Developing SAP for Green Diapers | Super-absorbent polymers(SAP) absorb large quantities of water quickly, and thus, are used as materials for tions, such as films, pipes, and cables and supplying a variety of high-funcdiapers. LG Chem developed advanced polymerization and crosslinking density control technologies and, ultimately, the “green super-absorbent with excellent properties including tional ABS products that are widely polymer(SAP)” that meets the environmental requirements of Ecolabel and provides better absorption performance. In 2013, LG Chem became Koworkability, mechanical/optical propused in such applications as electrics/ rea’s first company to meet the residual chemical content limits set by the European environmental certification scheme(Ecolabel). After that, the comerties, chemical resistance, and electrielectronics, auto parts, industrial mapany launched the new product in the European market and has since increased its share in the world market for green absorbent polymers. In 2017, it cal insulation. terials, and household items. is expected to reach over 20% share with sales of 213 billion KRW. The company will continue to develop safe and top-performing products. 10 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Introduction Overview and Business Areas 11 IT&E Materials In 2000, LG Chem became the nation’s first company to successfully commercialize LCD panels. The success has expedited the company’s In 2014, competition intensified due to the slowdown of key front-end industries and the weaker yen affecting Japanese companies, and growth in the LCD and IT materials industry. Particularly, by continuously strengthening its R&D capabilities, in 2009, the company claimed also due to the increased participation of Chinese companies in domestic markets. Despite such business difficulties, LG Chem is continuthe largest share in the global polarizer market, which had been dominated by Japanese companies. The company is also continuously exously leading the global market with its innovative technologies. ploring new businesses including OLED lighting and water treatment filter, solidifying its competitive advantage. 2014 HIGHLIGHTS Maintained the largest share of Improved efficiency of OLED the polarizer market through lighting 80lm/w 100lm/w proactive localization in China 1 Optical Materials 2 High Functional Materials 3 LCD Glass Substrates 4 LG Chem produces key materials for display LG Chem focuses its core capabilities on LG Chem produces LCD glass substrates, products such as polarizers for TV and IT aphigh-functional materials such as protective which are the core component of LCDs and plications and has been leading the global films and barrier films for display applicarequire high quality. 2 market. tions, circuit semiconductor materials com3 monly used in smartphones and tablets. 4 OLED Lighting 5 Water Treatment Filter 1 High-efficiency, environmentally friendly OLED The LG NanoH2O RO(Reverse Osmosis) memlighting is considered as a next-generation brane provides the world’s best salt rejection light source that will replace existing lighting. and high permeability. LG Chem’s OLED lighting is leading the market by providing the world’s best efficiency and service life. 5 Creating Environmental Value through Products High Efficiency, Environmentally Friendly OLED Lighting | OLED is the only surface light source that has the most similar spectral distribution to natural sunlight. Lightings with OLED panels are widely recognized in the lighting market to be beneficial to both humans and the environment as they do not cause glare, heat or UV radiation, and are free of heavy metals and halogen compounds. LG Chem developed an OLED light source that provides the world’s highest efficiency(100lm/W, 40,000 hours) and laid the groundwork for a new trend in the green lighting industry. In the future, the company will continue to work on improving efficiency and develop a variety of applications. 12 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Introduction Overview and Business Areas 13 Advanced Materials LG Chem separated Display Materials and Battery Materials from IT & Electronic Materials and reorganized them into the Advanced Materials With declining growth in the LCD market and the wide distribution of OLED TVs, competition in the advanced materials market was more inbusiness unit to secure a growth engine by focusing on the development of future-oriented materials and the advanced materials. tense in 2014 than ever. In the electric vehicle market, there is growing demand for the innovative features of lithium-ion batteries. In these circumstances, LG Chem continued to develop innovative solutions and the sales of battery materials for electric vehicles(cathode materials and electrolytes) grew by over 50% compared with the previous year. 2014 HIGHLIGHTS Developed the light-emitting Developed high-capacity/highlayer for OLEDs and applied it to output cathode materials for G-Flex smartphones next-generation electric vehicles 1 2 1 Display Materials 2 Rechargeable Battery Materials LG Chem produces photoresists and process LG Chem produces cathode materials and Creating Environmental Value through Products materials which are key materials for LCD electrolytes, core materials for rechargeaCore Material for Electric Vehicle Batteries | LG Chem has contributed to the expansion of green markets by supplying core materials for color filters, transporting and light-emitting ble batteries. With these products, the comelectric vehicle batteries. In 2014, the company developed a high-capacity cathode material for second-generation electric vehicles. By utilizing layer materials for next-generation display, pany is meeting the needs for small-sized its own unique engineering and coating technologies, the company has set the long-term goal of developing cathode materials with high capacOLEDs, and encapsulant for LED devices. batteries used for IT applications, and also ity and long service life that can be used in third-generation electric vehicles and beyond. Our development of materials with innovative features mediumand large-sized batteries, which are key components for the environmentalthrough continuous innovation will contribute to the growth of green markets, such as the wide distribution of electric vehicles. ly friendly future industries, such as electric vehicles and energy storage systems. 14 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Introduction Overview and Business Areas 15 Energy Solutions LG Chem became the country’s first manufacturer of lithium-ion batteries in 1999 and has since provided green energy solutions leading The automotive battery market continues to grow with higher fuel economy standards and the expansion of charging infrastructure. The marglobal markets. Its business operations include automotive batteries, energy storage systems, and mobile batteries, and in each area the ket for energy storage systems for residential and industrial purposes is also expanding on the strength of government subsidies. The wearable company is solidifying its position by bringing the world’s best technologies to the markets. and non-IT devices markets for mobile batteries are also expected to expand and grow. Amid these conditions, LG Chem has produced business results such as entering into electric vehicle battery supply contracts with major carmakers, dominating the North American and European ESS markets for grids, and increasing its market share in the global mobile battery market. 2014 HIGHLIGHTS Automotive Batteries won contracts ESS dominated key grid markets for key PHEV/EV projects and and developed innovative products dominated the μ-HEV market for residential uses Mobile Batteries increased its share Established a joint venture for in North American and Chinese automotive batteries and a localized smartphone markets business system in Nanjing, China 3 1 Automotive Batteries 2 ESS 3 Mobile Batteries Using its excellent technology and quality With the world’s most advanced production LG Chem’s Mobile Batteries is leading the glob1 competency, LG Chem supplies safe batteries facility and technology, LG Chem is producal lithium-ion battery market with excellent for electric vehicles to top carmakers in Korea, ing batteries for energy storage systems, the technology and productivity. U.S., Europe and China. The batteries, applied core system for the next-generation energy to green and highly efficient vehicles like elecbusiness. These products are being applied tric and hybrid vehicles, are adding environto streamlining power generation processes mental values. by linking them to renewable energy and supporting power transmission and distribution. Creating Environmental Value through Products LIB Garden Tool for Green Gardening | The LIB Garden Tool is a gardening tool that uses 2 lithium-ion batteries(LIB) and provides great environmental advantages and user convenience. Unlike engine-driven tools, the LIB tool does not generate gas emissions, making it more enviLawn ronmentally friendly. It also produces little noise and does not cause damage to either the user’s Mower hearing ability even after long-term use, or other people. In the U.S. and Europe, where gardening is one of the major household chores, there is growing demand for LIB gardening tools because of tightening regulations on emissions and noises. Hedge Development of High-Density Battery Technology for EV | Since electric vehicles are fueled Trimmer by electricity rather than fossil fuels, they do not generate air pollutants and require low charging costs. Therefore they are now hailed as next-generation means of transport. LG Chem developed a high-density battery technology for electric vehicles, which allows long driving distances up to 320km on a single charge. By utilizing this technology, the company has collaborated with leading global carmakers and taken steps towards developing technologies for high energy efficiency and Blower environmental preservation. Furthermore, the company also provides innovative products aligned with the characteristics of various car types, such as battery weight and height. 16 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Introduction Philosophy and Vision 17 LG Way LG Chem’s Vision and Core Values The LG Way is the foundation for LG employees’ way of thinking and conduct and aimed at achieving “No. 1 LG,” LG’s vision, by practicing With the vision, “To be a global leader growing with our customers through innovative materials and solutions,” LG Chem provides cus“Customer Value Creation” and “People-Oriented Management” on the basis of “Jeong-Do Management,” LG’s unique code of conduct. LG tomers worldwide with materials and solutions essential to leading a more convenient life. By offering differentiated value to customers Chem is actively involved in achieving “No. 1 LG” by practicing the LG Way. through market-leading products and services, the company aims to become a global leader that grows along with customers. LG Chem will pursue and achieve sustainable growth by promoting environmental and social performances. LG Chem’s Vision ‘No. 1 LG’ means LG’s ultimate goal of becoming To be a global leader VISION No.1 LG a company that is respected and leads markets. Growing with customers by providing ‘Jeong-Do’(righteous) Management is LG’s unique code of conduct by which the company innovative materials and solutions Code of Conduct Jeong-Do(Righteous) continuously cultivates its capabilities and Growing with customers by providing innovative materials and solutions Management conducts business fairly on the basis of ethical management. Management LG’s management principles state Customer Customer Value People-Oriented Principles Value Creation as its purpose of business and Creation Management People-Oriented Management as the principle of governance. Growing with Innovative Innovative Global Leader Customers Materials Solutions We strive to be a company We grow with our valuable We deliver the best materials We identify problems in custhat is trusted and admired customers by delivering with unrivaled prices and tomers’ businesses, solve Achieving ‘No. 1 LG’ by our customers, the most innovative values that help performance, designed to them, and improve perforattractive investment to our them thrive and prosper. improve the performance mance by incorporating our investors, the workplace of of customers’ products and services and knowledge choice for the best and the lead customer businesses to into products and offering Code of Conduct: Vision: No. 1 LG Management Principles brightest, and feared and success. value aligned with customJeong-Do Management emulated by our competitors. ers’ individual needs. LG that customers can trust Integrity Customer Value Creation Core Values That is recognized to be the best in We work transparently according to Customer-oriented / Delivery of class by customers by impressing them principles and standards substantive value / Innovation-driven with excellent quality and brand value creation Customer Value Creation Fair transaction Strong Implementation Customer We deliver value that substantially improves customer LG that is the most attractive to We provide equal opportunities and People-Oriented Management Value Creation performance and competitiveness. We act to enhance customer investors Strong implementation is essential fair treatment in every transactional Autonomy and creativity / Respect value with a customer-centric mindset and a deep understanding to bringing corporate objectives and LG that provides attractive value relationship for human dignity / Capability of both our customers and the market. to investors with high return on development and actualization / aspirations to fruition. It is a systematic investment Fair competition Performance-based reward process that requires an objective view of reality, thorough analysis, and We improve our capabilities LG that talented people want with which one can fairly win the concrete planning to achieve our goals. to join competition Core Values LG that provides the best workplace where the talented employees can Strong work with a sense of ownership and Implementation Mutual Respect enthusiasm Mutual respect plays a key role in Mutual LG that competitors find Respect building teams and the capacity to make formidable but want to learn from breakthroughs. This teamwork, strengthened LG that competitors find formidable by mutual recognition and respect, is what yet respect as a benchmark by empowers us to achieve our goals. producing remarkable outcomes 18 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Introduction Materiality Assessment 19 Materiality Assessment This report was prepared by LG Chem to reflect the four reporting principles of the GRI(Global Reporting Initiative) guidelines for sustainability reporting, which are ‘sustainability context’ ‘materiality’ ‘stakeholder engagement’ and ‘completeness’. In particular, when defining report content, the company identified emerging issues that have recently drawn attention by analyzing global standards and benchmarking itself against leading companies. The company also selected issues deemed as important by internal and external stakeholders through a survey among internal and external stakeholders and an interview with independent experts. The materiality assessment process is as follows: To respond to global sustainability trends, LG Chem reflected its compliance with the requirements of GRI G4(sustainability reporting guidelines), ISO 26000(international guidelines for Stakeholder Feedback Research STEP. 1 Global social responsibility), and EICC(code of conduct for international electronics industry). The Global Internal data Creating a Pool of company also benchmarked itself against leading global companies in the chemical industry LG Chem conducted stakeholder interviews and Creating an standards Media research survey to get feedback from stakeholders on its 2013 benchmarking analysis review 20 Issues and incorporated issues that the industry considers important. Issues closely related to LG Issue Pool sustainability report. The results showed that, while Chem were also added based on press releases and internal data created throughout 2014 to respondents were generally satisfied with the report create an issue pool of 20 issues in the economic, environmental, and social areas. in terms of its design that reflects LG Chem’s characteristics, increased understanding of CSR, and selection of important report topics, there was relatively LG Chem conducted a stakeholder survey and interviews to prioritize the 20 issues. Through STEP. 2 Quantifying the low satisfaction with adequate disclosures of busiData Analysis Stakeholder survey and interviews the survey, the company identified detailed expectations and the significance of the key isness information and accessible report structure. Evaluating Materiality of Issues sues and researched and incorporated those issues that are deemed necessary to pursue susTherefore, the company incorporated the feedback Important Issues tainability management. when preparing the 2014 sustainability report. Understanding of CSR through the report 4.08 To identify material issues, LG Chem created a materiality assessment matrix in terms of social Selection of important report topics 4.07 STEP. 3 Developing interest and impact on LG Chem. The company incorporated media exposure by issue, global Selecting Compiling and analyzing the results of Step 1 and Step 2 Adequate disclosures of business information 3.93 Material Issues benchmarking issues, internal stakeholder survey, external stakeholder interviews, and finally Core Issues LG Chem’s strategy and management principles to identify the eight material issues situated Transparent reporting 4.00 at the top right-hand corner of the matrix. Design that reflects LG Chem’s characteristics 4.03 Accessible structure 3.93 (Out of five points) Materiality Assessment Results The following are the results of the materiality assessment: Economic Social Environmental Material Issues Issue Description GRI G4 Aspect Contents 2 Material Issues ▶ Impact 2 R&D and 4 Supply chain 1 Environmental 2 R&D and technological We research and develop new technologies and pursue technological innovation Products and Services Issue 1 9 technological management pollution prevention innovation to make energy-efficient and safer products. innovation 5 Occupational safety 3 Energy conservation 6 Product responsibility We develop competitive products through quality innovation and fulfill our Customer Safety and Issue 2 6 1 and health and GHG emission product responsibility by providing safer products aligned with customer input. Health 6 Product responsibility control 3 Energy conservation and We pursue green processes that consume most energy and respond to climate Energy and Emissions Issue 3 13 7 7 Community GHG emission control change by producing products that consume less energy. 4 development efforts 1 Environmental pollution We minimize environmental impacts on local communities by continuously Effluents and Waste 3 8 Human resources prevention improving environments in facilities. 8 Issue 4 development 5 5 Occupational safety and We strive for safety first based on a safety and health management system and Occupational Safety and 9 Economic growth of 11 Human rights and health minimize safety, health, and environmental risks that may arise. Health businesses labor rights 4 Supply chain management We manage risks that may arise from supply chain and support fair transactions Procurement Practices, Issue 5 12 10 General 10 Anti-competition 13 Work-life balance and business partners’ CSR through shared growth activities. Anti-Competitive Behavior Issues and anti-corruption 8 Human resources We cultivate global talent with professional capabilities based on our belief that Training and Education Issue 6 11 12 Compliance with development talent is the source of a unique competitive advantage. laws and internaPotential Issues(Monitoring) tional norms 7 Community development We pursue specialized community involvement by combining teenager Local Communities Issue 7 efforts education and green/energy areas. Relevance ▶ 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Material Issues 06 02 04 Human Resources 01 Product Responsibility 03 Occupational 05 Development P. 44 07 Safety, Value Creation P. 26 Climate Change Health and Shared Growth Social through Response Environment with Business Contribution Technological Partners Activities P. 30 Innovation P. 34 P. 40 P. 48 P. 22 22 Material Issues 1. Value Creation through 23 Technological Innovation 1 Value Creation through Technological Innovation Business & Social Context Providing innovative value by developing next-generation technologies and products is directly related to the existence of a company and vital to its sustainable growth. Demand for solutions to today’s environmental issues and for innovative, Developing New Businesses and Platform Developing High-Efficiency, High-Performance environmentally friendly products is growing amid tightening domestic and international environmental regulations. Technologies Technologies Using Basic Materials Developing a Water Treatment Membrane Developing Manufacturing Technology for Premium Our Approach LG Chem took its first step into the water treatment EZP with High Workability LG Chem aims to become a global materials supplier and market leader with excellent R&D capabilities. To that end, market to actively engage in green business and conLG Chem developed a high-workability EZP(Easy Prothe company is strengthening the competitiveness of existing platform technologies through technological innovatribute to resolving global water shortages. In March cessing Polyethylene) manufacturing technology using tion and cultivating new growth engines by investing heavily and providing support for advanced materials and next2014, the company gained core technology for water its own advanced metallocene catalyst and polymerizageneration technologies. The company is focusing on developing green technologies and products to create value filters by acquiring NanoH2O, an American water filter tion process technology, which paved the way for the and contribute to the growth of society and environmental preservation in the long term. manufacturer, and combined it with LG Chem’s own company’s market leadership through quality innovamaterials technology to develop a high-performance tion. Since EZP products provide superior workability Goals & Performance reverse osmosis membrane. Through this, the company and mechanical properties compared with existing LD/ achieved the industry’s highest rate of ion removal and LLDPE blend products, companies can produce thinner 2014 Goals 2014 Performance 2015 Goals ion flow permeability and received NSF Standard 61 and clearer films by applying EZP products to the manuDeveloping new businesses ·Developed a high-performance reverse osmosis ‧Gaining a competitive edge by continuously exploring certification(drinking water certification) for all its prodfacturing of films for agricultural, industrial, and laminaand platform technologies membrane and a clear seal material and developing new projects, utilizing key platform technologies, and extensively applying them ucts. LG Chem will continue to invest and focus on detion purposes. The sales of EZP products are expected to Developing high-efficiency, ·Developed manufacturing technologies for EZP veloping technologies to turn its water treatment busiincrease to 22 billion KRW in 2015 and to 76 billion KRW high-performance with high workability, SAP with high efficiency, ‧Basic Materials & Chemicals: Developing innovative technologies using basic and SSBR(Solution Styrene Butadiene Rubber) quality and technologies for inorganic materials and ness into a future growth driver. in 2017. LG Chem will extend the application of its curmaterials with high performance expanding the capability of implementing projects with promising materials rent manufacturing technology to develop more highDeveloping green products ·Developed OLED light source(110lm/W) and ‧IT & Electronic Materials: Developing innovative Developing an Advanced Clear Seal Material workability metallocene products. based on IT and electronic flexible OLED light source(80lm/W) materials products aligned with market and customer needs, The new technology for face seal type waterproof adheand expanding into non-display areas sive film materials is a core technology to enable plastic Developing SSBR for Green Tires Developing batteries with ·Developed a high-density battery for xEV, ‧Energy Solutions: Leading the market by continuously high energy density and free-form mobile polymer battery, developing high-energy, high-density, high-capacity OLEDs, which increases the service life and stiffness of Environmental regulations such as Euro 6 have been new batteries and energy storage system and long service-life batteries by application clear plastic OLED devices. LG Chem developed an adtightened over car exhaust emissions. Demand for imvanced clear seal material that provides outstanding proved fuel economy due to fluctuating oil prices is heat resistance and waterproofing. The new technology also growing. LG Chem developed an SSBR(Solution laid the foundation for the company’s leadership in the Styrene Butadiene Rubber, environmentally friendly flexible, clear display, wearable and next-generation non-toxic silica tire rubber) manufacturing technology, 30.1% green lighting markets. a core technology for green tires aimed at dramatically improving car fuel efficiency. Tires made using the SSBR 2.3% technology provide increased fuel efficiency as well as New superior wear resistance and stability. Product R&D Organization and Infrastructure Developed the World’s first Percentage of R&D Percentage of sales that flexible wire-type battery spending against sales contributed to new products LG Chem operates R&D centers specializing in differResearch Park Corporate R&D Center Japan R&D Center ent business areas, Tech Centers designed to optimize Platform Technology Research Center production and provide customer service, and technolFuture Technology Research Center INTERVIEW ogy/development departments. Under the Research Park, Vice President In-Seok Hwang Leader of Corporate R&D Center there are a Platform Technology Research Center and a Basic Materials & Basic Materials & Chemicals Chemicals R&D Center Tech Center Future Technology Research Center, which support techTechnological innovation is essential to ensuring sustainable competitiveness. As a global nological innovation across all business areas. IT&E Materials Technology/DevelopIT&E Materials materials company, LG Chem is continuously increasing R&D investment from a long-term R&D Center ment Department* perspective to develop the world’s first materials and materials that customers want. With our Furthermore, the company established Gwacheon ReAdvanced Advanced Materials Technology/Developsearch Park in 2015 to expand its R&D infrastructure. In Materials R&D Center ment Department* top-notch R&D workforce and infrastructure, we are committed to creating new businesses 2017, LG Science Park, an R&D park under LG Group’s suin the areas of green energy materials, high-functional advanced materials, and inorganic Energy Storage System pervision, will conduct R&D focusing on future original Energy Solutions Battery R&D Center Development Center materials. In addition, based on our R&D culture which emphasizes autonomy and creativity, technology areas and areas that utilize synergies among Mobile Battery collective intelligence, and collaboration, LG Chem is creating new business opportunities by affiliated companies. *Under this departDevelopment Center LGCPI ment, some teams continuously developing its unique, market-leading products. We will ensure the world’s best are operated as Automotive Battery Europe Tech Center R&D units Development Center competitiveness through continuous technological innovation. 24 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Material Issues 1. Value Creation through 25 Technological Innovation Increasing Product Efficiency Using IT & Developing a High-Density xEV Battery and Recruiting and Retaining R&D Talent Investing in Technological Innovation Electronic Materials an Energy Storage System Recruiting top R&D talent is key to developing innovaLG Chem is increasing R&D spending and investment in LG Chem developed a high-density xEV(electric vehicle) its R&D workforce to strengthen the competitiveness of tive next-generation products and new businesses, and battery that permits long driving distances over 320km Developing High-Efficiency OLED Light Sources Through years of R&D, LG Chem developed an OLED retaining the talent is also equally important. LG Chem its businesses and to develop future growth engines. By on a single charge, and has won contracts on projects 2015, the company plans to increase R&D intensity(the light source that provides the world’s highest efficienoperates industry-academic programs with leading uniwith many automakers. Through this technology, the percentage of R&D spending against sales) to 2.7% and cy. Efficiency has been increased to 100lm/W through versities and colleges, and also recruits top R&D talent company is spearheading efforts to increase efficiency the percentage of new product sales contributing to tolarge-area Ag electrode stabilization technology, adin Europe and Japan through on-campus recruiting and in energy use and protect the environment. tal sales from 28.8% to 31.6%. vanced interior light extraction technology and lowlocal interviews. voltage multi-layer structuring technology. The compaFurthermore, in 2014, LG Chem developed a minimumny now provides OLED lights with 20,000-hour service In addition, the company holds workshops and techR&D Expense (Unit:100 million KRW, %) size, ultra-lightweight solar-cell connected home enerlife. Furthermore, using ultra-thin glass substrates, LG nology fairs with professors from national and intergy storage system with the world’s highest energy den2012 3,632 1.6 Chem developed a flexible OLED light source(80lm/W), national schools to promote LG Chem’s research areas sity, and released the product in 2015. The home energy 2013 4,499 1.9 which allows the application of various designs, giving and to receive talent referrals. Through lab tours, where storage system stores solar energy generated during the company a platform for leading new trends in the researchers visit the nation’s major R&D teams, the 2014 5,130 2.3 the day, and uses it as a power supply source to reduce lighting industry. The company will increase the perforcompany promotes its corporate image so that promisTotal expenditure Percentage of R&D spending against sales power consumption and provide emergency power in mance of devices, stabilize manufacturing processes, ing R&D researchers apply for jobs at LG Chem. case of a power outage. Through continuous R&D, the and release flexible products. R&D Workforce (Unit: person) company will develop a more compact product with Moreover, LG Chem holds LG Techno Conference, cohigher capacity, using the technology that allows de2012 2,064 organized by LG Group’s affiliates to recruit and retain vice scalability to meet customers’ demands. Developing New and High Energy Density 2013 2,562 Batteries R&D talent, and BC Tour & Tech Fair directly hosted by LG Chem’s CEO and management. Additionally, the 2014 3,159 company is creating an organizational culture where Developing a Freeform Polymer Battery employees commit themselves to producing results Enabling Excellent Space Use LG Chem developed a freeform polymer battery that New Product Sales (Unit:100 million KRW, %) with creativity and autonomy to increase researchers’ allows changes in form unlike existing fixed batteries. 2012 66,936 28.8 satisfaction with their jobs. Through these efforts, the Freeform polymer batteries offer space solutions by encompany improves researchers’ loyalty and help their 2013 65,054 28.1 abling efficient use of small spaces. LG Chem is continuprofessional growth. 2014 67,989 30.1 ously conducting research to lead the wearable device market such as smart watches. New product sales % of contribution of new products to sales *Some changes have been made to the data for 2012 and 2013 with the retroactive inclusion of the technology/development department under IT&E Materials as of January 2015. Developing a Flexible Wire-type Battery through Internal Open Innovation At the center of LG Chem’s R&D innovation is the free research atmosphere The flexible wire-type battery developed by LG Chem for the first time in the world is the comwithin Research Park. For instance, the company is operating Internal Open pany’s leading innovative product created on the basis of Internal Open Innovation. It origiInnovation through which researchers share their innovation ideas. The comnated in a research club and was created after a long series of attempts. The flexible wire-type pany provides an online space where researchers can suggest technical probbattery consists of thin cables departing from existing sheet-based products and allowing delems or tasks on “Ask System,” an intranet for Research Park, and then share formations and adjustments to length and width. Thus it can be applied to a variety of wearideas or opinions on solutions with other researchers. Research clubs are also able devices. Particularly, the product was selected as a cover article topic for Advanced Maoperated to let researchers get together and freely discuss topics of their interials, one of the world’s leading materials journals, and has received considerable attention terest. In addition, many events are held to promote knowledge exchanges from academia and customers including global IT companies, and sports apparel companies. among employees including internal technology conferences, open debates, Internal Open Innovation The company has submitted 93 patent applications and is continuously working hard through and experts’ meetings, where researchers share their research results and further collaboration to offer various IT solutions essential to modern society. Cover for Advanced technical problems and also seek advice from others in similar R&D areas. Materials 26 Material Issues 2.  27 Product Responsibility 2 Product Responsibility Business & Social Context A growing number of advanced materials and products essential to the growth of modern industries and improvement of eveEnsuring Product Safety the characteristics of its business areas into prohibited ryday convenience has led to an increased interest in product safety and environmental impact. To proactively respond to naand restricted chemicals. The company also created the tional and international regulations and customer needs, and to fulfill its responsibility towards its products, it is important for Strengthening Responses to International Safety and CHARMs(Chemical Assurance and Regulatory Managethe company to minimize risks arising across all processes from material purchasing to the use and disposal of end products. Environmental Regulations ment System), a system for managing chemicals in materiLG Chem is strengthening its responses to applicable laws als and products, which incorporates the characteristics of and regulations so that all customers in and outside the Our Approach materials and products by business area, in order to ensure country can use its products safely. Based on the latest adherence to the Act on the Registration and Evaluation of LG Chem is committed to reducing negative aspects of its products regarding safety and the environment by restricting version of the chemical database, the company is issuing Chemicals and the Chemical Management Act taking efand reducing the use of hazardous chemicals in products. The company also discloses information on the hazards and MSDS(Material Safety Data Sheets) for export products in fect in 2015, and strengthen the system for responding to risks of its products based on accurate composition data. In terms of quality control, the company is enhancing safety and 30 languages. The company also created an MSDS publiglobal chemical management standards. Through these reliability through controls tailored to business and product characteristics from the development stage. Additionally, by cation system on its corporate portal to increase user consystems, LG Chem increased efficiency and accuracy in restricting the use of conflict minerals, the company is strengthening its social responsibility across the supply chain. venience. chemical data management. Goals & Performance In 2014, LG Chem also set the global common chemical conSupporting Supply Chain Safety and Environmental trol standards and created a digital management system for 2014 Goals 2014 Performance 2015 Goals Friendliness global material composition data at all of its business opLG Chem provides support in creating safety and environStrengthening response ‧Set global common chemical control standards; ·Strengthening the system for responding to erations worldwide. Through these initiatives, all of the commental impact management systems for materials and to global environmental enhanced the hazardous chemical response K-REACH, and improving the reliability of chemical pany’s facilities are now able to apply uniform standards to management DB across all business operation sites parts suppliers. Through such support, the company is helpregulations system; and supported supply chain chemical purchased materials, obtain accurate chemical data, and furmanagement worldwide ing reduce the use of hazardous chemicals across the supply thermore, respond to social issues such as conflict minerals. Operating a strategic quality ‧Created a dedicated quality control organization ·Ensuring innovative and competitive quality by chain and enhancing the safety, health, and environmental carrying out quality improvements from a customer control system by business area and executed quality standpoint and enhancing quality capabilities of capabilities of those suppliers, thereby improving product improvement tasks In China, particularly, in October 2014, LG Chem provided suppliers safety. The company issued the Eco-friendly Supply Chain training to staff members of safety, health and environment Strengthening conflict mineral ‧Created a system for conflict mineral verification ·Supporting business partner training and systems Management Guidelines, which describes safety and envimanagement among purchased materials; Four LG affiliates for conflict minerals and strengthening a common and procurement teams at its Chinese facilities regarding ronmental requirements for the supply chain, and improved established a committee on conflict minerals response system through the LG4 committee major applicable regulations and how to operate the chemithe overall management level of LG Chem’s supply chain. cal analysis system. Furthermore, the company also providFurthermore, the company frequently updated the guideed video training to its subsidiaries in Poland, U.S., and Tailines to incorporate new chemicals created worldwide so 11 manufacturing wan, extending the internalization of global safety, health, that the supply chain has no difficulty in adapting to such subsidiaries and environmental norms to all of its global facilities. new chemicals. The guidelines are available at Open Procurement System(http://open.lgchem.com). LG Chem also provides training and consulting services to help its busiStrengthening Chemical Management To effectively manage the hazards and risks of chemicals, ness partners respond to the Chemical Management/EvaluLG Chem created and began to issue the Eco-friendly Prodation Acts that take effect in 2015. At the Conference on Reuct Development Policy and the Eco-friendly Supply Chain sponding to Chemical Regulations held in March 2014, the Guidelines, which contain regulations for product develcompany provided training on legal responses to chemical opment and for purchasing and material procurement. Creating a global chemical Operating a dedicated quality Four LG affiliates form and regulations and the environmental assurance of products. management system and team by product characteristics participate in a committee on The policy and guidelines are made available in three lanThrough the training, the company increased the underconducting training conflict minerals guages, Korean, English, and Chinese, and the company standing of chemical analysis and improved the chemical classifies a list of chemicals under regulations aligned with management capabilities of the partners. INTERVIEW Vice President Jae-Han Jung Leader of Energy Solutions Quality Center Conference on Responding to Chemical Regulations LG Chem considers consumer safety as a top priority with regard to all of the products it makes, and continuously strives to observe global safety standards and achieve the LG Chem conducts chemical analysis at global levels and provides regular training to materiworld’s highest level of quality. Battery products, in particular, are very sensitive to the als suppliers to enhance their regulatory response capabilities. In March 2014, the company safety of customers and end users, and therefore require absolute safety and quality held the 2014 Conference on Responding to Chemical Regulations attended by 420 employassurance. Accordingly, LG Chem operates a department dedicated to quality research ees from 370 business partners across the country, and provided them assistance in respondat the Quality Center of the Energy Solutions division. The department develops product ing to the Chemical Evaluation/Management Acts taking effect in 2015. Furthermore, the evaluation technologies and test methods which take into account misuse by users and company also shared international regulations such as European REACH(regulation on new users’ operating conditions to guarantee the reliability of products. Under the CEO’s chemicals management) and the latest trends in safety, health, and environmental regula2014 Conference on Responding to Chemical Regulations determination that products without safety have no commercial value, LG Chem will tions. The conference provided the opportunity to announce the company’s commitment to continuously strengthen our capabilities and create a world-class quality control system. achieving high chemical and safety management levels and shared growth through cooperation with its business partners in preventing chemical spills, an emerging social issue. 28 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Material Issues 2.  29 Product Responsibility Strengthening Quality Competitiveness Quality Innovation Results by Business Area Strengthening Social Responsibility of Products Basic Materials & Chemicals Strategic Quality Control System LG Chem is committed to ensuring quality competitiveStrengthening Conflict Mineral Management ness across all processes, including procurement, deLG Chem added conflict minerals to the Prohibited ChemiLed by Quality/Innovation Team, a dedicated quality team, Its quality system is monitored from the customers’ pervelopment, production and sales. The company continthe division established its own quality policy and strategy. spective, and through follow-up on improvement progress, cals List(Level 2) in the Eco-friendly Product Development uously identifies and implements quality improvement The division develops properties and features to make ina uniform quality system has been applied within the diviPolicy and the Eco-friendly Supply Chain Guidelines. In tasks to enhance product safety and reliability. In parnovative, high-quality products from the development sion. It will focus on checking quality levels and improve2014, the company added a function to identify conflict stage and prevents defective products from being delivered ment points perceived by customers and linking them to ticular, the company increases customer satisfaction minerals under the chemical analysis system for purby ensuring reliability in product testing. the tasks of relevant teams. with quality by enhancing quality capabilities of materichased materials to update its conflict mineral manageals/parts suppliers and applying customers’ quality rement system. Through the new system, the company is quirements equally to the suppliers. Additionally, with systematically managing conflict minerals from the prothe goal of optimized quality management aligned with curement stage. The company is also encouraging the envarious business and product characteristics, the comIT & Electronic Materials tire supply chain to join in ethical efforts and responding pany created a specialized organization for each busito the demands of customers in the global electronic and ness division/area. electrical markets who are sensitive to the use of conflict The division operates dedicated quality teams by business The division reduces internal losses through a strengthunit to ensure specialized quality control reflecting the ened quality control system, and satisfies customer needs minerals. In September 2014, the LG4 Conflict Mineral Group-Level Quality Committee characteristics of different products. Through the quality by enhancing the quality control level of its suppliers and Committee was established, which comprises four affilicommittee, the head of the division, the quality department customer service capabilities. By creating a differentiated The quality committee comprising four LG affiliates ates of LG Group, including LG Chem. Through the comleader of each business unit, and QA(Quality Assurance) and quality control system which incorporates the characterisincluding LG Chem is a consultative body in which top CS(Customer Satisfaction) team leaders meet to discuss mittee, the companies are strengthening the ability to tics/attributes of different products, the division intends to quality management participates, and quarterly meetmonthly quality issues, Q-Cost1) results, key quality improvereinforce proactive quality assurance and early stabilization manage the use of conflict minerals on the group level ment tasks, and the quality competitiveness of key products. ings are held to ensure quality and to strengthen prodof new products. by surveying the use of conflict minerals by their suppli1)All costs spent on improving product and service quality uct development capabilities. During the 2014 quality ers, creating guidelines, and promoting the use of minercommittee meeting, the companies shared the direcals from smelting works certified with CFS(Conflict Free tions for quality innovation and monitored their perforSmelter Program). mance. Furthermore, the companies had the chance to Advanced Materials benchmark themselves against one another by visiting ESS(Energy Storage System) and advanced automotive *Conflict Minerals The division operates dedicated quality teams(QA Team) The division carried out specific activities to handle cusbattery facilities as well as exhibition places. Through for the Display Materials and Battery Materials departtomer complaints and reach zero defective returns. As for Conflict minerals regulated by the U.S. Securities and ExOLED materials, quality control points were aligned bechange Commission refer to four types of minerals produced the continuous disclosures of quality capabilities, the ments, respectively, to motivate them to reach business targets through top-notch quality systems and quality innovatween the company and its suppliers, and it also conducted in the Democratic Republic of Congo and its neighboring companies will create synergy and gain distinctive comactivities such as finding nonconformities through regular tion. By holding monthly leader meetings, the departments countries(tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold). Government petitive advantages. also strive to improve their capabilities through strict qualinternal/external assessments and leading improvements. forces and rebels are exploiting labor, violating the human ity control. The division will strengthen quality assurance in the verifirights of local residents in the mining processes and causing cation processes of test production and at the initial stages of production. social issues such as environmental pollution. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act containing the provision that regulates conflict minerals took effect, urging companies in electronics industries Energy Solutions worldwide to actively respond. The division operates dedicated quality control teams for To develop next-generation batteries(3-D, curved, wearthe separate business units(Mobile, Advanced Automotive, able, micro-sized, and automotive batteries) to satisfy cusand ESS) at the Quality Center. Particularly, it operates a tomer needs, the division developed an advanced quality quality R&D organization to ensure product safety, perforevaluation methodology, which assures product stability/ mance, and reliability and develops test methods using performance, thereby creating a world-class quality sysGroup-Level Quality Committee proactive quality evaluation technology, in order to achieve tem. For shared growth, the division created a manual and world-class quality competitiveness in batteries. guide for suppliers, and aims to achieve competitive product quality by enhancing the quality control capabilities of parts suppliers. 30 Material Issues 3. Climate Change Response 31 3 Climate Change Response Business & Social Context As the international community has reached a consensus on the crisis of global warming, responding to climate change is Strengthening the System for Energy and GHG by the plant to leaking steam recovery, heat exchanger recognized as a common global challenge. Discussions on how to respond are held across the country, and the South KoReductions network synthesis, and heat loss have led to annual savrean government adopted the Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target Management Scheme and the Greenhouse Gas Emissions ings of billions of KRW. In 2015, the plant will enhance acTrading Scheme to reduce greenhouse gas emissions(GHG) by 30% of the estimated emissions by 2020. Companies also Producing Results in Energy and Climate Change tivities to adopt innovative new technologies. consider systematic GHG management and reduction potential analysis as essential components of business operations. Response through the Corporate Energy Committee LG Chem operates the Energy Committee to enhance its ability to confront energy and climate change issues. Making an Innovative Energy Saving Plan through Energy Our Approach Through this committee, management and plants openly Consulting LG Chem strives to actively respond to energy and GHG regulations and create green processes to drive sustainable LG Chem strives to effectively utilize limited energy sources communicate with one another and share excellent techgrowth. To that end, the company intends to reduce direct GHG emissions by improving energy efficiency in processes, like steam, fuels, and electricity and minimize environnologies, and offer incentives to produce tangible energy and reduce indirect emissions by transitioning to the high value-added product and energy-saving production structure. mental impacts. To that end, the company comes up with saving results. In order to strengthen the ability to carry ideas of improvement for key production facilities and proout detailed reduction activities, the company estabvides energy consulting services to develop capabilities of Goals & Performance lished a subcommittee on energy at each plant. Through engineers. In particular, the PVC/Plasticizers division idenregularly held subcommittee meetings, the plants are im2014 Goals 2014 Performance 2015 Goals tified 51 tasks through energy consulting, which were then proving communication between business functions and Implementing a company·Conducted an energy audit on key production facilities and common classified into A, B, and C levels in terms of effectiveness, efficiently creating synergy among them. wide integrated energy facilities in plants technical feasibility, and profitability. The division is carryaudit ·Officers came up with themes of improvement and strengthened ·Adopting additional reduction initiative through energy consulting and plant-level subcommittee activities tailored for processes ing out A-level tasks that can be immediately implemented activities and B-level tasks that require mid-term review, and will Strengthening Initiative through Plant-level and facilities and strengthening engineers’ capabilities Energy Subcommittee Activities specify and review the technologies necessary to conduct Extending application of ·Completed integrated certification of the energy management system EnMS ·Enhancing internal controls (EnMS) domestically and continued to extend certification abroad C-level tasks, which need technical improvement. In the Practicing Energy Saving through Collaboration (all plants at home and ·Developed effective and tangible energy and GHG reduction activities system and developing external The subcommittee at Daesan Plant shares current energy reduction projects to proactively future, it is expected that energy savings worth about 9 bilabroad) ·Strengthened the corporate ability to execute through the Energy issues, saving ideas, and new technologies and creates Committee respond to the Emissions Trading lion KRW each year will be produced through these tasks. Scheme synergy among business functions. Improvements made Developing a shared ·Developed themes of energy and GHG reduction and provided funding growth model for energy Participating in the National Energy and Power Energy Committee Demand Management Program Participating in the National Program to Reduce Power Chairman Consumption Awarded for two CEO To secure appropriate levels of national power reserves consecutive years and prevent rotating outages in case of power shortages, Vice Chairman LG Chem has become a leading participant in the reli16 % Corporate Affairs Department Leader ability demand response program1) led by Korea Power Exchange(KPX). 1)The program designed to trade power savings from plants on Energy DepartBasic Materials IT Department the power market ment Leaders & Chemicals LGCCI Leader at Plants R&D Center GHG reductions CDP-selected excellent Integrated energy management *Compared with estimated company for climate change system(EnMS) certification of GHG emissions(BAU) response all domestic plants LG Chem’s Energy and GHG Reduction Targets LG Chem set its GHG reduction target at 23% compared with GHG Reduction Targets and Results INTERVIEW estimated emissions(BAU) by 2020 and midand long-term GHG emissions *Scope: Domestic and global plants Vice President Young-Hwan Kim Leader of Yeosu NCC Plant energy intensity reduction targets to reduce GHG emissions (Unit: 1,000 tons) and energy use over the long term, and the company has been BAU LG Chem has actively involved itself in efforts to resolve climate change issues through constant continuously carrying out improvement activities. Since it 12,757 process innovation and a transition to the low-carbon business structure. With strong implementation set the GHG reduction targets, the company has reached the annual targets every year and is increasing energy intensity BAU 23% and innovative ideas, the company developed alternative energy sources and adopted renewable reduction activities to give further impetus. In 2014, LG Chem 9,992 9,821 energy, and continuously developed and applied new energy-saving technologies to reduce carbon introduced the energy management system(EnMS) to all of 16% emissions. As a result of these efforts, Yeosu NCC Plant has achieved the world’s best energy intensity its domestic plants, and to actively respond to the Emissions among NCC companies and thus contributed to securing cost competitiveness. Like this, our efforts 8,430 Trading Scheme, the company also produces monthly predicto respond to climate change will enhance LG Chem’s competitiveness and ultimately provide the tions of GHG emissions and emissions allowances purchase 2014(Result) 2020(Target) driving force behind its sustainable growth. costs for all production teams through IT systems. 32 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Material Issues 3. Climate Change Response 33 The company expects this program to improve efficiensystem, the company can now more effectively monitor Regenerative Incinerator Optimizing steam use contributed to reducing purchase cy in the overall power market at the national level and and manage energy performances, and establish reducThe company is producing hot water using waste heat costs by 2.01 billion KRW in 2014. Through continuous enbring profits to the company such as reduced electricity tion plans, while also raising employee awareness of from the incinerator by installing a heat exchanger on the ergy purchase cost reduction, the company will achieve bills and additional incentives. Cheongju Plant entered energy management. LG Chem will expand the scope of incinerator chimney. To maximize the efficiency of the 2.45 billion KRW in cost reduction in 2015. into a 2,200kW demand response contract and is excertification to its global plants, enhance implementaexisting waste heat recovery system, the company identipected to reduce energy costs by 90 million KRW annualtion capabilities of employees and carry out more effecfied additional locations of consumption and supplies hot Comparing Steam Flows in the PVC Process ly. The contractual capacity will be gradually increased. tive energy conservation activities. water to its plants. The system has led to 1.2 billion KRW energy cost savings and the reduction of 3,141tCO2 GHG Before ❷ Return due to Creating Energy Storage System(ESS) Energy Saving Activities in Manufacturing emissions annually. Consumption grade change To increase energy efficiency at plants using their own Processes by Plant Company A rechargeable batteries, LG Chem installed energy stor❶ Normal operation Boiler Optimizing Steam Use age systems(ESS) with a total capacity of 30MWh, inBuilding a Waste Heat Recovery System VCM* PVC LG Chem is creating a waste heat recovery system to reReducing steam consumption at petrochemical plants is cluding a 22.7MWh ESS at Iksan Plant and a 7MWh ESS an essential requirement to provide competitive prices duce energy purchase costs and increase energy efficiency at Ochanag Plant. The capacity accounts for the daily and respond to climate change. The PVC manufacturing After at its plants. Ochang Plant, particularly, created a system power consumption of about 2,500 four-person houseprocess, in particular, requires 44% of the total production Consumption for recovering waste heat generated from the cleanroom by Plant holds. The 22.7MWh ESS deployed at Iksan Plant proAC dehumidifier and a regenerative incinerator. cost, excluding material costs, for energy purchases. Daevides the world’s largest ESS capacity for a single facil❶ Normal operation san PVC Plant operates a TFT comprising its Production VCM* Boiler PVC ity applied by a plant. Through ESS, the company can Team, Process Technology Team, Maintenance Team, and ❷ Sale of surplus steam prevent risks arising from changes in power purchase Cleanroom AC Dehumidifier Heat exchange between the exhaust part releasing air Technology Synergy Team to effectively use energy and Selling off costs, and help eliminate the need to build more power and the supply part supplying air allows the preheatcreate and apply energy saving plans. For instance, the *Vinyl Chloride Monomer plants and improve stability in renewable energy suping of supplied air, reducing the use of steam to heat plant found extra low steam from its process and supplied ply nationwide. The company will expand the deployair. The system helped reduce steam generation costs it to points of consumption. Surplus steam was sold off to ment of large-capacity ESS and secure the reliability of by 290 million KRW and greenhouse gas emissions of reduce costs. its technologies and dominance in the global market. 759tCO2 annually. Completing Integrated Energy Management System (EnMS) Certification of All Domestic Plants Cleanroom AC Dehumidifier Waste Heat Recovery System In 2013, LG Chem conducted trial operation of EnMS at Energy Saving at Nanjing Plant in China(LGCE NJ) VCM Plant in Yeosu and obtained ISO 5001 certification. Exhaust (35.2℃) Outdoor Air(28.1℃) In 2014, the company extended it to all of its domestic To reduce energy use, LGCE NJ conducted 69 tasks across the production process including facility improvement, inteplants and completed integrated certification. By adoptgrated operation, and increasing efficiency. The company operates the Energy Saving Idea Program in which all of its eming the internationally recognized energy management ployees can offer ideas of saving energy in the process. It classifies areas of energy use, and rewards those overseeing Heat Exchanger the areas and also those offering great ideas to increase voluntary participation. The various ideas proposed have been Air Supply(44.0℃) implemented by a TFT, which led to a reduction in energy use of 9%, compared with the previous year, and 2.92 billion Exhaust(53.8℃) Recycled Air(140℃) KRW worth of energy savings. Integrated Remote Air-conditioner Control Air-cooled Freezer Operation Resetting From PCU To ACU(45℃) 〮 Centralized remote control of 1,070 locally 〮 Changing the number of systems and (12℃) Corporate-wide Integrated ISO 5001 controlled air-conditioners temperature and humidity settings due to Certificate (Domestic) 〮 Energy cost savings: 430 million KRW operational loads 〮 Energy cost savings: 1.06 billion KRW Awarded CDP Excellent Company in Climate Change Response for 2 consecutive years Increasing Efficiency with Outdoor Air Supply Making Improvements to Lighting 〮 Improving AC/compressed air loads with 〮 Re-adjusting lighting areas and replacing low-temperature outdoor air with 7,000 LED lights CDP is a trusted agency tasked with evaluating companies’ climate change perfor〮 Operating the dewpoint-based compressed 〮 Energy cost savings: 100 million KRW mance and LG Chem was selected as an Excellent Company in Climate Change Reair dehumidifier sponse for its exemplary climate change responses in both 2013 and 2014. In 2014, the 〮 Energy cost savings: 220 million KRW company ranked first in the domestic materials sector disclosure and performance categories and became the nation’s only materials supplier to join “The A List” includ2014 CDP-selected Excellent Company Increasing Facility Energy Efficiency Improving Losses through Integrated Facility in Climate Change Response 〮 Applying inverters to AC fans, freezer/coolant Operation ing 187 top-performing companies worldwide. LG Chem will fulfill its disclosure obligapumps 〮 Reducing run times by integrating individually tions and continuously propagate its outstanding climate change activities to keep its 〮 Energy cost savings: 840 million KRW operating vacuum pumps, etc. commitments to sustainability and social responsibility. 〮 Energy cost savings: 270 million KRW 34 Material Issues 4. Occupational Safety, Health 35 and Environment 4 Occupational Safety, Health and Environment Business & Social Context Recent minor and major safety and environmental accidents have become a social issue and governments, companies, Strengthening Safety and Environmental ment plans, and monitored the continuous implemenand the public have become increasingly interested in safety and the environment issues. Governments have strengthManagement tation of such plans. In 2015, LG Chem will also conduct ened monitoring, and stakeholders including local communities and NGOs have reinforced monitoring of corporate safety audits on support for supplier safety management in and environment. Instead of reacting passively to such movements in the society, companies must actively engage in imaddition to regular audits, and unannounced inspecActivities to Create a Culture with Safety and tion of the emergency response system. Environment as a Top Priority proving safety and the environment to provide their employees and local communities with a safe and clean environment. LG Chem is committed to the goal of putting safety and the environment first across all business operations at all levels including top management. During the CEO’s Our Approach Enhancing the Safety and Environmental LG Chem has made safety and the environment a top-priority management task and has implemented a policy to Management System on-site visits, safety and environmental issues were disLG Chem has continuously enhanced its safety and enstrengthen its safety and environmental capabilities and execution abilities. The company developed a corporate safecussed as a top priority and the CEO gave various speechvironmental management system to prevent accidents. ty and environment policy, guidelines and long-term goals based on applicable national and international standards, es at home and abroad to raise employee awareness of By revising and making available the safety and environsuch as OHSAS18001, KOSHA18001, and ISO14001, and stakeholders’ requirements. The company is making improvesafety and the environment. The corporate-wide Safety mental policy, the company explicitly disclosed its comments by continuously monitoring progress. LG Chem’s commitment to safety and the environment, and an optimized and Environment Committee held half-yearly meetings mitment to safety and the environment and its policy safety and environment management system have helped carry out effective and sustainable improvements. in the presence of the management to make decisions on direction. By overhauling the corporate-wide integrated major safety and environmental issues, and were briefed safety and environmental guidelines, the company also on the results of activities to prevent accidents. Furtherdeveloped a uniform operating system, and the newly Goals & Performance more, LG Chem continuously provides training to raise established corporate-wide portal on safety and the enemployee awareness regarding safety and the environ2014 Goals 2014 Performance 2015 Goals Creating a culture that 〮 CEO’s on-site management and speeches on safety and environment vironment has helped improve safety and environment ment and to enhance their expertise. To strengthen safety considers safety and 〮 Held a corporate-wide safety and environment committee 〮 Increasing employees’ communication channels. Furthermore, LG Chem is makenvironment a top priority 〮 Provided training to enhance employee awareness and expertise safety and environmental and environmental awareness and adhere to the fundaing safety and environmental improvements organically Increasing on-site safety 〮 Conducted regular safety and environmental audits and special audits at awareness mentals, the company will reinforce on-site accident preby incorporating safety and environment issues into its and environmental audits domestic and global plants 〮 Rooting out accidents vention activities and achieve “zero” accidents. due to unsafe behavior executive and organizational performance appraisals. In Strengthening the safety 〮 Created and revised the corporate safety and environment policy and guidelines 2015, to elevate levels of safety and environmental man〮 Responding proactively and environmental 〮 Incorporated safety and environmental issues into executive and to tightened safety Reinforcing On-site Safety and Environmental Audits agement, the company will reinforce safety and environmanagement system organizational evaluations and environmental LG Chem conducted regular safety and environmental 〮 Created a corporate portal on safety and the environment regulations and to mental assessments, clearly define employee roles and audits at its domestic and global plants regarding legal Implementing employee 〮 Occupational disease prevention, health promotion activities customer needs responsibilities, and enhance its training system to imhealth management issues, safety and environmental management system, prove employees’ safety and environmental capabilities. on-site operations and management, and fire-fighting Moreover, the company will organize additional on-site and hazardous materials. The company also performed accident prevention and improvement activities, and let special audits on high-risk liquid logistics and high-risk leaders directly provide safety and environmental trainfacilities and an emergency response system. In 2014, ing to solidify each plant’s ability to execute. 9 the company carried out 34 audit sessions, identified problems based on audit results, developed improvesessions 34 audits CEO’s Speeches on Safety and the Environment H  onored with Security and Public Administration / Environment Minister Awards CEO’s speeches on safety Conducting safety and environCreating/revising an integrated and environment mental audits at all global plants safety and environmental policy At LG Chem, the CEO visits each plant and gives speand guidelines cial speeches on safety and the environment before Daesan Plant received the Security and Public Administraemployees. Since safety and the environment became tion Minister Award and the Environment Minister Award. INTERVIEW more important, the CEO, in his speech entitled “No free The plant won the Security and Public Administration lunch for safety and the environment,” emphasized the Minister Award for its contribution to “Disaster Response Vice President In Park Leader of Safety & Environment Department necessity of practicing safety first and encouraged safeand Safe Korea Training” organized by the ministry, and ty and environment officers and all other employees to for its contribution to creating the chemical accident and Safety and the environment must be considered a top priority across all business operations. As fulfill safety and environmental duties. In 2014, starting spills prevention system in the Daesan Industrial Complex. long as everyone in their own role adheres to the fundamentals and principles regarding safety at Research Park in Korea, the CEO went on a speaking In addition, the plant was honored with the Environment and the environment, accidents can be prevented. To solidify our position as the safest and the tour at Yeosu, Iksan, Daesan, Naju, Ochang, and CheonMinister Award for serving as a representative of 25 busimost environmentally friendly company, LG Chem will strengthen our foundation for safety and gju plants across the country and, also visited Yongxing nesses of the Chungcheong-do chemical safety support environmental management and raise employees’ awareness of safety and the environment. subsidiary(LG YX) in China. group organized by the Ministry of Environment, and for its contribution to enhancing private-government cooperaFrom management to plant employees, we will strive to get everyone involved in making the tion in coping with chemical accidents. safe and environmentally friendly culture become more established across the company. 36 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Material Issues 4. Occupational Safety, Health 37 and Environment Strengthening Safety and Environmental Safety Consultant Activities Enhancing a Gas Supply System to Create a Safe Strengthening Chemical Management Management in China Cheongju Plant provided training by area to internal Laboratory Environment With growing responsibility towards safe management As safety and environmental regulations intensify in safety experts and appointed those who finished trainAt laboratories that deal with large quantities of gas, of chemicals due to risks such as toxic chemical spills, China, mostly due to the amendments to the new Safe ing as safety consultants. Safety consultants check safethere is always a risk of safety accidents happening. Reregulations on chemical management are also becomProduction Act and the new Environmental Protection ty across all stages of the process including process desearch Park therefore created a safe laboratory environing stronger. To ensure safety in chemical management, Act, LG Chem is shoring up its safety and environmensign and carry out activities to prevent accidents in the ment by expanding the gas storage outside the building, Research Park installed a chemical storage facility to tal management along with LG Group. At the group production process. In 2014, three safety consultants so that gas cylinders are not kept and left unattended in store chemicals in one place which previously was kept level, from June to August 2014, six subsidiaries were were appointed, and the number of consultants will be the lab. Gases are classified into combustible, non-comin the labs. It will gradually reduce the percentage of subjected to highly intense safety and environmental increased and their roles strengthened. chemicals kept in the labs and create a safer laboratory bustible and oxidizing in the storage, and periodic safety audits, which checked improvements made in the orchecks are performed through the gas supply system to environment. Research Park also created a chemical ganizational, operational, and facility management strengthen the gas management system. management system(R&D CMS) to build a database of Labor-Management Collaboration on Safety Campaign aspects. At LG Chem, two sessions of the managementAt Iksan Plant, labor and management collaborated on its chemicals, and manages chemicals throughout the level safety and environment conference were held launching a safety campaign to make the workplace acentire lifecycle, from procurement to disposal. in the first and second halves respectively to discuss cident-free. Led by 10 people from the safety and environApplying a Central Gas Supply System Research Park adopted a central supply system under current issues and responses in China. In addition, the ment team as well as labor safety and health executives which the gas is supplied from a dedicated storage for company established a department dedicated to safety of the trade union, the safety campaign included accident each floor. Through the central system, the purchase and the environment at the regional holding company photo exhibition and a survey about practicing accident amount of gas necessary to supply public-use gases in China(LG CCI) to oversee all of LG Chem’s subsidiaries prevention and helped keep members alert about safety. in China. LG Chem’s Nanjing subsidiary(LGCE NJ) also such as nitrogen, argon, helium, and air has been miniorganized a safety and environment department with Improving Safety at Global Plants through Training mized, and the labs are now able to use gases more To internalize the awareness and culture that safety and conveniently and safely. an executive-level leader to intensify management at the environment come first across all business operations, Chinese plants. LG Chem is reinforcing safety training at its global plants. Building a Gas Safety System Chemical Storage Facility at Research Park Research Park prevents the occurrence of any type of safeThe Nanjing subsidiary(LGCE NJ) provides “Danger PreOn-Site Safety Management Activities ty accident during gas supply by building a gas leak detecdiction Training.” Danger prediction training is an activtion system at the integrated accident prevention center. It Strengthening Safety Measures Management for ity carried out with the purpose of reinforcing employalso strengthened monitoring by increasing CCTV systems, High-Risk Work To ensure safety at work, Yeosu Plant created a team ees’ ability to identify risk sources and raising their safety awareness. The company posts safety evaluation standand had a system in place for immediate response to probdedicated to inspecting high-risk jobs, such as hot work, working in confined spaces, and working at heights, and ards on notice boards in various places of the site and conlems with gas supply systems through auto calls. checking safety measures in advance. The inspection ducts an evaluation on each team according to the standteam consists of the production, maintenance, and safeards. Until now, evaluations have been carried out 6 times Safety, Health & Environment Activities with Business Partners ty & environment teams and is responsible for doublein total to evaluate185 teams, and the pass rate was 100%. Operating Collaborative Program checking safety measures, reporting problems to related Under the occupational accident prevention policy of the Ministry of Labor and Korea Occupational Safety and Health team leaders and taking action before commencing work. At the Vietnamese subsidiary(LG VINA), employees doing Agency(KOSHA), seven plants of LG Chem are operating a collaborative program to prevent occupational accidents of their dangerous works such as hot work as well as all other membusiness partners. Through this program, LG Chem provides suppliers with training and support for risk assessment, risk bers received safety and health training. Through such trainfactor improvement, and counseling support for KOSHA18001 certification. As a result, the safety and health management ing, the company reached an accident rate of zero. systems and risk assessment levels of the suppliers have improved in overall, and eight suppliers of Yeosu and Daesan Daily Work ‧Inspection team selects work for inspection Check after checking daily work details by plant unit plants were certified with KOSHA18001 and OSHAS18001. LG Chem will enhance its collaboration with its business partThe U.S. subsidiary(LGCMI) recruited an SH&E professional ners and expand support in acquiring safety certificates. and provided accident prevention training and emergency response training. The company will improve its training Sharing Information on Safety and Environment through Safety and Health Guard ‧Double-checking safety measures for target Gimcheon Plant operates a safety and health guard program to effectively provide safety and health information to its On-Site work(checking before work) programs based on safety and health activity assessments business partners while working with them. Through safety and health guards, details of amendments to safety and enviInspection and external experts’ advice. ronmental laws, risk assessment results, and monthly schedules are shared on the bulletin board. The program helped reduce the number of non-compliant cases from self-audits on safety to 67 in 2014, compared with 110 in the previous year. Feedback on ‧Reporting problems to team leaders (production, maintenance) Operating a Safety and Environment Inspector Qualification Program for Business Partners Inspection Results -Proceed if there are no problems Yeosu Plant provided qualified safety and environment inspector development training to business partners’ safety and environment inspectors. Each year, over 200 managers of business partners receive special safety training and those who ‧Checking if problems have been resolved maintain qualifications are granted certificates. Through the program, the plant was able to raise the safety and environ‧Incorporating major unsafe practices into a Follow-up mental awareness of its business partners. case handbook and promoting it on Results Danger Prediction Training Session at LGCE NJ 38 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Material Issues 4. Occupational Safety, Health 39 and Environment On-Site Environmental Management Activities The Taiwanese subsidiary(LGCE TP) minimized scrap genNoise Reduction Building a Health Care Database eration by improving parts in the polarizer production The development of an innovation city and the Songwol Cheongju Plant created a health care database to proacprocess, and has made resource use more efficient and residential district near Naju Plant has led to an increase in tively manage employees’ health problems before they Wastewater and Waste Daesan Plant underwent facility improvements to safely reduced waste generation. In 2014, the company reduced the residential population and also in concern for potenarise. Through the database, the plant checks informamanage diluted hydrochloric acid produced in the manu14,364 tons of scrap and about 2,770,000 KRW in treatment tial complaints about sensory pollution such as noise and tion about employees such as whether they have comfacturing process. Previously, diluted hydrochloric acid costs. smell. Naju Plant created a TFT dedicated to noise reducpleted training on the risk of chemicals. was disposed of by a disposal contractor and there was tion and developed a noise map based on an in-depth authe potential risk of hydrochloric acid spills and fire. To Scrap reduction by LGCE TP dit of the plant’s facilities generating noises. The plant carresolve these problems, the plant utilizes alkaline wasteDeveloping a Smoking Cessation Program based on the ▃ Percentage of scrap reduced ▃ 2014 KPI ried out noise reduction activities on 28 locations including water called “spent caustic1)” released from the process Self-Determination Theory 5.0% pumps, compressors, and piping, and subsequently reYeosu Plant found it necessary to improve problems with to neutralize diluted hydrochloric acid. In addition, the duced noise by 8dB on average(40% of perceived noise). the existing smoking cessation program and its low sucplant installed a duct for spent caustic in the diluted hy4.0% cess rates and developed a smoking cessation program drochloric acid effluent holding tank and ensures safe Activities to Promote Employee Health based on the self-determination theory. The new program disposal of diluted hydrochloric acid at the optimum 3.0% 3.0 involves categorizing steps to smoking cessation, such as equivalence point identified through experimental analybefore, after, withdrawal, temptation, and maintaining, Operating Occupational Disease Management sis. Moreover, the plant installed a negative ion exchange 2.04 and providing 1:1 counseling services aligned with the catPrograms resin to eliminate odor arising from the wastewater hold2.0% LG Chem operates programs for management of major egories. Through this program, the plant achieved a sucing tank, which helped create a cleaner environment. diseases, which take into consideration the character1.0% cess rate of 80%, representing a 20 to 38% improvement istics of different plants. Research Park runs a metabolic 1)Spent Caustic: Waste caustic soda produced in the NCC Caustic process compared with the previous program. (NaOH, 2.48%) syndrome management program to provide care for dia0.0% betes, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and abdominal obe2014 January ········ December sity caused as a result of chronic metabolic disorder. In Operating a Diet Program to Keep Healthy Result Cost reduction as a result of changing disposal Changing eating habits and living conditions have led 2014, the company provided 27 employees with regular method of diluted hydrochloric acid to obesity, which is the biggest cause of health probcounseling and diet therapy sessions. 990 million Preventing Air Pollution lems. As a solution to obesity problems, the Taiwanese KRW per year As the allowable limits of nitrogen oxide emissions, which subsidiary(LGCE TP) developed a five-step health imGimcheon Plant began operating an intensive care proImproved by contributes to air pollution, were lowered from 150ppm to provement program. From September to December 2014, 480 million gram in response to the growth of findings of liver disor510 million KRW per year 130ppm, Yeosu Plant invested 800 million KRW in gradually about 120 employees participated in the program and KRW per year ders, hyperlipidemia, and blood pressure among its emreplacing boiler burners from 2003. Through the replacethe applicants successfully lost a total of 218.9kg. ployees. In 2014, the plant reduced the findings by 26%, Before After ment, the plant lowered emissions from certain equipment compared with the previous year, through interviews and from 88ppm in 2013 to 77ppm in 2014. The plant also took health checks with employees with findings, personal Check cause of obesity through interview with a doctor Contracting cost Neutralization cost Stage 1 the initiative in adopting the digital TMS(Tele-Monitoring and inform advantages of lowering obesity rates health care data, and suggestions for regular exercises. Systems) which takes effect in 2017. Cheongju Plant produced and distributed a video on Ulsan Plant has strengthened its infrastructure and operStage 2 Nutritionists give tips for healthy eating habits stretching exercises tailored to the needs of employees ates a frequent monitoring system to respond to emergenOchang Plant upgraded its air pollution monitoring system to help prevent musculoskeletal disorders in employees cy situations of chemical spills. By installing an emergency to prevent causes of air pollution in advance. In 2014, the Stage 3 Yoga classes who do repetitive work. water detention facility outside the plant, in addition to the plant installed automatic pollution monitoring systems drain shutoff facility, the company is preventing releases of in five more locations of the boundary area of the site to Stage 4 Fitness testing The Tianjin subsidiary in China(LGCC TJ) is strengthening chemicals into the Hoeya River nearby. monitor the pollutants in real-time. The systems provide daily care for occupational diseases. In April 2014, the comreal-time measurements of various factors including odorStage 5 Measure weight every 2 weeks pany conducted health checkups for 116 employees of The Botian subsidiary in China(LG BOTIAN) installed a ous compounds, ammonia, hydrogen sulfide, and TVOCs, Production and QA teams, who were likely to be exposed condensate recovery system, which produces condenand when an abnormal level of concentration is detected, to risks. Furthermore, the company is encouraging emsate by liquefying vapor arising from the plant. The cona warning message is sent immediately through the moniployees to wear personal protection equipment. LGCC TJ densate produced is hot water with a temperature of over toring system. will create a safer work environment by providing annual 90℃ and is recycled as water due to its high quality. From health examinations and expanding disease risk measureApril to December 2014, about 23,000 tons of condensate ments to self-tests(quarterly) and external tests(yearly). was recovered and recycled. Through the system, the company was able to reduce quantities of effluent and wastewater treatment costs and also create added value LGCE TP Diet Program by selling the effluent to neighboring companies. 40 Material Issues 5. Shared Growth with 41 Business Partners 5 Shared Growth with Business Partners Business & Social Context As industry convergence has become an emerging trend on the strength of rapid technological advances, companies are intensifying their focus on so-called network management in response to such environmental changes and carvShared Growth Implementation System and partners. In addition, the company is implementing the ing out a position amid intense competition by connecting to those outside the industry that provide excellent techStrategy Energy Shared Growth project with an aim to help its nology. In such circumstances, shared growth with business partners is considered a key element in connecting outbusiness partners reduce costs while encouraging them to fulfill their social responsibilities by reducing their Shared Growth Steering Committee side the industry and one of the essential business operations for sustainable management. LG Chem operates the Shared Growth Steering Commitenergy use and greenhouse gas emissions. tee chaired by the CFO and attended by 12 key execuOur Approach tive officers. In 2014, the committee held two meetings in the first and the second half respectively where it esCEO Visits Business Partners: Based on LG Group’s code of conduct called “Jeong-Do”(righteous) management, LG Chem is creating a culture of fair trading tablished a shared growth plan and checked the com“ We cannot be No. 1 without partners.” and implementing a policy of shared growth by supporting business partners’ long-term and sustainable growth. Through pany’s performance and strategy. Park Jin-Soo, CEO of LG Chem, visited ESWELL, a busithe shared growth policy, the company commits itself to establishing a sustainable shared growth system by strengthening ness partner based in the Ochang Science Industrial collaborative relationships and enhancing the capabilities of its business partners through a variety of support programs. Participating Organizations Complex, to boost employee morale and discuss plans to enhance shared growth. Furthermore, at Ochang Corporate Plant, the CEO held an informal meeting with 12 repreResearch Tech Business Goals & Performance CFO Affairs sentatives of business partners to propagate LG Chem’s Department Park Center Division 2014 Goals 2014 Performance 2015 Goals shared growth policy, listened to the partners’ suggesImproving business partner ·Diversified communication channels, including CEO visits to business ·Identifying shared growth tions and grievances, and promised to expand financommunication and external partners and informal meetings with business partners; a brochure on support tasks and expanding its Shared Growth Strategy and Performance cial, technical and human resources support for busicommunication shared growth; and the menu dedicated to shared growth on the website operations LG Chem recognizes shared growth as a key element in ness partners. Implementing shared growth ·Provided support to business partners in improving energy efficiency through ·Expanding CSR support for sustainable management and conducts shared growth business partners, including activities in safety, environment the Energy Shared Growth project, held conferences on responding to chemiexpanding the Energy Shared businesses to produce tangible results. Under shared and energy cal regulations, signed a shared growth agreement on safety and environment Growth project growth agreements with business partners, the compaStrengthening shared growth pro·Strengthened overall business supports, including financial support, recruit·Diversifying communication chany provides comprehensive support and collaborative grams to support business partners ment support, sales channel support, technical support, and training support nnels and increasing accessibility programs in various areas including finance, technoloCreating a culture of fair ·Adopted/operated the four guidelines of Fair Trade Commission, monitored ·Strengthening support for secongy, training, market development, and communication. collaboration compliance with the Subcontracting Act and provided employee training dary business partners(shared through CP activities growth payment system) In 2014, LG Chem entered into shared growth agreements with 66 primary business partners representing a 40% increase compared to the previous year, and CEO Visit to Business Partner expanded funding to secondary and tertiary business 30,637 Average due 45.1 million KRW date billion KRW 5.7 days 5 Pillars of Shared Growth Strategy Creating a Fair Trade Atmosphere Activities to strengthen business partner • Adopting/operating LG Chem’s four guidelines capabilities 3,110 for fair trading • Localizing parts and facilities • Providing employees with compliance training • Technical support for business partners cases • Adopting/using the standard subcontract agreement • Product analysis and testing support • Practicing Jeong-Do management and CP activities 01 • Joint participation in government projects Financial Support Technical Support Payment Due Date • Recruitment support for business partners • Operating a polymer processing school (Cash Payment) • Providing online training for business partners Safety & Environment / Energy Shared Growth • Technology protection for business partners • Energy reduction audit/consulting support (joint patent applications, etc.) • Facility and occupational safety audits 02 05 • Helping develop domestic and international Inevitable Partner INTERVIEW • Conference on responding to chemical regulations sales channels Vice President Do-Hyun Nam Leader of Procurement Department of Basic Materials & Chemicals • Material chemical analysis system to Gain Market • Technical data of new product development • Green supply chain management guidelines Leadership trends • Shared growth agreement on safety and health • Adopting a performance sharing system Amid rapidly changing global business conditions, companies cannot achieve sustainable growth on Establishing a Sustainable Shared Growth System their own, but shared growth among large and smalland medium companies is more required now Disclosure and Communication Activities than ever. LG Chem, recognizing shared growth as an essential strategy to gain market leadership, Financial Support / Improving Payment Terms • Operating the Open Procurement System • LG Chem’s Shared Growth Fund raised 44 billion KRW 03 04 • Publishing a brochure on shared growth shares information about market trends with our business partners through various channels, and • LG Chem’s direct and special funding • Holding technology seminars ensures convenience and transparency in business processes. Among other efforts on shared growth, • Adopting a shared growth payment system • Sending Tech Letters • Improving subcontract payment terms • Publishing a polymer journal we also hold regular informal meetings with our business partners to listen to their voices and cooperate Payment terms: 100% cash payment • Providing small and medium businesses with them in working on grievances. Based on the belief that our competitiveness comes from our Improved due date: Payment made within 7 days with access to R&D shared growth and of monthly closing collaboration system business partners’ competitiveness, LG Chem is committed to achieving a practical cooperation with • Customer supply(contract material purchasing) • Site visits to business partners and informal them through various support activities. We will strive to establish a system under which we can closely support meetings • Expanding financial support for business partners • Operating an online grievance system for work with our partners and enhance their competitiveness, and grow together as a family. business partners 42 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Material Issues 5. Shared Growth with 43 Business Partners Creating a Fair Trade Atmosphere Shared Growth Workshop for LG Chem’s Activities to Strengthen Business Partners’ R&D Forum for Large and Small Businesses Procurement Team Members Capabilities LG Chem attended the R&D Forum for large and small LG Chem is spearheading efforts to create a fair trade LG Chem held a shared growth workshop for procurebusinesses organized by the Shared Growth Commitatmosphere by adopting the four guidelines of the Fair tee to introduce its technologies to small businesses Helping Business Partners Participate in ment team members. Through the workshop, LG Chem Trade Commission, and by working hard to prevent and share technology with related companies seeking International Fairs suggested its vision of shared growth, announced its LG Chem participated with its business partners in Gerunfair practices from affecting business partners. LG shared growth. At the forum, LG Chem introduced its shared growth support policy and encouraged procuremany’s FAKUMA International Trade Fair for Plastics Chem’s subcontract agreement was prepared based business areas and platform technologies to 200 parment team members supervising business partners to Processing and Japan’s IPF(International Plastic Fair) to on the Fair Trade Commission’s standard subcontract ticipating small businesses. implement more support policies. help enhance their technology and support their interagreement, which helps create a fair contract trade atnational marketing. mosphere among large and small/medium businesses. Opening the Shared Growth Menu on the Website L G Chem and NS achieve technological shared growth In 2014, LG Chem’s commitment has led to a citation through joint development of 3-D film equipment LG Chem opened the Shared Growth menu on its ofRecruitment Support for Business Partners from the Chairman of the Fair Trade Commission and LG Chem participated with its business partners in job ficial website to highlight the importance of shared LG Chem considers shared growth with business partappointment as an exemplary subcontract company, fairs organized by government agencies, and utilizes growth and make the shared growth policy available to ners as a means of gaining an inter-company competileading efforts to create a fair trade culture. the LG Chem brand to help small business partners retive advantage and continuously practices collaboraits business partners. solve workforce shortages. tion with business partners. LG Chem and NS’s joint Disclosure and Communication Activities development is recognized as a good example of gainFinancial Support Opening Employee Welfare Mall for LG Group’s ing an inter-company competitive advantage through Publishing The Shared Growth Brochure LG Shared Growth Fund Business Partners shared growth. To increase business partners’ understanding of and LG Chem operates the Shared Growth Fund of 44 billion LG Chem opened the On-Line Welfare Mall exclusively When requested to develop a film used for 3-D TV from participation in shared growth, LG Chem published KRW to resolve financial issues faced by its business for employees of its business partners to enhance their display companies, LG Chem began to develop a 3-D a brochure on shared growth to introduce LG Chem’s partners. The company has also expanded support to benefits. ‘Employee Welfare Mall’ provides managefilm system together with NS, a precision industrial shared growth policy and information on various partment support in general affairs and public relations, secondary business partners. In 2014, it spent a total of machinery manufacturer. Such equipment could not ner support programs. employee care services in self-development, recrea41.6 billion KRW, including 9.9 billion in supporting secbe produced with existing production processes due to tional and health care activities, and opportunities to ondary business partners. the characteristics of 3-D films. By holding many meetpurchase products from LG affiliates at special prices. ings and sharing technical information, LG Chem and NS earned 10 joint patents and successfully developed Energy Shared Growth Technology Purchase Consulting Support the 3-D film system. To help small business partners find sales channels, Energy Shared Growth project for business partners LG Chem attended the technology purchase consultThe successful development of the 3-D film system helped LG Chem construct a 3-D film production line ing conference organized by Win-Win Foundation and To provide tangible support to small and medium compaProcess earlier than was expected and gain a dominant position Small and Medium Business Administration and shared nies that cannot afford to conduct energy audits and to imin the 3-D film market. NS also acquired 3-D film-relatTraining Audit InvestOperations/ Performance Business ment Management Management Partner Self tips for technology purchasing and administrative/polprove efficiency due to professional workforce and funding Goal ed technologies and sold about 20 3-D systems. Management icy directions with small businesses applying for counshortages, LG Chem entered into an MOU on Shared Energy Platform Energy Management System System seling services. Growth with Korea Energy Management Corporation. First, the company selected 10 small business partners, provided energy training using its experience in energy conservation, Business Partners and covered technological costs for energy audits, improve〮 Offering government projects and oversight Sept. A  ttended job fair for middle-age group ments, operations, and performance management. In adKorea 〮 Energy conservation policy support and international fairs/Published LG dition, by creating a fund worth 4 billion KRW to improve Energy Management 〮 Conservation technology training Chem’s shared growth brochure energy and the environment, LG Chem is helping small busi2014 Major Shared Growth Activities Corporation Oct. O  pened the Welfare Mall for ness partners actualize their energy efficiency improvement 〮 Energy shared growth agreement employees of business partners Jan. F air trade and shared May. W  on the Grand Prize for shared growth; plans and make facility improvements. (KEMCO, LG Chem, and business partners) Nov. Attended the Shared Growth Week growth agreements with 66 〮 Mentoring for business partners with earned an “Excellent” grade on Fair subcontractors events(job fair, R&D forum for large In 2014, as a result of an energy audit among nine business internal energy experts Trade Commission convention; won LG Chem Feb. S ecretary-General of the Shared and small businesses) 〮 Intensive support through Shared the Chairman’s citation partners, LG Chem identified 40 energy conservation items. Growth Fund Growth Committee visited the Dec. S econd-half meeting of the Shared Through its initiative, LG Chem is expected to create about Jun. E arned an “Excellent” grade on the company’s facility Growth Steering Committee; Win-Win Index; held first-half meeting 600TOE energy savings and an annual reduction in GHG 〮 Technical support for business partners Mar. M  OU on energy shared growth presentation of best practices by Fair of the Shared Growth Steering emissions of 1,251tCO2. Energy audit/Consulting on creating Trade Commission; created the Shared Apr. H  eld a workshop on shared Committee Specialized conservation plans and building EnMs Growth menu on the website; consulting LG Chem will give direct support to small business partners’ Consulting 〮 Creating a performance monitoring growth for procurement teams  EO visits to business partners and Jul. C conference on technology purchasing Firm system informal meetings with partners innovation through the Energy Shared Growth project and enhance related activities to make the business a leading Meter installation/performance review Aug. L G Academy provided online trainings to business partners 206 employees best practice in which the government, large and small busiof 40 business partners attended nesses collaborate together to achieve energy shared growth. 44 Material Issues 6. Human Resources Development 45 6 Human Resources Development Business & Social Context Recruiting and developing top talent is a company’s first step towards gaining a competitive advantage. To flexibly respond to fast changes in advanced technologies and global economic situations, the strategy of recruiting top talent and Talent Development for Market Leadership Enhancing Position-Specific Leadership Competency developing employee capabilities is essential to the company. Also, given that the globalization of businesses is accelerLG Chem provides annual leadership training to all emCultivating Future Entrepreneurs ating, companies need to continuously work hard to explore and develop various capabilities, including specialized techployees at different levels based on the belief that emDeveloping future entrepreneurs who have the businologies, leadership and global skills for employees, in order to achieve sustainable growth. ployees are driving forces behind innovative businesses. ness capabilities and leadership competencies is essenThe training programs are aligned with the necessary tial for companies to respond to rapidly changing marleadership competencies for different positions. In 2014, ket conditions and gain market leadership. LG Chem Our Approach Based on the belief that “talent is the source of innovative competitiveness,” LG Chem has established a systematic talent during the leadership program for team leaders, topics has created a system for developing entrepreneurs unmanagement strategy closely aligned with its business objectives and strategies. The company operates systematic trainsuch as “recognizing the true nature of a crisis by adherder which future entrepreneurs, including division leading programs with the goals of developing future entrepreneurs to gain market dominance, developing specialized caing to the fundamentals and principles” and “identifying er candidates, next-generation global business leaders, pabilities to ensure the most competitive quality, and strengthening the global capabilities necessary to conduct global action plans to gain market leadership” were discussed. and HPIs(High Potential Individuals), are developed businesses, and leadership skills based on the company’s core values. systematically. In 2014, HPIs were selected in global reLG Chem also provides leadership training focusing on gions other than China for the first time, and the global Goals & Performance organizational management and development, and HPI program, which included training on the core valstrategies to develop future entrepreneurs. Further2014 Goals 2014 Performance 2015 Goals ues of HPIs and business strategies, was provided to more, the company is developing insight through inDeveloping future entrepreneurs to ·Continuously enhanced entrepreneurship training ·Developing future entrepreneurs: Continuously locally hired employees. LG Chem will continuously gain market leadership for a pool of entrepreneur candidates depth discussions with organizational management and developing future business division leaders and provide seniority-based training to local employees, next-generation global business leaders leadership experts. The company will add a wide variety Expanding leadership training ·Provided leadership training to all employees and aligned with domestic HPI training. opportunities to all employees to linked it to outcome-oriented activities such as ·Enhancing position-specific leadership of topics to create programs that help employees imhelp employees gain fun-damental ‘identifying action plans to gain market leadership’ competency: Making personalized competency competitiveness prove competencies as future leaders of LG Chem. appraisal and development plan to strengthen HPI Training Programs business capabilities of future leaders Expanding competency training pro·Created a sales & marketing program tailored (team leaders) grams across all busi-nesses including for B2B business and established a strategy to 1st year 2nd year 3rd year 4th year and over Position-Specific Leadership Training System support staff, R&D and marketing strengthen competencies of plant employees ·Reinforcing expert training: Continuously enhancing specialized training by function Strengthening Workshop on Global Expanding language training to ensure ·Provided support such as publishing product Leadership business business strategies Program Description ·Developing global talent: Organizing HRD support communication stable global operations/Creating a manuals to enhance competencies of locally hired activities to enhance expertise of locally hired capabilities and issues Leadership ·Discussing/identifying organizational support system to strengthen comemployees, and reinforced language training employees at global operations enhancement direction to gain market leadership petencies of locally hired employees including Korean classes program for team ·Identifying a list of actions to take as team Entrepreneur Cultivation System leaders leader 2nd-year senior ·Strengthening essential competencies as manager program future leaders 135 CEO Target Method -Job facilitator -Relationship linker people Company ·Mentoring by superiors -Performance coaching CEO leader Executive Candidate Pool ·Appointing superiors in targeted candidates post as mentors 2nd-year manager ·Enhancing basic competencies as future Division ·Mentoring on capabilities program leaders by finding individual strengths and Division Leader Candidate Pool leader necessary to fulfill duties such as weaknesses Succession Plan General candidates leadership and business acumen Manager Next2nd-year assistant ·Recognizing the role as an effective generation Department/ ·Establishing and operating CDP* manager program intermediate in the organization and Junior & Global plant leader identifying actions to take Entrepreneur ·Assigning individual challenges ·Providing guidance to juniors and methods of Senior Business candidates Manager in Leader Candidate ·Conducting workshops and mentoring out Pool annual training Extending HPI training to Local experts in 12 countries Implementing a plant employee HPI Team leader Together program ·Giving new meaning to individual jobs based *CDP : Career Development Plan candidates (2nd-year assistant) on past-year experience global subsidiaries *Based on 2014 cumulative data competency enhancement project Assistant, Assistant Manager INTERVIEW Vice President Chang-Heon Park Leader of HR Development Department HRD Activities at Global Operations Amid rapidly changing business conditions and intensified competition, talent is the source of sustainable LG Chem’s U.S. subsidiary(LGCMI) focuses on improving skills and enhancing the careers of employees. The company created detailed production business performance and talent cultivation is the company’s core competency. LG Chem set as its top-priority manuals so that new employees can adapt quickly to their jobs. The manuals include hyperlinks to all related reference documents and provide goal cultivating future entrepreneurs who will lead domestic and international markets. We also established very detailed information on the work. In addition, through cross-training between operators, the variety of work they can handle skillfully has a talent development strategy and developed training programs to enhance employees’ capabilities, so that been approved. all employees can fulfill their responsibilities to produce desired business results. Furthermore, by enhancing LG Chem’s regional holding company in China(LGCCI) provides leadership programs so that selected HPIs can grow to become the organization’s the job competencies of production engineers at plants and developing global talent suitable for the age core talent and internalize the values of leadership under the LG Way. To develop future entrepreneurs as market leaders, the company shares acof globalization, we are also dedicated to developing competitive talent that will contribute to producing tual cases of business operations and holds discussions to help employees develop their leadership. Employees also select their own KPI related to results for the company. LG Chem will solidify our entrepreneur cultivation system and focus on training local cost reduction, reducing environmental impacts, and increasing output, and check their progress through year-end evaluations. employees overseas as well as domestic employees, and developing their capabilities. 46 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Material Issues 6. Human Resources Development 47 Developing Competencies to Ensure Best Production Engineer Competency Cultivating Global Talent Moreover, LG Chem invited core talents from overseas subsidiaries to Korea and provided global HPI training To make global operations more successful, LG Chem is Quality Competitiveness Enhancement centering on business strategies, and also began intenStrengthening a company’s competitiveness requires reinforcing its capacity as a global organization in a syssive Korean classes in 2014 to help overseas employees Reinforcing Expert Training To secure the best quality competitiveness, training a systematic dissemination of its retained capabilities, tematic way and organizing activities to enhance comdevelop their Korean communication skills. The comemployees to be experts in their respective areas is very which is equally as important as accumulating capabilimunication among global employees. pany is making continuous efforts to develop job comimportant. To this end, LG Chem operates the LG Chem ties to develop new technologies. LG Chem suggested petencies of overseas employees, such as providing LG Academy to strengthen employees’ expertise in varia vision to support technical plant engineers’ compeFirst, to strengthen job competencies of employees Chem’s product manuals in local languages to overseas ous areas such as production technology and sales. The tency development and develop them into technical who directly contact global customers, LG Chem opersales employees. More training using a variety of learnAcademy provides 40 programs in the petrochemicals experts. Since 2014, a project to enhance the plant emates a local expert development program in strategic ing tools lik e-Learning will be implemented to enhance area, 32 in the IT & electronic materials area, and 85 in ployees’ competencies has been implemented. Accordregions such as China, India, Brazil, Russia, and Midcompetencies of employees worldwide. the energy solutions area. Our internal experts develop ingly, the company created a competency analysis and dle East. This program is designed to help employees educational programs and also give lectures on their training system, developed a manual for group training develop the capabilities required when they are disInvesting in Human Resources Development knowledge and experiences accumulated over the years. and S-OJT(Structured On-the-Job Training), and will patched abroad in the future, through language classes Moreover, in 2014, the company created 11 programs on completely develop all programs by 2017. S-OJT, in parand market research, for a period of up to 8 months. By LG Chem has operated e-Learning and mobile learning sales & marketing program tailored for B2B business to ticular, is training provided by more experienced emthe end of 2014, a total of 135 employees in 12 countogether since 2013 to increase the efficiency of trainenhance sales & marketing employees’ expertise. ployees who were trained on the structured job training tries have been trained under the local expert developing, and has established its own job training system by manual, to inexperienced employees on the worksites ment program beginning in 1995. In addition, LG Chem focusing on developing internal instructors, instead of In addition, to enhance new employees’ expertise, the or in similar places. It is expected that such training will has reinforced the training for employees scheduled to hiring external instructors. company created the e-learning/mobile-learning sysprovide an effective way of passing on the know-how, be dispatched abroad so that they can develop global tem consisting of 12 programs(9 for on-the-job training accumulated by many retired employees within the leadership and organizational management capabiliAs of December 2014, LG Chem’s total training expenand 3 for general/common training) as a regular trainorganization. It is also helpful in driving fast improveties before they leave. Long-term camp training is also diture(in South Korea) was 15.3 billion KRW and its training support system that minimizes the limitations of ments of new employees’ capabilities in organizations continuously provided to strengthen their language ing cost per person was 1,130,000 KRW. The company will time and space. In general/common programs, trainwith many new employees. skills such as English, Chinese, and Japanese. continue to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of ing on safety, health and environment and security was job training, aligned with its business, with a clear goal of developed as e-Learning to help employees recognize Through this competency enhancement project for techproducing business results. the importance of those issues. LG Chem will create a nical plant employees, LG Chem is encouraging them to competency enhancement community to maximize the cultivate themselves and become technical experts. Moreresults of expert development activities and provide efover, recognition and rewards based on performance are ficient training support. offered to employees to motivate them to grow through their work, which will ultimately contribute to strengthening the company’s business competitiveness. CoP to Create Voluntary Learning Culture LG Chem operates CoP(Community of Practice) to create a voluntary learning culture and enhance employees’ capabili·Activating strategic CoP** to solve ties. CoP is used as a tool for sharing specialized knowledge and experience. on-site problems ·Voluntary organization of learning ·Promoting CoP operation and training ·Spreading success cases At Yeosu Plant, CoP participants exchange tips on technical skills and jobs, learn about them and provide assistance in CoP* ·Operating pilot CoP identifying and solving on-site problems. For instance, CoP activities at Acrylates/SAP site involved employees in setting ·Extending application scope challenging goals and building up ideas to respond to legal/environmental regulations and meet customer demands. Voluntary CoP activities in response to air emissions regulations led to the application of dust filters to incinerators and soluIntroduction Stage Activation Stage Settlement Stage tions to metal catalyst quality and filter cleaning, slowing down the clogging-up of the NPG filter. By extending the number of operating days of the filter, the plant increased productivity and reduced the risk of an accident which can occur in case of filter shutdown, ensuring stability in the process. Establishing voluntary Enhancing capabilities for Increasing a sense of CoP will continuously provide opportunities to solve various problems and learn, and be utilized as a tool for enhancing learning culture market leadership pride in work voluntary learning culture and strong implementation as well as collaboration among employees. *Learning CoP: A gathering or network of people sharing common learning topics, which are often job-related ones, aimed at upgrading knowledge **Strategic CoP: A small group aimed at solving problems related to work or improving organizational capabilities 48 Material Issues 7. Social Contribution Activities 49 7 Social Contribution Activities Business & Social Context Corporate community involvement has evolved into a set of activities beyond mere donations, aimed at resolving social issues in alignment with business characteristics and expertise and creating shared value Youth Education lated to our daily lives, such as environment, energy, life, through collaboration with various stakeholders. Companies are focusing on areas where the greatest value social research, and traditional sciences, students were given an opportunity to take an interest in chemistry, Fostering Dreams:Chemistry Camp can be delivered to resolve social and environmental problems while creating a model for collaboration with The Chemistry Camp is LG Chem’s leading social conand prize winners received benefits like studying abroad. NGOs and social economy enterprises within their value chains. tribution program for the youth, which utilizes the company’s expertise as a chemical company. Through the program, participating middle school students enjoy Fostering Dreams: Junior Science Class The Junior Science Class is a leading talent-donation Our Approach LG Chem focuses on youth education projects to provide opportunities for the youth to realize the importance of three-day camping trips, during which they get an opporactivity that has been provided at LG Chem’s Research chemicals and the environment, and practice what they learn in everyday life. At domestic and global plants, a vatunity to familiarize themselves with chemistry and the Park since 2004. Master’s and doctoral-level researchers environment through fun and creative experiments and riety of youth programs are operated to develop talent and improve educational infrastructure tailored to the charat Research Park visit neighboring elementary schools performances. acteristics and needs of local communities. In addition, the company sponsors social economy enterprises in the and give instruction and perform experiments about environment sector to invest resources in green and energy areas critical to today’s society and contribute to the scientific principles at work in our daily lives. Aside from experience programs such as creating an growth of green industries. air freshener using superabsorbent polymer and makIn 2014, 308 students at two elementary schools reing model cars powered by solar energy, LG Chem also ceived experiential classes where they actively particioffers a personality development program so that the Goals & Performance pated and had fun making a carousel run by tempera2014 Goals 2014 Performance 2015 Goals youth can become members of communities who value ture differences and anti-sleep glasses. Reforming social partnership programs ·Established directions for social partnership and living together with others. The company provided 43 -Incorporating business characteristics developed programs ·Operating educational programs on chemistry and camping sessions over the past 10 years, from the inYouth education area the environment tailored for elementary, middle -Green/energy area and high school students augural year of 2005 to 2014, attended by about 5,600 Fostering ·Strengthening social partnership activities in youths. In 2015, the company considers safety as a top Dreams: Implementing social partnership ·Supported green social economy enterprises Chemistry Camp activities in green/energy area (LG Social Fund) green/energy area priority and organizes camping sessions by region to inImplementing social partnership ·Operated programs at each plant ·Adopting an impact analysis system for social crease access to the program. partnership activities activities to resolve community issues Chemistry Frontier Festival The Chemistry Frontier Festival is an annual event coChemistry organized by six Korean petrochemical companies and Frontier Festival 172% the Korea Petrochemical Industry Association. The compared 57 festival is a science competition that began in 2004 to to investment companies discover promising science talent among participating high school students. 20.1 Fostering Dreams: Junior billion KRW In 2014, 680 teams participated and 72 of them advanced Science Class to the finals and carried out research and experimental activities for about 5 months. Through a variety of experGlobal social contribution Estimated social value Supporting green social spending of Chemistry Camp economy enterprises iments on chemistry-related topics that are closely re*4-year cumulative since 2011 Measuring SROI of LG Chem’s Chemistry Camp INTERVIEW LG Chem measures the social value created by the ChemVice President Jun-Sung Park Leader of Corporate Affairs Department istry Camp program based on the effectiveness of the Stakeholder Benefits and Changes camp, namely, SROI*. The results showed that the camp LG Chem’s social partnership began with the “interest in adolescents and the environment.” Our Recipients ·Camp experience generated value representing 172% of the spending, ·Exploring careers and visions through leading youth program, “Chemistry Camp that Fosters Young Dreams,” which has been carried out which was distributed to various stakeholders such as reexperience and lectures for 11 years since 2005, is aimed at helping adolescents who will lead the future grow into creative SROI cipients, partner organizations, and participating univerUniversity ·Exploring careers and visions by scientists through chemistry education, and cultivating their knowledge about the environment sity students. LG Chem will expand SROI measurements students participating as mentors 172% through experiential environmental education programs. In addition, we have been operating LG to other social contribution programs to measure the LG Chem ·Improving corporate image by promoting its social partnership Social Fund since 2011 to support social economy enterprises in the environment sector and spread effectiveness of benefits, and take the steps to operate Partner ·Developing curricula for science education social awareness in the environment. Our support includes not only facility support, but also support more effective social contribution programs. organizations ·Retaining employment on the development of sales channels at home and abroad, providing them with the foundation *SROI(Social Return On Investment) is an indicator that converts a for independent growth. LG Chem will continuously invest and get involved in the areas of youth company’s social performance into financial value and measures efeducation and green/energy and become a responsible company that grows along with the society. fectiveness against input. 50 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Material Issues 7. Social Contribution Activities 51 Youth Welfare launched in 2007 to exhibit musical performances to solIn 2014, the plant donated a distributed control system dong and Chongqing and also donated laptops and books diers, who are culturally disadvantaged, and contribute (DCS) worth 80 million KRW designed for facility monitorto improve educational environments. to improving military culture. For the past seven years, up ing and centralized control of petrochemical processes Building a Library of Hope until 2014, 49 performances were shown to 33,750 soldiers and helped create a laboratory environment where stuIn addition, the company posted Earth Hour posters in ofBuilding the First Library of Hope Overseas LG Chem is carrying out the overseas library construction and local residents. For its contribution to improving milidents can have first-hand learning experience with the fices to encourage employees to practice low-carbon and project to foster the dreams of children in developing natary culture and welfare, the company received the Culequipment. The plant is thus developing talent whose green lifestyles and let employees leave messages about entions and to help them develop into talent that will lead tural Management Award at the Mecenat Awards in 2010. skills are tailored for on-site jobs. In addition, by entering vironmental protection to renew their environmental awaretheir communities. In February 2014, the company built into a memorandum of understanding(MOU) on universiness. Like this, the company operates programs aimed at its first libraries for Trang Tan Khuong Elementary School Activities in Green and Energy Areas ty-academic cooperation, LG Chem has paved the way for practicing environmental protection in everyday life. and Hyuman Vocational Technical School in Ho Chi Minh, co-operation to develop top-notch local technical talent. Vietnam. The Library of Hope provides not only multimeLG Social Fund Since 2011, LG Chem has co-operated the LG Social Fund Social Partnership Activities at Other Global dia learning environments equipped with basic ameniprogram with LG Electronics, which is LG Group’s leading Dong-go Dong-rak Program at Daesan Plant Subsidiaries ties, 3,000 books, computers, large-screen TVs, and beam In February 2014, Daesan Plant launched the Dong-go LG Chem’s U.S. Holland subsidiary(LGCMI) organizes local projectors that are needed for reading and learning, but sponsorship program for domestic social economy enterDong-rak program, a personalized mentoring program for event sponsorships and community services. The comalso cultural benefits to about 2,000 students. prises. Under the LG Social Fund program, the company neighboring high school students. Two to three students pany sponsors local festivals such as Holland Parade of discovers social economy enterprises with high growth conduct research with a mentor selected from the members Lights and Labor Day Truck Parade, and employees also potential and public interest, and innovation capabilities Supporting Construction of 23 Libraries of Hope in Korea of the employee committee regularly twice a month, and participate in these events to build stronger relationships Since 2007, LG Chem has built libraries in schools and in the green area, and provides them with comprehensive also prepare a research paper together. This program helps with the community members. The company will reinyouth centers lacking cultural facilities so that they can services in finance, education, networking workshop, students pursuing post-secondary education or employforce its cooperation with local economic development be used as cultural spaces for students and local resiand consulting. The social fund not only supports the fiments after graduation develop creativity and their dreams. organizations in an effort to support the development of dents. In 2014, the company implemented the Library of nancial growth of such organizations but also helps creIn addition, LG Chem operates a variety of programs inthe West Michigan area. Hope project in three schools—Yeosu Petrochemical High ate a virtuous cycle in the industrial ecosystem. cluding guest lectures by famous figures four times a year, School, Cheongju Science High School, and Daedeok aimed at helping students plan their futures and exploring Furthermore, LG Chem’s subsidiaries in Taiwan, VietHigh School. Since LG Group operates Chungbuk Creative Economy students’ career goals together. LG Chem will contribute to nam, and Poland also selected support for local socially and Innovation Center, LG Chem also actively engages the growth of youths and communities by developing and disadvantaged groups as an important social issue, and in government policy and fulfills its social responsibilCreating a Classroom of Hope operating a wide range of unique programs for the shared accordingly operate social partnership programs. TaiThe Classroom of Hope project began in 2008 to improve ity in the Chungcheongbuk-do region by discovering and growth of the company and communities. wanese subsidiary(LGCE TP) not only provides scholarpoor educational environments at social care facilities for developing creative social economy enterprises. The ship support and donation of goods, but also organizes youth and has been linked to facility renovations, teach2014-15 LG Social Fund is sponsoring 19 social economy employee-participating events such as museum tours enterprises(six in Chungcheongbuk-do region). Social Partnership Activities at Chinese Subsidiary ing materials support, and employees’ voluntary comSince 2010, the Chinese regional holding company(LGCCI) and Christmas parties with children at care centers. Vietmunity service. In 2014, the company provided support to has improved hygiene conditions in schools lacking fanamese subsidiary(LG VINA) provides regular sponsorthe Jeongneung Social Services Center and has opened Social Partnership Activities at Plants cilities in various areas and provided hygiene education ships to child care and disability service centers through 11 Classrooms of Hope at social care facilities in Seoul Petrochemical HRD Support at Yeosu Plant to students. This has helped the schools improve the enquarterly visits. Polish subsidiary(LGCE WR) supports losince 2008. To develop talent in petrochemicals area, Yeosu Plant vironment previously exposed to harmful germs and stucal care centers for children with disabilities and operates sponsors Yeosu Petrochemical High School, the coundents learn clean habits. In 2014, the company completed summer camps along with charity organizations with a Musical Holiday of Hope try’s only meister school specializing in petrochemicals. LG Chem Love Bathroom in elementary schools in Shanfocus on the continuity of such activities. Musical Holiday is LG Chem’s leading mécénat activity 2 5 3. Dong-go Dong-rak Guest Speech 4. MOU between LG Chem and Yeosu Petrochemical High School 5. Posting Earth Hour posters at LGCCI 3 4 1. Library of Hope in Vietnam 2. 2014 LG Social Fund Donating Ceremony 1 52 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Material Issues 7. Social Contribution Activities 53 Management Report 02 Creation and Distribution of Economic Value P. 62 03 Talent Management P. 64 01 SAFETY, HEALTH & ENVIRONMENT Sustainability Governance P. 54 MANAGEMENT P. 69 Corporate Governance Stakeholder Engagement Ethical Management Risk Management 54 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Management Report Sustainability Governance 55 Sustainability Governance Corporate Governance Transparency in the Election of Directors Operation of the Board of Directors Board of Directors Attendance The Nomination Committee for Outside Directorscon82.5 % 95.8 % sists of one inside or non-executive director and two Independence and Expertise of the Board of Board Secretariat LG Chem operates the Board Secretariat under the CredDirectors outside directors. The committee conducts a thorough it Management/Compliance Team to help the Board of review of many outside director candidates, selects Directors fulfill its role and responsibilities, by managComposition and Responsibilities professionals in various fields who can affect the coming board operations like convening meetings. In addiof the Board of Directors LG Chem’s Board of Directors consists of seven direcpany’s operations in economic, environmental, and Inside Directors Outside Directors tion, prior to commencing a meeting, a briefing is held tors, including two inside directors, one non-executive social aspects, and nominates those candidates who for outside directors to provide them with sufficient indirector, and four outside directors. The board operare independent and have no conflict of interest with 2014 Board of Directors and Audit formation about introduced agenda items and to allow ates the Audit Committee and Nomination Committee the company. The nominated candidates are officially Committee Meetings them to conduct a detailed yet comprehensive review of for Outside Directors under its supervision to maintain elected after getting the board’s approval and a resoluthem. In 2014, the company incorporated amendments Board of Directors Audit Committee transparency and independence in board operations. tion at a general shareholders’ meeting. to the Commercial Code into its updating of company by-laws including the Board of Directors Regulations. 8 meetings 5 meetings The board is LG Chem’s highest-level decision-making Transparency in the Operation of the Audit Committee 〮 Approval:30 items 〮 Approval:3 items body since it has the authority to appoint and dismiss The Audit Committee is a decision-making body re〮 Reporting:10 items 〮 Reporting:11 items sponsible for devising, executing, evaluating, and makBoard Activities executive officers and hold them accountable for comThrough the Board of Directors, LG Chem decides on immitting acts against the interests of shareholders. The ing improvements to internal audit plans. Three audiportant issues and clearly defines criteria for selecting four outside directors, representing the majority of the tors appointed by LG Chem are all outside directors to Stakeholder Communication agenda items in the Board of Directors Rules. In addiThe Board Secretariat receives opinions from relevant board, are professionals with plenty of experiences in ensure the committee’s independence and transpartion to regular board meetings, special board meetings teams before holding a board meeting if there are any various fields, such as technology in the chemistry and ency. While regular committee meetings are held on a are frequently held to deal with urgent management issues that need to be introduced for discussion or reIT&E materials areas, law, and finance and accounting, quarterly basis, material issues may be discussed freissues. In 2014, the board held eight meetings resulting ported, and add them to the meeting agenda. In addition, who serve monitoring and advisory functions regarding quently by the committee members. In particular, the in 30 approvals and 10 reportings. Each year, the board the Board of Directors communicates with stakeholders important issues related to the company’s operations. committee controls and monitors the company’s busivisits key plants in Korea, including Yeosu, Daesan, and through internal and external communication channels inThey are also responsible for monitoring and checking ness operations based on reports on quarterly business Naju, as well as subsidiaries in overseas countries such cluding public disclosures and IR events. The board makes top management and restricting the voting rights of diresults, the internal accounting control system, and as China and Taiwan to conduct on-site management. top-level decisions at a general shareholders’ meeting and rectors who have personal interests in certain issues. internal monitoring mechanisms. When it comes to maTo fulfill its social responsibility, in 2014, the company provides shareholders and stakeholders with business interial issues in economic, environmental, and social asmade amendments to the Board of Directors Regulaformation promptly by disclosing important business depects, the issues are reported to the Audit Committee in tions so that CSR directions and implementation results cisions. Business issues related to investors’ interests are advance so that the committee can fulfill its functions. are reported to the board. disclosed through the Data Analysis, Retrieval and Transfer Board of Directors (May 2015) System(DART) of the Financial Supervisory Service and the websites of the Korea Exchange(KRX) and LG Chem. Category Name Career and Concurrent Posts Remarks Inside Jin-Soo Park Former President of Hyundai Petrochemicals / Former President of LG Chairman of the Board of Directors Petrochemicals Directors Independence of Outside Directors Current Vice Chairman & CEO of LG Chem ※Concurrent post : LG MMA LG Chem defines the criteria for judging the independence of outside directors under the Commercial Code to ensure Seok-Jeh Cho Former CFO of LG Corp. / Former Director of LG Petrochemicals that the Board of Directors can fulfill its duty to “check and balance” management. Outside directors currently represent Current President & CFO of LG Chem 54.5% of the entire board in accordance with the criteria. Non-Executive Hyun-Hwoi Ha Former Head of Synergy Team, LG Corp. / Former President of HE Division, Chairman of the NominaDirector LG Electronics tion Committee for Outside Current President of LG Corp. Directors 1D  irector, executive officer, and employee engaging in the company’s business operations or director, auditor, executive officer, ※Concurrent post :LG Uplus, LG Hausys, LG International, LG CNS and employee who has engaged in the company’s business operations within the past two years Outside Ki-Myung Nam Former Minister of Government Legislation Chairman of the Audit 2 Majority shareholder or the spouse and direct-line ancestor/descent Directors Current Chair Professor of Law School, Chungnam National University Committee 3 Director, auditor, executive officer or employee of a company if the company is a majority shareholder Seung-Mo Oh Former Director of Next-Generation Battery Growth Engine Project Group Member of the Audit 4 Spouse and direct-line ancestor/descent of a director, auditor or executive officer Current Professor in the School of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Committee 5 Director, auditor, executive officer or employee of the company’s parent company or subsidiary Seoul National University 6 Director, auditor, executive officer or employee of the company who has special interests such as a business relationship Se-Jin Kim Former Member of the National Competitiveness Reinforcement Member of the Audit Committee with the company Subcommittee Member of Nomination ComCurrent President of Korea Fund Ratings mittee for Outside Directors 7 Director, auditor, executive officer or employee of another company where the company’s director, executive officer or employee serves as a director or executive officer Jang-Joo Kim Former Researcher of the Electronics and Telecommunications Research Member of the Nomination Institute Committee for Outside *Appointment of directors, relationships with companies and outside directors under Article 382 of the Commercial Code Current Professor of Materials Engineering, Seoul National University Directors 56 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Management Report Sustainability Governance 57 Board of Directors Evaluation and Sustainability Vision and Management Stakeholder Engagement Compensation Department LG Chem’s key stakeholders are divided into groups that government agencies. Depending on the characterisLG Chem intends to become a materials company that directly or indirectly affect and are affected by one antics of the stakeholder groups, LG Chem communicates Criteria for Evaluating and Calculating Compensation creates sustainable value by putting people first and other across business operations, such as shareholders with them regularly in various ways. The input and infor Directors The limit of compensation for directors is determined pursuing environmental friendliness across all business and investors, customers, employees, business partformation collected from this communication process by a resolution at a general shareholders’ meeting and, operations. The company operates CSR Team to impleonce the resolution is passed, compensation is fairly and ment sustainability activities more effectively and the ners, NGOs and communities, academia and experts, play an important role in making decisions to advance transparently paid according to the payment rules. In adteam communicates with internal and external stakeindustrial associations and organizations, media, and the company’s sustainability system. dition, the Board of Directors is authorized by shareholdholders with regard to a variety of sustainability issues. ers to make top-level decisions with regard to manageCSR Team reports to the CEO material issues concernCommunication Channels for Key Stakeholder Groups ment strategies according to laws and the company’s ing stakeholders and the publication of sustainability articles of incorporation, and fulfills such responsibilireports, and includes CSR-related details in key agenda ties as determining compensation for top management, items for discussion at a Board of Directors meeting. nominating director candidates, and conducting audits Through monthly business meetings, the company Academia & Experts for accounting and performance disclosures. shares issues and activities of which management should be all aware, keeping management interested in The amount of pay for directors is calculated based sustainability. on the position grade, which reflects the value of jobs that directors perform within the limits of compensation for directors. The total amount of pay was divided Sustainability Vision NGOs & Local Shareholders & Customers Industrial Communities Rating Agencies Associations & into monthly installments and paid in equal monthly Organizations amounts. Performance-based pay for directors is paid Sustainable Chemistry for within the limits of 0 to 150% of base salary after an Human and Environment overall evaluation is conducted in terms of quantitative Business Employees Partners indicators, such as sales and operating income, and nonPrinciples of Sustainability quantitative indicators, such as an evaluation of the degree to which long-term expectations have been fulfilled. We abide by the principles of sustainability to create Media Government sustainable value. Agencies Payment of Compensation for the Board of Directors ‧We provide environmentally friendly and innovative materials The 2014 compensation limit for the Board of Directors and solutions. was determined at a general shareholders’ meeting after ‧We adhere to business ethics as a corporate citizen. being reviewed by the Board of Directors as required by ‧We make products and run operations in a sustainable way. Shareholders & Rating Agencies Customers Employees Business Partners law. The amount confirmed at the general sharehold‧We contribute to the growth of communities using our Expectations ·Long-term growth ·Open communication with ·Improving corporate culture ·Supporting business partners ers’ meeting was 11 billion KRW and the total amount of capabilities. customers and providing training ·Creating and distributing profits ·Participating in a wide range of compensation paid to the board in 2014 was 8,702 mil·Transparent corporate information ·R&D capabilities corporate operations ·Sharing profits fairly with disclosures ·Improving product quality ·Collaborative labor-management business partners lion KRW. Since 2014, LG Chem has disclosed individual Tasks and safety relations compensation payments for directors and auditors ex·Promoting employee benefits ceeding 500 million KRW in business reports. Compensa·Reinforcing employee safety and health • Expanding markets and increasing sales tion for executive officers particularly consists of salary • Improving customer value Economic Communication ·Corporate presentations ·Collecting ustomer feedback ·Employee satisfaction survey ·Shared growth committee by position/level and performance-based incentives. Channels ·General shareholders’ meetings ·Product liability monitoring ·Labor-management committee ·Business partner presentations • Strengthening product responsibility ·Financial information disclosures ·Company magazines ·Business and technical support 2014 Director Compensation Payments programs • Responding to climate change and ·Credit ratings ·Safety and environmental committee No. of Total payment Average compensation Environreducing energy use people (million KRW) per person (million KRW) mental • Reducing the environmental impacts of Industrial Associations & Registered director 5 8,438 1,688 operations NGOs & Local Communities Academia & Experts Organizations Media Government Agencies Outside director 3 132 44 Expectations ·Strategic social partnership ·Industry-academic ·Responding to new ·Creating and distributing ·Shared growth Member of the Audit 3 132 44 • Respecting human rights and developing ·Investing in local cooperation regulations profits ·Fair trading and compliance Committee or auditor talent communities ·Technological ·Chemical management ·Social partnership ·Occupational safety and health Social • Reinforcing safety and health ·Local CSR activities by development activities Total 11 8,702 • Strengthening compliance with fair trade overseas subsidiaries ·Technological innovation 2014 CEO Compensation and Ratio • Strengthening partnerships with business partners Communication ·Community cooperation ·Consultation ·Councils and forums on ·Informal press meetings ·Advice on industrial policies Total CEO compensation Ratio(Total CEO compensation/ Channels in educational and welfare ·Joint R&D activities sustainability ·Various pilot projects Average compasation per employee) • Pursuing strategic social partnership businesses ·Industry and business1,589 million KRW 21.8 related business associations *Compesations for CEO and employees both include salaries and incentives 58 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Management Report Sustainability Governance 59 Ethical Management Whistleblowing System Compliance Management Team, which identifies and works on any standards, Through the LG Jeong-Do Management website, empractices or operations of the company that may cause ployees and external stakeholders can easily report violations of laws or regulations through collaboration Jeong-Do(Righteous) Management Compliance System other employees’ unethical and corrupt practices that LG Chem appointed a compliance officer at the Board Jeong-Do Management is LG's unique code of conduct with related teams. In 2014, the company’s compliance violate Jeong-Do Management. Reports can be submitof Directors meeting to supervise compliance and conthat emphasizes fair competition by building capabilities. activities included monitoring legal risks related to ted anonymously and the identities of those who report trols. The compliance officer inspects the compliance It does not simply mean ethical management, but refers business partners and providing compliance training to to our determination to create tangible results using our anonymously and report details are kept strictly confistatus of the company and its employees and establishraise employees’ awareness of compliance. In 2015, the capabilities that will help us outmaneuver competition. dential. Report items include receiving rewards from es goals and plans for compliance activities. To provide company will continue to improve risks associated with stakeholders, lack of transparency in business partner support for the compliance officer’s activities, the comWith the CEO’s determination that our “performance selection, unfair ownership of shares in vendors, illegal business partners and extend compliance activities to pany operates the Credit Management/Compliance does not mean anything unless we compete fairly acand unfair appropriation of corporate assets, fabricaits overseas subsidiaries. cording to principles and standards, without resorting tion and forgery of documents and data. to expediency,” LG Chem ensures that its employees Results of Compliance Activities and business partners who do business with LG Chem For the whistleblowing system to become a means of pledge their commitment to Jeong-Do Management. Category 2014 Achievements 2015 Plans communication by which the grievances of employees and stakeholders can be shared and unethical practices Supporting compliance in procureIdentified risks violating contracts and laws in procureLong-term procurement contract with Integrity Fair transaction ment process of Automotive Batteries ment processes of the automotive batteries business key materials/parts suppliers removed, the company actively promotes the system and monitored business partner management Jeong-Do Ethical Cultivating and increased its accessibility, and tries to improve its Supporting compliance in complaint Identified risks in the quality control process of Energy Preparing and sharing the standard Management management capabilities reliability through quick and thorough investigations. handling process for business partners Solutions and suggested improvement plans Quality Damages Agreement of Energy Solutions Fair competition Actions Taken on Breaches Reported Issuing Compliance Newsletters Issued nine compliance newsletters from April to Issuing monthly compliance letters regularly December 2014 Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Compliance training Provided 33 sessions of compliance training by theme Diversifying compliance training methods LG Code of Ethics and level to 1,734 employees and details, such as function-based or online Investigation by Ethics Office Incidents 48 68 68 LG Code of Ethics is a code of conduct and a standard for valtraining, to improve training effectiveness Disciplinary actions taken Persons 6 10 15 ue judgments that all employees at home and abroad should against persons involved* abide by to practice Jeong-Do Management. The Code of Number of companies whose Companies 2 5 8 Ethics and detailed guidelines can be found on the Jeong-Do businesses with LG Chem have been terminated due to Management website. In 2014, the company strengthened Fair Trade Compliance Program corruption and irregularities the provisions regarding the act of receiving rewards from *Severe disciplinary action or more severe LG Chem operates a Fair Trade Compliance Program Compliance Program Organization stakeholders to prohibit personal gift exchange irrespective and became the country’s first company in the same inof amount and imposed a ban on personal transactions with Improving the Jeong-Do Management System of dustry to declare the Fair Competition Guidelines. The Compliance Manager(Corporate Affairs Department Leader) stakeholders regardless of creating profit. company has established a system for preventing violaChinese Subsidiaries LG Chem appoints local employees under the Chinese reCompliance Team(Public Affairs Team) LG Jeong-Do Management Website (http://ethics.lg.co.kr) tions of laws, including specific standards for conduct to gional holding company(LGCCI) to supervise Jeong-Do Management in the Chinese region and carry out Jeong-Do comply with fair trade laws. In 2014, the company conManagement activities that take into consideration local ducted 17 sessions of subcontract monitoring, cartel Strengthening Jeong-Do Management Training Under the Jeong-Do Management training system, the Ethics circumstances in China, such as system overhauls, training, monitoring/training and other training and provided Fair trade facilitators – Internal deliberation Office provides training to eligible employees of the company Two or more for each committee on subcontract promotion, investigation on breaches reported. In 2015, the 187 employees with compliance training at domestic business unit and plant transactions and business partners selected from different functions every company dispatched expatriates to help establish the headand global subsidiaries. four years. In 2014, the office provided training to all sales emquarters’ Jeong-Do Management System in China. ployees and procurement agents. Jeong-Do Management training is also provided to new recruits/experienced employImplementation Programs and Results of Fair Trade Compliance Activities ees and seniors, employees at different stages of promotion Whistleblowing System and those in their second year of employment by level. In Category 2014 Achievements 2015 Plans Jeong-Do Jeong-Do Management surveys are regularly conducted 2014, the company implemented an on-site Jeong-Do ManManageamong business partners and related employees, and Subcontract Ochang and Cheongju plants – Procurement, production, and management coordination teams To be conducted on procurement agement program in which each team leader provides their ment the results are used to prevent unfair practices from monitoring Petrochemicals division planning teams teams at Ochang and Cheongju Survey recurring and establish directions for improvement Energy Solutions division procurement teams in Seoul(expanded compared with previous year) plants and other business divisions team members with Jeong-Do Management training, in addition to the programs described above, and about 9,600 emCartel Chinese subsidiaries – Beijing, Tianjin, Shanghai, Ningbo, Guangzhou, Shenzhen To be conducted on sales teams at Gift If gift exchange occurs, it is reported under the gift monitoring Taiwanese subsidiary(LGCE TP) each business division ployees received training from their team leaders. Exchange exchange reporting system and then returned; if the gift / training Local sales offices – Incheon, Suwon, Pyeongtaek, Gwangju, Jungbu, Gumi, Changwon, Busan, Ulsan Reporting cannot be returned, it will be donated to social service System centers through an in-house auction PVC/Plasticizer unit CA sales(expanded compared with previous year) Attendance in Jeong-Do Management Training Training Provided guidelines for subcontract transactions Devising guidelines for subconWhistle• Ethics hotline: System for reporting practices that violate Organized workshops for fair trade officers tract transactions and internal Jeong-Do Management Category Unit 2014 blowing Provided cartel training to IT&E Materials division transactions; Providing training and System • Win-Win Growth system: Grievance system for business organizing workshops partners Employees Person 13,641 Rewarding • Designed to strengthen transparency and root out Business partners Person 350 System corruption in business operations 60 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Management Report Sustainability Governance 61 Risk Management Risk Management Follow-up Risks of Priority Control also manages emerging risks in social and environmental aspects that may have a direct or indirect significant If inspection is required, the company conducts a quick LG Chem identifies risks from various perspectives by Enterprise Risk Management System impact in the long run, such as safety and environmental assessment(internal audit) and follow-up to prevent analyzing long-term corporate strategies and functionRisks that companies have recently faced include not accident risks and risks arising from changes in carbon risks from occurring for similar issues. In addition, the based business processes, evaluates the likelihood and only direct risks in economic aspects but also indirect policies. In particular, the company started operating a company evaluates progress against the plan for investimpact of risks, establishes and implements appropriate and non-financial risks increasingly affecting local comcompany-wide internal deliberation committee on conments made in the past three years based on sales, inmeasures. Particularly, business risks in terms of sales munities and the entire supply chain. To manage risks tracts in 2013 to respond to contract risks with regard to come, and the cost of investment. Through follow-up, and production and investment-related risks are reguefficiently, LG Chem created a three-stage enterprise risk major investment projects due to their increasing numsuch as identifying the causes of any deviations from the larly managed as risks of priority control that directly management system consisting of risk owner-centered bers, and plans to reinforce related activites in the future. plan, the company strives to increase the success rates of affect the businesses. As potential risks, the company daily management(stage1), integrated management by its future investments. a risk management team(stage2), and supervision by the Board of Directors(stage3). Internal Control System Risk Category Major Risks and Potential Impact Major Activities The Internal Control System is a series of continuous acBusiness risk Risks in sales and production aspects •C  hecking changes in business environment and discussing The company particularly created a system aimed at Decline in long-term growth due to measures when establishing a long-term strategy(first half) thoroughly seeking out risks in advance and respondtivities led by the Board of Directors, management, and inappropriate business portfolio and and business plan(second half), reviewing measures by ing to them through a combination of division-level risk other members to provide reasonable confidence in its inefficient resource management due to scenario with regard to key indicators such as oil prices and operation, financial reporting, and legal compliance. lack of response to changes in demand exchange rates management aligned with the characteristics of different and supply It is the system aimed at strengthening management’s • I nspecting short-term business environment and risk factors divisions, including procurement, strategy, innovation, of headquarters and overseas subsidiaries through monthly and new business development, and corporate-wide responsibility to secure the confidence of investors in advance estimates of income and reporting on results integrated risk management. The risk team at each divithe company and its financial statements. LG Chem op• I n-depth discussion on issues through regular meetings on sion provides guidelines and forms by which it evaluates erates the internal accounting control system based on operating funds estimated risk sizes, durations, and scenario-based acthe IACS framework to secure the reliability of financial Investment risk Investment-related risk •O  perating investment committees at business unit level tions by issue. The team then reports the overall assessdata, effectiveness and efficiency in business operaFinancial losses occur and cash flow and working to minimize investment risk by assisting in ment to the Risk Management Committee(RMC) to contions, and ensure compliance with applicable laws and worsens if results fall short of the corporate-wide investment reviews if necessary investment plan due to inappropriate •C  hecking the progress of investment on half-year basis, tinuously identify and respond to potential risks. policies. investment decisions or changes in the evaluating it in “green, yellow, or red” based on the cost of business environment investment and KRI(Key Risk Indicators), and incorporating results into interim decision-making Risk Management System •M  inimizing risks such as legal issues on major on-going projects by operating a company-wide internal deliberation Supervision Board of Directors • Approval of management direction and policy / committee on contracts supervision of management activities Indirect risk Legal/institutional, accounting/financial risks • I n-depth discussion on major issues of divisions and on Verification Reporting Approval·Verification Internal Audit Impact on business occurs due to external corporate-wide support through monthly staff executive factors such as changes in exchange rates, meetings and executive/team leader meetings under interest rates, and accounting programs, CFO(CRO) Chief Risk Officer(CRO): CFO • Corporate-wide guidelines and legal disputes • Inspecting strategic business environment risks Risk Management Team and discussing countermeasures Safety and environmental accident risks •D  iscussing plans to strengthen corporate-wide safety (Planning & Coordination Team) Adverse impact occurs due to direct and environmental management through the safety and financial losses such as suspension of environmenteal committee under the CEO business as required by law or penalties, •C  onducting regular audits and special audits on plants at Reporting and damaged company reputation home and abroad Integrated Management Division-level Risk Management •S  trengthening risk and performance management system by Committee(RMC) creating an integrated policy and guidelines, and a corporate • Division-level guidelines portal on safety and the environment Division-level Risk Management Team • Inspecting business-related risk trends and (Management Coordination Team) Risk in response to changes in carbon policy •D  iscussing corporate-wide energy and greenhouse gas discussing countermeasures Increases in operating expneses due to issues and strengthening the ability to respond through the Compiling Supporting investment in energy conservation and energy committee under the CEO in production costs due to emissions •M  aking decisions to invest in energy conservation based on purchases priority to maximize effectiveness Daily Management Risk Owner(at a working level) • Identifying risks/analyzing causes/ taking corrective actions •M  inimizing financial impact by estimating the cost of • Monitoring(at a division level) purchasing emissions in advance 62 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Management Report C  reation and Distribution 63 of Economic Value Creation and Distribution of Economic Value competition, LG Chem reported 22.6 trillion KRW in conFinancial Highlights Distribution of Economic Value In 2014, amid tough business conditions, such as desolidated sales, 1.3 trillion KRW in operating income, LG Chem fairly distributes profits from its business optax obligations, and minimizes long-term tax-related clining demand due to the slow global economic reand 854 billion KRW in net income, a 32.8% decrease erations to internal and external stakeholders. In parrisks. In 2014, the value returned to stakeholders includcovery and falling product prices due to intensified compared with the previous year. ticular, the company discloses amounts paid in taxes in ing business partners and academia, employees, govits business and sustainability reports, diligently fulfills ernment, and local communities was 15 trillion KRW. Economic Performance (Unit : %) Distribution of Economic Value Item 2012 2013 2014 Stakeholder Item Unit 2012 2013 2014 Current ratio 171.8 174.7 169.4 Employees Total annual payroll1) 100 million KRW 7,265 9,043 9,999 Stability indicators Debt-to-equity ratio 54.0 48.8 47.8 Total payroll per capita Million KRW/ person 62 72 73 Dependency on borrowing 27.4 25.7 23.9 Government Income tax expenses from 100 million KRW 3,742 3,307 3,058 Operating income margin 8.2 7.5 5.8 continuing operations Net income margin 6.5 5.5 3.8 Business partners Materials purchases 100 million KRW 149,262 140,728 134,001 Profitability indicators ROA 9.5 7.5 4.8 Shareholders & investors Total dividend 100 million KRW 2,945 2,945 2,945 ROE 14.7 11.4 7.3 Local communities Social partnership expenditure 2) 100 million KRW 245 210 196 Sales growth 2.6 (0.5) (2.4) 1)Total payroll amounts do not include benefits, reserves for retirement pay, and executive officers, and are based on Korean data. Operating income growth (32.2) (8.8) (24.8) 2)Social partnership expenditure is based on Korean data. Growth indicators Net income growth 30.6 (15.6) (32.8) Total assets growth 8.5 5.2 3.9 Purchasing from Business Partners The amount of the company’s purchases on major materirators 10.2%. Furthermore, the company is producing indiBusiness Results by Business Area (Unit:100 million KRW) 2014 Sales by Business Area (Unit : 100 million KRW) als from its business partners in 2014 was 13.4 trillion KRW, rect economic effects on local communities through local and naphtha and EDC accounted for 80%, TAC film and purchasing by its overseas manufacturing subsidiaries. Business Area Item 2012 2013 2014 Basic Materials & Chemicals cobalt 9.8%, and anode and cathode materials and sepaBasic Materials & Sales 175,143 175,452 170,803 170,803 Chemicals1) Operating income 14,362 13,320 11,173 2014 Purchases of Materials (Unit: 100 million KRW) IT & Electronic Sales 32,707 30,248 26,573 IT & Materials / Electronic Advanced Materials Operating income 4,357 3,789 1,581 Total Materials/ Business area Cost of purchase1) Category Purpose Supplier Energy Solutions Sales 24,780 25,736 28,357 Advanced Materials 225,778 Operating income 387 323 649 Basic Materials & Chemicals 107,197 Naphtha, EDC, etc. PE/PVC materials GS Caltex, OXY Chem, etc. Other Sales 45 26,573 IT & Electronic Materials / 13,077 TAC films, cobalt, etc. Polarizer materials Fuji, etc. Advanced Materials Operating income (3) (2) (295) Energy Solutions Energy Solutions 13,727 Anode and cathode materials Battery materials Hitachi, Mitsubishi, etc. Total Sales 232,630 231,436 225,778 and separators Operating income 19,103 17,430 13,108 28,357 Other 45 1)The amounts are cumulative and do not include internal transactions between consolidated companies. 1)In late 2014, the Petrochemicals Division was reorganized into the Basic Materials & Chemicals Division Ratio of Sales by Region (Unit : %) 2014 Sales by Region (Unit : %) Region 2012 2013 2014 Western Other 13 Europe 7 Korea 43 43 41 Southeast Korea 41 China 42 44 44 Asia The Americas 8 7 9 6 Southeast Asia 7 6 6 Western Europe 4 5 7 The Americas Other 13 13 13 9 Consolidated Adjustment (17) (19) (20) China 44 64 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Management Report Talent Management 65 Talent Management Human Resources Principles Employee Status Employee Status by Region LG Chem is taking steps to localize workforces at overIn order to realize ‘Customer-Value Creation’ and ‘PeoFramework) and commits itself to preventing human As of late December 2014, LG Chem has a total of 24,928 seas subsidiaries through the recruitment and developple-Oriented Management,’ which are the management employees, 54.65% of whom work at domestic operarights abuses that may arise from business operations ment of local top talent. The number of local managers philosophies of LG, a series of human resources princitions and 45.35% at global operations. To respond to under the UN Global Compact(UNGC) human rights and has steadily increased with 330 in 2014, representing society’s demands that talented female employees be ples have been established and used as the index of hulabor principles. The company also complies with the 64% of all managers. This was the result of LG Chem’s hired and given opportunities for growth, the compaman resources and corporate operation. With the belief provisions prohibiting child labor and forced labor so that workforce localization strategy. ny increases female employees each year, and female that the creativity of individuals is the source of value employees are not forced to work against their will. managers represent 4.16% of all managers in support creation, we respect diversity and autonomy of employ2014 Employees by Region (Unit: person) staff positions. There are also 126 employees with disees and encourage them to develop their potential and abilities and the company established Haengbok Nuri, Asia1) 424 bring out their maximum performance. LG Chem emAmerica 374 LG Chem’s Ideal Employee a subsidiary-based standard workplace for people with 1.7% 1.5% ploys the best talents and guarantees fair opportunities disabilities, to expand the hiring of socially disadvanEurope 552 without discrimination, and provides the highest comPerson of action with belief in LG Way taged people. 2.2% pensations to the talents that achieve the highest perChallenging Competing fairly In 2014, LG Chem hired a total of 8,182 employees at all formance according to our fair and objective evaluation. for the world’s best while steadily cultivating with dream and passion their abilities of its plants and 62% of them were male and 38% female. The percentage of retired employees at domestic operaChina 9,955 Korea 13,623 LG Chem upholds the Universal Declaration of Human 39.9% 54.6% Working creatively Constantly innovating tions in 2014 was 2.91% and the company maintains the Rights and the UN Human Rights Commission’s UN Guidand autonomously with team spirit and putting customers first rate at a certain level through retention activities. ing Principles on Business and Human Rights(Ruggie 1)Aside from China 2014 Employees by Age (Unit:person) LG Chem’s HR Principles 2012 2013 2014 Individuals’ Category creativity and Source of value creation Male Female Male Female Male Female Management Principles autonomy All Total 14,917 4,580 15,936 5,053 18,629 5,855 Emphasis on Aged 50 and over 1,300 2 1,430 2 1,659 3 / PerformanceMethod of operation competency based rewards Aged 40 to 49 2,900 33 3,001 45 3,038 63 People-oriented Customer value Korea Aged 30 to 39 3,738 483 2,872 684 4,376 617 Provision of fair Long-term management creation / Basic principles Aged 30 and under 2,724 557 4,022 540 3,116 751 opportunity perspective Total 10,662 1,075 11,325 1,271 12,189 1,434 Aged 50 and over 188 86 204 69 232 66 Aged 40 to 49 320 124 331 108 422 124 Overseas1) Aged 30 to 39 909 644 1,075 831 1,560 1,061 Excellent Capabilities, Highest Performance, Highest Compensation Aged 30 and under 2,838 2,651 3,001 2,774 4,226 3,170 Total 4,255 3,505 4,611 3,782 6,440 4,421 Excellent Capabilities Highest Performance Highest Compensation Job Creation and Retirement We hire talent from all around We present the top talent with We provide the highest the world, regardless of race, challenging tasks and more training compensation to top talent 2012 2013 2014 Category nationality, and gender. opportunities to develop them into regardless of race, nationality, Male Female Male Female Male Female our core human resources, based on gender, religion, disability, region Job creation Korea(person) 1,136 167 975 238 1,185 216 fair and objective evaluation and group Overseas1)(person) 2,322 2,173 2,277 2,227 3,913 2,868 • Recruiting people with creativity and • Objective and fair evaluation system • Annual salary system linked Retirement2) Retired employees 275 66 312 42 336 60 unique individuality to individual capability and (person) • Systematic training opportunities for • Job placement with consideration for each level and skill performance Retirement rate(%) 2.58 6.14 2.75 3.30 2.76 4.18 individual preference and aptitude • One-on-one career development session / • Performance-based fair rewards • Offering incentives to core talent, Well-devised career development system • Fast track promotion system 1)Overseas:Limited to the Chinese regional holding company(LGCCI) and overseas manufacturing subsidiaries based on their market value, business 2)Retired employees and retirement rate are limited to Korean operations impact, etc. 66 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Management Report Talent Management 67 Talent Recruitment Fair Compensation Benefits Recruiting Global Talent Performance-based Compensation Benefits Programs Retirement Pension LG Chem has focused on recruiting global talent. ParLG Chem provides equal opportunities for individual For employees to stay focused at work, LG Chem operLG Chem adopted a retirement pension program and opticularly, the company has organized global talent remembers to produce results based on creativity and auates a variety of benefits programs that support stability erates it according to legal requirements. To provide emcruitment events such as “BC Tour & Tech Fair” and “LG tonomy and offers competitive salary and benefits based and promote healthy lives. Through the programs, the ployees with financial security after retirement, the comTechno Conference.” In 2014, the company expanded BC on the performance-based HR principles. When measurcompany instills a sense of pride in employees and crepany has implemented the defined benefit(DB) pension Tour & Tech Fair to China, which had been held in the U.S. ing performance, the company takes into consideration ates a great working environment. plan and the defined contribution(DC) pension plan. and Japan for the past 10 years. Furthermore, the comboth the process of producing results and the quality of pany is localizing overseas subsidiaries and strengthenperformance to provide reasonable compensation, proMajor Benefits Programs ing their business capabilities by locally recruiting top mote teamwork, and encourage long-term results. talent centering on China. LG Chem offers internships to • Home loan assistance Providing loan support to employees with more than a year of service, employee housing and dormitories foreign students studying in Korea to locally hire employAside from evaluating performance against goals, LG Family • Scholarships for children Supporting tuition fees for children attending middle/high schools and universities ees through pre-verification and development while also Chem also evaluates achievements on the basis of merSupport • Family event support Providing money and vacations for employees’ family events recruiting Korean students studying abroad. its/demerits by taking account of domestic and interna• Maternity protection support Providing child care centers at work, pregnancy, maternity and parental leave, vacations tional changes in the business environment regardless • Medical expenses support Providing medical expenses for employees, their spouses, and children of individual capabilities or efforts, and evaluates em• Health examinations Providing regular health examinations Health Pre-Employment Programs Support • Health counseling and therapy Providing specialized therapy sessions through health care providers and therapists LG Chem focuses on recruiting a variety of talent such ployees based on the level of difficulty of their jobs and • Operating resorts Operating three resorts(LG Life Resort, Gonjiam, Elysian in Gangchon) as R&D talent in next-generation product development their contributions to their teams. By subdividing evalu• Supporting club activities Supporting activities of about 150 clubs at each of business operations Leisure and production and process technology engineers who ation criteria like this, the company ensures fairness in Support • Optional benefits Use of personal points for self-growth and leisure purposes are vital to future growth engines. Those who are sethe evaluation process. Furthermore, the company aslected through the pre-employment programs are given sesses individual employees’ abilities to execute their a wide range of opportunities, such as tuition fees, onjobs based on the required capabilities and levels of such Working Women Center site internships, and links to employment. That way, LG capabilities by title and position. LG Chem applies a vaAs female labor force participation rates continuously Working Women Center system. The system, in parChem is recruiting top talent that will help the company riety of in-depth appraisal criteria, including an attitude increase, the ratio and importance of female talent at ticular, has been structured to allow employees check achieve market leadership. evaluation aimed at encouraging members comply with LG Chem also have increased. To create an environand utilize various support programs aligned with their and internalize the common principles of conduct based ment where female employees work more comfortably lifecycles(child birth, pregnancy, child care) with inon the LG Way. In 2014, all of employees eligible for perwith creativity and autonomy, LG Chem operates the creased accessibility and convenience. Pre-Employment Programs formance appraisals received evaluations. R&D Industrial Offering scholarship to R&D masters and docLife Cycle Support Programs Scholarship tors at home and abroad with employment Program guaranteed after graduation Corporate Business diviBusiness unit Pregnancy • Days off for examinations during pregnancy objectives sion objectives objectives • Amenities services during pregnancy(electromagnetic radiation shielding aprons to protect pregnant IndustryProviding customized training and industrial women and book rentals on child care) Academic scholarships to masters, doctors and special• Post-miscarriage leave Collaboration ists from universities who have signed an Program MOU with the company Team objectives Childbirth • Preand post-maternity leave • Providing lactation rooms Nurturing and verifying outstanding undergraduates at home and abroad with various Establishing/confirming Child care • Parental leave Global majors, and providing them with mentoring individual objectives Internship MBO (Team leader • Reducing work hours during child care by team leaders to enhance the connection appraisal to members) • Providing child care centers at work1) of the program with employment Interim progress check • Family support therapy program(child care, child education, marriage counseling) Providing a long-term internship (4 months) Industryopportunity, which can be accepted as 1)Operating at headquarters, Ochang, Cheongju, Yeosu, Daesan, and Daejeon sites Absolute ▶ Year-end individual Academic credits during the school year, to underappraisal appraisal score Collaboration graduates with employment guaranteed Internship after graduation Employees Taking Maternity/Parental Leave Return to Work after Parental Leave(Korea) (Unit :Person) (Unit :%) Organizational appraisal Category 2012 2013 2014 Category 2014 CurveTeam-based curve based (Team leader Korea 146 147 163 Percentage of those returning to work 94 appraisal to members) after parental/maternity leave Overseas 349 400 344 Individually based Percentage of those employed at least 92 curve and feedback 12 months after returning to work 68 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Management Report S  afety, Health & 69 Environment Management Safety, Health & Environment Management Collaborative Labor-Management Relationship Corporate Culture Innovation Tasks Safety, Health & Environment System Safety and Envrionment Committee To cope with the rapidly changing domestic and internaAt LG Chem’s domestic and overseas operations, detailed LG Chem established a company-wide Safety and EnvriLG Chem guarantees the freedom of association and the tional environments, LG Chem has selected and implepolicies are established based on corporate management onment Committee to operate and improve its safety, three labor rights of employees and pursues a horizontal mented seven tasks for corporate culture innovation with principles and company-wide safety, health and envihealth & environment management system. The commitlabor-management relationship in which employees and the goal of becoming a market leader. ronment policies, and key strategic tasks and objectives management respect each other’s roles on equal footing. tee holds meetings at least twice each year, attended by are selected and implemented. Each company’s safety, Under the management principles “customer value crea7 Tasks for Corporate Culture Innovation the safety, health & environment leaders of the company’s health and environment policy, strategic tasks and obtion” and “people-oriented management,” the company is for Market Leadership domestic and overseas operations to share internal and jectives are developed and implemented through global practicing labor-management partnership that encourages external issues and best practices and discuss capability Innovation of Working Styles safety, health and environment management systems participation and collaboration. While gaining a competitive improvement measures and plans. Through the commitListening/discussion/ ·Listening attentively, discussing fiercely, practicing including ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, and KOSHA 18001. advantage at global levels by continuously producing repractice and simplithoroughly, and saving protocol for customers fied protocol These systems are certified by independent agencies tee, the company provides various discussions with regard sults, the company defines its vision to build a collaborative ·Improving reporting/meetings: Simplifying and continuously updated through management review. to the more systematic and effective operation of the safelabor-management relationship that improves members’ reports and avoiding unnecessary meetings Work In addition, based on Responsible Care, an international ty, health & environment management system. quality of life and contributes to society’s growth. intensive ·Reducing overtime work and work during days off & smart through intensive work ·Encouraging vacations for refreshing to increase voluntary safety, health and environment program in the LG Chem operates its own model for labor-management productivity chemical industry, LG Chem integrates, overhauls, and Occupational Safety and Health Committee cooperation that promotes members’ participation and colSelf-directed ·Despite environmental difficulties, taking on chaloperates all related systems, carrying out more effective LG Chem operates an occupational safety and health work lenges to achieve goals laboration in corporate management, on-site operations, Promoting ·Creating synergy between teams/units through and ongoing improvement activities. committee at each plant, which involves labor-manageand collective bargaining related to labor-management recollaboration collaboration ment collaboration in order to prevent risks and health lations. In terms of corporate management, the company Adhering to Fundamentals and Principles Safety, Health & Environment Certificates hazards to employees at work. Labor and management increases corporate value and value for its members through Abiding by safety and ·Internalizing the absolute safety and environmendeliberate and vote on important issues related to safetransparent and open management; in terms of on-site environmental principles tal rules Daesan Yeosu Ulsan operations, the company ensures the highest productivity Practicing Jeong-Do ·Fair job practices: Honest reporting, fair business Naju Gimcheon Iksan ty and health. The committee has equal representation Management partner management, reasonable spending Korea through strong teamwork and innovation; and in terms of Complying with work ·Arrivals/departure and attendance management, Paju Ochang Cheongju of labor and management, including representatives of ISO Research Park collective bargaining, the company is building a businessregulations complying with break times employees and representatives of plants. 14001 Bohai(CN) Beijing(CN) Yongxing(CN) oriented labor-management partnership based on reasonaOverDagu(CN) Botian(CN) Nanjing(CN) ble labor-management practices and productive bargaining. seas Guangzhou(CN) Tianjin(CN) Taiwan Corporate Culture Innovation Activities for Market Vietnam India Poland Accident and Severity Rates1) (Unit: %) In 2014, the company discussed issues regarding employLeadership Daesan Yeosu Gimcheon ment security and the expansion of long-term employment, LG Chem is creating a corporate culture to offer innovaKorea Paju Ochang Cheongju Category 2012 2013 2014 OHSAS Research Park including an increase in retirement age and the adoption of tive value to customers and lead the market. To estab18001 Accident rate 0.35 0.33 0.22 a peak wage. As a result of labor-management discussions lish a market-leading corporate culture as LG Chem’s Bohai(CN) Botian(CN) Dagu(CN) Korea OverSeverity rate 0.09 0.05 0.05 seas Nangjing(CN) Yongxing(CN) Taiwan about the timing and method of increasing the retirement own culture, the company will implement continuous Poland Accident rate 0.60 0.39 0.48 age, the retirement age was increased from 58 to 60 and the change and innovation. Overseas KOSHA Daesan Naju Iksan Severity rate 0.09 0.06 0.07 gradual wage reduction plan was applied more widely. 18001 Korea Ochang ‧Sending notices to management and leaders 1)Severity rate:Number of lost work days / Total work hours x 1000 Trade Union Membership Propagating/ -Helping leaders take the initiative and supporting *(CN) : China organizational changes Sharing Direction for Cor‧Incorporating the market-leading module into the Safety, Health & Environment Management Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 essential training programs and sharing details with porate Culture all employees System Flow Environmental Investment Members Person 5,535 5,593 5,863 Innovation ‧Posting Focus Board twice a month Korea Continuous LG Chem is continuously stepping up environmental inMembership percentage % 75 74 74 (all operation sites at home and abroad) Improvement ▶ Members Person 5,022 5,379 6,234 vestments to improve the environment. Overseas ‧Providing organizational innovation programs to Innovation ▶ ▶ Membership percentage % 92 94 95 Programs for create a corporate culture with a strong ability to Ma h& alt licy implement na , He Po Environmental Expenditure (Unit :1,000 KRW) Oragnizations Re geme ety ent at Home and ‧Providing customized programs for employees of vie w nt Saf onm overseas subsidiaries to internalize the core values Envir Corporate Culture Abroad and reform business practices Category 2012 2013 2014 Direction for Corporate Culture Innovation Safety, Health & To achieve “No. 1 LG,” the vision of the LG Way, amid global ◀ Environment Korea 27,777,302 52,372,599 41,326,113 Innovation of Working Styles at Overseas SubsidiarManagement Overseas 3,632,474 8,224,079 2,304,847 competition, the company should become a market leadMo ing System nn er. To that end, the company is building a corporate culture ies for Market leadership oring nit Pla where customer value comes first and the organization has The company has spread the core values to its automotive Implementation ◀ strong abilities to communicate and execute. Members batteries manufacturing subsidiary in the U.S., and to six ◀ and Operation focus more on the essence and fundamentals of creating subsidiaries in Poland, Vietnam and Japan. It also impleinnovative value for customers and commit themselves mented the innovation of working styles program to lead the RESPONSIBLE CARE to realizing creative ideas. Furthermore, members try to market with an aim to strengthen its global organizational • ISO 14001 / • OHSAS 18001 / • KOSHA 18001 reach their goals in a self-directed way and business units capabilities by incorporating the needs of subsidiaries. actively collaborate to create synergy. 70 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Management Report S  afety, Health & 71 Environment Management Water Management Water Pollutants (Unit :ton/kg/product ton) 2012 2013 2014 Water Use LG Chem manages water risks to ensure stable water Water Use Intensity (Unit: m³/product ton) Category Amount Intensity Amount Intensity Amount Intensity supply in its manufacturing processes. In addition to 2012 3.30 Korea COD 566 0.044 635 0.045 684 0.046 managing water for intake purposes, the company also 2013 3.43 T-N 238 0.018 198 0.014 233 0.016 considers the effects of effluents on the ecosystems of Overseas COD 139 0.071 124 0.060 156 0.076 intake places and neighboring ecosystems. In 2014, the 2014 3.44 company used a total of 57,604,481m3. Air Environment Management Water Use LG Chem is reducing air pollutants from their sources various efforts to mitigate the effects of air pollution, Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 by changing processes and/or replacing materials. The the company installed a system for automatically measTotal amount used m³ 42,930,921 48,132,459 50,649,323 company also installed preventive facilities to reduce uring emissions from chimneys to monitor air pollutant Korea Intensity m³/product ton 3.31 3.44 3.44 emissions causing air pollution. Furthermore, among emission levels in real time. Total amount used m³ 6,268,014 6,786,360 6,955,158 Overseas Intensity m³/product ton 3.20 3.32 3.40 Air Pollutants (Unit: ton, kg /product ton) 2012 2013 2014 Category Amount Intensity Amount Intensity Amount Intensity Wastewater Management LG Chem applies occupational water quality targets Dust 162 0.012 164 0.012 146 0.010 Wastewater Intensity and Recycling Rates Korea NOX 1,099 0.085 1,039 0.074 1,073 0.073 management to reduce the releases of contaminants (Unit: m³/product ton, %) SOX 505 0.039 383 0.027 299 0.020 into water and strengthens monitoring based on tight2012 1.04 16.0 Dust 133 0.068 112 0.055 96 0.047 ened regulations. Furthermore, the company also in2013 1.02 14.4 Overseas NOX 45 0.023 56 0.027 230 0.112 troduced the wastewater recycling process to reduce 2014 0.99 14.3 SOX 42 0.022 32 0.015 31 0.015 water use, thereby reducing wastewater release and Wastewater intensity Recycling rate water contaminants. In 2014, the company generated a total of 16,561,448m3 wastewater and the percentage of wastewater recycled was 14.3%. Materials Use Management In 2014, LG Chem used 17,199,726 tons of raw materials pany used 31,703 tons of recycled materials(based on and its efficient use of materials helped reduce material Korean data). Wastewater Discharge consumption per ton of product. In addition, the comCategory Unit 2012 2013 2014 Raw Materials Used Total amount discharged m³ 12,286,422 12,866,046 12,830,118 Intensity m³/product ton 0.95 0.92 0.87 Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Korea Recycling m³ 1,069,140 889,568 811,724 Total amount used ton 14,047,496 14,949,131 15,514,628 Korea Recycling rate % 8.01 6.47 5.95 Intensity ton/product ton 1.084 1.069 1.054 Total amount discharged m³ 3,243,403 3,556,683 3,731,330 Total amount used ton 1,598,744 1,673,929 1,685,098 Overseas Intensity m³/product ton 1.66 1.74 1.82 Intensity ton/product ton 0.817 0.818 0.824 Overseas Recycling m³ 1,411,365 1,468,950 1,557,442 Recycling rate % 30.3 29.2 29.4 72 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Management Report S  afety, Health & 73 Environment Management Waste Management Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions LG Chem implements a waste policy to gain cost leaderWaste Intensity (Unit :ton/ product ton) LG Chem continuously organizes a variety of reduction Energy Use Intensity (unit: GJ/product ton) ship through ongoing activities to increase the value of activities including energy use reductions to reduce 2012 0.014 2012 8.894 waste based on stable disposal. Each plant carries out greenhouse gas emissions arising from its manufacturimprovement activities to fundamentally reduce waste 2013 0.013 ing processes. 2013 9.035 from its sources. 2014 0.013 2014 8.561 Waste Generation Energy Use Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 General waste ton 132,640 121,028 115,609 Direct energy TJ 86,589 87,542 83,492 Designated(hazardous) waste ton 30,689 38,253 50,323 Indirect energy TJ 37,048 48,151 51,126 Korea Korea Subtotal ton 163,329 159,281 165,932 Subtotal TJ 123,624 135,676 134,605 Intensity ton/product ton 0.013 0.011 0.011 Intensity GJ/product ton 9.543 9.702 9.145 General waste ton 40,658 39,932 39,565 Direct energy TJ 2,066 2,053 2,254 Designated(hazardous) waste ton 8,933 9,189 11,189 Indirect energy1) TJ 6,932 7,115 6,652 Overseas Overseas Subtotal ton 49,560 49,115 50,753 Subtotal TJ 8,998 9,168 8,905 Intensity ton/product ton 0.025 0.024 0.025 Intensity GJ/product ton 4.597 4.482 4.354 *In 2014, the percentage of waste recycled at Korean plants is 67%. 1)The amount of indirect energy used in China has been recalculated by applying a new starndard for steam calorific value. Scope 1 and Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Hazardous Chemical Use and Management Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 LG Chem strictly manages hazardous chemicals to be handled from receipt to use and disposal. Direct emission tCO2-eq 4,623,589 4,697,356 4,504,759 Indirect emission tCO2-eq 1,865,117 2,466,167 2,571,216 Hazardous Chemical(Toxic Chemical) Use Korea Subtotal tCO2-eq 6,488,689 7,163,510 7,075,962 Intensity tCO2-eq /product ton 0.501 0.512 0.481 Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Direct emission tCO2-eq 146,605 143,722 159,067 Total amount used ton 2,653,498 3,189,845 3,341,244 Indirect emission tCO2-eq 1,331,967 1,349,380 1,194,699 Korea Overseas Intensity ton/product ton 0.204 0.228 0.227 Subtotal tCO2-eq 1,478,572 1,493,102 1,353,766 Total amount used ton 1,175,988 1,364,623 1,273,618 Intensity tCO2-eq /product ton 0.755 0.730 0.662 Overseas Intensity ton/product ton 0.601 0.667 0.623 Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions(Korea) Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity1) (Unit : tCO2-eq/product ton) Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 2012 0.534 Electricity resold1) tCO2-eq 29,360 30,592 27,377 2013 0.540 Wastewater discharge tCO2-eq 17,095 17,607 17,462 2014 0.503 Waste disposal tCO2-eq 12,281 12,740 13,383 1)Scope1, Scope 2 emissions Water use tCO2-eq 14,253 15,980 16,816 Employee business trips2) tCO2-eq 1,398 1,940 1)Past data have been revised because the scope has been expanded. 2)Emissions caused by employee business trips are limited to those arising from transport by car and began to be systematically calculated in 2013. 74 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report 75 Appendix Participant Information 74 Independent Assurance Statement 76 Sustainability Management Index 78 Memberships/Awards and Recognitions 84 Participant Information Korea CSR Team Quality Planning Team.Energy Solution Ethics Office Overseas LGCCI. Business Planning Team. SH&E Part LGCE BJ. Security & Facility Team. LG YX. Administration Team. Planning Team. Basic Materials Safety & Environment Team Public Affairs Team Environment & Admin PartLGCC TJ. Administration PartLGCC GZ. S&E Team. LGCCI. Business Coordination &Chemicals Operating Management. GA Part S&E Part Energy/Climate Change Team HR Planning & Coordination Team Dept. HR Team. GA/PR Part Management Strategy Team. Coordination Team. Daejeon. Research Park LG BOHAI. Factory. Environment Part LGCE TP. General Affairs Team Investor Relations Team LGCCI. Business Coordination IT&E Materials Dept. HR Team. Employee Relations Part LG BOTIAN. Production Team. E&S Part LGCMI. Accounting Team Safety & Environment Team HR Planning Team Management Strategy Department. LGCCI. Business Coordination LG DAGU. Management Dept. HR GA LGVINA. General Affairs Department Energy/Climate Change Team Energy Solution Talent Recruiting Team Dept. HR Team. HR Management Part Team. General Affairs Part Procurement Strategy Team. Basic LGPI. HR Team Strategic Planning Team. Global HR Team Materials & Chemicals LGCCI. Business Coordination Dept. HR LGCE NJ. S&E Dept. S&E Team. Advanced Materials LGCE WR. Administration Team Corporate Culture Transformation Team Development Team. Leadership Part Environment Part Leadership Development Team Technology Management Team Employee Relations Team Competency Development Team HR Coordination Team. Daejeon. Research Park HR Service Team Credit Management & Compliance Team 76 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Appendix Independent Assurance Statement 77 Independent Assurance Statement Introduction Conclusion DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd.(hereinafter “DNV GL”) is commissioned to carry out the assurance engagement of the 2014 Sustainability In DNV GL’s opinion, and based on the scope of this Assurance Engagement, the report provides a reliable and fair representation of LG Chem’s sustainability Report(hereinafter “the Report”) of LG Chem Co., Ltd.(‘LG Chem’). This engagement focused on the information provided in the Report and the underlying strategy, policy, practices and performance in 2014. The report is Assurance Statement Nr.: AS_PRJC-517332-2014-AST-KOR_En Page 2/2 prepared “In management and reporting processes. LG Chem is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation and presentation of all information within the Report. accordance with Core option” of GRI G4.0. Standard disclosure items assured are indicated in the verification report submitted to LG Chem. Further opinions DNV GL’s responsibility in performing the work follows terms of reference and scope of work agreed. The assurance engagement is based on the assumption with accountability principles are made below; that the data and information provided to us is complete, sufficient and authentic. LG Chem’s stakeholders are the intended recipients of the assurance Inclusivity statement. LG Chem has engaged with a wide range of stakeholders which are shareholders and evaluation agencies, customers, employees, business partners, NGO and local communities, academia and experts, industrial associations, mass media, governments. The report includes a process to derive expectations and Scope of Assurance interests of internal and external stakeholders. Main issues were clearly represented in the report. This Assurance Engagement covered data and information presented only in the Report. The scope of DNV GL’s Assurance Engagement includes the review Materiality and assessment of followings: LG Chem has formed a sustainability issue pool with benchmarking, global standards, media coverage and internal information for its sustainability and ·Evaluation of the reporting principles for defining the sustainability report content and the quality in the Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) reviewing the material issues reported by peer groups. The material issues are determined by combining the issues which are important for stakeholder and Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 4.0 the issues which are relevant for LG Chem in terms of sustainability. The output of the process clearly brings out material issues. ·Evaluation of adherence to Accountability principles provided in AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard(APS)2008 with a moderate level of assurance Responsiveness: and Type 2 LG Chem monitors and reports performances of material issues drawn by the materiality assessment process in the report. The report includes financial(economical) ·Check of GRI 4.0 Disclosure level against GRI 4.0 Disclosure option and non-financial(social and environmental) performances. LG Chem states its vision and business strategies with the performances in the report. Findings in relation to specific sustainability performance information: Limitation DNV GL has evaluated the nature and extent of LG chem’s adherence to the AA1000 Accountability Principles as described above. In addition, the reliability The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of LG Chem’s suppliers, contractors and any third-parties of data and information is evaluated for Type 2 Assurance. DNV GL has interviewed the personnel responsible for the data and information in order to figure mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Any financial information from LG Chem’s out the generation, aggregation and processing of data and information and reviewed the relevant documents and records based on which the statements annual report and company reporting on operations in 2014 or other sources are not included in the scope of the Assurance. Economic performances based in the Report are addressed. The reporting of the management performance presented in the Report makes it possible to understand the company’s impact on the financial data were cross-checked with internal documents and the audited financial statements. The aggregation and calculation process for building in economic, social and environmental areas, as well as the company’s achievements in those regards. The data owners of LG chem are able to demonstrate economic performances is reviewed and tested by the verification team. The baseline data for Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while to trace the origin and the data source of the specific data and information are identifiable. From our analysis of the data and information, and LG chem’s the aggregated data are used for the verification. The qualitative statements addressed in the GRI Content Index are not verified but the audit team has just processes, we conclude that the data and information included in the Report are the results of stable and repeatable activities. confirmed that the indicator is reported in the GRI Content Index DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. Opportunities for Improvement The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported to LG Chem’s management. However, these do not affect our conclusions on Verification Methodology the Report and are provided to encourage continual improvement. The Assurance Engagement was planned and carried out in accordance with the DNV GL Verification Protocol for Sustainability Reporting (VeriSustainTM V.4.1) and AA1000AS(2008). As part of the verification, we challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the ·The Data and information in the sustainability report should be gathered and compiled in a consistent manner. It is recommended to establish internal robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls. In accordance with the VeriSustain, the Report was evaluated with reporting principles and guidelines to improve consistency. regard to the following criteria: DNV GL has examined and reviewed documents, data and other information made available by LG Chem. We performed sample-based audits of; Statement of Competence and Independence ·The process for determining the materiality of the contents to be included in the Report. DNV GL is a leading provider of sustainability services, including the verification of sustainability reports. Our ·The process for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data in the Report. environmental and social assurance specialists operate in over 100 countries. DNV GL was not involved in the ·The accuracy of data preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV GL · Principles of AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard(2008) maintains complete impartiality toward stakeholders interviewed during the verification process. ·Disclosure option of GRI G4.0 June, 2015 ·Visit to Headquarter and Hwachi plant in Yeosu complex of LG Chem in Korea DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. Country Representative In-Kyoon Ahn 78 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Appendix Sustainability Management Index 79 Sustainability Management Index GRI G4 General Standard Disclosures Core Option Core Option External External Aspect Index Content Page Verification Aspect Index Content Page Verification Strategy and G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 2, 3 ● The highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, G4-46 54~56 ● Analysis environmental and social topics G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 8~15 ● G4-47 The frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities 54~56 ● G4-3 Name of the organization 4 ● The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 8~15 ● G4-48 56 ● material Aspects are covered G4-5 Location of the organization's headquarters 4 ● G4-49 The process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body 55, 56 ● Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used G4-6 4, 5 ● G4-50 55 ● operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report to address and resolve them G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Business Report 244, 254 ● G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration 56 ● Governance OrganizaG4-8 Markets served(including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) 4, 5 ● The process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration tional G4-52 and whether they are independent of management Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with 56 ● G4-9 Scale of the organization(Total number of employees, net sales, total capitalization, products and services) 4, 5 ● Profile the organization G4-10 Total number of employees 4 ● How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration G4-53 56 ● G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 68 ● policies and proposals, if applicable G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain 40~43, 63 ● Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the 56, Business Repor G4-54 ● median annual total compensation for all employees(excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country* 250~253 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain About this report ● The ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 60, 61 ● G4-55 significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees(excluding the highest-paid Business Repor 250~253 ● List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization individual) in the same country G4-15 64, 82, 83 ● subscribes or which it endorses G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 16, Homepage ● Memberships of associations(such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, G4-16 84 ● Ethics and G4-57 58, 59 ● organization such as helplines or advice lines Integrity G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 4, 5, Business Report 4~6 ● Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizaG4-58 58, 59 ● G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 18, 19 ● tional integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines Identified G4-19 Material aspects identified in the process for defining report content 19 ● *the median annual total compensation for all employees =73 million KRW the remuneration of the highest compensation(CEO)=1,589 million KRW Material G4-20 Report the Aspect Boundary within the organization 18, 19, 22, 26, 30, 34, 40, 44, 48 ● Aspects and Boundaries G4-21 Report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 18, 19, 22, 26, 30, 34, 40, 44, 48 ● GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements About this report ● G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries About this report ● G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 57 ● References External Aspect Index Content Page and Reasons G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 57 ● for Omissions Verification Stakeholder Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, Economic Engagement G4-26 22, 26, 30, 34, 40, 44, 48, 55~57 ● and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process Procurement G4-DMA Management approach 40 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to Practices G4-27 19, 22, 26, 30, 34, 40, 44, 48, 56 ● G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 63 ● those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting G4-28 Reporting period for information provided. About this report ● Environment G4-29 Date of most recent previous report About this report ● G4-DMA Management approach 30 G4-30 Reporting cycle(such as annual, biennial) About this report ● G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 73 ● Report Profile G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents About this report ● G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization 73 ● G4-32 The ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. About this report ● Energy G4-33 Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 76, 77 ● G4-EN5 Energy intensity 73 ● The governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 31~33 ● G4-34 56 ● responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 31~33 ● The process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior G4-35 56 ● G4-DMA Management approach 30 executives and other employees Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas(ghg) emissions(Scope 1) 73 ● G4-36 55, 56 ● environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions(Scope 2) 73 ● Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. If G4-37 consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body 55, 56 ● Emissions G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions(scope 3) 73 ● G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 54, Business Report 238~239 ● G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas(ghg) emissions intensity 73 ● Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer(and, if so, his or her function within the G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas(ghg) emissions 31~33 ● G4-39 54 ● organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 71 ● Governance The nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating G4-40 54 ● G4-DMA Management approach 34 and selecting highest governance body members G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed 55 ● G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 70 ● The highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s Wastewater G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 72 ● G4-42 56 ● purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts and Waste 71, 72, Business G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills ● Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and Report 266 G4-43 55, 56 ● social topics Identity, size, proteted status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and realted habitats significantly affected G4-EN26 70 ● The processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, by the organization's discharges of water and runoff G4-44 55, 56 ● environmental and social topics Products G4-DMA Management approach 22, 26 The highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, and Services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 24, 29 G4-45 56 ● ● risks, and opportunities 80 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Appendix Sustainability Management Index 81 Labor Practices and Decent Work Labor Practices and Decent Work G4-DMA Management approach 34 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover 65 ● Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, G4-LA5 69 ● Employment G4-LA2 67 ● Occupational committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs by significant locations of operation Health and Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 67 G4-LA6 69 ● ● Safety work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Labor/ManageMinimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in No regulations, but G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 36, 39 G4-LA4 68 ● ● ment Relations collective agreements notify the union G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 69 Diversity and Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according ● Equal OpportuG4-LA12 65 ● G4-DMA Management approach 44 to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity nity G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 47 ● Equal remunerTraining and Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant Business Report Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of ation for women G4-LA13 ● Education G4-LA10 45~47, 67 locations of operation 250~251 employees and assist them in managing career endings ● and men Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, Supplier AssessG4-LA11 66 ● ment for Labor G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken 58, 59 by gender and by employee category ● Practices Social Labor Pracitces G4-DMA Management approach 30, 34, 48 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Grievance MechG4-LA16 58, 59 ● mechanisms Local ComPercentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, anisms G4-SO1 49~51 ● munities and development programs Human Rights G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 70~73 ● Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of Investment G4-HR2 58 ● G4-DMA Management approach 40 human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained AntiCompetitive Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 59, Business Report NonG4-SO7 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No case ● Behavior and their outcomes 266 ● discrimination Freedom of Product Responsibility Association Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and G4-HR4 68 ● G4-DMA Management approach 26 and Collective collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Customer Bargaining Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are Health and G4-PR1 27~29 ● Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, assessed for improvement Child Labor G4-HR5 64 ● Safety and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health 27, Business Report G4-PR2 ● Forced of ComOperations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes 266 G4-HR6 64 ● pulsory Labor labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or Assessment G4-HR9 58 ● impact assessments Supplier Human G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 58 GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures – Other Disclosures ● Rights Assessment G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 59 ● References External Human Rights Category Index Indicators Contents Page and Reasons Verification Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal for Omissions Grievance G4-HR12 58 ● grievance mechanisms Mechanisms Economic Social G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 62~63 ● Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and Economic G4-SO3 58 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 30 ● ● the significant risks identified Performance Anti-Corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 58 G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 67 ● ● Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations Business Report G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 58 G4-EC5 ● Market of operation 250~251 ● Presence No donations to G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation 65 ● Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary political parties or ● Indirect politicians G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 51, 63 ● Economic Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance Business Report G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 63 Compliance G4-SO8 ● Impacts ● with laws and regulations 266 Environment Supplier Assessment for Impacts G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken 42, 58, 59 ● G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 71 ● on Society Raw Material G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 71 ● Grievance G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 70 Mechanisms Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal ● G4-SO11 58, 59 ● Water for Impacts on grievance mechanisms G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 70 ● Society monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance Business Report Product Responsibility Compliance G4-EN29 ● with environmental laws and regulations 45, 266, 267 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used G4-PR3 service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject 27 Transport G4-EN30 73 ● Product and ● for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. to such information requirements Service Labeling Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 69 ● Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Business Report G4-PR4 ● Supplier G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using enviromental criteria 35, 37 ● product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes 266 Environmental Customer Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of G4-EN33 significant actual and potential engative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 35, 37 G4-PR8 No case Assessment ● ● Privacy customer data EnvironmenMonetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning Business Report Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through Compliance G4-PR9 tal Grievance G4-EN34 42 ● ● the provision and use of products and services 266 formal grievance mechanisms Mechanisms 82 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Appendix Sustainability Management Index 83 ISO 26000(International Guideline on Social Responsibility) EICC(Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition) Core Subject Issue Page Category Page Category Page Organizational Governance Decision-making Process and Structure 65 CB CB1 Customer Designation 4, 5 FL7 Wage and Benefit 64, 66 Basic CB2 Company Contact Information 85 FL8 Humane Treatment 67, 68 Due Diligence 58, 59, 64, 68 Company Information CB3 Supplier Company’s Characteristics 4~15 FL9 Non-discrimination 64, 66 FL Human Rights Risk Situation 58, 59, 64, 68 Management Accountability on Labor FL10 Freedom of Association 68 CL1 58, 74, 75 Management Labor & Ethics FL11 Ethical Business Practices 58, 59 Avoidance of complicity 35, 37, 42, 58, 59, 64, 68 and Ethical CL CL2 Labor/Ethics Policy & Procedure 41, 58, 64 Conduct Facility Labor/Ethics Management Supplier FL12 58 Resolving Grievances 42, 58, 59 Labor/Ethics Management System 44~47, 58, 59, System Status Company’s CL3 Human Rights Characteristics Status 64~68, 74, 75 Labor/Ethics Management System Discrimination and Vulnerable Groups 64, 65, Business Reports 250-251 FL13 58, 59 Labor/Ethics Management System Elements CL4 58, 59 Elements Civil and Political Rights 68 FH1 Facility Contact information for HSE 74, 75, 85 Management Accountability and 69~72, Refer to CH CH1 HSE Management Accountability 69~72, Refer to Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights 51, 63 History on HSE business reports FH2 Health, and History Business Reports 64, 65, 68, Business Reports Safety, and CH2 HSE Policy and Procedures 27, 69 Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work FH3 HSE Policy and Procedures 35, 69 250-251 Environmental CH3 HSE Management System Status 27, 34~39, 70~72 Management FH4 Occupational Safety and Machines 35~37 58, 59, 65, 68, Business Reports CH4 HSE Management System Elements 27, 34~39, 69~72 Employment and Employment Relationships FH5 Emergency Preparedness 36 250-251 Customer Designation, Supplier FB1 Facility Contact Information, Supplier 4~15, 85 Occupational InjuryㆍIllness and Conditions of Work and Social Protection 67, Business Reports 250-251 FB FH6 36, 37, 39 Facility Characteristics Physically Demanding Work Basic Facility FH Labor Practices Social Dialogue 68 Information FB2 Contract Information on Suppliers 4~15, 63 Health, FH7 Industrial Hygiene 27, 29, 39 Safety, and FB3 Suppliers’ Characteristics 4~15, 63 Environmental FH8 Living Conditions 39, 67 Health and Safety at Work 36, 39, 69 Facility Contact Information for Labor (HSE) FH9 Environmental Permits 27, 29 FL1 85 Management Human Development and Training in the Workplace 45-47,66, 67 and Ethics FH10 Pollution Prevention 27, 29, 36, 37, 70~73 Management Accountability and 58, 59, Refer to FH11 Hazardous Substances 27, 36, 37, 72 Prevention of Pollution 24, 29, 70, 71, 72 FL FL2 History business reports Labor FH12 Wastewater & Solid Waste 38, 70~72 Sustainable Resource Use 24, 29, 31~33, 70, 71, 72, 73 Management FL3 Labor and Ethics Policy & Procedures 41, 42, 58, 64 Environment and Ethical FH13 Airborne Emissions 30~33, 38, 39, 71, 73 FL4 Freely Chosen Employment 64 Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation 24,29, 30, 31-33, 73 Conduct FH14 Product Content 26~29 FL5 Child Labor Prohibition 64 Protection of the Environment, Biodiversity and Restoration of Natural Habitats 70 FH15 Management System Status 27, 69 Compliance with FL6 Working Hours legal working hours FH16 Management System Elements 27, 29, 34~39 Anti-Corruption 58 Responsible Political Involvement Fair Operating Practices Fair Competition 59, Business Reports 266 Promoting Social Responsibility in the Value Chain 35, 37, 42, 58, 59, 63, 64, 68, 73 10 Principles of UN Global Compact Respect for Property Rights 59, 63, Business Reports 266 10 Principles Contents Page Fair Marketing, Factual and Unbiased information, and Fair Contractual Practices 27, 81 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection Based on LG Group’s principle of People-oriented Management, LG Chem advocates 58, 49~51, 64, 70~73 of internationally proclaimed human rights; and internationally declared human rights protection norms such as the UN Global Compact. Human Protecting Consumers’ Health and Safety 27-29, 81 Based on this, we protect labor rights at the company and strengthen the human rights Rights 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human item in the evaluation process of our suppliers, striving to manage and prevent human 58, 59 Sustainable Consumption 24, 27-29, 81 rights abuses. rights issues. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Consumer Issues Consumer Service, Support, and Complaint and Dispute Resolution 81 68 and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Consumer Data Protection and Privacy 81 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and LG Chem established a fair HR principle, provides equal opportunities and compensation 64 Access to Essential Services 63 Labor compulsory labor; to its employees, and complies with international conventions on the prohibition of child labor and forced labor. Education and Awareness 27, 81 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and 64 Community Involvement 62-63 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of 4, 47, 65, 66, 67, 81, Business employment and occupation. reports 250~251 Education and Culture 64 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach 24, 29, 30, 69~73 to environmental challenges; LG Chem follows GHG emission regulations and joins GHG reduction initiatives at home Employment Creation and Skill Development 45-47, 63, 65, 67 and abroad by setting up goals to reduce GHG emission and energy intensity in each Community Involvement Enviro8. undertake initiatives to promote greater operation. In addition, the company operates the Energy Committee and the Energy 30~39, 69~73 Technology Development and Access 22~25, 43 nment environmental 49 responsibility; and and Development Management System, and applies an eco-friendly system to all stages from product Wealth and Income Creation 51, 62, 63, 67, 65 9. encourage the development and diffusion of development to manufacturing. 24~29, 31~33, 69 environmentally friendly technologies. Health 27-29, 36, 39, 69 Since the declaration of Jeong-Do Management in 1995, LG Chem spares no effort to end AntiCorru10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its corruption by introducing the Compliance Program(CP) for fair trade, implementing the Social Investment 51, 62-63 forms, including extortion and bribery. Gift/Money Receipt Reporting System, strengthening the code of conduct, and carrying 16, 58, 59, Homepage ption out law-abiding activities by theme 84 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report 85 Membership of Organizations and Associations Organizations and Associations Korea Petrochemical Industry Korea Fair Competition Federation Korea Employers Federation Korea Battery Industry Association Association Business Institute for Sustainable Korea Economic Research Institute Korea Fire Safety Association Korea Information Display Society(KIDS) Development(BISD) of KCCI Korea Display Industry Association Korea Institute for Firm Contribution Korea Smart Grid Association Korea Chlor Alkali Industry Association Maekyung Safety &Environment Korea Technical Association of The Pulp LG Chem Korea Management Association Korean Society of Automotive Engineers Leaders Club and Paper Industry International Institute of Synthetic Korea Chemicals Management Korea Mecenat Association Korea Electronics Association Rubber Producers(IISRP) Association Federatin of Korean Industries Korea International Trade Association Korea Products Safety Association Korea Chemical Industry Council of KCCI 2014 Korea Business Council for Sustainable Korea Vinyl Environmental Council Korea Power Exchange Korea PC/BPA Council Development Korea AEO Association Korea Industrial Technology Association Korea Electric Engineers Association UNGC Korea Network Korea Association For Chief Financial Officers Korea Listed Companies Association S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2014 LG Chem Sustainability Report Awards & Recognitions Inquiry on Sustainability Report LG Twin Towers, 128, Yeoui-daero, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea LG Chem CSR Team Award Description Awarding Body Grand Prize at the Corporate Sustainability Management Award 2014 The Korea Economic Daily, EFC Tel 02-3773-0705 Fax 02-3773-7983 Dow Jones Sustainability Indices(DJSI), Asia Pacific & Korea S&P Dow Jones Indices, RobecoSAM E-mail csrteam@lgchem.com Carbon Disclosure Project(CDP) Awards : Sector Leader for Raw Materials CDP Korea www.lgchem.com 2014 Best Report Award in the Manufacturing Sector, KRCA Korea Standards Association 2014 Korea Good Company in Petrochemical Industry Korea Standards Association 2013 Best Disclosure Practice Company Korea Exchange Ministry of Science, ICT, and Future Planning, IR52 Jang Yeong-sil Award Korea Industrial Technology Association, Maeil Business Newspaper This report was printed using soy ink and The 28th Inchon Award of Science and Technology Division environmentally friendly paper certified by Inchon Memorial Foundation, Dong-A Ilbo (Jin-Nyoung Yoo, President, Leader of Research Park) Forest Stewardship Council (FSCTM) Ungbi, Order of Science and Technological Merit in ‘The INNOPOLIS 40th Anniversary’ Ministry of Science, ICT, and Future Planning, INNOPOLIS (Myung Hwan Kim, Executive Vice President, Leader of Battery R&D Center) Iron Tower, Order of Industrial Service Merit in Creation of jobs The Ministry of Employment and Labor (Minhwan Kim, Senior Vice President, CHO)
