GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2014 (TBSP) “Thai British Security Printing Public Company Limited (TBSP), an affiliated company of the Siam Cement Group (SCG) has been in the security printing business for more than thirty years. The company has strongly supported CSR programs and joined the UN Global Compact in year 2002. The company has realized the importance of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and will continue to support and ensure all the staff and related third parties will understand and always follow all the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact”. Vision Being a world class Security Solutions Provider in terms of Quality, Services and Productivity Missions 1. Expand new businesses to meet future market trend 2. Develop high value added products & services beyond customer’s expectation. 3. Strengthen overall supply chain management 4. Focus on people development to fit with TBSP’s strategy and direction 5. Support social and environmental responsibility Your sincerely, Mr. Natapong Pinitpongskul Managing Director Thai British Security Printing Public Company Limited, Thailand, COP for 2015 HUMAN RIGHTS Human Rights Principle 1. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. As a public company TBSP must respect the laws of Thailand which encompass the majority of the 30 Articles in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Apart from these regulations prescribed by law, the company tries to ensure the well being of staff in areas such as Health, Safety, Compensation, Development and Retirement. Medical facilities onsite. Periodic X Ray and Screening plus health education. TIS&OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety Free bus service Uniforms and protective clothing are provided Annual appraisal and review Profit sharing bonus Provident Scheme with matching contribution Emergency loans Air-conditioned working environment Annual leave in addition to 14 days national holidays Seminars and courses with overseas visitors TBSP has received National Safety Awards from Minister of Labour and Welfare in July 2015. This the forth year of the company to receive the award. 2. Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Apart from ensuring TBSP respects Human Rights and operates on a basis of fair treatment to its entire staff and others, TBSP tries to ensure that they do not indirectly enable or allow others to abuse Human Rights. In this respect TBSP will not knowingly deal with companies who abuse Human Rights especially in the area of child or forced labour. TBSP invited shareholders to visit Chitralada Villa Royal Residence and Museum, Parusakawan Palace in February 2015. LABOUR 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. The Company allows labour unions according to the Thai labour law. The Company continuously supports group activities such as Team Building, New Year Party, Small Group Activities, and Social Activities. In 2014, the company has encouraged the employees to attend the Thailand Kaizen Competition held by the Technology Promotion Association (Thailand-Japan) and one team has won the Bronze Award for Project Kaizen Category. TBSP Employees have won the Bronze Award Kaizen for Project Kaizen from Technology Promotion Association (Thailand-Japan) in August 2014. 4. Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Staff are selected based on their suitability for the work and education. Staff can resign when they like subject to notice period. All staff have a written contract of employment. Overtime is voluntary and extra payments are made for overtime and holiday working. Staff keep their ID documents. Termination of staff is in accordance with Thai labour laws. The company provides scholarships to the children of employees. The company will not use suppliers who use compulsory or child labour. 5. Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. There are no staff employed at TBSP below the age of 18 years and contractors are not permitted to bring under-aged children for employment on the site. Our Human Resources Department will check applicant’s ID prior to employment. The company will continue our support scholarships to the employees’ children from more than twenty families and have also provided scholarships to disadvantaged local children from the local schools to keep them at school. TBSP provided Scholarships to the children of employees in June 2015. 6. Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The company employs staff based on their suitability for that position. No discrimination is allowed regarding gender, religion or ethnic group. Women occupy positions at senior management level. Mrs. Boonsakorn Radomsuttigul Ms. Pattarajit Tantasuth Financial Controller Human Resource Director ENVIRONMENT 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. The company has worked with fifty nine alliances under the fifth Shred2Share Project with the same concept of “Keep Security for Data and Care for the Environment and Community”. The company will collect the used paper donated from alliances and shred them under secure and environmental friendly environment. The shredded paper will go to SCG Paper for recycling, and return go to buying necessary teaching and study kits for students from in Patrol Soldiers schools in Surin and Burirum provinces. This year, the company has brought eighty students from the schools to the Science Center for Education in Bangkok Planetarium to explore new experiences. Tthe company has brought eighty students from in Patrol Soldiers schools in Surin and Burirum provinces to the Science Center for Education in Bangkok Planetarium to explore new experiences in March 2014.. 8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. The management, CSR-TBSP Committee and employees have joined and promoted “CSR Growing Green Together” activity in conservation of mangroves to ensure their environmental benefits. TBSP have joined been a part of “CSR Growing Green Together” activity held by SCG paper and McKey Food Services (Thailand) Kerry and McDonald's Thai to plant 6,500 mangroves for conservation in October 2014. 9. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The company uses energy saving technology in production where heating and cooling is required. Insulation for energy conservation and recycling of waste materials is encouraged. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. TBSP has a board of eleven directors elected by shareholders, who meet quarterly. There are four independent directors on the board. At each AGM one third of the directors retire by rotation. Separate Executive, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees report to the board. The company, as far as possible, operates a principle of dual control with checks and balances. The chairman and CEO are two separate positions. Two signatures on cheques and company documents are required and two staff at supplier meetings. Both internal and external auditors are used for financial, operational, environmental and security checks. The Company Code of Ethics is provided in two languages. And the company published the company’s Anti-corruption Policy in the company’s website “ www.tbsp.co.th”. TBSP has received Honorable National Anti Corruption Commission / NACC Integrity Awards 2013 from the President of National Anti-Corruption Commission in December 2014.
