Colleagues, Consumers, Citizenship. COLLEAGUES, CONSUMERS, CITIZENSHIP. STRAUSS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 04 22 CONSUMERS: OUR SECOND DEGREE OF IMPACT FROM OUR LEADERSHIP Progress against our strategic commitments .....24 06 Understanding consumer preferences .....26 07 44 STRAUSS GROUP Meeting diverse food needs .....31 AT A GLANCE Innovating for healthy lifestyles .....34 09 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 2020 Engaging consumers in healthy lifestyle activities .....38 10 PERFORMANCE AGAINST CITIZENSHIP: OUR THIRD DEGREE OF IMPACT OUR STRATEGY IN 2014 Progress against our strategic commitments .....46 Sustainable supply base .....47 COLLEAGUES: OUR FIRST DEGREE OF IMPACT Environmental impacts .....52 Progress against our strategic commitments .....12 Environmental innovation .....56 66 Overall colleagues performance summary .....14 Strauss in the community .....59 Employee engagement .....15 6264 Employee development .....18 2014 SUSTAINABILITY Employee safety and wellbeing .....20 PERFORMANCE GRI G4 DATA TABLES UN GLOBAL COMPACT CONTENT INDEX ABOUT THIS REPORT This is Strauss Group's eighth annual Sustainability our materiality assessment which was revised in acts to increase the level of business transparency Report and it describes our approach to sustainability 2013, and our 2020 Sustainability Strategy. Both our through sustainability reporting. The G4 guidelines Materiality (the issues most important for our We do not seek external assurance for our report. Thank you for your interest in this report. We and the key actions we have taken during 2014 to materiality assessment and Sustainability Strategy are considered to be the most advanced sustainability long-term business growth and which are of Instead, we rely on the integrity of our robust welcome your feedback and suggestions for advance responsible and sustainable practices in our were developed using feedback and insights from reporting framework available today, used by many most importance to stakeholders), Stakeholder internal scrutiny and auditing of our data monitoring future reporting. Please contact our Global global business against our strategic commitments stakeholders, especially employees, consumers of the thousands of companies that publish annual Inclusiveness (responding to stakeholder and collection processes. Additionally, external Sustainability Director: and 2020 targets. and a wide range of food and health professionals. sustainability reports. This report also complies with expectations and interests), Sustainability Context consultants and reporting experts assist in our our commitment to submit an annual Communication (presenting our performance in the wider context of report preparation and challenge our data where Daniela Prusky-Sion Data in this report relates to the 2014 calendar This is our second report that is written in accordance on Progress to the UN Global Compact. sustainability issues) and Completeness (inclusion relevant prior to finalizing our published disclosures. daniela.sion@strauss-group.com year unless otherwise stated. Our last report was with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 of all the information that reflects significant Additional information about Strauss Group and published in 2014, covering data from 2013. The sustainability reporting guidelines (core option). GRI is This report adopts the principles for defining report economic impacts in order to enable stakeholders companies within the Group can be found on our selection of content for this report was driven by a not-for-profit, multi-stakeholder organization which content set out in the G4 guidelines. These are: to assess our performance). global corporate website, www.strauss-group.com. MESSAGE FROMOUR LEADERSHIP For us at Strauss Group, the choice to run our of many elements. It starts with our influence on food tech entrepreneurship that will benefit I am proud and honored to present Strauss as well as products that integrate special the commitment of our Board of Directors, business on the basis of values of sustainability, people's dietary lifestyles but expands to include food manufacturers as they seek to provide Group's eighth annual Sustainability Report, dietary needs such as gluten-free; and fun and Group Management and our executive teams ethics and transparency is a way of life, part of our influence on the value chain as a whole. a response to future demands for good food. which covers all of our operations worldwide. indulgence products that provide moments around the world to driving sustainable the way we do business and the cornerstone Influence through employment, through the As a result, together with the Chief Scientist This report is part of our perpetual commitment of enjoyment that, even as part of a healthy, practices throughout the Group. for building trust with all our stakeholders. Our messages we communicate in our advertising, in Israel this year we launched a food tech to maintaining transparency as far as our global nutritious lifestyle, consumers do not want to 8th Sustainability Report, which we are proud through our pricing policy, through making our incubator, which will serve as a home for food businesses' impact on society, the economy give up. to present, illustrates the progress we have products accessible to population groups with tech entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs engaging and the environment is concerned, and I am made in managing the environmental, social special needs, and more. in technologies that support the food industry. proud that each year, we have succeeded in Our Sustainability Strategy for 2020 sets bold and economic impacts of the Group and its making yet another great stride in the quality targets for Strauss Group while committing business operations. In addition to managing all of our impacts, we In addition, as an international Group and applicability of our reporting practices. us to do more as we conduct our business in Gadi Lesin, at Strauss have chosen to focus our efforts on we are continuously working to align our Chief Executive Officer, Strauss Group a responsible and sustainable manner. The role that business plays in the lives of the advancement of two key aspects: The first is management practices with the expectations Businesswise, in 2014, the year covered by We are driving resource efficiencies, investing people is evolving continuously. As businesses gender balance, diversity and inclusion. We are of our stakeholders. We are investing in the this report, Strauss Group maintained a stable in our people, supporting food industry return to basic values, the perceptions of the promoting this perception within the Group in development of our Company in sustainable business world held by the various stakeholder international position with sales of more than innovation and engaging with consumers in our recruitment, employment and promotion channels as we continue to cultivate our roots, groups – those groups which influence policies, while simultaneously investing efforts in $2 billion and a global team of more than ways that were never possible in the past. We which are deeply implanted in the values of our and are influenced by our activities – are furthering dialogue and the issue outside of the 14,000 people. understand that we are still at a relatively early founders. This sustainability report reflects our changing too. And as perceptions change, Group through building partnerships with social stage in our journey and that much needs to commitment to improving people's lives, as our so do expectations. The expectations of our organizations and other business firms taking We continue to observe three broad be done to integrate new ways of working vision statement declares. I view it as yet another consumers, investors, partners, customers and action to promote equal opportunity, diversity consumption trends that guide much of our throughout our entire group. Strauss Group milestone on the journey we have undertaken. suppliers for transparency, for better service and and economic empowerment, particularly of product development and marketing efforts: includes diverse businesses with different products and for an economic contribution are women. The second is improving people's lives convenience products that offer quick, highoperational models, and gaining alignment rising from one year to the next, and they are by investing in innovation, entrepreneurship in quality and time-saving nutrition solutions to within our strategic direction from the aspect constantly demanding that we become better, food-related areas in a way that will help the be consumed anywhere; health and wellness of sustainability means that in some areas we and do things better. At Strauss, we perceive our entire food industry in Israel, and even in the products, with an emphasis on improving the are moving more slowly than we would like, main role as improving the quality of people's world, to benefit from new solutions and better Ofra Strauss, taste of healthy foods, providing a response to while in others, we have made good progress. lives, as quality of life and wellbeing are made up products, first-rate, available technologies, and Chairperson the growing demand for low-sugar products, This Sustainability Report is the reflection of 4| |5 STRAUSS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY AT A GLANCE STRATEGY 2020 In 2013, we introduced our Sustainability Three degrees 51 STRAUSS GROUP SALES Strategy 2 0 20 that was founded of impact BY REGION, 2014 % upon a set of core material impacts identified through extensive stakeholder [ $1,061 MILLION ] engagement. In this report, we share our ISRAEL progress and performance in this first year of our strategy implementation. 18 22 CITIZENSHIP % % Our Sustainability Strategy 2020 has two [ $458 MILLION ] main building blocks: degrees of impact and BRAZIL levels of performance. Degrees of impact 9 [ $387 MILLION] reflect the progression of our impacts on EUROPE AND REST OF WORLD % CONSUMERS different stakeholder groups and the degree [ $187 MILLION ] to which we are in a direct position to create U.S. positive value. This starts with the most direct relationship we have with our own employees – colleagues – through whom we STRAUSS VISION Strauss Group is a food and beverage includes Israel's largest public companies, are able to reach all our other stakeholder company, dedicated to enriching and and earns an AA+ credit rating from Ma'alot, improving people's lives through our fresh, a Standard and Poor's affiliate. Our brands COLLEAGUES groups – consumers and society in general. In three priority areas, consumer wellbeing, delicious, nutritious, and innovative products. Our portfolio of five companies provides a include market leaders in several countries and categories and improve the lives of CREATING WONDERS employee wellness and supplier diversity, we aspire to achieve leading performance response to two leading trends in food and millions of consumers each day. OUT OF BASICS in line with the best that can be expected beverage consumption: Health & Wellness, of an international company in our sector. and Fun & Indulgence. We are headquartered At Strauss Group, we have always placed Each area of our strategy is backed by STRAUSS VALUES in Israel, active in 24 countries, and, in 2014, great value in partnerships, believing them specific objectives and targets. Our first Strauss Group generated $2,093 million in to be a sustainable platform for expanding year performance is described in the three Me consolidated sales. our offering for the benefit of our consumers d main sections of this report: colleagues, around the world. We partner with respected, CARING AND DARING a consumers and citizenship. In some cases, et | E Le We employ 12,792 direct employees, and leading-edge multinational corporations we are still developing our longer range plans x c ee d | indirectly provide employment and economic such as Danone, PepsiCo, Haier, Virgin and to deliver against our objectives and data is opportunity for many contracted employees, TPG, and with local leading players such as PASSION AND not yet available regarding our performance. franchisees, independent distributors Sao Miguel, Yotvata and Yad Mordechai, to and thousands of business partners and deliver quality, innovative products which RESPONSIBILITY Some targets have been modified since we first published our strategy in 2013 to reflect suppliers around the world. Strauss Group offer healthy choices and contribute to Three levels of improved planning as we start to measure is traded on the Tel Aviv 25 Index, which sustainable lifestyles. TEAM performance our performance. 6| |7 THE SIX MATERIAL IMPACTS THAT PERFORMANCE AGAINST KEY ON TRACK FORM THE FOUNDATION FOR OUR OUR STRATEGY IN 2014 IMPROVING SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 2020 ARE: WORK IN PROGRESS STRATEGIC COMMITMENT BASELINE YEAR (2013) 2014 RESULT PROGRESS Achieve a rate of 50% of global management positions held by women 39% 40% by end 2020. Engage more employees in wellness and wellbeing activities throughout Data is not available for 2014. Each Strauss Group subsidiary currently develops the organization. local plans for employee wellness and data is not collated globally. We expect to report performance against a new plan in 2016. Maintain employee engagement above 80%. Our next engagement survey will be in 2015. Reduce work injury rate to no more than 3 injuries per 100 employees by 2020. 4.46 3.35 Reduce lost days due to injury rate to no more than 40 lost days per 100 91.48 65.32 employees by 2020. Improve consumer wellbeing through increased sales of products with a These targets require a step change in our performance and the establishment ADVANCING HEALTHY PRODUCT TRANSPARENCY & REDUCING RESOURCE healthy lifestyle advantage by 15% by 2020. of global plans, measurement systems and data collection infrastructure. This process started in 2014 and is likely to continue through 2015. We expect to LIFESTYLES RESPONSIBLE MARKETING CONSUMPTION & WASTE Offer more product variants to meet specific dietary needs in our top 10 selling brands by 2020. have data available in calendar year 2016 and will report progress in our 2016 Sustainability Report. improving quality of life for helping consumers make preserving Engage consumers in healthy lifestyle activities through each Strauss our colleagues and consumers. informed choices. the planet. Group company, reaching 10 million consumers by 2020. Meet all regulatory requirements in all markets. We incurred no significant fines or regulatory sanctions in 2013 / 2014. Continuously improve our accessibility and service level for customers 85% of consumers confirmed our 83% of consumers confirmed our and consumers. service is excellent or very good in service is excellent or very good in response to their queries in 2013. response to their queries in 2014. Engage in a global strategic flagship social partnership, with a multi-year These targets require a step change in our performance and the establishment commitment to improve healthy lifestyle practices. of global plans, measurement systems and data collection infrastructure. This Increase spend with women-owned suppliers and increase the number of process started in 2014 and is likely to continue through 2015. We expect to women-owned suppliers by 15% by 2020 (2014 baseline). have data available in calendar year 2016 and will report progress in our 2016 Sustainability Report. Increase sustainable sourcing of top 5 global food ingredients by 15% by end 2020. Operationalize at least three significant innovative product technologies that improve sustainable and healthy lifestyle choices by 2020. Reduce consumption by 15% per ton of product by end 2020. Energy 3.78 3.49 ETHICAL SUPPLY DIVERSITY IN ENGAGING OUR Water 3.54 3.12 CHAIN EVERYTHING WE DO EMPLOYEES Packaging materials 0.106 (2014) managing social and supporting innovation, creativity aligning our organization to Reduce greenhouse gas emissions per ton of product by 15% by 2020. 0.39 0.30 environmental risk. and inclusive opportunity. meet sustainability goals. Reduce landfill waste per ton of product by 15% by end 2020 0.025 0.032 (baseline 2015). 8| |9 COLLEAGUES: { OUR FIRST DEGREE OF IMPACT We seek to make a positive difference in the lives of our employees, so that they will be empowered to contribute to our success. We do this by creating an inclusive workplace, investing in personal and professional development, health and wellbeing and ensuring a vibrant open dialogue within the company. We believe that our investment in providing an empowering, values-based workplace will translate into improved second and third degree impacts – the way employees support consumers and customers and our overall citizenship objectives. PROGRESS AGAINST OUR STRATEGIC KEY ON TRACK COMMITMENTS IMPROVING WORK IN PROGRESS STRATEGIC COMMITMENT BASELINE YEAR(2013) 2014 RESULT PROGRESS G4 INDICATOR Achieve a rate of 50% of global 39% 40% G4-LA12 management positions held by women by end 2020 *. Engage more employees in wellness Data is not available for 2014. Each Strauss Group and wellbeing activities throughout company develops local plans for employee wellness the organization. and data is not yet collated globally. We expect to report performance against a new plan in 2016. Maintain employee engagement G4-LA1 above 80%. Our next engagement survey will be in 2015. G4-LA10 G4-LA11 Reduce work injury rate to no more than 3 injuries per 100 employees 4.46 3.35 G4-LA6 by 2020. Reduce lost days due to injury rate to no more than 40 lost days per 91.48 65.32 G4-LA6 100 employees by 2020. * Data excludes operations in Brazil for 2014 due to change in management grading system. 12 | | 13 OVERALL COLLEAGUES PERFORMANCE SUMMARY EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT THROUGH HUMAN RESOURCES Total employees at year end Employees on permanent contracts Temporary contract employees G4 G4-10 UNIT Number % % 2012 12,182 98% 2% 2013 12,556 95% 5% 2014 12,792 96% 4% ENGAGEMENT ADVANCING WOMEN Employee engagement is important to our business as our employees are the first point In 2012, we launched a group-wide program Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements G4-11 % 47% 46% 49% of contact with our customers and influence the impact we have on consumers through with a goal of reaching gender balance in Women in total workforce G4-LA12 % 43% 41% 40% our products and diverse activities in our markets. We aim for a culture where employees our management levels with a target of 50 Women employees in management positions % 38% 39% 40% percent women in management. During 2014, align with our organizational values, including sustainable and responsible business Employees below age 30 % 32% 44% 30% practices, and go beyond expectation to deliver the best outcomes for our stakeholders. our working groups focused on identifying Employees aged 30 50 % 55% 46% 57% Employee engagement embraces an open and caring culture, employee recognition and potential women managers and developing Employees above age 50 % 13% 10% 13% acknowledgement and our aim to achieve a diverse and inclusive organization. Each of specific development plans for them. In 2014, Employee new hires G4-LA1 Number 3,670 4,345 3,737 our Strauss Group companies implements plans to support employee engagement and for example, this included a new leadership Employee leavers Number 4,113 4,147 3,539 our Sustainability Strategy includes employee engagement and gender diversity targets. program with 40% participation of women 50% managers. In 2015, these women managers Employee turnover % 34% 33% 28% are participating in a mentoring program Employee performance reviews G4-LA11 % 18% 26% 27% with additional training support. In addition, Salary ratio of women to men (managers) G4-LA14 % 100% 96% 97% Our global target we continued to define and analyze trends Salary ratio of women to men (non-managers) G4-LA13 % 87% 86% 93% for women in in our management data to identify new management opportunities, improve career and succession SAFETY G4 UNIT 2012 2013 2014 positions in Strauss planning to maximize opportunities for women and revise our recruitment guidelines to Number of injuries G4-LA6 Injuries 581 529 406 Group. ensure women always have equal opportunity. 40% Number of lost days due to injury Days 12,787 10,855 7,915 In addition, we incorporated our actions to Number of absenteeism days Days N/A N/A 76,876 advance women in reviews to the Boards of Injury rate per 100 employees Rate 4.96 4.46 3.35 all the companies in Strauss Group. They have Lost day rate per 100 employees Rate 109.24 91.48 65.32 all confirmed this is an essential element of Absenteeism rate per 100 employees Rate N/A N/A 4.31 In 2014, 40% of our sustainable organizational development. management positions were Noga Segev Nadir, Talent Management held by women. Director, Strauss Group 14 | | 15 ENGAGEMENT WITH DIVERSITY IN ENGAGEMENT THROUGH 86% DIVERSITY AWARD STRAUSS ISRAEL LEADERSHIP AT STRAUSS ‫בעצמי הביטוח הלאומי המרכז להכשרה‬ Creating a truly diverse organization is a long-term and ongoing‫הנכים‬ effort. ‫מאבק‬There ‫ערבי‬-‫היהודי‬ ‫ מטה‬are ‫המרכז‬ communities ‫קריירה‬ ‫ושיקום מקצועי טק‬ ‫ישראל‬ Manpower that have traditionally not gained full representation in Israeli companies for a range of reasons. WATER Our focus has been to target advancement of three groups that2000 we believe ‫לפיתוח כלכלי‬ ‫עולים ביחד‬improved ‫ ציונות‬deserve Following our 2013 organizational survey, in 2014, we addressed concerns that were expressed Employee representation, including opportunities for promotion to management,UJA-Federation of New Yorkwomen, in our company: ‫קו משווה תבת‬ ‫ ג'וינט ישראל‬,‫מיסודה של תבת‬ members of the orthodox Jewish community and employees from the Arab community in Israel. by employees relating to leadership, communications and involvement. While our overall engagement at We have realized that diversity does not happen by chance – we need to be proactive. In 2014, In 2014, Strauss Group was engagement is strong and reflects the confidence employees have in Strauss Water's business Strauss Water potential, we recognized the opportunity to do more. Improving the connection between our for the first time, we set ambitious targets for hiring and promoting women, orthodox Jews and honored to receive the inaugural leadership capabilities and the day-to-day engagement levels of our employees was the key (2013 survey) Israeli Arabs. We made some headway, though we fell short of the targets we set ourselves Dov Lautman Diversity Award for our commitment to promoting to our plan of action. We focused on building the skills of senior level managers in targeted which was disappointing. We continue our efforts to adapt the organization to ensure we give workplace diversity. The award programs to reinforce leadership capabilities. An example of this was a cross-organizational full and equal opportunity to all our employees while making the necessary adjustments to was made by Maala (Business CEO-led program that involved managers so that they acquire new skills while delivering accommodate individuals from different backgrounds. for Social Responsibility) and tangible benefits to the business. the Israeli Forum for Diversity Tami Hay Yosef, Director, HR Shared Services, Strauss Israel Hiring, noting the way Strauss 40 12 advances women in management Ayelet Shrem, Global Organizational Development Director, Strauss Water and creates opportunities for Employees Managers underrepresented populations such as the orthodox Jews and who are from the the Arab communities in Israel. practising Arab orthodox community Jews in Israel 16 | | 17 EMPLOYEE 2 DEVELOPING EMPLOYEES AT STRAUSS ISRAEL DEVELOPMENT In 2014, we introduced two new programs for employees that empower them to grow and develop within the organization and enhance their professional capabilities. The first is a platform to help employees manage their own careers by identifying the skills they need to move into their next role and In Strauss Israel, As our business is constantly developing and growing, so our employees must constantly adapt, helping them acquire these skills. As we aim to promote from within wherever possible, employees are we advanced 2 learn and develop in our dynamic business environment. We support the development and growth encouraged to be proactive about meeting their own career objectives. In turn, this helps us identify potential talent and loop them in to career development plans more effectively. The second program main programs of our employees so that they can contribute at their best and continue to find new challenges in their work. At the same time, we maintain an agile organization that can meet new challenges and was designed to provide a boost to the development of professional skills and knowledge in core areas to support the demands from our markets. such as sales, marketing, technology, and manufacturing. This included certification programs for line professional 25 employees in manufacturing, for example, offering them the opportunity to deepen their expertise and gain acknowledgement from their managers and colleagues. growth and DEVELOPING LEADERS Rotem Kahani, Director of Organizational Development and Learning, Strauss Israel development of our employees. We continue to invest in embedding the new leadership and core competency model (MOVE: Me, Others, Vision, Execution ) that we introduced in 2013 throughout Strauss Group. Organizational change takes time to evolve, and each year, we reinforce our commitment and advance our program in different ways. In 2014, we completed a new leadership program for the Future Strauss Group development of 25 future Strauss leaders over a period of nine months. The program included diverse tools and techniques such as workshops, 360 degrees evaluation and mentoring. leaders participated The program also devoted significant time to our Strauss values and the way our values are in a nine-month embedded in the way we work. Alongside the development of values and professional skills, program to help them leadership competencies are critical to our sustainable success as a business. realize their leadership potential. Noga Segev Nadir, Talent Management Director, Strauss Group 18 | | 19 EMPLOYEE 17 STRAUSS ISRAEL SALES SAFETY 3.5 PERFORMANCE 2011-2014 LOST SAFETY AND 3 TIME INJURY RATE 2.5 2.9 The number of lost time 2 WELLBEING injuries in Strauss Israel 1.5 Sales Division in 2014 versus 38 in 2011. 1 1.04 0.91 0.84 0.5 0.84 Providing a safe work environment for our employees and supporting employee wellbeing is important for the continuity of our business and for the thousands of individuals that work at Strauss 0 Group and their families. In terms of safety, we employ trained safety officers at all factories and maintain an intensive pace of safety communications and workshops in all parts of the business. We 2011 2012 2013 2014 86% conduct regular safety and ergonomic audits, identify hazards and take corrective action. At some locations, we employ a physician who provides medical consultations and advice for employees. In addition to safety, we are also attentive to the overall wellbeing of employees and maintain several CARING FOR EMPLOYEES programs to help employees stay healthier and fitter, manage stress and the challenges of work-life The lost time injury rate balance. Through inevitable transitions that result from business restructuring, we make every effort in Strauss Israel Sales to assist employees and their families. Division in 2014 versus THROUGH TRANSITION 2.9 in 2011. (Injuries per 100,000 hours worked) SAFETY IN THE SALES UNIT In 2014, we supported employees through a restructuring program that During our factory restructuring at involved converting the Strauss Water WaterBar assembly plant into a logistics Sales people and merchandisers are out in the field every day, working in different environments at Strauss Water, 86% of employees 73% customer premises and exposed to sometimes unexpected safety risks. Employees need reminding site. Our objective during this program was to provide comprehensive support to employees so as to avoid redundancies. We provided employees with around were successfully transitioned into of the principles of safe physical work such as lifting boxes and how to work safely when exposed to the cold temperatures of refrigerators. In 2012, we undertook a plan to embed safety at all levels 7 months' advance notice of the change, and met individually with every new roles. of our sales operations and include safety within our sales objectives, elevating safety to the same employee to understand their personal and professional needs. We provided level as sales performance for all our sales personnel. We established a comprehensive program of assistance packages that included vocational retraining, outplacement training, safety and ergonomic risk assessments, field visits, nominating safety officers for different services, financial support and offers of alternative work at other Strauss sites in sales units and very senior management personal involvement. We also supplied sales staff with Israel. The outcome was that 86% of employees successfully transitioned into protective clothing such as shoes, gloves etc. An example of another simple change was to provide new roles in Strauss Group. The remaining 14% chose to leave the company 73% of Strauss Israel 150 ladders for use by merchandisers to prevent falls that occurred when using chairs or crates to with generous severance packages. This process reflected a key Strauss Group value of caring for employees in challenging business circumstances. field sales staff reach high shelves. Within 3 years, we have improved against all our objectives. We started with 38 injuries in 2011 and this reduced to just 17 very minor injuries in 2014. While there is still more to underwent intensive do, we feel we have changed the working culture and that safety is far more a way of life. training in safety Galit Eldar, HR Director, Core Units & Strauss Water China, procedures in 2014. Sharon Baruch, Operations Manager, Strauss Israel Sales Division Strauss Water 20 | | 21 CONSUMERS: { OUR SECOND DEGREE OF IMPACT We seek to make a positive difference in the lives of our consumers and help create a healthier, more sustainable society. We do this through delivering new and more nutritious food products, providing diverse food choices and engaging consumers in greater nutritional awareness. Our activities in this area include regulatory compliance in our supply chain, meeting product quality and availability standards, consultation with food and health professionals in our product development processes and engaging in marketing and consumer outreach to enable consumers to make informed and healthy choices. PROGRESS AGAINST OUR STRATEGIC KEY COMMITMENTS ON TRACK IMPROVING WORK IN PROGRESS STRATEGIC COMMITMENT BASELINE YEAR 2014 RESULT PROGRESS G4 INDICATOR Improve consumer wellbeing G4-EC8 through increased sales of products with a healthy lifestyle advantage by 15% by 2020. These targets require a step change in our performance and the establishment of global plans, measurement systems and data Offer more product variants to collection infrastructure. This process started in 2014 and is likely to FP6 meet specific dietary needs in our continue through 2015. We expect to have data available in calendar FP7 top 10 selling brands by 2020. year 2016 and will report progress in our 2016 Sustainability Report. Engage consumers in healthy FP4 lifestyle activities through each Strauss Group company, reaching 10 million consumers by 2020. Meet all regulatory requirements We incurred no significant fines or regulatory sanctions in 2013 / 2014. G4-PR3 in all markets. G4-PR5 Continuously improve our 85% of consumers confirmed our 83% of consumers confirmed our G4-PR7 accessibility and service level for service is excellent or very good in service is excellent or very good in customers and consumers. response to their queries in 2013. response to their queries in 2014. 24 | | 25 UNDERSTANDING CONSUMER PREFERENCES We integrate our diverse consumer needs and preferences in our product development processes, conducting extensive research through many NEW HEALTHIER EXPANDING OUR PRODUCT OFFERING TO INCLUDE MORE different channels and communicating with consumers where they are – whether this is in the home or the store, via TV, radio, our corporate website and blogs or multiple social media platforms. We also consult widely with food and health professionals – nutritionists, dieticians, health regulators and more – in order to benefit from the most current guidance in line with market trends, consumer demands and broader healthy PRODUCT HEALTHY PRODUCTS In 2014, we introduced several new products that lifestyle objectives in our different countries of operation. CHOICES help consumers create interest and variety for healthy food lifestyles. FOOD & ALIGNING FOOD PRODUCT Over the past ten years, we have been working PROFILES FOR HEALTHY CONSUMER HEALTHY LIFESTYLES ARE PART OF THE FOOD VALUE EQUATION across all our categories to improve the nutritional Consumers are adapting to the “no” trend (no sugar, no sodium, values of our products in the market and develop LIFESTYLES no food coloring) while seeking more natural products and fewer TRENDS new products that help consumers maintain In 2014, we introduced our four-fold approach to processed foods. Functional foods with benefits to health are a plus. healthier food lifestyles: balance, control, energy a balanced and healthy lifestyle that is full of great tastes and positive food experiences. In and enriched foods. ,500 TONS CONSUMERS WILL NOT COMPROMISE ON TASTE & INDULGENCE recent years, we started a program of revising In 2014, we identified four main global consumer food trends that have a strong influence on the way consumers choose our products. In Israel, Consumers seek indulgence and quality ingredients, new and different taste combinations, new textures and innovative presentation of the formulations of all our products to reduce less healthy ingredients. Alongside this , we 1REDUCTION IN ADDED REDUCED SUGAR, FAT AND SALT IN OUR LEGACY AND NEW SUGAR we became aware of more specific themes. Our food products. channeled our product development efforts into creating innovative products such as healthy PRODUCTS 250 separate consumer research programs in vegetable snacks and bite-size rice cakes to meet In 2014, we continued to make headway in lowering 2014, reaching more than 80,000 consumers, FOOD PRODUCTS SHOULD OFFER CONVENIENCE & SAVE TIME emerging healthy snacking habits. More recently, sugar, fat and salt content in a wide range of products provided a range of insights, and we also scanned Consumers want food that meets their new busy lifestyles. This we have adopted a holistic approach so that we including soft cheeses, potato chips, milk beverages published research and other sources. For includes snacking, on-the-go food, high quality ready-made meals can help consumers integrate their eating habits and hummus. In the past 3 years, we have reduced consumers, maximum value at minimum price and more – but no compromises on quality, health and taste. with healthier lifestyle practices in four key ways around 1,500 tons of added sugar in a wide range was a leading consumer message that influenced that are more closely aligned with the trends we BETWEEN of dairy products, such as Activia with fruit, Danone our approach. At the same time, consumers are THE ENVIRONMENTAL CONSCIENCE OF CONSUMERS IS GROWING see in the market: balance, control, energy and BETWEEN 15-35% with fruit, Actimel, chilled desserts, childrens willing to pay higher prices for products they 15-35% LESS Consumers are willing to pay a certain premium for ethical and enriched foods. ADDED cheese desserts and products under the Daniela consider healthier. LESS green products. According to published research in 2014, 22% of ADDED SUGAR brand. This reduction in added sugar of between SUGAR consumers in Israel report they purchase green products compared 15% and 35% is almost double the reduction of our Lia Yaacov, Market Research, Strauss Israel with 10% in 2012. Amali Messika, Chief Dietitian, Strauss Israel ACTIVIA CHOCOLATE BEVERAGES main competitor, during the same period of time. 26 | | 27 Strauss WaterBar BALANCE DRINKING MORE customers confirm 86 In 2014, we introduced several new products that enable consumers to gain greater nutritional balance in their food habits. For example, we launched a 99 calorie yogurt with no artificial or natural sweeteners, and a ready-to-eat corn on the cob with no preservatives or added sugar. We also launched a new baby kale salad ingredient that is high in fiber and rich in vitamins. Additionally, WATER % their families drink more water we started distributing PepsiCo's Quaker oatmeal in Israel, offering local consumers greater since they have a choice and health benefits. Also in 2014, we launched a new category of ready-to-eat legume WaterBar. In 2014, we conducted consumer research and quinoa salads making these healthy ingredients more accessible for consumers. At the same with 500 users of our Strauss WaterBar in Israel time, we introduced Israeli consumers to our new whole-wheat pita crunch for healthy snacking. about their water-drinking habits. In recent CONTROL years, we have seen a dramatic move from sweetened beverages to water in Western Strauss WaterBar In 2014, we introduced many new products that provide calorie-control and portion-control countries, while, in Eastern countries we have customers confirm to aid consumers to take charge of how much they consume. For example, we expanded our observed a move to bottled or filtered water due their families drink 81% assortment of the ravioli single-portion ready-meals and expanded our bite-size rice cakes to include flavors for kids as a healthy alternative for snacking. We also introduced new bottled Tahini to the poor quality of tap water. Both trends less sweetened and are motivated by health. Our WaterBars meet Sauces with lower calories and less fat than alternative dips and spreads as well as a new line of consumers' need for healthy and safe water carbonated beverages light confitures under our Yad Mordechai brand with no added sugar and no artificial sweeteners. to drink while providing an environmentally since they have a Additionally, we launched lower fat Yotvata cooking and sour creams for greater control in how consumers cook, bake and eat. responsible solution that avoids the resources WaterBar. and waste associated with plastic bottles. Not ENERGY only this, our research shows that when you have a WaterBar, you drink more. And that's In 2014, we achieved an further reduction in sugar levels in our Yotvata Chocolate Drink, expanded a great habit to adopt for healthy lifestyles. Strauss Strauss our lower calorie chocolate bar range and added new products to our Energy brand snack bars for WaterBar customers nutritional and calorie controlled snacks. confirm their ENRICHED FOODS In 2014, we continued to promote our Yotvata milk that is enriched to contain 30% of the recommended daily calcium consumption in each glass. Shira Bankhalter, Marketing Manager, Strauss Water Israel 83% children drink more water since they have a WaterBar. One of the main challenges we continually face is making our products healthier in ways that do not affect taste Strauss WaterBar or costs. Consumers want great taste, healthy nutritional profiles and affordable value-based pricing. Achieving customers confirm consumer demands without compromising on any of these elements requires years of development and trialing of that parents 82 % new product formulations. This is the new normal for our customers. They do not want to buy products because they are healthier. They want to buy products they love and which taste fantastic, while knowing that we have taken care of drink more water the health and nutritional aspects. We score no additional points with our consumers for this approach. It's just what since they have a we need to as our contribution to healthier living as we continue to grow our business. WaterBar. Zion Balas, CEO, Strauss Israel 28 | | 29 HUMMUS FOR HEALTH MORE HUMMUS, BETTER HEALTH MEETING DIVERSE FOOD NEEDS Consumers of chickpeas/hummus had healthier diets and better nutrient intake, In 2014, the first manuscript to show an association between increased nutrient intake and and were less likely to be obese and have improved diet quality in chickpea and hummus consumers was published. We provided funding poor glucose control, compared to those for this research so that we could have a solid base of science and understanding of the role who did not include chickpeas/hummus and benefit that hummus and chickpeas can provide in healthy diet patterns. The results were As a global business, one of the challenges we face is meeting the various and diverse needs of in their diet. of course highly encouraging for Sabra, the largest hummus brand in the United States. Studies our consumers and their individual preferences. Our ambition is to be as inclusive and accessible in the U.S. show that 9 out of 10 Americans don’t eat enough vegetables each day, including as possible in our different markets, expanding our presence and the choices we offer to different MORE HUMMUS, 1 nutrient-rich beans associated with reduced risk of chronic diseases and conditions such as consumers across our product categories. We need to account for local tastes and consumption cardiovascular disease, diabetes, inflammatory diseases and more. Almost all of our products under our Sabra and Obela brands in the U.S. and Mexico are plant-based, providing nonMORE VITAMINS habits as well as different dietary frameworks that people observe for religious or health reasons. We see a link between lifestyle choices and food consumption and we aim to improve our portfolio ST dairy alternatives for consumers as substitutes for cheese, butter or other high-fat spreads, of products to support healthier lifestyles. For the past ten years we have been improving the and almost all our products are gluten-free. Our hummus products have no added sugar. As Consumers of chickpeas/hummus had higher health aspects of our portfolio of products in line with new trends and health consciousness and, part of a healthier lifestyle, hummus can play a significant role. We continue to develop our intake of valuable nutrients including vitamins in some cases, regulation. Our Sustainability Strategy and goals for 2020 provide a framework understanding of our consumers' habits and stay ahead of the most up-to-date research that A, E and C; folate; iron and magnesium, a helps prove to consumers that a healthy lifestyle can also taste great! for us to help meet diverse food needs and engage more consumers in overall healthier lifestyle In 2012, Trěs Coraćões, lower intake of total fat, saturated fat and practices. This is important for Strauss Group to support our business growth while contributing cholesterol, and overall healthier diet quality to a healthier society around the world. our Joint Venture Lorie Staley , Regulatory, Nutrition and Technical Services Manager, Sabra Dipping Company scores, as calculated by the Healthy Eating company with the Sáo EXPANDING CHOICE Index (HEI). Miguel Group became the Number One coffee IN BRAZIL company in Brazil. 22.5% In 2014, Três Corações, our Joint Venture company in Brazil held by Strauss Group (50%) and by our partner the São Miguel Group (50%) made further headway in offering greater choice to 3C consumers in Brazil by expanding the 3C brand portfolio and product range. Consumers rewarded 3C by continuing to make Três Corações the number one coffee company in the Brazilian market, significantly ahead of all other coffee companies in terms of market share. 3C provides the Brazilian consumer with roast and ground coffee, instant coffee, espresso machines and capsules, cappuccino products, chocolate and beverage powders and corn products. 3C's latest addition, the TRES brand, launched in November 2013, The volume market offers a new experience for the Brazilian coffee lover. TRES offers machines for single portion drinks share of Trěs with a high quality taste that is accessible in supermarkets, electronics stores and online. 3C offered the TRES brand online for the first time and received positive response from consumers. In Brazil, a country Coraćões, our Joint with one of the highest per capita consumption levels of coffee in the world, 3C remains committed Venture company with to providing accessible, high quality coffee choices to meet the preferences of all types of consumer. the Sáo Miguel Group, reached an all-time Hilel Kremer, CFO, Tres Coracoes, Joint Venture in Brazil held by Strauss Group (50%) and high of 22.5% in Brazil * Insights from a research paper published in the Journal of Nutrition & Food Science in January 2014, Chickpeas and Hummus are associated with Better Nutrient Intake, Diet Quality, and Levels of Some Cardiovascular Risk Factors: National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2003-2010 by O’Neil, Nicklas and Fulgoni. by the Sao Miguel Group (50%) in 2014. 30 | | 31 SUPPORTING COFFEE CONSUMERS IN CIS Strauss Coffee and our range of brands across the CIS markets are category DAIRY PRODUCTS – ALSO STRICTLY 2 It took 2 years of research & development in collaboration NEW LAUNCH leaders. In Russia and Ukraine, we are among the top three producers of roast and instant coffee. Millions of consumers in these markets are loyal to our recognized KOSHER with Danone Group to adapt dairy products to meet strictly We launched new products such as an brands and rely on Strauss Coffee for their daily coffee enjoyment. In 2014, our affordable Roast&Ground coffee brand consumers in these markets were badly affected by prolonged economic crisis in Kosher requirements while to provide consumers in Russia and the Eastern Europe and experienced a severe drop in purchasing power. Our response We are always trying to ensure our dairy product maintaining texture, taste Ukraine with greater value for money. at Strauss Coffee was a complete review of our product offerings to increase both range caters to diverse consumer needs while and nutritional profile. affordability and value for our loyal consumers in these challenging economic offering best value. In Israel, members of the times. We launched new products, revised pack sizes and expanded marketing 40 Jewish orthodox community have not been able communications to help consumer awareness of our lower-priced brand to enjoy a full range of our products for many alternatives. In supporting our consumers through economic crisis in these ways, years, due to their need for a specific strictly we hope to retain the trust of our consumers and our prominent position in CIS kosher certification called Mehadrin . Aligning markets, enabling existing and new consumers to consume our coffee as part of our production to these standards required their preferred lifestyle. adaptation of many product formulations, certification of our manufacturing facilities Daniel Ironi, General Manager, Strauss Coffee CIS and inspection of ingredient suppliers and Forty authorized kosher all processes involved in the manufacture of supervisors around the world NEW PACK SIZES these products. Religious supervisors paid more than 50 visits to inspect our factories assisted our facilities and We introduced new coffee pack sizes around the world. We started in 2009 with suppliers in meeting required to ensure the widest possible choice for consumers affected by economic crisis. just 13 products available for our orthodox Mehadrin standards. consumers and in 2014, we completed our 64 factory certification process, enabling us to convert most of our production to Mehadrin . Our orthodox consumers can now enjoy 64 different products, including our popular Danone brands such as Activia, Actimel and Danacol, that meet their dietary needs. We now have 64 products AFFORDABLE available for orthodox Jews who require Mehadrin PRODUCTS Ariella Weiss, Strauss Dairy Marketing standard kosher products in We continued to develop and invest in Director, Strauss Israel Israel and around the world – Chernaya Karta as a core brand offering CIS consumers a range of affordable almost five times the number coffee products. of products available in 2009. 32 | | 33 INNOVATING FOOD-TECH INNOVATION FOR HEALTHY WITH ALPHA STRAUSS LIFESTYLES Innovation is the life-blood of our food and beverage business. Consumers are constantly Strauss Group launched Alpha Strauss in 2012 with a vision to accelerate the development of the Israeli Food Tech Community with an initial investment seeking our new tastes and new food experiences and with changing lifestyles and habits, from Strauss Group. Alpha Strauss food and beverage products continually need to adapt. With our home base in Israel, our nurtures and supports innovators in Israel culture is naturally one of innovation and we have set our sights on being pioneers in through knowledge sharing, financial advanced food technologies and new food solutions to address the challenges of healthier support for feasibility assessments, access lifestyles and changing preferences. to equipment, research and business 700 development guidance. Collaborations established between entrepreneurs in PIONEERING INNOVATIVE NEW FOOD TECH INCUBATOR FOOD TECHNOLOGY the food sector, research institutes, New food universities and international partners In 2014, Strauss Israel was selected by the have proven that Israel offers a productive technology platform for breakthrough innovation Israeli Ministry of the Economy and the Chief projects in the food sector. In 2014, we reviewed Scientist to establish a business incubator for The Food Tech incubator is a natural progression for Strauss Group – our Alpha Strauss start-ups in the field of food technologies. evaluated 65 new technologies bringing our total initiative already established a platform for food tech innovation and entrepreneurship. The aim of the incubator is to provide an up to 700 technologies since the start since 2012. of Alpha Strauss, engaging more than In January 2015, we set up our physical infrastructure with an office and a small encouraging environment for promising early team and within the first three months, we had already interviewed 80 potential stage technologies and to support them through 65 3 40 different entrepreneurs in the Israeli start-ups. There is no shortage of great ideas coming out of this market. Our skill in the development process until commercialization. market. 18 different technology solutions the incubator will be to select the most promising ideas that will bring added value are currently in an active development in many different ways, possibly even transforming the food and beverages sector. stage, while 3 have moved to practical implementation. Our challenge will be Combining our investment in collaboration with funds from the State enables far more to be done than we could ever have done alone. We look forward to seeing $25 MILLION* to take Alpha Strauss global and create Strauss Group and the State of Israel have these new technologies come to market and achieve great success – and make a the same inspiration and collaboration committed to investing up to $25 million over 8 positive difference to our consumers' lives. in other markets where Strauss Group years in approved start-ups. Strauss Group will fund is present. around 40% of this investment that is anticipated Elad Komissar, VP Corporate Business Development, Strauss Group. to fund 30 Food Tech start-up initiatives. New food technology New food technology Dagan Eshel, Head of Alpha Strauss, projects evaluated in 2014. projects operational in 2014. Strauss Group In the Photo :Israel’s Chief Gov’t Scientist, Ofra Strauss, Dr. Yechiel Lasri(Mayorof Ashdod), and Shahar Florence (Group CFO) cut ribbon. *NIS 100 million, approximately $25 million 34 | | 35 WELCOME BABY HEALTH BENEFITS OF KALE LOW IN NEW COFFEE HEALTHY CHICORY Chicory is a popular coffee substitute derived KALE O CAL RIE CHOICE IN CIS from the roasted root of the chicory plant. It is commonly used as an additive to roasted S coffee and historically as a replacement We introduced our chicory coffee to the market to for coffee. In addition to being naturally Working with more than 30 local growers ZERO provide an additional healthy lifestyle choice for our caffeine-free, the chicory root is a source of gives us a special advantage. Not only FAT consumers in our CIS markets. We gained market vitamins and minerals and is high in fiber. does our close collaboration enable us 0 leadership within three years, and have now added to be ahead of the game on all aspects of more products to the range, as this is something cultivation and quality, to ensure the best and most sustainable farming practices, it HIGH I that clearly appeals to our consumers. Chicorybased beverages offer alternatives to people who CHICORY COFFEE RON Our Elite Health beverages were launched in NI also supports us bringing innovation to the want to limit caffeine intake or simply experience market. Baby kale, which we launched in CIS in 2012, comprising chicory and coffee different flavors. 2014, is the latest great example alongside mixes. In 2014, we added more products our range of fresh vegetables such as baby including hot chocolate, a creamer, and spinach and more. We worked closely with IN Daniel Ironi, General Manager, Strauss Coffee CIS instant green coffee. IGH VI growers until we had found the right strain H MIN K TA of kale that would appeal to the Israeli consumer and become a viable fresh and healthy product on our customers' shelves. H HIG IN WATER At Strauss Water, we are continually looking for the next generation of innovation to bring an even ER FIB better drinking experience to our customers. In Israel, we launched the BubbleBar, a unique kind of Pini Gotliv, Agronomist, Strauss Israel WaterBar that provides the consumer with the option to carbonate water, one glass at a time. The BAR bubble bar offers fresh, tasty, sparkling water at a touch of a button which enables people to drink more water and thereby live a healthier life. We have seen consumer preferences move away from INNOVATION sweetened carbonated bottled drinks while searching for a healthier and more environmentally friendly alternative. Adi Mannor, Business Development Manager, Strauss Water THE 3 STRAINS OF KALE & THEIR BABY There are 3 strains of kale grown in Israel (the common curly kale, the red Russian kale and the black Tuscan kale). We selected an innovative approach to a unique vegetable: Baby kale. BUBBLE BAR SMART BOTTLE In 2014, we introduced our In 2014, we developed with Haier, Strauss Water's BubbleBar, bringing consumers partner in China, a Smart Bottle that tracks water a new choice of carbonated water intake and reminds consumers to drink more in their homes. water. Our Smart Bottle was launched in 2015. BLACK TUSCAN RED RUSSIAN CURLY KALE BABY KALE 36 | | 37 ENGAGING CONSUMERS IN HEALTHY LIFESTYLE 140,000 More than 140,000 people downloaded the app within the first three days of launch ACTIVITIES We feel that it is not enough to simply manufacture and market food products. We achieve our mission of improving the lives of our colleagues, 80,000 Of those who downloaded the app, more than 80,000 have created a personal training program. 7,500 consumers and society when consumers enjoy our products and integrate them as part of their healthier lifestyles. Helping people live active and healthy lives is a core driver of our passion. Therefore, we provide platforms for consumers to become more aware of healthy eating and lifestyle habits and make it easier for them to make change. Users continue to add new GET MOVING WITH fitness zones for fabulous, free workouts. The app has now TURKISH COFFEE Bringing Turkish Coffee, increasing more than 7,500 fitness zones. physical exercise and social interactions 40% together in the form of our ZUZU app has been a challenge. We have connected more than 80,000 active users to new The Zuzu app, a virtual personal trainer in the palm of your hand, which we launched friends across more than 7,500 free Consumer awareness of the connection in 2014, provides a way for people to have fun while advancing a healthier lifestyle. We fitness zones. At the same time, we have between coffee drinking and improved have long since known of the correlation between roast and ground coffee (we call it increased the awareness of the benefits sports performance increased to Turkish coffee in Israel!) and stronger performance in sporting activities. We wanted to of a cup of your favorite coffee prior 40% in our survey among the general increase the awareness of this correlation among our consumers and at the same time, to taking exercise. Our Turkish Coffee population, from 11% in July 2012. give them something that would help them get moving. Many Israelis say they engage is the first brand in Israel to create an 66% in some form of physical exercise, but this is often costly (gym fees), restricted (gym innovative digital application that helps opening times), solo (individual workouts) and lacks optimum efficiency (no personal consumers in a practical way, without trainer). At the same time, free outdoor gym zones are springing up all over Israel, just requiring any brand purchase. Engaging waiting for people to make use of them. Putting all this together, we created an app, consumers in healthy lifestyle activities ZUZU ( get moving in Hebrew) to help people get connected to fellow exercisers and is a core element of our mission to professional fitness trainers, join group workouts, and develop an individual training improve people's lives and create a more 66% of Israelis declare that they program to guide their workout sessions. sustainable society. engage in physical exercise at least three times a month. Tomer Harpaz, CEO, Strauss Coffee Einat Matsliah, Roast and Ground Coffee Category Manager, Strauss Coffee 38 | | 39 HUMMUS HOUSE 28 5,893 HELPING MUSLIM CONSUMERS THOUGH RAMADAN HEALTHY Hummus in the U.S. is just starting Our Hummus House in Washington D.C. was open Total menu items ordered by visitors to The Ramadan month is the most holy month for Muslims. During this month, people fast from sunrise to sundown, pray at specific times, decorate their houses with oil lamps and crescents and send each other holiday greetings. We wanted to use the Strauss brand to LIFESTYLES FOR its journey and we try to be creative in bringing the hummus experience for 28 days in late 2014. Hummus House. help our consumers that observe Ramadan throughout this important month. Most of our CHILDREN 14 5 consumers from the Arab community in Israel are technology savvy: 85% own smartphones to many current and potential and 98% of under 24 year olds surf the internet on a daily basis. Our Elite-branded Ramadan consumers. Although Sabra Hummus app integrates tradition and technological innovation with different features including While we do not advertise directly to children, is the leading brand in the U.S. market alerts at the start and end of fasting periods, a compass pointing to Mecca and greeting we wanted to make sure that parents in Israel with more than 62% share and a options to send to family and friends. Our consumers greatly appreciate this app and they understand the benefits of our soft cheese strong body of more than half a sent hundreds of thousands of greetings to their family, friends and contacts in 2014. Gamadim range for children – protein, calcium, million hummus fans, we know we In addition to our regular The Hummus House concept Strauss Group's ability to anticipate the needs and diverse lifestyles of different consumers iron, zinc and vitamins in little pots with great are just scratching the surface and menu at Hummus House, was created around the 5 is an important part of building positive relationships with the brand. flavors! In order to engage parents in an that many people have yet to discover the fabulous, healthy hummus taste. we hosted 14 special events senses: touch, sight, sound, active way, as well as encourage some fun Fadoul Mazzawi, Principal, Mazzawi Advertizing family activities, we launched a campaign for for customers. smell and taste. 3 50K We are convinced of the contribution families to create a flowerpot garden, using RD of hummus to healthier lifestyles 2.93 5K and recycling Gamadim containers as small and we have a passion for spreading flowerpots. We offered campaign subscribers the word around and getting to a free flowerpot garden kit with seeds, stickers know potential hummus lovers. and activity instructions. 3,000 parents signed As part of our hands-on close-toconsumer approach, in late 2014, MILLION up, and many uploaded photos of Gamadim we opened up a Hummus House for Media reach of Estimated total The third year that Elite has created an app More than 50,000 consumers flower pots and gardens to our campaign for Ramadan to support consumers of the have downloaded the Ramadan website on Facebook. The 50 lucky winners of one month in Washington D.C. We set interviews & promotions visitors to Hummus our grand prize enjoyed a family visit to Israel's ourselves several objectives: create Muslim faith observe the requirements of app since it was first launched, and for Hummus House. House. national safari park as a gift from Gamadim. an extraordinary, unique experience this holy month of fasting. that includes 20,000 in 2014. to showcase our brand’s values; drive awareness of Sabra product innovation as well as establish a kind of early test market for future At Hummus House, we created recipes that were tests for our future innovation pipeline BLOGGING WATER Ariella Weiss, Dairy Marketing Director, Strauss Israel 3K and received real-time feedback from the thousands of visitors during the month of During the past few years,we have been increasing our engagement with our customers innovation; illustrate new, novel ways opening. The most popular item on the menu was Stuffed Chicken Pita, and visitors and helping them understand the benefits of clean, tasty water as part of a healthy lifestyle. to eat hummus and build deeper 3,000 consumers also loved the Warm Hummus station. On the upstairs floor of the restaurant, we held We currently maintain 5 blogs covering different aspects of water, health and lifestyles bonds and brand love for Sabra in signed up and received lectures with dietitians, yoga classes and other events to further engage consumers communities we operate in. the free Gamadim in healthy lifestyle awareness activities as part of the entire hummus experience. We Liat Uliel, Global Marketing Manager, Strauss Water. garden kits for kids. look forward to being a part of making hummus a fully integrated element in the 50 American diet at different mealtimes as well as for in-between snacks. Tracy Luckow, Global Director UK, CANADA 50 families won the Insights & Innovation, Sabra Tracy Luckow, Global Director Insights & Innovation, Sabra Dipping Co . AND CYPRUS prize of a visit to Dipping Co . Israel's national Safari park in our Gamadim THE HEALTH BLOG THE BUBBLE BLOG CONSUMERS BLOGS competition for kids. 40 | | 41 5 ENGAGING WITH DIETITIANS 3 STRAUSS INSTITUTE An esteemed team We continue to engage with many dietitians and health professionals in Israel to stay up to RESEARCH GRANTS IN 2014 date with the latest trends and insights about consumer habits and needs. We also share with Through our Strauss Institute, we continued of 5 nutrition science this professional community our extensive knowledge and research we conduct to support to invest in research, developing tools for and communications our product development. We find this interaction empowering both for Strauss and for healthy lifestyles, and sharing knowledge. To the professional community. We lecture at conferences, prepare information packs based professionals who on science and research and challenge ourselves to keep healthy diets and lifestyles at the date, we have awarded 10 grants to support participate on the heart of all we do. The Strauss Institute, and its knowledge-sharing website, has become an innovative research in nutrition. Sabra Wellness & important source of reference for healthy lifestyles in Israel. In 2014, as in previous years, Nutrition Advisory we connected with hundreds of dietitians across many relevant topics. One of our shared key challenges is preserving taste while creating healthier product formulations. We also Board assist us in our need to find better ways of communicating these benefits to consumers with a message product development that healthy can also taste good. and communications . HUNDREDS OF DIETICIANS 1 Amali Messika, Chief Dietitian,Strauss Israel AT HEALTHY LIFESTYLES WORKSHOP In 2014, we held a dedicated workshop in ENGAGING HEALTH PROFESSIONALS Israel for professionals covering “behind the scenes” of developing healthy products . We AROUND HUMMUS We launched our shared the dilemmas and complexity of making products healthier while preserving taste. new Nutrition and Indirectly, we engage with our consumers through the body of health and nutrition professionals Wellness website for that share our interest in helping their clients and patients eat a healthier diet. Research shows health professionals that most Americans do not eat enough fresh vegetables and beans. In order to assist health and individuals professionals address such dietary gaps in the U.S., we have established a professional knowledge and learning platform to bring the facts about hummus to those who can help change consumer with an interest in habits for the better. With advice and guidance from our professional Sabra Wellness & Nutrition nutrition. The website THOUSANDS OF HEALTHY Advisory Board, in 2014, we launched a new Health and Wellness website that contains a wealth includes the Sabra LIFESTYLE KITS DISTRIBUTED or resources for health professionals that includes everything from the benefits of hummus, Hummus Wellness & To date, including in 2014, we have maintained recommendations for achieving Dietary Guidelines with hummus combinations, to a toolkit for a regular dialogue with the professional presenting hummus to patients and details of hummus research and other relevant news. We also Nutrition Registered dietitian community in Israel. We have started publishing our monthly nutrition e-news to registered dietitians and health professionals Dietitian Toolkit, presented dieticians with tens of thousands who sign up to receive it – that's already a group of several hundred. additional materials for of healthy lifestyle kits to assist them in professionals and even promoting healthy lifestyle habits among Mina Penna, Corporate Nutritionist, Sabra Dipping Company hummus recipes . their patients. 42 | | 43 CITIZENSHIP: { OUR THIRD DEGREE OF IMPACT As a responsible corporate citizen, we seek to create value for society and the environment in order to improve people’s lives and advance healthy lifestyles. We do this through community investment, environmental stewardship and maintaining an efficient and ethical supply chain. Our goals for citizenship include improving supply chain practices, efficient resource management in our own operations, and investment in the communities we serve. PROGRESS AGAINST KEY OUR STRATEGIC ON TRACK SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY BASE COMMITMENTS IMPROVING WORK IN PROGRESS Strategically, we understand the risks and Our global supply chain is comprised of almost and supporting supplier diversity. In Israel, we opportunities in our supply base, both in terms 14,000 suppliers that supply ingredients, goods have been communicating our Social Charter STRATEGIC COMMITMENT BASELINE YEAR (2013) 2014 RESULT PROGRESS G4 INDICATOR of the products we source and the partners we and services to a value of around $2 billion each to suppliers for several years, and all new source from. We aim to increase the sustainable year to our production factories. Most of our suppliers confirm their commitment to this. We Engage in a global strategic sourcing of key products to minimize risk and to production is in our own 26 facilities around the include ethical considerations in our Supplier flagship social partnership, support industry imperatives to address global world, supported by a network of warehousing, Evaluation Program in Israel, and continue to with a multi-year commitment G4-SO1 sustainability challenges. At the same time, we logistics and distribution operations that deliver assess selected suppliers each year. to improve healthy lifestyle aim to deepen our engagement with suppliers our products to our customers. practices. to ensure they understand and meet sustainable In our Sustainability Strategy 2020, we These targets require a step change in our performance supply standards regarding human rights, labor established specific targets for improving Increase spend with women-owned and the establishment of global plans, measurement suppliers and increase the number rights and environmental stewardship. the sustainability of key ingredients supply systems and data collection infrastructure. This process G4-EC9 of women-owned suppliers by 15% started in 2014 and is likely to continue through 2015. by 2020 (2014 baseline). We expect to have data available in calendar year 2016 and will report progress in our 2016 Sustainability Report. Increase sustainable sourcing of top 5 global food ingredients by FP1, FP2 15% by end 2020. Operationalize at least three significant innovative product technologies that improve FP4 sustainable and healthy lifestyle choices by 2020. Reduce consumption by 15% per Energy 3.87 3.49 G4-EN1 ton of product by end 2020. G4-EN3 Water 3.54 3.12 G4-EN5 G4-EN8 Packaging materials 0.106 G4-EN15 Reduce greenhouse gas emissions G4-EN16 per ton of product by 15% by 2020. 0.39 0.30 G4-EN18 G4-EN20 G4-EN21 Reduce landfill waste per ton of G4-EN22 product by 15% by end 2020 0.025 0.032 G4-EN23 (2015 baseline). 46 | | 47 15 SUSTAINABLE Being a member of the 4C Association since 2007, we continue to maintain our commitment to support sustainable supply chains in the global coffee industry by purchasing sustainable SUSTAINABLE COFFEE COCOA green coffee. Strauss Coffee is the fifth largest coffee company in the world in terms of green coffee and one of the fastest growing coffee companies globally for the past six years. 5,400 Worldwide we purchase around 3.9 million green coffee bags annually and we have increased our share of sustainably sourced coffee by 20% on an annual basis for the past 5 years. As a Strategic purchasing of ingredients is more than a simple buy-sell equation. We aim to build business operating primarily in emerging markets (Eastern Europe and Brazil), our challenge long-term partnership relationships with our key suppliers. Following years of sourcing sustainable is to maintain our commitment to increasing volumes of sustainable coffee at higher prices cocoa from Barry Callebaut, and the completion of a long-term exclusive supply agreement than our regular purchasing, despite the realities of a certain lack of support and demand for in 2013, we sought further ways to share knowledge and technologies so that we can deliver sustainable coffee in our markets. At the same time, it is important to educate consumers 15 food technologists better products for our consumers. We were delighted to host two senior managers at Barry Our 2014 target for tons about the importance of sustainability while continuing to do the right thing. Our goal for and supply chain Callebaut in an interactive two-day workshop for our key teams, covering trends, regional 2015 is to purchase 6,500 tons of sustainably sourced coffee, which will represent around of coffee sustainability managers from Strauss differences in cocoa quality, innovation, technology and consumer preferences. 10% of our Israeli and European requirements. sourced within the frame Israel attended a two day innovation Rachel Oz, Strategic Purchasing Manager, Strauss Group of the 4C Association. Peter Baumann, Senior Green Coffee Buyer, Strauss Coffee 5,483 workshop delivered by senior business development and cocoa supply professionals from our sustainable Actual tons of coffee sustainability sourced in cocoa supplier, Barry Callebaut. SUSTAINABLE 200 2014 within the frame of the 4C Association. SESAME Over the years, we have been sourcing more of our fresh produce directly from growers, rather than purchasing from traders. We find that maintaining direct relationships with growers guarantees high quality and availability of the best produce for our consumers, while helping us maintain sustainable agricultural practice. In 2014, we took a step further in this strategy. Our tahini salads are made using a tahini paste comprised of sesame seeds. Rather than sourcing the tahini paste, we decided to go to the source – the sesame growers – to establish direct relationships with them to improve our overall product. We wanted to achieve a higher purity Tons of sesame we plan of sesame that is most suitable for tahini and contains higher protein levels which is a benefit to purchase directly for our consumers. The ideal source for this specific type of sesame is Ethiopia. Sesame farming from growers in Ethiopia in Ethiopia is still undeveloped and family farms can be very small. We visited several times in order to make our to talk to growers and develop a successful collaboration with farmers directly, supported by farmers associations that protect their interests. We will provide agronomic support to help tahini supply more farmers understand the quality we require. Following a successful pilot in 2014, we plan to stable, economic and expand our sesame purchasing from Ethiopia. sustainable, following a successful pilot in 2014. Pini Gotliv, Agronomist, Strauss Group 48 | | 49 ADVANCING SMALL SUPPLIERS One of our strategic purchasing objectives is to introduce diversity into our supply base, in particular by creating opportunities for small or women-owned businesses. For a large group such as Strauss, this 64% Increase in purchase value from small business supplier, Graphica Bezalel, in 2014. 85% is not always easy as our high quality standards and considerable volumes often present challenges for small businesses to compete. In the packaging area however, we made a conscious effort in 2014 to map all possible opportunities for potential new suppliers. We were successful in working with two small suppliers to significantly 11 increase volumes. We believe that working with a diverse supply base SUSTAINABLE WATERBARS is good for the local economy, good for our business and provides a platform for growth for the suppliers themselves. We know that Strauss Water expects high standards of us and we aim to be a model supplier and Expected increase in purchase volume Hilda Yadid, Packaging Purchasing Manager, Strauss Israel with small business supplier, Shin Lerner, partner. We are audited annually for our compliance with quality and environmental standards, ISO9001 and ISO14001, and have one of the best safety records in the Shenzhen area. For the past 3 in 2015, following new contracts in 2014. We have been working years, we have received an award from the local government for our outstanding safety performance. in partnership with our In fact, we apply the highest standards to care for our employees – around 40% of our employees live supplier in Shenzhen, in our company dormitories and we provide a range of living facilities including travel to their home Graphica Bezalel is a family business with city each year. All our employees receive good benefits in comparison to local industry, including China for 11 years for around 100 employees, supplying carton annual medical check-ups and pension plans, maternity leave and bonuses for long service. We do assembly and sourcing our best to work in an environmentally responsible manner – for example, when we set up the Strauss packaging. We worked with Graphica Bezalel of our WaterBars. WaterBar production line, we designed a continuous water recycling process for water that is used for to collaborate on new packaging and obtaining safety standards such as HACCP. In 2014, testing WaterBars at the end of the line. This is the only process in our factory that uses water, and we Graphica Bezalel increased business with Strauss have ensured our operation has minimal water impact. Israel by 64% and we expect this to reach triple 3 their 2013 purchasing value in 2015. Ellen Shia, Customer Services Manager, ENG (Shenzhen) Electronics Co., Ltd. In addition to the financial benefits of doing Working with partners in our industry can be a risky business. Assembly suppliers have a direct link more business, our collaboration with Strauss Shin Lerner is a small, family-owned label supplier to our customers through the quality of our products. That's why we were happy to continue our Group brings us professional and technological located in the northern periphery of Israel. We worked relationship with ENG Electronics in China, after our acquisition of the Tana Industries Company. We value. Working with Strauss teams helps us with Shin Lerner to ensure appropriate processes The number of found ENG Electronics to be a highly professional and responsive company, attentive to all local laws improve our knowledge and gain important were in place to deliver significantly greater volumes, consecutive years and operating in accordance with the highest standards that we expect from ourselves. We enjoy experience so that we can grow and develop expanding supply from one division of Strauss Israel complete transparency, full cooperation and rely upon compliance with all the relevant social and that ENG Electronics and continually improve our products. to three more divisions with a much more complex environmental standards that apply in our business, both from a regulatory and also from an ethical has been recognized standpoint. The fact that our collaboration has lasted over 10 years with no major issue is a testimony Eyal Harpak, Vice President, Graphica set of specifications. Shin Lerner will almost double by local government to the quality of ENG's leadership and dedicated staff. Betzalel its sales value with Strauss Group in 2015. for strong employee safety performance. Yefet Mashilker, Strategic Infrastructures Manager, Strauss Water 50 | | 51 ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL G4 UNIT 2012 2013 2014 CHANGE FROM 2013 PERFORMANCE Direct energy consumption G4-EN3 GJ 1,184,820 1,369,834 1,407,913 3% Indirect energy consumption GJ 473,932 504,855 532,924 6% IMPACTS Total energy consumption GJ 1,658,752 1,874,689 1,940,837 4% Scope 1 GHG emissions G4-EN15 Tons CO2e 85,277 113,624 99,477 -12% Scope 2 GHG emissions G4-EN16 Tons CO2e 88,432 82,168 67,730 -18% Total GHG emissions G4-EN15/16 Tons CO2e 173,709 195,792 167,208 -15% Total water withdrawal G4-EN8 M3 1,506,410 1,721,527 1,706,183 -1% Waste to reuse G4-EN23 Tons 47,728 54,198 75,028 38% Waste to recycling Tons 9,629 7,638 10,256 34% Improving our environmental impacts is important for Strauss Group for two reasons. Reducing our resource Waste to landfill Tons 15,371 12,218 17,717 45% consumption makes us more cost-efficient and it also helps us play our role in advancing the sustainability of Total waste Tons 72,728 74,054 103,001 39% the planet. In our 2020 Sustainability Strategy, we have adopted several environmental goals that require us to Percentage of waste recycled or reused % 79% 84% 83% -1% make systematic changes in our operations around the world, take advantage of technological developments and embed a culture of sustainability at all levels in our business. In 2014, we were able to deliver improvements, Energy intensity G4-EN5 GJ / ton of product 3.52 3.78 3.48 -8% but we have more work to do to align the organization effectively with our Strategy drive further efficiencies. GHG emissions intensity G4-EN18 Tons CO2e / ton of product 0.35 0.39 0.30 -25% Water intensity M3 / ton of product 3.28 3.54 3.11 -12% Waste intensity Tons / ton of product 0.16 0.15 0.19 23% ENVIRONMENTAL NATURAL GAS FOR The process of conversion from use of LPG to natural gas at our sites is a complex one. We must prepare our facilities and pipelines and create the PERFORMANCE ISRAELI FACILITIES appropriate onsite infrastructures. In addition, there are many regulatory requirements to comply with including audits by at least five different authorities, such as the Natural Gas Authority, local urban planning In 2014, we are pleased to report improvements in our committees, the fire and rescue authorities and the Standards Institute of 2014 environmental impacts with an 8% reduction in energy Israel. We must train all our employees in new procedures for handling and consumption, 25% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions We started use of natural gas as our main energy source in our factories. The national and 12% reduction in water consumption, all calculated preparations to natural gas pipeline will be available in 2016 throughout the country. In early on a per ton of product basis. On the other hand, our convert our Israel 2015, we are receiving natural gas via pipeline in our southern factories, overall waste increased by 39%. Waste per ton of product production sites from and compressed natural gas (CNG) in our northern plants – by the end of also increased albeit at a lower rate of 23%. These higher LPG to natural gas. 2016 we expect the pipeline to reach all our facilities and we will be ready to receive it. In addition, in 2014, we started to source natural gas-based 2016 figures represent improved monitoring and data capture systems in 2014 rather than an underlying increase in electricity from a private power company, so that in the future, our carbon waste. However, waste generation, despite our high level We expect to footprint will be almost entirely based on natural gas, which is far more of diversion at 83%, remains a challenge and we expect convert 100% of our environmentally friendly than our current sources. to address this as we progress our Sustainability Strategy LPG to natural gas in 2020 objectives. the coming years. Dave Rosenberg, Energy Supervisor, Strauss Israel 52 | | 53 WATER EFFICIENCY 3 BUILDING EFFICIENCY FOR SABRA Three cubic meters per hour of water vapor are FOR POTATO CHIPS emitted via our potato chips production process for moisture removal LEED SILVER CERTIFICATION FOR ENERGY AND RESOURCE SAVING FEATURES One of our main production lines in Israel is our potato chips production line in our salty from potatoes. SABRA FACTORY EXPANSION OF OUR SABRA FACTORY EXPANSION 2 snacks factory. The manufacturing process involves removing the moisture from the potatoes. This generates around three cubic meters of water vapor each hour, which It has taken two years In 2014, we completed White membrane roof to minimize heat is usually emitted to the air through a chimney. We thought this was a waste of such vapor which could potentially be used to help keep our factory cool. We worked for two to design, test and install the expansion of our Sabra years with specialist technology partners to develop a solution. Starting in mid-2015, an innovative solution hummus factory in South Two 10,000 gallon cisterns capture rainwater from the roof Chesterfield, Virginia. LEED drainage system for irrigation almost all this water vapor will be routed to our factory AC system where it will help cool for re-using water vapor our site and reduce our energy, water and GHG emissions impacts. to cool our potato chips (Leadership in Energy and Process motors are equipped with Variable Frequency Drives factory. Environmental Design) is (VFD) that reduce motor speeds to match production needs the accepted standard for Centralized lighting control system with daylight sensors Oded Shimshoni, Engineer, Strauss Israel the design and construction that dim lights when adequate light is attained through of high performance daylighting green buildings in the U.S. High efficiency HVAC units Factories certified to LEED 59% standards are considered 20% of the building materials extracted and manufactured to lead the industry in within 500 miles of the factory energy and resource efficiency, employee 20% of the materials installed in the factory are comprised of working environment, and recycled content sustainable production. Both our existing Sabra 81% of construction waste diverted from landfill The main greenhouse gas emissions of our CARBON EFFICIENCY FOR factory and our new factory extension in 2014 achieved Low and no chemicals adhesives, sealants, paints, coatings, WaterBars occur in the use phase: 59% WATERBARS LEED Silver certification. and flooring materials 40% We are constantly looking for ways to reduce our carbon footprint throughout the life cycle of our WaterBars. We know that WaterBars are far more favorable from an environmental standpoint than purchasing bottled water. But that's not enough for us. We have obtained With parent companies PepsiCo and Strauss Group, doing business in a sustainable manner is both Energy Star certification for our WaterBars, proving energy efficiency in the use phase. expected and appreciated. So it was with the construction of our original Sabra facility and our more recent In 2014, we undertook a full Life Cycle Analysis including manufacturing, transport, use and plant expansion. We are convinced that green buildings are better for employees, better for our business end of life phases. We now have plans to improve the environmental performance of WaterBars and better for the environment. It's a source of great pride for all of us to work in one of the most sustainable We expect to decrease in the coming years. food production facilities in the U.S. the carbon footprint of WaterBars by 40% by 2016. Yoella Ganem Krief, EHS Manager, Strauss Water Willie Johnson, Director of Engineering, Sabra Dipping Company 54 | | 55 ENVIRONMENTAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY INNOVATION INNOVATION 15% With our new energy efficiency technology, we expect to make savings of up to 15% in energy Achieving our Sustainability Strategy 2020 environmental objectives cannot be done through incremental consumption at key production savings alone. In our core processes, we must encourage innovation in order to make step changes in our energy facilities in Israel in 2015. and resource efficiency. Such changes take some years to adopt, evaluate and scale, but each year, we are able to implement new approaches that support a sustainable supply chain and environmental stewardship. In 2014, we have selected a few examples to share. One of the most important factors in improving energy efficiencies is knowing where your energy inefficiencies are. In a complex production facility, this is not as simple as it might sound. Through our collaboration with Panoramic Power, we adopted a new system that WASTEWATER EFFICIENCY INNOVATION measures the energy consumption in real time at the level of an individual power circuit or single motor rather than capturing the entire production hall as a whole. This means we can not only measure our efficiency, but wecan immediately detect even a minor miscalibration H T We are constantly challenged to find the most efficient ways to meet our environmental of components in energy systems and identify potential malfunctions before they occur. responsibilities and regulatory requirements. Our new wastewater treatment process relies on filtering cold water as part of our production process, rather than treating This gives the production management the ability to proactively fine tune energy wastewater at the end of it. At the end of the process, the water runs off warm and consumption at a level never possible before. Alerts are provided to the general control chemicals are needed to separate the organic solids, which in our salty snacks factors panels and also to mobile phones so that the production controllers know immediately if refers primarily to starch. During production, when the water is chilled, a standard there is a need to inspect and correct issues affecting power consumption. Following our Typical waste water treatment filtration process can be applied. This is a stroke of genius! It enables us to treat far larger successful six-month pilot in our salads factory in Karmiel in Israel during 2014, we have in food factories treats water quantities of process water per hour while using zero chemicals as well as reducing our expanded the energy efficiency installation to our most energy intensive factories for at the end of the process, when energy consumption. In our salty snacks factory, which processes thousands of tons dairy, salads and chocolate, which account for 80% of our energy consumption in Israel. it is still hot. This requires of corn per year, starch is a major contributor to a high organic load in wastewater. We We expect to achieve a 5-15% reduction in energy consumption each year per site when chemical treatment and is can now achieve far better wastewater quality. fully operational and we will measure this specifically starting from 2015. energy intensive. C LD Oded Shimshoni, Engineer, Strauss Israel Dave Rosenberg, Energy Supervisor, Strauss Israel This is a fantastic example of how our Alpha Strauss Food Tech Innovation Incubator can yield tangible results for sustainable benefits. Our collaboration with an Alpha Strauss We are new to food processing and manufacturing. Panoramic Power's goal is to offer community member start-up innovator in wastewater technologies, AMTR Scientific, solutions that increase energy savings and improve operational efficiencies. We work delivered a successful pilot in 2013. Now, we have proven the efficacy of this technology across many industries. Being part of the Alpha Strauss community enables us to learn Our new innovative about the food processing industry, gain access to practical support and establish ourselves at scale that we will believe will benefit the industry as a whole, not just Strauss Group. wastewater treatment Wastewater treatment has been one of the most important challenges of our industry as a player in this market. The Strauss Group name opens doors for a start-up specialized system filters water during for many years. With the right approach to technology and collaboration, and enabling company such as ours, and enables us to expand and support sustainable innovation in the production process, when innovators to use our facilities as their testing ground, breakthrough results can be achieved. the food industry on a much wider scale. it is cold. This requires zero chemicals and far less energy. Dagan Eshel, Head of Alpha Strauss, Strauss Group David Almagor, Executive Chairman and Co-Founder, Panoramic Power 56 | | 57 SOCIAL INVESTMENT AND COFFEE ROASTING INNOVATION COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Supporting our local communities in the countries where we have a volunteering and mentoring, hosting fairs to sell products and gifts 3% 7% presence is both a strategic objective and an ethical imperative. We made by people with disabilities and more. In 2014, more than cultivate good relationships with our local communities, contribute 2,000 employees participated in our annual Social Responsibility to healthier lifestyles and other aspects of community life. This Day focusing on community contribution held across Strauss Group engages our employees in activities that inspire them in addition to companies around the world. their daily work. More and more, we expect to channel our community support in Strauss Group’s social investment agenda focuses on diversity line with our Sustainability Strategy 2020 objective to develop a and inclusion initiatives, women's economic empowerment and global flagship social partnership, with a multi-year commitment Reduction in greenhouse Reduction in promoting wellness and healthy and active lifestyles. We aim to to improve healthy lifestyle practices. We are currently planning gas emissions in our energy in our coffee partner with expert social organizations that have a nationwide our engagement with potential partners to drive this forward. In the coffee roasting process. production process. outreach in the countries where we operate. Our support for meantime, all of our local operating units maintain a local connection social organizations includes financial donations, in kind support, with a local contribution. In August 2014, Strauss Adriatic implemented a new system to improve the efficiency of our roasting process. The coffee bean roasting process produces emissions of exhaust gases that must be treated to remove contaminants. Our previous system used a burning process for exhaust GROUP COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS gases that reached a temperature of 600 degrees Celsius. Now, we apply new technology to efficiently and safely treat roaster gases using 7% less $2.8 energy in the total roasting process and generating 3% fewer greenhouse gas emissions throughout the whole production process. This is because MILLION the new technology, which includes a catalyzing process, requires a lower INVESTMENT TYPE temperature of 400 degrees Celsius to achieve the same result. (US$ MILLIONS) 2012 2013 2014 Financial donations 0.73 1.1 0.8 Nemanja Masic, Maintenance Manager, Strauss Adriatic Product donations (cost value) 1.56 1.45 1.7 Value of employee volunteering 0.22 0.86 0.65 Total value of Strauss Group time and community relations community investments in 2014 Total 2.51 3.41 3.2 (financial donations, value of product donations and value of Note: Average employee volunteering time is calculated at $17.44 per hour. In 2014, volunteers donated 18,500 hours for community volunteering. Overall, approximately 5,000 employees employee volunteering hours). volunteered in the community in 2014, representing 35% of the total Strauss Group employee base. 58 | | 59 MAKING A DIFFERENCE IN COMMUNITIES AROUND US ROMANIA ISRAEL In Strauss Romania, 85 employees volunteered more than Strauss in Israel supports over 40 community partners RUSSIA BRAZIL U.S. 700 hours in the community and Strauss Romania donated in diversity and inclusion initiatives, women's economic funds to organizations supporting children's education, empowerment social projects, promotion of healthy lifestyles, healthcare and environmental initiatives. This included the support of young people and hunger relief for low-income Strauss CIS donated funds Strauss Coffee operations In Sabra in the U.S., second year of our educational partnership with World Vision communities. In Israel, we meet our community partners to construct a community playground in Brazil donated funds to support 110 employees volunteered and School of Values to improve life skills for schoolchildren. every year for a day of training, networking and learning and volunteered 160 hours to other several organizations that promote 320 hours in activities to We hosted 40 students in 6 educational workshops at our together with employees who are community leaders within community causes during 2014. cultural, educational and healthy alleviate hunger and promote offices in Bucharest. their different departments. More than 40% of Strauss Israel lifestyle activities. food security. employees volunteered their time in the community in 2014. In Strauss Romania, we try to integrate employee volunteering ADRIATIC POLAND with protecting the environment through planting trees in a In 2014, we launched an innovative social investment program local forest near Bucharest. Our goal is to plant as many trees named Synergy, where 8 experienced senior managers joined Strauss Poland donated as we have employees in our entire Strauss Coffee company. the Boards of nonprofit organizations. This benefits the Many Strauss Adriatic employees funds to support children In 2014, 40 Strauss Romania employees planted 1,600 trees in organizations as they gain new insight and support for their volunteered during the devastating with disabilities and senior citizens. partnership with the “Children’s Forest campaign whose aims programs while our managers gain the experience of directing floods in Serbia in 2014 to help local Also, Strauss Poland funded are reforestation of degraded land in Southern Romania and an organization at a strategic level in a different environment. communities with basic needs. renovations and new equipment for planting and nurturing a seedling for every newborn in Romania. child care facilities. 60 | | 61 2014 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA TABLES ENVIRONMENTAL G4 UNIT 2012 2013 2014 HUMAN RESOURCES G4 UNIT 2012 2013 2014 PERFORMANCE Total employees at year end G4-10 Number 12,182 12,556 12,792 Direct energy consumption G4-EN3 GJ 1,184,820 1,369,834 1,407,913 Employees on permanent contracts % 98% 95% 96% Temporary contract employees % 2% 5% 4% Indirect energy consumption GJ 473,932 504,855 532,924 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements G4-11 % 47% 46% 49% Total energy consumption GJ 1,658,752 1,874,689 1,940,837 Women in total workforce G4-LA12 % 43% 41% 40% Women employees in management positions % 38% 39% 40% Scope 1 GHG emissions G4-EN15 Tons CO2e 85,277 113,624 99,477 Employees below age 30 % 32% 44% 30% Employees aged 30 50 % 55% 46% 57% Scope 2 GHG emissions G4-EN16 Tons CO2e 88,432 82,168 67,730 Employees above age 50 % 13% 10% 13% Total GHG emissions G4Tons CO2e 173,709 195,792 167,208 Employee new hires G4-LA1 Number 3,670 4,345 3,737 EN15/16 Employee leavers Number 4,113 4,147 3,539 Total water withdrawal G4-EN8 M3 1,506,410 1,721,527 1,706,183 Employee turnover % 34% 33% 28% Waste to reuse G4-EN23 Tons 47,728 54,198 75,028 Employee performance reviews G4-LA11 % 18% 26% 27% Waste to recycling Tons 9,629 7,638 10,256 Salary ratio of women to men (managers) G4-LA14 % 100% 96% 97% Waste to landfill Tons 15,371 12,218 17,717 Salary ratio of women to men (non-managers) G4-LA13 % 87% 86% 93% Total waste Tons 72,728 74,054 103,001 Percentage of waste recycled or % 79% 84% 83% SAFETY G4 UNIT 2012 2013 2014 reused Number of injuries G4-LA6 Injuries 581 529 406 Energy intensity G4-EN5 GJ / ton of product 3.52 3.78 3.48 Number of lost days due to injury Days 12,787 10,855 7,915 Number of absenteeism days Days N/A N/A 76,876 GHG emissions intensity G4-EN18 Tons CO2e / ton of 0.35 0.39 0.30 Injury rate per 100 employees Rate 4.96 4.46 3.35 product Lost day rate per 100 employees Rate 109.24 91.48 65.32 Water intensity M3 / ton of product 3.28 3.54 3.11 Absenteeism rate per 100 employees Rate N/A N/A 4.31 Waste intensity Tons / ton of product 0.16 0.15 0.19 62 | | 63 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Global Compact Principles GRI G4 Aspects / Our Position Disclosures 1 Businesses should support and respect the Human Rights Respecting human rights at Strauss is a core protection of internationally proclaimed value. We conduct our business responsibly human rights. according to the highest ethical standards, 2 Businesses should make sure that they are Human Rights including respect for all human beings and not complicit in human rights abuses. Local Communities acknowledgement of their rights. We make our suppliers aware of our human rights standards and encourage them to adopt similar standards. UN GLOBAL COMPACT 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition G4-11 Freedom of Association We respect the rights of employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is a strategic policy initiative of the of the right to collective bargaining. Labor Relations maintain a collaborative relationship with United Nations which encourages companies around the world to adhere employees and address issues relating to their to ten principles of responsible business relating to human rights, labor rights in a positive manner. standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption. Strauss Group 4 Businesses should support the Forced and Compulsory We do not engage in any practice which could has participated in the UNGC since 2008. elimination of all forms of forced and Labor be construed as forced labor. Strauss Group compulsory labor. employees are employed lawfully and of their Statement of continued support own free will. for the UN Global Compact 5 Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labor. Child Labor We respect and support the rights of children and we are committed to safeguarding their On behalf of Strauss Group, I confirm our continuing participation in the interests. We do not employ children in any UN Global Compact. We commit to upholding and promoting the ten part of our business. principles of the Global Compact and supporting the broad objectives of 6 Businesses should support the elimination G4-10 We maintain a policy of equal opportunity social, humanitarian and environmental goals. We confirm our intention of discrimination in respect of employment Labor Practices and and inclusive practices for new and current to maintain our adherence to these principles and continue to promote and occupation. Decent Work employees in all matters relating to their them within our companies and with our business partners. We will report employment with Strauss Group annually on our progress within our annual Sustainability Reports which are available on our website. 7 Businesses should support a precautionary Environmental We adopt environmentally-oriented practices approach to environmental challenges. in all our operations and have established 8 Businesses should undertake Environmental targets to reduce our impacts on the initiatives to promote greater environment. We aim to drive such practices Gadi Lesin environmental responsibility. through our supply chain and work to identify President and CEO 9 Businesses should encourage the Environmental food technologies which support efficient food Strauss Group development and diffusion of supply and a reduction in food waste. environmentally friendly technologies. 10 Businesses should work against Anti-Corruption We are committed to behaving with integrity corruption in all its forms, including Public Policy and act against all forms of corruption. extortion and bribery. 64 | | 65 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX Specific Standard Disclosures Material G4 Category / Aspect Indicator Page Omissions External G4 General Standard Disclosure Page/Link External Aspects Assurance Assurance Healthy Social: Society: Local Communities G4-1 Leadership statement. From our leadership: Page 4-5 None lifestyles G4-SO1 Page 60 None None Operations with local community engagement. G4-3 Organization name. Strauss Group At a Glance: Page 6 None Economic: Indirect economic impacts G4-4 Brands, products, and services. Strauss Group At a Glance: Page 6 None G4-EC8 Page 26 None None Significant indirect economic impacts G4-5 Headquarters location. Strauss Group At a Glance: Page 6 None Food Sector: Customer Health and Safety Data by sales G4-6 Countries of operation. Strauss Group At a Glance: Page 6 None and category Volume of consumer products lowered in saturated fat, G4-7 Ownership and legal form. Strauss Group At a Glance: Page 6 None trans fats, sodium and sugars. FP6 is unavailable. None G4-8 Markets served. Strauss Group At a Glance: Page 6 None Consumer products that contain increased fiber, vitamins, We plan to G4-9 Scale of the organization. See below: Page 6 None minerals, phytochemicals or functional food additives FP7 report in 2016. None G4-10 Employee information. See below: Page 14 None Reduce Environmental: Materials G4-11 Collective bargaining. See below: Page 14 None resources Materials used by weight or volume G4-EN1 Page 74 None None G4-12 The organization’s supply chain. Page 47 None and waste Environmental: Energy G4-13 Significant changes. Strauss Group: At a Glance: Page 6 None in our value G4-EN3 Page 75 None None Energy consumption within the organization chain G4-14 Precautionary principle. Page 70 None Energy intensity G4-15 External charters. Page 70 None G4-EN5 Page 75 None None G4-16 Memberships of associations. Page 70 None Environmental: Water G4-17 Entities included. Page 71 None Total water withdrawal by source G4-EN8 Page 76 None None G4-18 Process for defining report content. About this report: Page 2-3 None Environmental: Emissions G4-19 Material Aspects identified. Page 73 None Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) G4-EN15 Page 76 None None G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization. Page 73 None Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization. Page 73 None (Scope 2) G4-EN16 Page 76 None None G4-22 Restatements of information. See relevant Performance Indicators Pages 63-64 None Greenhouse gas emissions intensity G4-EN18 Page 77 None None G4-23 Changes in Scope and Aspect Boundaries. No significant changes. None Ozone depleting substances G4-EN20 Page 77 None None G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged. Page 74 None Emissions of air pollutants (NOx, SOx and PM) G4-EN21 Page 77 None None G4-25 Basis for selection of stakeholders. Page 74 None Environmental: Effluents and Waste G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Page 74 None Total wastewater pollutant levels G4-EN22 Page 77 None None G4-27 Key topics from stakeholder engagement. Page 74 None Total weight of waste by type G4-EN23 Page 78 None None G4-28 Reporting period. About this report: Page 2-3 None Environmental: Overall G4-29 Recent previous report. About this report: Page 2-3 None Total environmental protection expenditures G4-EN31 Page 78 None None G4-30 Reporting cycle. About this report: Page 2-3 None Clear Social: Product Responsibility: Product and Service G4-31 Contact point. About this report: Page 2-3 None product Labeling labeling Product and service information and labeling G4-PR3 Page 78 None None G4-32 In accordance option and Content Index About this report: Page 2-3 None and Surveys measuring customer satisfaction G4-PR5 Page 78 None None G4-33 Policy with regard to external assurance. About this report: Page 2-3 None responsSocial: Marketing communications No G4-34 Governance structure of the organization. Page 74 None ible G4-PR7 instances None None G4-56 Values, principles and codes of ethics. Page 74 None Non-compliance with regulations concerning marketing marketing communications. 66 | | 67 Material Aspects G4 Category / Aspect Indicator Page Omissions External Assurance G4-10 Total number of employees by gender 2012 2013 2014 Ethical Food Sector: Procurement Practices Male 6,939 7,394 7,640 sourcing Purchased volume compliant with the company’s sourcing Female 5,243 5,162 5,152 and supply policy. FP1 Page 78 None None chain Total employees 12,182 12,556 12,792 Volume verified in accordance with responsible production standards FP2 Page 78 None None Total number of employees by contract 2012 2013 2014 Diversity in Social: Diversity and Equal Opportunity everything Permanent contract 11,979 11,928 12,322 Composition of governance bodies and employees we do according to indicators of diversity. G4-LA12 Page 79 None None Temporary contract 203 628 470 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work: Equal Total employees 12,182 12,556 12,792 Remuneration for Women and Men Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men. G4-LA13 Page 81 None None Total number of employees by type 2012 2013 2014 Social: Society: Local communities Full time 11,540 11,014 12,123 Operations with local community engagement. G4-SO1 Page 60 None None Part time 823 1,542 669 Economic: Procurement practices Total employees 12,363 12,556 12,792 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation. G4-EC9 Page 74 None None Engaging Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work: Employment Total number of 2012 2013 2014 our employees by region Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Total number and rates of new employee hires and Employees G4-LA1 Page 79 None None and gender employee turnover Europe 889 601 1,490 994 668 1,662 977 657 1,634 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work: Occupational Health and Safety Israel 2,795 2,863 5,658 2,806 2,588 5,394 2,896 2,597 5,493 Injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Data is not U.S. 552 423 975 597 470 1,067 392 289 681 absenteeism and fatalities G4-LA6 Page 80 split by gender. None Rest of the world 2,703 1,356 4,059 2,997 1,436 4,433 3,375 1,609 4,984 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work: Total employees 6,939 5,243 12,182 7,394 5,162 12,556 7,640 5,152 12,792 Training and Education Percentage male female 57% 43% 59% 41% 60% 40% Programs for skills management and lifelong learning G4LA10 Page 18 None None Note: Employees receiving regular performance and career • Data for 2014 includes all global operations except Max Brenner. Max Brenner is included in 2012 and 2013. development reviews G4-LA11 Page 80 None None • Sabra split between permanent and temporary contract employees is estimated for 2014 based on prior years. • Differences between data in this report and employee data reported in Strauss Group's audited Annual Report is due to year-end differences and inclusion of supervised workers and Max Brenner operations. G4-9 • Total number of employees: See our response to G4-10 below • Total number of operations: See our Annual Report 2014 • Net sales: See our Annual Report 2014 • Net revenues: See our Annual Report 2014 • Total capitalization: See our Annual Report 2014 • Quantity of products or services provided: We supplied almost 550,000 tons of food and beverage products in 2014. 68 | | 69 G4-11 G4-17 Percentage of employees covered by collective 2012 2013 2014 Entities that are in included in our financial (annual) report but excluded from this report are bargaining agreements 47% 46% 49% • Strauss Water operations in China (partnership with Haier) and in the UK (partnership with Virgin) • Max Brenner U.S. operations and all franchise operations: Israel, Australia, Philippines, Singapore • Operations of Obela Australia are partially included see notes to relevant data points. G4-14 G4-16 Environmental data is collected from the following sites: We analyze and assess business, social and Strauss Group leadership is active in several forums, environmental risks, and undertake appropriate and we participate in many different groups and Country Location Main activity Included in our data safeguarding measures as part of our precautionary associations in Israel and around the world. Our most collection * approach. The Audit Committee of the Board of senior leadership is active as follows: 2012 2013 2014 Directors of Strauss Group supervises and assesses risks Ofra Strauss, Strauss Group Chairperson identified and directs appropriate action within the • President of Jasmine: Jasmine, the Association Australia Cavan, South Australia Dips N N Y companies in the Group. For more information on Risk of Businesswomen in Israel, was established to Brazil Santa Luzia, Minas Gerais state Roast and ground coffee and cappuccino Y Y Y Management, please see our 2014 Annual Report. realize the economic potential of Jewish and Arab Brazil Eusébio, Ceará state Roast and ground coffee Y Y Y businesswomen. • Chair of the Israel-America Chamber of Commerce: Brazil Natal, Rio Grande do Norte state Coffee, chocolate and cappuccino Y Y Y G4-15 The IACC is a voluntary organization dedicated to the promotion of trade and investment between Israel Brazil Nova Iguaçu, Rio de Janeiro state Filter paper for filter coffee Y Y Y We participate in the UN Global Compact. We are also Brazil Mossoro Rio Grande do Norte state Corn products and drink powders N N Y and the U.S. members of Maala, Business for Social Responsibility in Brazil Varginha, Minas Gerais state Green coffee processing N N N Israel and participate in an annual Social Responsibility Gadi Lesin, Strauss Group CEO Ranking. For the past three years, we have achieved the • Member of the Prime Minister of Israel’s Round Table China Shanghai Strauss Water offices. N N N highest possible ranking, Platinum Plus. Forum: This is a collaborative Round Table which China Changzen Strauss Water offices and outsourced production N N N aims to address social issues through collaboration Germany Upahl Instant coffee N Y Y between public, private and non-profit sectors. • Chairman of the Manufacturers' Council of Israel Achihud Dairy products Y Y Y the Manufacturers' Association of Israel: The Israel Nazareth Chocolate, candy and gum Y Y Y Manufacturers’ Association represents all industry sectors in the local and international markets. Israel Beit Shemesh Max Brenner chocolates Y Y Y • Director of Shabal (“Healthy Teeth for All”), Israel: Israel Shderot Salty snacks Y Y Y Shabal is a non-profit association that provides Israel Yotvata Milk beverages and enriched milk Y Y Y access to affordable or no-cost oral healthcare for underprivileged individuals. Israel Netivot Dairy products Y Y Y Israel Carmiel Salads Y Y Y Israel Sde Nitzan Preparation and packing fresh refrigerated vegetables Y Y Y Israel Yad Mordechai Honey products, olive oil and jams Y Y Y Israel Haifa Bay Refrigerated distribution in Israel Y Y Y Israel Acre Logistics center Y Y Y Israel Petach Tikva Refrigerated distribution in Israel Y Y Y Israel Beit Shemesh Refrigerated distribution in Israel Y Y Y 70 | | 71 Country Location Main activity Included in our data collection * G4-19, G4-20, G4-21 Material Aspects G4 Category / Aspect Indicator Boundary 2012 2013 2014 (G4-19) Israel Beersheba Refrigerated distribution in Israel Y Y Y Healthy lifestyles Social: Society: Local Communities G4-SO1 External: impacts consumers in all Israel Zerifin Refrigerated distribution in Israel Y Y Y Social: Product Responsibility: Customer Health and FP6 the markets where we operate. Safety Israel Safed** Instant coffee Y Y Y Economic: Indirect economic impacts G4-EC8 Israel Lod Roast and ground coffee and choco powder Y Y Y Economic: Indirect economic impacts FP7 Israel Petach Tikvah Corporate Head Offices Y Y Y Reduce resource Environmental: Materials G4-EN1 External: impacts environmental consumption and Environmental: Energy G4-EN3 sustainability in all our markets. Israel Kibbutz Nativ HaLamed He Strauss Water plant Y Y Y waste in our value Environmental: Energy G4-EN5 Israel Or Yehuda Strauss Water headquarters Y Y Y chain Environmental: Water G4-EN8 Environmental: Emissions G4-EN15 Israel Petach Tikvah Strauss Water Lab N Y Y Environmental: Emissions G4-EN16 Israel Lod Strauss Water storage unit Y Y N Environmental: Emissions G4-EN18 Mexico Mexico City Chilled salads and dips N N Y Environmental: Emissions G4-EN20 Poland Swadzim, near Poznan Roast and ground coffee Y Y Y Environmental: Emissions G4-EN21 Environmental: Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Romania Bucharest Roast, ground and instant coffee Y Y Y Environmental: Effluents and Waste G4-EN23 Russia Strunino, Vladimir District Roast and ground coffee, packaging instant coffee N Y Y Environmental: Overall G4-EN31 and more Clear product Social: Product responsibility: Product and Service G4-PR3 External: impacts consumers in the Serbia Simanovci, near Belgrade Roast and ground coffee Y Y Y labeling and Labeling markets where we operate. responsible Social: Product responsibility: Product and Service G4-PR5 Netherlands Amsterdam Strauss Coffee Global HQ N Y Y marketing Labeling UK Guildford, Surrey Strauss Water Offices and sales organisation N N N Social: Marketing communications G4-PR7 U.S. Virginia Chilled salads and dips Y Y Y Ethical sourcing Economic: Procurement Practices FP1 External: impacts suppliers and and supply chain Economic: Procurement Practices FP2 economies in the markets where we U.S. Virginia*** Sabra headquarters Y Y Y operate. U.S. Oceanside, California**** Salsa dips Y Y Y Diversity in Social: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Internal: impacts our employees U.S. Farmingdale, NY**** Dairy dips Y Y Y everything we do Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work: Equal G4-LA13 and their personal growth and Remuneration for Women and Men opportunities U.S. Various cities in U,S. Max Brenner Headquarters and Chocolate Bars ***** Y Y N Social: Society: Local communities G4-SO1 External: impacts communities Economic: Procurement practices G4-EC9 and economic development in the Notes: * In addition, selected data has been collected from 55 points of retail coffee sales in Israel. markets where we operate. ** Strauss Coffee site in Safed closed in February 2014. Data included until close of operations. Engaging our Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work: G4-LA1 Internal: impacts our employees, *** Data from Sabra headquarters excludes environmental data. Employees Employment their safety and wellbeing, and **** HR data only. These sites constitute less than 10% of Sabra production. Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work: G4-LA6 personal growth and opportunities ***** 2013 data from Max Brenner U.S. excludes environmental data. Occupational Health and Safety Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work: Training G4-LA10 and Education Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work: Training G4-LA11 and Education 72 | | 73 G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 G4-EC1 G4-EN3 The stakeholder groups we engage include Economic value distributed $ millions Energy Consumption All figures in gigajoules Colleagues: We engage with our employees through 2013 2014 Fuel consumption (Scope1) 2012 2013 2014 Change employee surveys, multiple meetings and open Direct economic value 1,633.76 1,398.66 from 2013 (%) exchanges, and our dynamic intranet website. generated (revenues, interest Consumers: We engage with our consumers though a wide Natural gas 421,510 591,817 741,980 25% on assets and investments) range of channels including market research, social media Fuel oil 161,684 134,053 89,577 -33% Economic value distributed channels, targeted surveying and active call centers. Operating costs 1,075.91 937.06 Diesel fuel 95,707 91,728 146,197 59% Through our interactions with dieticians, nutritionists and healthcare professionals we also understand our Employee wages and benefits 338.98 283.40 Ethanol 1,255 535 50 -91% consumers' needs and preferences more closely. Payments to providers of capital 93.53 97.37 LPG 281,495 298,192 246,756 -17% Citizenship: We maintain a wide network of relationships Payments to shareholders 68.25 26.39 with suppliers, industry associations and community Gasoline 139,298 141,010 110,137 -22% Payments to governments 34.61 33.57 partners with whom we engage with regularly on matters Community investments 3.41 3.10 Coffee biomass 29,734 75,323 16,533 -78% relating to social and environmental responsibility. Total economic value 1,614.68 1,380.90 Biogas from wastewater treatment 54,137 37,177 56,683 52% distributed The key topics raised through our engagement with these Total fuel consumption (Scope 1) 1,184,820 1,369,834 1,407,913 3% Economic value retained 19.08 17.77 groups are reflected in our selection of material issues. Electricity purchased from grid (Scope 2) 473,932 504,855 532,924 6% More detail s provided on our 2013 Sustainability Report. Total energy consumption (Scope 1 & Scope 2) 1,658,752 1,874,689 1,940,837 4% G4-EC9 Percentage of procurement 2013 2014 Notes: G4-34 budget spent on local suppliers • Fuel consumption includes renewable and non-renewable sources. • We do not purchase or sell heating, cooling or steam and we do not sell electricity. The Strauss Group Board of Directors is comprised of 12 Brazil 98% 99% • Energy consumption data for all years includes Strauss Group operations globally except Max Brenner. In 2014 only, data from new Obela operations in members, of which 5 are women. Four are independent Europe 16% 31% Australia and Mexico is included. (including two public directors required by law). None of • Biogas from wastewater treatment, used for heating water, is now included in our energy consumption data in 2014 and has been retroactively Israel 57% 83% updated for years 2012 and 2013. the Directors are members of the executive management U.S. 75% 85% team or hold any management or other position in the Total 73% 85% Group. Eight members of the Board have been identified as having financial and accounting skills as defined by G4-EN5 regulation. For all further details regarding governance, G4-EN1 Energy intensity All figures in gigajoules per ton of product please see our Annual Report. Ingredient 2014 volume in tons 2012 2013 2014 Change from Cocoa 4,356 2013 (%) Coffee 63,349 Scope 1 2.52 2.76 2.52 -9% G4-56 Chickpeas 2,950 Scope 2 1.00 1.01 0.95 -6% Our organizational values are listed on page 6. Sugar 18,500 Total energy intensity 3.52 3.78 3.48 -8% Our Code of Ethics is available on our website: www.strauss-group.com/corporate-responsibility/ Tahini 2,477 Note: Energy intensity is calculated per ton of product. It includes Strauss Israel, Strauss Coffee, Sabra and Obela representing over 98% of Strauss's download-center energy consumption. The ratio includes all energy sources at the relevant sites 74 | | 75 G4-EN8 G4-EN18 Water withdrawal All figures in cubic meters (m3) Greenhouse gas emissions intensity All figures in tons CO2e per ton of product Change from 2012 2013 2014 Change from 2012 2013 2014 2013 (%) 2013 (%) Scope 1 0.177 0.229 0.178 -23% Water withdrawn from municipal water supplies N/A 1,635,699 1,674,364 2% Scope 2 0.175 0.164 0.119 -27% Water withdrawn from ground water N/A 85,828 31,819 -63% Total greenhouse gas emissions intensity 0.352 0.393 0.297 -25% Total water withdrawal 1,506,410 1,721,527 1,706,183 -1% Note: Emissions intensity is calculated per ton of product. It includes Strauss Israel, Strauss Coffee, Sabra and Obela, the four production companies Water intensity per ton of product 3.28 3.54 3.11 -12% delivering output in tons. These companies represent over 97% of Strauss Group's total emissions. Data previously reported for 2012 and 2013 has been revised to include emissions resulting from ozone depleting substances and from flaring of excess biogas used in wastewater treatment. Notes: • In 2014 only, data from new Obela operations in Australia and Mexico is included. • Water intensity is calculated per ton of product. It includes Strauss Israel, Strauss Coffee, Sabra and Obela representing over 98% of Strauss Group's total water withdrawal. G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone depleting substances (ODS) All figures in kg of CFC-11 equivalent Change from 2012 2013 2014 2013 (%) G4-EN15 and G4–EN16 Emissions of ozone depleting substances (R-22) 313 467 187 -60% Notes: Greenhouse gas emissions All figures in tons CO2e Change from • Data is included for Strauss Israel, Strauss Coffee, Coffee to Go (Israel), Strauss Water and Sabra. Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) 2012 2013 2014 2013 (%) • Data for 2012 and 2013 has been restated and is now reported as kg of chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) 11 equivalents. In previous years all ozone depleting Natural gas 23,299 32,712 41,012 25% substances and alternatives were reported. Fuel oil 12,620 10,463 6,992 -33% Diesel fuel 7,234 6,914 10,898 58% G4-EN21 Ethanol 89 38 4 -91% Emissions of air pollutants (NOx, SOx and PM) All figures in tons Change from LPG 18,279 19,352 16,024 -17% 2012 2013 2014 2013 (%) Gasoline 9,816 9,912 7,761 -22% NOx (nitrogen oxides) 139 110 44 -60% Emissions from ozone depleting substances 11,826 34,001 16,621 -51% SOx (sulphur oxides) 166 151 104 -31% Other 102 231 166 -28% PM (particulate matter) 22 26 14 -45% Total direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) 85,277 113,624 99,477 -12% CO (Carbon Monoxide) N/A 32 42 32% Total emissions of air pollutants 327 318 204 -36% Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) Notes: Electricity purchased from grid 88,432 82,168 67,730 -18% • Data is included for Strauss Israel, Strauss Coffee, Coffee to Go (Israel), Strauss Water and Sabra. Total greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 & 2) 173,709 195,792 167,208 -15% Notes: G4-EN22 • GHG emissions data for all years includes all Strauss Group operations globally except the U.S. operations of Max Brenner. In 2014 only, data from new Wastewater pollutants All figures in tons Change from Obela operations in Australia and Mexico is included. 2012 2013 2014 2013 (%) • Biogas and coffee mass are renewables and recorded as zero emissions. • Greenhouse gases included in the calculation of CO2e are CO2, CH4 and N2O. TSS (Total Suspended Solids) 921 662 457 -31% • The IPCC Emissions Factor Database is used for calculation of fuel emission factors. Electricity emissions for Israel, Germany and Romania are calculated COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) 2,414 2,284 2,114 -7% using national electricity grids published emissions factors. All other electricity emissions are calculated using the GHG Protocol most recent published BOD (Biological Oxygen Demand) 1,128 1,063 791 -26% emissions factors. • The reduction in emissions in 2014 is in part due to use of electricity from a private source powered by natural gas, and lower emission factors in Israel Total wastewater pollutants 4,463 4,009 3,362 -16% due to increase in natural gas used by the national electricity grid. Notes: • Data is included for Strauss Israel, Strauss Coffee, Coffee to Go (Israel), Strauss Water and Sabra. 76 | | 77 G4-EN23 G4-LA1 Hazardous and non-hazardous waste All figures in tons Change from Percentage of New hires 2012 2013 2014 Rate of new Rate of new Total new 2012 2013 2014 2013 (%) total waste 2014 by age Male Female Male Female Male Female hires in 2014 hires in 2014 hire rate (%) (males) (females) Reuse 47,728 54,198 75,028 38% 73% Below age 30 1,272 975 1,585 1,115 1,388 911 10.9% 7.1% 18.0% Recycling 9,629 7,638 10,256 34% 10% Age 30 50 837 513 972 554 836 494 6.5% 3.9% 10.4% Landfill 15,371 12,218 17,717 45% 17% Over age 50 50 23 77 42 58 50 0.5% 0.4% 0.8% Total hazardous and non-hazardous waste 72,728 74,054 103,001 39% 100% Total new hires 2,159 1,511 2,634 1,711 2,282 1,455 17.8% 11.4% 29.2% Notes: by gender • Data is included for Strauss Israel, Strauss Coffee, Strauss Water and Sabra. Data from other sites was not available. Waste to landfill data for 2013 has been restated due to error. Total new hires 3,670 4,345 3,737 G4-EN31 New hires 2012 2013 2014 Rate of new Rate of new Total new by region Male Female Male Female Male Female hires in 2014 hires in 2014 hire rate (%) Environmental investments in $ millions 2014 (males) (females) Investments in environmental projects 2.47 Europe 219 112 244 153 266 129 2.1% 1.0% 3.1% Investments in prevention and environmental management 3.56 Israel 757 687 955 813 936 804 7.3% 6.3% 13.6% Total environmental investments 6.03 U.S. 228 193 319 277 48 98 0.4% 0.8% 1.1% Rest of the world 955 519 1,116 468 1,032 424 8.1% 3.3% 11.4% Total new hires 2,159 1,511 2,634 1,711 2,282 1,455 17.8% 11.4% 29.2% by region FP1 G4-PR5 In Israel 1,435 of a total 3,272 suppliers have signed Strauss Israel's Customer satisfaction results from analysis Leavers 2012 2013 2014 Rate of Rate of Total Social Charter (44%). We believe this represents more than 50% of our of call center queries and complaints in by age Male Female Male Female Male Female turnover in turnover in turnover purchasing volume. 2014 in Israel: 2014 (males) 2014 (females) rate (%) 93% of consumers confirmed our service is excellent, very good or good in response to Below age 30 1,343 974 972 1,137 1,107 799 8.7% 6.2% 14.9% FP2 their queries. Age 30 50 907 728 722 987 922 502 7.2% 3.9% 11.1% • Coffee: In 2014, 8.4% of our total coffee procurement was sustainable 94% of consumers confirmed our service is Over age 50 70 91 124 205 127 82 1.0% 0.6% 1.6% coffee certified by 4C. excellent, very good or good in response to Total leavers 2,320 1,793 1,818 2,329 2,156 1,383 16.9% 10.8% 27.7% • Cocoa: In Strauss Israel, 100% of cocoa requirements are purchased a complaint about our products by age from suppliers certified to a recognized standard. 95% of consumers confirmed Strauss Group Total leavers 4,113 4,147 3,539 • Data is not available at present for other key ingredients. representatives are attentive to their needs when they call with a query or a complaint. . Leavers by 2012 2013 2014 Rate of Rate of Total G4-PR3 region Male Female Male Female Male Female turnover in turnover 2014 (males) 2014 (females) in turnover rate (%) We believe consumers can make more informed choices when they are able to understand our product labels. We comply with all product Europe 253 195 222 135 267 156 2.1% 1.2% 3.3% labelling laws in all countries where we operate. Further, we aim to make Israel 799 917 921 1,138 850 788 6.6% 6.2% 12.8% our labeling as clear as possible and ensure that prominent aspects U.S. 209 177 291 235 127 72 1.0% 0.6% 1.6% relating to the product content is easily visible to consumers. Internally, Rest of the world 1,059 504 384 821 912 367 7.1% 2.9% 10.0% we are alert to all new product labeling regulation and ensure that all Total leavers 2,320 1,793 1,818 2,329 2,156 1,383 16.9% 10.8% 27.7% relevant staff is informed and changes implemented accordingly. by region 78 | | 79 G4-LA6 G4-LA12 Injuries Number of injuries Injury Rate Rate change Employees by gender 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 in 2014 (%) Male Female Male Female Male Female Europe 24 17 22 2.37 1.75 2.29 31% Senior management 67% 33% 73% 27% 77% 23% Israel 358 254 250 6.33 4.71 4.55 -3% Middle management 62% 38% 61% 39% 62% 38% U.S. 17 27 6 1.74 2.53 0.88 -65% Non-management 56% 44% 58% 42% 59% 41% Rest of the world 182 231 128 4.48 5.21 2.57 -51% Total employees 57% 43% 59% 41% 60% 40% Strauss Group 581 529 406 4.96 4.46 3.35 -25% Employees by 2012 2013 2014 Lost days Number of lost days Lost day rate Rate change age group Below Age Over Below Age Over Below Age Over 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 in 2014 (%) age 30 30-50 age 50 age 30 30-50 age 50 age 30 30-50 age 50 Europe 342 633 463 33.76 65.12 48.28 -26% Senior management 2% 71% 27% 2% 58% 40% 0% 73% 27% Israel 3,744 3,117 3,199 66.16 57.79 58.24 1% Middle management 9% 79% 12% 11% 77% 12% 8% 80% 12% U.S. 181 510 53 18.56 47.80 7.78 -84% Non-management 36% 51% 13% 50% 40% 10% 34% 53% 13% Rest of the world 8,520 6,595 4,200 209.90 148.77 84.27 -43% Total employees 32% 55% 13% 44% 46% 10% 30% 57% 13% Strauss Group 12,787 10,855 7,915 109.24 91.48 65.32 -29% Employees from 2012 2013 2014 minority groups Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Absenteeism Number of absenteeism days (2014) Absenteesim rate (2014) Senior management 5% 9% 6% 9% 15% 10% 7% 0% 5% Europe 9,123 3.81% Middle management 3% 1% 2% 4% 3% 4% 5% 4% 5% Israel 67,082 4.88% Non-management 14% 12% 13% 12% 10% 11% 11% 10% 10% U.S. 671 0.39% Total employees 12% 10% 11% 10% 9% 10% 10% 9% 10% Strauss Group 76,876 4.31% Notes: Employees with 2012 2013 2014 • Injuries are those which incur lost workdays. Minor injuries are not noted. Injuries are calculated per 100 employees. disabilities Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total • Data split by gender is not available for most locations and data is not available for supervised workers. Data for Europe includes all locations except Russia and Ukraine. Senior management 2.3% 0.0% 1.5% 2.9% 0.0% 2.1% 4.3% 0.0% 3.3% • No specific occupational diseases are identified within Strauss Group operations. Middle management 0.5% 0.3% 0.4% 1.7% 0.7% 1.3% 0.5% 0.3% 0.4% • Data for 2014 for rest of the world includes Obela in Australia and Mexico. Non-management 1.4% 1.0% 1.2% 1.8% 1.4% 1.6% 1.0% 0.6% 0.8% Total employees 1.2% 0.9% 1.1% 1.8% 1.3% 1.6% 0.9% 0.6% 0.8% G4-LA11 Note: Employees receiving performance reviews 2012 2013 2014 The data for disabled employees in Israel in 2014 assumes 100% disability only. In 2012 and 2013, all levels of disability are included. The actual number of employees with disability did not reduce in 2014 in Israel. In other locations, some reductions in the numbers of disabled employees are reported. This is Male Female Male Female Male Female under review. Senior management 21 11 19 7 42 12 · 2013 data for middle management by age group has been restated due to error. Middle management 287 174 727 505 713 466 Non-management 854 699 908 854 1,025 989 Total by gender 1,162 884 1,654 1,366 1,780 1,467 Total by group 2,046 3,020 3,247 Percentage of total employees 18% 26% 27% 80 | | 81 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary men 2012 2013 2014 to women (% reflects Senior Middle NonSenior Middle NonSenior Middle Nonthe level of women managers Managers managers managers Managers managers managers Managers managers salaries in proportion to men salaries) Europe No No No 83% 88% 74% 83% 78% 84% women women women Israel 88% 90% 78% 77% 83% 75% 79% 88% 75% U.S. Not Not Not 95% 108% 64% 88% 107% 88% reported reported reported Rest of world Not Not 82% 92% 89% 100% 128% 92% 104% reported reported Notes: • It is important to note that categorizing many thousands of employees in different roles and a positions in to three groups non-managers, middle managers and senior managers – generates broad groups of very heterogeneous populations that include many diverse roles that are different in levels of responsibility, seniority and complexity within each group. Strauss Group's remuneration approach is based on, among other things, a comparison of market salary levels for similar roles without reference to gender. The average salary calculated by group does not correctly reflect current salary levels for similar roles at each organizational level. Therefore, this analysis of comparative salary levels for men and women on the basis of average salaries per group is not representative of our organizational reality and highlights gaps in salary levels due to significant differences in the nature and level of diverse roles and the levels of salaries determined by market norms, and not because of different women/men salary levels on a role by role basis. • Salary data is not available for comparison in all locations. Where data was not comparable at management or non-management level, this has been excluded. • Rest of World includes Brazil, Australia and Mexico in 2014 as we expanded the scope of our reporting to include these new Sabra/Obela operations. In 2012 and 2013, this refers to Brazil only. • Data excludes Max Brenner operations for all years due to some inconsistencies which are under review. 2012 figures are restated accordingly. • Data excludes non-management figures for Sabra operations in the U.S. due to some inconsistencies which are under review. • Data for non-managers in Israel is restated for 2013 due to a calculation error in the prior report. • At senior management level, due to small overall management numbers, small changes can make a big difference in the salary ratios. In the U.S at senior management level, for example, a change in the composition of the five-strong management team caused a shift from women at 64% of men salaries in 2013 to 107% in 2014. FEEDBACK THANK YOU! Thank you for taking an interest in our Sustainability Report. We sincerely ask you to consider providing ON THIS your feedback which will help us improve to meet your needs more effectively. Please also visit our website, www.strauss-group.com, where you will find additional information and our Corporate Responsibility blog, which is updated regularly. REPORT We acknowledge the hard work, passion and commitment of all Strauss employees who contribute to our business and sustainability performance, and to over 100 employees who have specifically contributed content for this Sustainability Report. Please contact us at: Credits: Daniela Prusky-Sion, Beyond Business Ltd (content and copy) Global Director, Sustainability and Internal Sher Consultants (environmental data) Communications, Strauss Group Studio Merhav (graphic design) daniela.sion@strauss-group.com Linda Gitter (Translation and editing) 82 |
