For the year ended March 31, 2015 Integrated Report 2015 TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS Sustainable Publication of Mitsubishi Corporation Economic Value Aim for sound earnings growth Integrated Report 2015 and increased corporate value through the proactive Creating Sustainable reshaping of our business models and portfolio Corporate Value Sustainable Societal Value Mitsubishi Corporation (MC) is pushing ahead with a strategy for Contribute to economic development as a responsible corporate citizen generating sustainable corporate value by pursuing sustainable economic value, along with sustainable societal value and Sustainable Environmental Value environmental value. To ensure that readers are able to correctly Work towards preserving and improving the global environment, recognizing that understand these activities, we must take a systematic view of our planet is our greatest stakeholder financial information linked directly to business activities and non-financial information, and provide explanations accordingly. Guided by this thinking, we have incorporated elements of our sustainability report into our conventional annual report since 2011 in order to enhance the non-financial information in the annual report. This has led to our decision to publish an integrated report from the previous fiscal year. In the preparation of this report, we have referred to the International Integrated Reporting Framework (International <IR> Framework) advocated by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Version 3.1) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the ISO 26000 Handbook on Social Responsibility. Going forward, MC intends to ensure that the content of the integrated report serves as a communications tool that clearly conveys the Company’s activities to create value over the medium and long terms. MC has achieved business expansion over many years while embracing the Three Corporate Principles, which constitute our corporate philosophy, as the source of inspiration of our business activities. Today, MC is striving to create sustainable corporate value with the view to driving further sustained growth. In Integrated Report 2015, we sought to highlight the appeal of MC in these respects, while reflecting the viewpoints of a variety of stakeholders. In the future, we will continue to make improvements to this report so as to make it even easier to understand, while taking into account the opinions of stakeholders regarding the report. September 2015 Ken Kobayashi President and CEO < Inclusion in Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Indices > MC has earned a solid reputation for its past corporate social responsibility (CSR) and environmental affairs initiatives, and transparency in the disclosure of information. Underscoring this is MC’s inclusion in the following Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Indices. (As of September 2015) < Financial Section of Integrated Report 2015 > From the year ended March 2014, we have prepared our consolidated financial statements based on International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Unless stated to the contrary, the information given in this Integrated Report is also based on IFRS. Please refer to “Financial Section of Integrated Report 2015” for detailed information for the year ended March 2015. URL: http://www.mitsubishicorp.com/jp/en/ir/library/afr/ < Website Information > Mitsubishi Corporation Integrated Report 2015 (Online Version) Information regarding CSR & Environment URL: http://www.mitsubishicorp.com/ar2015/en/ URL: http://www.mitsubishicorp.com/jp/en/csr/ OUR PHILOSOPHY Since its founding years, Mitsubishi Corporation has embraced the spirit of the Three Corporate Principles as its corporate philosophy. The Three Corporate Principles were formulated in 1934, as the action guidelines of Mitsubishi Trading Company (Mitsubishi Shoji Kaisha), based on the teachings of Koyata Iwasaki, the fourth president of Mitsubishi. Although Mitsubishi Trading Company ceased to exist as of 1947, the principles were adopted as MC’s corporate philosophy, and this spirit lives on in the actions of today’s management and employees. The Three Corporate Principles also serve as the cornerstone of the management ethos of the so-called Mitsubishi group of companies. Active in many business fields and united by a common history and philosophy, the Mitsubishi companies continue to grow through a strong spirit of friendly competition with one another. Corporate Philosophy–Three Corporate Principles Corporate Responsibility to Society “Shoki Hoko” Strive to enrich society, both materially and spiritually, while contributing towards the preservation of the global environment. Integrity and Fairness “Shoji Komei” Maintain principles of transparency and openness, conducting business with integrity and fairness. Global Understanding Through Business “Ritsugyo Boeki” Expand business, based on an all-encompassing global perspective. (The modern day interpretation of the Three Corporate Principles, as agreed on at the Mitsubishi Kinyokai meeting of the companies that constitute the so-called Mitsubishi group in January 2001.) Corporate Standards of Conduct Aim of Corporate Business Activities Information Security and Disclosure Through its business activities, Mitsubishi Corporation will endeavor to While Mitsubishi Corporation will continue to develop, implement and improve the increase its value. At the same time, the company will strive to enrich effectiveness of its information security management system, at the same time the society in all ways, developing and offering its customers the best company will disclose information accurately and in a timely fashion, so as to maintain services and products, with the highest regard for safety. transparency and be correctly understood by both its stakeholders and the general public. Fairness and Integrity in Corporate Business Activities Consideration for Environmental Issues Mitsubishi Corporation will continue to develop its business activities in Mitsubishi Corporation understands that an enterprise cannot continue to prosper compliance with all relevant laws, international regulations and internal without consideration for its environmental performance, and will strive to protect rules. The company will act responsibly and will respect the highest social and improve the global environment and pursue sustainable development through standards. all aspects of its business activities. Respect for Human Rights and Employees Contribution to Society Mitsubishi Corporation will respect human rights and will not engage in As a responsible member of society, Mitsubishi Corporation will actively carry any discrimination. The company will preserve and improve its corporate out philanthropic programs in an effort to promote the enrichment of society. strengths through the development of its employees, all the while Moreover, the company will support efforts of its employees to contribute to respecting the character and individuality of each employee. society. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 01 OUR NUMBERS While growing the scope of our operations, MC is focusing on being mindful of (As of March 31, 2015) the environment and society, and on improving the soundness of management. Number of consolidated subsidiaries and equity-method affiliates 614 Number of consolidated employees MC has 614 consolidated subsidiaries and equity-method affiliates. We have 398 consolidated subsidiaries and 216 equity-method affiliates. ⇒For details, please see “Global Network” on page 116. 71,994 MC has 614 consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates and 71,994 consolidated employees. MC's diverse human resources play active roles regardless of gender, nationality and other aspects. ⇒For details, please see “MC Group Human Resources Strategy” on page 84. 21%% Consolidated net income ¥400.6 79% Resource billion Consolidated net income for the year ended March 31, 2015 was ¥400.6 billion, thereby exceeding our full-year forecast of ¥400.0 billion. MC has set a target of doubling attributable equity production in resource fields and NonResource doubling consolidated net income in non-resource fields by circa 2020 under our growth vision (relative to the year ended March 31, 2013). ⇒For details, please see “Message from President and CEO” on page 06 and “Message from the Chief Financial Officer” on page 32. HISTORY Foundation to 1970s The 1980s In 1954 the new Mitsubishi Shoji was founded, and that same year MC needed to construct new systems to generate profits. was listed on the Tokyo stock exchange. In 1967, the company The company began streamlining its established businesses announced its first management plan. In 1968, the company and developing more efficient operations. In 1986 the committed to a large project in Brunei to develop LNG (liquefied company firmly entrenched a new policy, shifting its focus natural gas). This was its first large-scale investment. Not content from operating transactions to profits. That same year a new with mere trade-based activities, the company began expanding its management plan was drawn up. In 1989, MC was listed on development and investment-based businesses on a global scale, the London Stock Exchange. as evidenced by iron-ore and metallurgical coal projects in Australia and Canada, and salt field business in Mexico. In 1971, the company made “Mitsubishi Corporation” its official English name. 02 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 90 Number of countries with global sites Investments made in the year ended March 31, 2015 ¥760 Approx. MC has over 200 business sites in Japan and about 90 countries and develops business together with its consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates. ⇒For details, please see “Regional Initiatives” on page 82 and “Global Network” on page 116. billion MC made investments that totaled ¥760 billion in the year ended March 31, 2015. Under New Strategic Direction, Number of Outside Directors/ we plan to invest a total of ¥2.0-2.5 trillion over the Number of Directors 5 14 three-year period starting from the year ended March 2014. ⇒For details, please see “Message from the Chief Financial Officer” on page 32. MC appoints Outside Directors to strengthen management supervision. The total number of Directors as of March 31, 2015 was 14. Five of them are Outside Directors. ⇒For details, please see “Special Feature 2: MC’s Corporate Governance System Supporting Sustainable Growth” on page 24, “Approaches to Corporate Governance” on page 104 and “Members of the Board and Corporate Auditors” on page 112. Cumulative number of trees planted (As of July 1, 2015) 1,190,456 5Outside (more than one Directors third of all directors) MC has been conducting the Tropical Forest Regeneration Experimental Project since 1990 as one aspect of its environmental preservation and improvement activities. To date we have planted a cumulative total of 1,190,456 trees. ⇒For details, please see “Preservation of Biodiversity” on page 95. The 1990s Into the New Millennium In 1992, MC announced a new management policy, namely to In 2001, MC introduced “MC2003,” an aggressive new blueprint for growth, involving an expansion of reinvent the company as a “Sound, Global Enterprise.” MC began the company’s value chains, a strengthening of its profitability, and focused strategies to create new placing greater focus on its consolidated operations and increasing businesses. In 2004, “INNOVATION 2007” was unveiled which sought to establish MC as a “New Industry the value of its assets. More efforts were made to globalize the Innovator,” with an aim to open up a new era and grow hand in hand with society. In 2007, MC newly company’s operations and its people. In 1998, MC established established the Business Innovation Group and Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development Group. “MC2000” which introduced a “Select & Focus” approach to Then, in 2008, MC announced its management plan, “INNOVATION 2009.” In 2009, MC systematically business, strengthened strategic fields, and emphasized customer reorganized the Business Innovation Group and established its Corporate Development Section. In April, oriented policies. The new plan was instrumental in shoring up the 2010, MC reorganized and enhanced this section through the establishment of two new Groups, the Global company’s foundations and paving the way to a prosperous future. Environment Business Development Group and Business Service Group. In July 2010, MC announced a new management plan, “Midterm Corporate Strategy 2012,” which sought to strengthen our management platform based on the diversification of business models. Our new corporate strategy, “New Strategic Direction – Charting a new path toward sustainable growth” was released in May 2013. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 03 Message from President and CEO ........ 06 Special Features 1. MC’s Corporate Value Creation Story Aiming for a Sustainable Aquaculture Model................. 16 Mineral Resources Investment Business Passes the Baton to the Next Generation .................................... 20 2. MC’s Corporate Governance System Supporting Sustainable Growth Governance & Compensation Committee Roundtable Discussion.................................................... 24 MC’s Corporate Governance Initiatives .......................... 29 INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 CONTENTS Structure of This Report Our Strategies Business Operations Business Operations by Segment Message from Group/Business Groups P.42 President and CEO P.06 Global Industrial Finance, Business Service Environmental & Energy Business Logistics & Group Infrastructure Group Development Group Business Group Special Features P.14 Metals Group Machinery Group Chemicals Group Living Essentials Group 04 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from Finance and ESG Sustainability President and CEO Message from the Chief Financial Officer ............ 32 Creating Sustainable Corporate Value .................... 90 Financial ESG Highlights ....................................... 38 MC’s Sustainability Policies ................................ 91 Special Features MC’s Sustainability Framework .......................... 92 Key Sustainability Themes for MC ...................... 93 Group/Business Groups Supply Chain Management.................................. 98 Finance and ESG Our Business .......................................................... 44 Great East Japan Earthquake Results of Business Groups .................................. 46 Restoration Efforts ............................................... 99 Organizational Structure ....................................... 48 MC’s Corporate Philanthropy Activities ............100 Business Service Group .................................... 49 CSR & Environmental Affairs Group/Business Groups Global Environmental & Advisory Committee...........................................102 Infrastructure Business Group.......................... 50 Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development Group ........................................... 54 Corporate Governance Energy Business Group ..................................... 58 Approaches to Corporate Governance ..................104 Metals Group ..................................................... 62 Approaches to Internal Control System................108 Regional Initiatives and Machinery Group ............................................... 66 Message from the Chief Compliance Officer ........110 Chemicals Group ............................................... 70 Human Resources Members of the Board and Corporate Auditors ...112 Living Essentials Group ..................................... 74 International Advisory Committee ........................114 Mineral and Energy Resource Data ...................... 78 Sustainability Corporate Data Regional Initiatives and Global Network ......................................................116 Human Resources General Information...............................................118 Regional Initiatives ................................................ 82 Executive Officers ..................................................119 Corporate Governance MC Group Human Resources Strategy ................. 84 Corporate Information ...........................................120 Corporate Value Foundation Finance and ESG P.30 Corporate Data Regional Initiatives and Human Resources P.80 Corporate Data P.116 Sustainability P.88 Corporate Governance P.103 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 05 Message from President and CEO Ken Kobayashi President and CEO Joined MC in 1971. Became Senior Vice President and General Manager of Singapore Branch in April 2003 after successively holding post as General Manager of Ship & Industrial Project Dept. and General Manager of Singapore Branch. Appointed Senior Vice President and Division COO of Plant Project Div. in June 2004. Became Senior Vice President and Division COO of Ship, Aerospace & Transportation Systems Div. in April 2006. Appointed Executive Vice President and Group CEO of Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development Group in April 2007. Became Member of the Board, Executive Vice President and Group CEO of Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development Group in June 2007. Retired as Member of the Board and appointed Executive Vice President and Group CEO of Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development Group in June 2008. Became Senior Executive Vice President and Executive Assistant to President in April 2010. Assumed current position as Member of the Board, President and CEO in June 2010. 06 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from President and CEO Special Features Concentrating Our Strengths Finance and ESG Towards Completion of Group/Business Groups New Strategic Direction Regional Initiatives and Management Policies for the Fiscal Year Ending March 2016 During 2014 the economies of developed countries stagnated as growth in developing countries, which had been expected Human Resources to drive worldwide economic growth over the medium and long term, slowed, with China transitioning from a period of high economic growth to one of stable growth. Furthermore, developments such as the conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and Sustainability in the Middle East signaled growing geopolitical risks, while a sense of uncertainty regarding the global economy as a whole was aggravated by factors such as falling prices for crude oil and other resources. Facing such challenges, we began 2015, which holds a particular significance for us as a year which we mark as the completion of our latest strategic cycle, New Strategic Direction. The Business Strategy Committee held this March provided an opportunity to review the path forward and associated Corporate Governance issues as we pursue our vision for circa 2020 in the context of these conditions through detailed discussions with each business group and department. While we currently face a challenging environment that poses various issues, we feel good response that the vision for circa 2020 laid out in New Strategic Direction will become apparent if each of us moves steadily to implement our growth strategy in respective areas of responsibility, while dealing with the realities of the current environment and adjusting our approach as needed. Pursuing fair, robust business operations by contributing to society, acting in an environmentally responsible manner and undertaking global business activities in accordance with the Three Corporate Principles, which have been passed Corporate Data down since our founding and form the starting point of Mitsubishi Corporation (MC), will not only enable us to overcome the environmental challenges that we face in each area of our operations, but also will lead to successfully implementing our New Strategic Direction. For details about corporate philosophy, please refer to “OUR PHILOSOPHY” on page 01. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 07 Vision and Policies of New Strategic Direction Under New Strategic Direction, MC has adopted a vision diversification and multiple winning businesses. We will based on doubling the scale of its businesses by circa 2020. also undertake growth investments with an emphasis on This vision was adopted using a “future pull” approach cash flow and adherence to financial rules and regulations. eyeing circa 2020 based on a reacknowledgement of the In an effort to narrow down the business sub-segments, we Company’s value as “providing upside potential as well as aim to have more than 10 business sub-segments in our stable earnings.” portfolio that generate net income of at least ¥20.0 billion As a specific vision for growth, we are working to double and another 10 to 15 that can generate between ¥10.0 attributable equity production compared with the fiscal billion and ¥20.0 billion. year ended March 2013 in the resource field that deals in At the same time, we have set a return on equity (ROE) products such as liquefied natural gas (LNG), coking coal, of 12-15% over the medium to long term as an indicator of copper and other resources. We also aim to double earnings profitability, and we will continue to improve the Company’s in the non-resource field such as finance, infrastructure value by implementing a stable dividend policy that reflects and living essentials. In addition, we have defined our vision our upside potential. for our portfolio circa 2020 as a combination of optimal For more information about portfolio management and other topics related to risk management, see “Risk Management” on page 36. New Strategic Direction Maximizing our sustainable corporate value as a company with a diversified selected portfolio Business Strategy Market Strategy Using capital efficiently Targeting Asia Principles Investment Policy Financial Discipline Dividend Policy Create sustainable corporate Accelerate divestments, Fund investments within own cash Introduce new dividend policy, set base value, proactively reshape continue consistent flow, deliver a return on equity of dividend according to a conservative base our portfolio investment rate 12-15% in the medium to long term earnings level of ¥350 billion per annum Double Business Business Sub-Segments Evaluation Matrix (Illustrative example) Resource: double attributable equity Growth Potential Growth Potential Low High Low High production Non-resource: double earnings Winning Businesses Level of Earnings Up or Out 2 Divestment Candidates 2013.3 Circa 2020 Cost of Equity 15% ROE 08 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from President and CEO Message from Progress on New Strategic Direction President and CEO Financial Results for the Year Ended March 2015 Special Features Consolidated net income during the fiscal year ended March Our non-resource businesses posted record earnings. 2015 totaled ¥400.6 billion, meeting our full-year forecast A gain on reversal of impairment losses from Lawson of ¥400.0 billion. shares and other sources contributed to these results Although we were able to meet our full-year forecast along with factors such as increased equity profits in our Finance and ESG thanks to steady profits in the non-resource field, we fund businesses and increased earnings in our livestock were forced to post an impairment loss of ¥95.0 billion in business. We are steadily strengthening our profitability resource-related businesses and a total impairment loss so that we can achieve the goal of doubling consolidated of ¥127.0 billion including corresponding figures for other earnings as set forth in New Strategic Direction. Group/Business Groups businesses. During the fiscal year ending March 2016, which will Although the results for the resource field reflect the mark the last year of New Strategic Direction, we will work impact of factors such as falling resource prices, we are to achieve profit targets and successfully implement New gradually accumulating exceptional, cost-competitive Strategic Direction while making investments and asset assets as we take steady action to double attributable divestments to facilitate continued growth. equity production as set forth in New Strategic Direction. For details about results of the year ended March 2015, please refer to “Message from the Chief Financial Officer” on page 32. Regional Initiatives and Human Resources Consolidated Net Income for the Fiscal Year Ended March 2015 ■ Profits in the resource field fell from the previous year due to impairment losses. ■ Profits in the non-resource field set a new record (¥314.5 billion). ■ Positive results in the non-resource field covered falling profits in the resource field, allowing us to post results in line with our forecasts. Year ended March 2014 Year ended March 2015 Sustainability 400.6 billion yen 361.4 billion yen 85.4 billion yen Energy Business, Metals* 21% 115.4 billion yen Corporate Governance 33% Global Environmental & Infrastructure Business, Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development, Machinery, Chemicals, Living Essentials 314.5 billion yen 236.8 billion yen 79% Adjustments and eliminations 67% *The steel products business is included as a non-resource business. 9.2 billion yen 0.7 billion yen Corporate Data Progress in Investments Since announcing New Strategic Direction, MC has been steadily pursued new investments in the non-resource making steady progress towards the long-term objective of field, including the acquisition of Norwegian salmon and doubling the scale of its businesses by circa 2020. trout farming company, Cermaq ASA. In keeping with our In addition to milestones in the resource field that include awareness that “no growth is possible without investment,” the opening of a new coal mine in Australia and finalizing we plan to continue investing actively in promising our plans to invest in U.S. company Cameron LNG, we have opportunities. For more information about business opportunities in the non-resource and resource fields, see “Special Feature 1: MC’s Corporate Value Creation Story” on page 16. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 09 Progress on Business Strategies In the resource field, we are working to further strengthen example, through downstream development of the North our competitiveness by ensuring profitability in our project American shale gas business and by shifting our finance pipeline and focusing on improving capital and operational business to a focus on asset management. costs with an emphasis on investments that update or In addition to new investments, we will continue to expand existing core businesses. work to achieve our growth targets while reviewing the In the non-resource field, we are accelerating our efforts allocation of management resources in each segment, with to allocate management resources to “stronger performing the goal of actively pursuing the replacement of assets and businesses” and “businesses that promise to develop into strengthening portfolio management. strong performers” in line with our growth vision for circa As a result of our business selection and consolidation 2020 of creating multiple sizable “winning businesses.” efforts, we have narrowed down the number of business In addition to expanding our automobile, foods, food retail, sub-segments from 47 to 39, while the number of “winning power generation, life sciences and other businesses, businesses” is steadily increasing. we are working to effect change in business models, for For more information about initiatives in individual businesses, see “Group/Business Groups” on page 42. Progress on Market Strategies Our objective is to ensure sustainable growth by capturing markets. To achieve this goal, we are working to secure growth in Asia by accelerating global development, global supply sources to meet increasing demand of Asian leveraging our shift towards Asian markets, which are markets for raw materials and other commodities, and to gaining a greater international presence not only as establish a local presence within the Asian region through resource rich and industrial nations, but also as consumer M&As, strategic alliances and other proactive initiatives. For details about each regional initiative, please refer to “Regional Initiatives” on page 82. [Myanmar] [Indonesia] Thilawa Special Economic Zone Automobile Operations This is located only about 20 km from Yangon City and is MC has constructed a robust value chain around PT. well positioned as a base for production activities aimed Krama Yudha Tiga Berlian Motors (KTB), a joint venture at satisfying domestic demand in Myanmar. established with a local partner. KTB is pursuing sustainable growth with a unique strategy focused on [Thailand] local market requirements. Automobile Operations Consumer goods Business The Isuzu automobile operations conduct sales centered Alfamart is operated by Alfa Group, one of the retailing on pickup trucks which account for approximately 50% leaders in Indonesia. of all Thai automobile sales. 10 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from President and CEO Message from Progress on Business Development (R&D) Strategy President and CEO As we implement our business portfolio strategy, we have Among new growth fields targeting markets we have yet launched multiple task forces in areas such as agriculture to sufficiently cover, we have positioned areas where major Special Features and healthcare. We are involved in initiatives designed to changes in the industry structure and rules could take place create new business sub-segments that will form part of as “promising fields.” I myself, as CEO of MC, will take the the Company’s future portfolio, and we continue to study lead in targeting these fields. specific individual projects in that regard. Finance and ESG Financial Position New Strategic Direction adopts a financial policy of placing Despite of the challenging present environment and positive cumulative free cash flow over the three-year various associated issues, we plan to continue an active Group/Business Groups period by funding our investment within the scope of execution of growth investments during the current fiscal consolidated net earnings. Cumulative net investment of year. However, free cash flow over the past two years has ¥200.0 billion over the two-year period until the fiscal year exceeded ¥700.0 billion and we believe that we now see ended March 2015, fell within the corresponding period’s the light to achieve the objectives of the financial policy that cumulative consolidated net income of ¥800.0 billion. we initially adopted. Regional Initiatives and For details about financial position, please refer to “Message from the Chief Financial Officer” on page 32 and Financial Section of Integrated Report 2015. http://www.mitsubishicorp.com/jp/en/ir/library/afr/ Human Resources Exchange Rate and Resource Prices USD/JPY (Rate of change with March 31, 2013 as the base point of 100) LME copper prices (Monthly average) Crude oil spot prices (Dubai) 150 140 120.39 Sustainability (USD/JPY) 130 97.87 (USD/JPY) 102.36 120 (USD/JPY) 104.15 105.55 103.88 (USD/JPY) (USD/barrel) Corporate Governance 110 (USD/barrel) 100 90 7,662.90 5,939.67 (USD/ton) (USD/ton) 80 6,650.04 (USD/ton) 70 54.91 60 (USD/barrel) 50 Corporate Data 40 30 2013.3 2013.9 2014.3 2014.9 2015.3 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 11 Creating Sustainable Corporate Value New Strategic Direction carries on our commitment to citizen growing together with society. Thirdly, we aim to creating sustainable corporate value, which was established achieve sustainable environmental value by preserving and by the previous Midterm Corporate Strategy in an effort improving the global environment in recognition that the to maximize our overall corporate value by combining the Earth itself is our greatest stakeholder. three pillars of sustainable economic value, sustainable In line with this approach, MC is working to create societal value and sustainable environmental value. We sustainable societal value and sustainable environmental pursue sustainable economic value in the form of robust value by closely monitoring global sustainability issues profit growth, which is achieved through constant innovation and actively working to provide solutions through both our to our profit model and portfolio, and we create sustainable global business activities and our corporate philanthropy societal value by contributing to the development of local programs. economies and communities as a responsible corporate Addressing Key Sustainability Issues through Our Business Activities MC actively promotes sustainability initiatives in each supporting environmentally-friendly urban planning, and area of our business activities, including by promoting the fostering the development of the communities in which we widespread use of electric vehicles, working to achieve a operate in harmony with the environment. low-carbon society through our renewable energy business, Addressing Key Sustainability Issues through Corporate Philanthropy Activities MC engages in corporate philanthropy initiatives in a wide conservation which have been running for many years. range of fields including the global environment, public We also have our Great East Japan Earthquake welfare, education, culture and the arts, and international Restoration Efforts, which were launched in 2011 just after exchange and contributions. We also encourage all of our the disaster struck. In addition, in 2014 we launched a new employees from around the world to participate in our program, Dream as One, in support of para-sports. long-running activities. MC’s broad range of initiatives These are just some of the ways in which MC strives includes our environmental projects in the areas of forest to address global sustainability issues while working to preservation, tropical forest regeneration, and coral reef enhance its corporate value. For more information about MC’s sustainability initiatives, please refer to the “Sustainability” section on page 88. Global Coral Reef Conservation Project Oita International Wheelchair Marathon Friendship Camp for Mothers and Children Luchterduinen Offshore Wind Farm jointly owned by Eneco Nagasaki Tadewara Mega-Solar Power Plant Employee volunteers engaged in restoration support 12 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from President and CEO Message from Shareholder Returns President and CEO Under New Strategic Direction MC’s dividend policy is to combined total of ¥70 per share. ensure a certain amount of return to our shareholders, We are also working to optimize the scale of capital while Special Features regardless of changes in the operating environment. Such giving top priority to improving profitability with the goal of policy is to deliver a base dividend of ¥50 yen per share restoring an ROE of 12-15% over the medium to long term. plus a performance based variable dividend at a payout Using funds from the greater than expected replacement Finance and ESG ratio of at least 30% for consolidated net income above of assets undertaken as part of that policy, we continued ¥350 billion, thereby adopting a performance-based purchases of treasury stock, which began last year. As a approach. In this way, profit growth translates into upside result, dividends and share buybacks of ¥100.0 billion in potential for the dividend. treasury stock together comprise our return to shareholders. Group/Business Groups Based on this policy, the dividend for the fiscal year The fiscal year ending March 2016 is the final year of ended March 2015 comprised an ordinary annual dividend New Strategic Direction. Under New Strategic Direction, we of ¥60 plus an additional dividend of ¥10 to commemorate will concentrate our strengths to realize our growth vision the 60th anniversary of the Company’s founding, for a eyeing circa 2020. Basic Dividend Policy Basic Dividend Concept Regional Initiatives and ● Deliver a base dividend (¥50 per share), plus a Human Resources performance based variable dividend at a consolidated dividend payout ratio of at least 30% for earnings above ¥350 billion ● Shareholders participate in the upside but have limited exposure to the downside Sustainability Applicable Formula for earnings above 50 yen EPS 350 billion yen min. 30% Illustrative Example Corporate Governance Variable portion (performance based) XX yen Base portion 50 yen Corporate Data MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 13 Special Features MC strives to create sustainable corporate value through all of our business activities, aiming for solid earnings growth while also making a positive impact on the global environment and the communities in which we operate. Our businesses are built upon the intelligence to create comprehensive strategies based on a wide variety of information such as political and economic trends which is gathered by our diverse human resources, including those in managerial positions throughout our approximately 600 consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates. Using this framework as a solid infrastructure, we have flexibly adapted our business models in accordance with the surrounding environment. In Special Feature 1, we have focused on the salmon farming business and mineral resources investment business to present our rationale and processes directed towards creating corporate value. In Special Feature 2, we have provided an excerpt of the roundtable discussion held by the outside members of the Governance & Compensation Committee regarding the concept and features of MC’s corporate governance as the foundation supporting our sustainable growth. 14 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from President and CEO Special Features Finance and ESG Group/Business Groups Special Feature 1: MC’s Corporate Value Creation Story Regional Initiatives and 16 Aiming for a Sustainable Aquaculture Model Human Resources 20 Mineral Resources Investment Business Passes the Baton to the Next Generation Special Feature 2: MC’s Corporate Governance System Supporting Sustainable Growth Sustainability 24 Governance & Compensation Committee Roundtable Discussion Corporate Governance 29 MC’s Corporate Governance Initiatives Corporate Data MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 15 Special MC’s Corporate Value Feature 1 Creation Story Aiming for a Sustainable Aquaculture Model In November 2014, MC executed a takeover bid (TOB) and acquired Norway-based Outline of Cermaq Group AS Company name Cermaq Group AS Cermaq Group AS (Cermaq), the world’s third largest salmon farming company, and Head Office Oslo, Norway made Cermaq a wholly owned subsidiary. Business activities Farming, processing, sales and Demand for marine products is rising in tandem with growth in the world’s population. distribution of salmon Capital stock NOK 925 million As this trend progresses, besides wild-caught fish, which are limited in supply, the Representative (CEO) Jon Hindar farmed fish business is also attracting increased attention. Farmed salmon have a Number of employees 4,361 (as of December 31, 2013) low environmental impact and there is expected to be a particular increase in demand Production Volume Norway Approx. 60,000 tons/year Canada Approx. 20,000 tons/year in both advanced countries and emerging countries for this salmon as a sustainable Chile Approx. 90,000 tons/year source of animal protein. Total: Approx. 170,000 tons/year MC’s Salmon Business History Using its distribution processing business in Japan as a foundation, MC has steadily Up to 1990s: Involved in business transactions in wild salmon built a vertically integrated business model 1990s: Started business transactions in farmed salmon encompassing farming, processing and sales by 2000s: Launched processing business overseas (Thailand, Vietnam) commencing business transactions in farmed salmon during the 1990s and entering the salmon January 2011: Established salmon farming company Southern Cross Seafood S.A. (SCS) in Chile farming business in Chile in 2011. Furthermore, November 2011: SCS acquired Salmones Humboldt S.A., a Chile-based salmon farming and processing company by making Cermaq a subsidiary in 2014, the MC October 2014: Launched TOB to acquire Cermaq Group’s annual production volume for farmed salmon now stands at approximately 200,000 November 2014: Converted Cermaq into a wholly owned subsidiary tons, ranking it second in the world. Salmon Farming Business Value Chain Procurement Processing Manufacturing Distribution Retail Norway, Chile, Canada Lawson, Inc. Cermaq Group AS Convenience stores Farming, processing and sales of salmon Chile Salmones Humboldt Limitada Life Corporation Farming, processing and sales of salmon Supermarkets Thailand/Vietnam Thai Union Frozen Products PCL/Trung Son Group Processing of marine products Toyo Reizo Co., Ltd. Processing, ultra-low temperature logistics, storage and domestic sales Other domestic and overseas customers Sanyo Foods Co., Ltd. Maruichi Co., Ltd. Processing and sales of Wholesale of marine smoked salmon, etc. products, etc. China Zhejiang Daling Seafood Co., Ltd. Sales of marine products 16 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from President and CEO Special Features Purpose of Acquisition and Future Development Finance and ESG MC acquired Cermaq, which was the world’s third largest salmon farming strengthen its sales channels in each market. In conjunction, MC will company, for the purpose of providing stable supplies of farmed salmon, leverage its advantages of scale in this business and set its sights on which is a sustainable, safe and secure food resource, in response to entering the feed and other peripheral fields of fish farming in line with rising demand for food accompanying growth in the world’s population. efforts to expand earnings. Looking ahead, MC will deploy its various channels and resources and Group/Business Groups Farmed Salmon Production Trends Salmon production Farmed salmon production by country (Farmed, total of all species) Thousand tons Thousand tons (Round weight) (Round weight) 4,000 3,000 Farmed 3,500 Wild 2,500 Others Regional Initiatives and 3,000 Australia 2,000 Faroe Islands 2,500 Canada 2,000 1,500 UK Human Resources 1,500 Chile 1,000 1,000 Norway 500 500 0 0 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 Sustainability Source: Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) Source: Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) Global Glob Gl obal al Expansion of Salmon Farming Business Corporate Governance Norway 60,000 tons Canada Russia 20,000 tons North Production area America Europe Market Japan Asia Corporate Data South America 120,000 tons Chile Owing to geographical factors, the principal markets for farmed salmon differ depending on the production regions. Specifically, Europe and Russia are the markets for Norwegian-farmed salmon and North America, South America and Japan are the main markets for salmon from Chile, while North America is the market for Canadian-farmed salmon. By acquiring Cermaq, which operates production bases in the three countries of Norway, Chile and Canada, MC has set up a structure that broadly covers the world’s principal markets. Based on this global sales structure and its sales know-how accumulated to the present, MC aims to expand sales in the future in emerging markets that include China and Southeast Asia. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 17 Creating Value through the Sustainable Salmon Farming Business Special MC’s Corporate Value Feature 1 Creation Story In the process of acquiring Cermaq, during the stages ranging from the original proposal draft to surveys, screening and obtaining internal approval and acquisition, various departments worked in close cooperation and performed their tasks in the run-up to launch. The specific roles fulfilled by respective departments and how they contributed to the successful acquisition as they undertook their jobs are introduced herein. Cermaq Business Investigations and Navigation of the Acquisition Process (Legal Dept.) From the Original Proposal Draft to Acquisition Salmon Farming Business Office, Living Essentials Group This project began when we were undertaking business investigations exploring opportunities for entering business in Norway and we Back row from left: heard about the Norwegian government’s policy to sell some of its Masayuki Nishimura stockholdings of Cermaq. The process leading up to the finalization Yu Sato (Chair of the board of Cermaq of the acquisition required numerous steps. These included holding and General Manager of Salmon Farming dialogues with Cermaq’s management team and meetings with the Business Office) Yasumasa Kashiwagi (General Manager Norwegian government as well as making judgments about business of Marine Products Dept. and Deputy General risk and the timing of the acquisition. We were able to successfully Manager of Salmon Farming Business Office) Living Essentials Team, Legal Dept. complete this acquisition thanks to the extensive support we received Nobuyuki Yoshimura, Yukio Shinano Ichiro Kobayashi (right) Jia Liu (left) from both within and outside the company. Front row from left: Section Manager Natsuko Wakabayashi Haruna Yamazaki Original Investigations proposal draft (due diligence) Investigations and Screening (CSR & Environmental Affairs Dept.) Role of the CSR & Environmental Affairs Dept. Business Matters Involved with the Acquisition In order to inform our investment decisions, MC conducted a detailed investigation of aspects including MC performs detailed assessments of company environmental initiatives, engagement with local indigenous performance including from social and environmental communities and attention to occupational health and safety. perspectives. In addition to management interviews After receiving comprehensive explanations on sustainability and thorough document reviews, we also conduct policies from Cermaq’s management team, we visited salmon on-site inspections to confirm the level and adequacy farms and processing sites in Chile and confirmed the application of sustainability initiatives both currently and after of these policies on the ground. Through this process, Cermaq Yuko Yasukawa the investment. and MC developed a deeper mutual understanding, and I am Manager CSR & Environmental Affairs Team confident that this investment will contribute to the creation of CSR & Environmental Affairs Dept. sustainable corporate value for MC in the future. Message from the CIO of Cermaq The fish farming business got off to a solid start thanks to the extensive support from the Marine Products Dept. as well as other involved departments. I’ll promote this business each day with a strong and deep sense of my responsibilities. Since joining MC, I have gained a wide range of experience. This includes working in the Marine Products Dept. as well as being dispatched to a marine products sales subsidiary in the United Kingdom, handling the Group’s risk management and working in the Akihiko Soga Feed & Meat Products Dept. I will leverage my diverse know-how and human networks cultivated Chief Integration Officer (CIO) Cermaq Group AS through these experiences to further strengthen the fish farming business and take on the challenge of Joined MC in 1992. After working at Food Trading developing new businesses such as the feed business. Together with my colleagues inside and outside Dept., dispatched to UK-based marine products sales subsidiary Diamond Seafoods UK Ltd. in the company, I’ll make my best efforts to contribute to the further development of this business. 1999. Assumed current position in 2014. 18 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 MC’s Project Group advisory Companywide Executive Board of Screening Flow bodies advisory bodies Committee Directors On the quantitative side, new investment projects must in principle clear the internal uniform Internal Rate of Return (IRR) guideline rate. Large-scale Message from projects are discussed by advisory bodies within groups and divisions and then brought up for discussion at the Executive Committee after being discussed from expert standpoints by corporate departments, which are companywide advisory bodies. The Executive Committee makes comprehensive judgments from both quantitative and qualitative perspectives and then makes a final decision. Important projects that exceed the authority of the President and CEO Executive Committee are brought up for discussion at the Board of Directors. Special Features Post-Acquisition Management (PAM) Initiatives for Cermaq’s Business Salmon Farming Business Office Cermaq’s Board of Directors Roles and Functions of the Legal Dept. General Manager of Salmon Farming Chair of the Board Business Office Finance and ESG To ensure a smooth and successful acquisition under highly regulated local Deputy General Manager Director (General Manager of Marine Products Dept.) (Division COO of Living Essential Resources Div.) public takeover rules, we, in tandem with our external counsels, provided [PAM progress management at all levels] comprehensive legal assistance throughout the entire process from the Cermaq Management Team 1. Finance initial structuring stage to the final execution of the project. 2. Accounting Chief Integration Officer 3. Internal control system and corporate Business Controller Specific Work of the Legal Dept. governance 4. Risk management Group/Business Groups Our scope of work includes investigation of local regulations, legal due (including insurance, etc.) Chile Norway Canada 5. Processing diligence, merger filings in multiple jurisdictions and navigating the 6. Marketing acquisition process. Countless days of conference calls were spent with our business department and local counsel in order to ascertain the best solution Cooperation Salmones Humboldt Cermaq Chile to the constantly emerging issues throughout the course of the project. Internal approval/ Screening acquisition APPROVED Regional Initiatives and Investigations and Screening (Risk Management Dept.) What is the Corporate Staff Section from the Human Resources In making the investment decision for this acquisition, as the internal screening Perspective of the Sales Group? department we analyzed various quantitative This project was enormous and it involved many persons and qualitative risks associated with the and countries. Under such conditions, we received Sustainability acquisition and assessed investment profitability straightforward professional insights in respective fields. (IRR, investment payback period, etc.) from For large projects such this, in particular, we believe that objective standpoints. We also participated in working in unison with each corporate staff section is on-site detailed investigations that focused on essential for proceeding smoothly with the project. Ryotaro Ninomiya Cermaq’s business risk management structure Investment Administration Team A and this included a question-and-answer Corporate Governance Risk Management Dept. session with the management team. Message from the CEO of Cermaq Corporate Data Cermaq is a company focused on sustainability based on the concept of “sustainable aquaculture.” We emphasize sustainability in every aspect of our operations, which includes managing fish health and giving consideration to the environment. We highly commend MC’s competencies as a trader, from sales and distribution to downstream processing. Additionally, we place high value on trust and integrity and empathize with Jon Hindar MC’s approach to business from a long-term perspective. Chief Exective Officer (CEO) Cermaq Group AS Salmon farming is one important business for responding to the increase in world population. I’d like to deploy our presence to respond to this issue by working as a partner with MC, which is developing sustainable businesses. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 19 Special Feature 1 MC’s Corporate Value Creation Story Mineral Resources Investment Business Passes the Baton to the Next Generation MC invests in a variety of mineral resources businesses, and among these, the coking coal and copper businesses function as two pillars of the Metals Group’s operations. Here we describe the initiatives MC has promoted in the coking coal and copper businesses and the ways it has created value. History of MC’s Mineral Resources Investments Since the 1950s MC has continued investing in mineral resources. MC’s a material used in such areas as electrical wire, communications, investments in coking coal dates back to 1966 when it acquired a 15% automobiles and construction. Amid this situation, in anticipation of stake in the Australia-based CQCA J/V*1 with an aim to stably supply increased demand not only in Japan but also primarily throughout Asia, coking coal to the Japanese steel industry. In 1984, BHP, a major resources MC invested in copper mines with the aim of providing stable supplies and company, joined the CQCA J/V as a business partner and since then, expanding business revenues. MC remains involved in business operations with BHP through MDP*2; a Beginning with our participation in the Escondida mine (Chile), which 100% MC-owned subsidiary in Australia. In 2001, behind the confidence boasts the world’s largest production volume, MC steadily expanded its in demand outlook of the high quality hard coking coal market, MDP and interests in the Los Pelambres mine (Chile) and the Antamina mine (Peru). BHP Billiton (BHPB)*3 acquired all shares of the Gregory J/V*1 (MDP had Based on the experiences handed down by our predecessors, during the previously acquired a 3% stake in the Gregory J/V in 1989), resulting in 2010s we also participated in Anglo American Sur (Chile), which owns MDP and BHPB respectively holding a 50% stake in the CQCA J/V and the the Los Bronces mine and a large undeveloped mining area, and the Gregory J/V. Since then, MC has further enlarged its value through the Quellaveco project (Peru), for which development is being planned. Among BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance (BMA), which has grown to become one of these, all the mines currently in operation are large-scale businesses with the largest global coking coal suppliers, accounting for approximately one the world’s largest production volumes. MC is working to create value in quarter of the world’s seaborne hard coking coal market. each business through MCI (Chile/Peru)*2, a 100%-owned subsidiary that Meanwhile, the transition of the Japanese economy to a stable growth undertakes the resources business in South America. track in the 1980s was accompanied by increased demand for copper, *1: Central Queensland Coal Associates (CQCA) J/V and the Gregory J/V are both coking coal business entities undertaking operations in Queensland in Northeastern Australia. *2: For detailed information, please refer to Coking Coal and Copper Business Promotion Organization at the bottom of this page. *3: In 2001, BHP and Billiton merged and became BHP Billiton. History of Mineral Resources Investment (Coking Coal and Copper) Coking 1966: CQCA J/V (Australia) 1989: 2001: 2013: Daunia open cut mine BMA coal 1968: MDP (Australia) Gregory J/V (Australia) BMA (Australia) 2014: Caval Ridge open cut mine 1960s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Copper 1988: 1997: 1999: 2011: 2012: Escondida mine (Chile) Los Pelambres mine (Chile) Antamina mine (Peru) Anglo American Sur (Chile) Quellaveco mine (Peru) Coking Coal andd Copper Business Promotion Organization Mitsubishi Corporation RtM International Pte. Ltd. (RtMI) M.C. Inversiones Limitada (MCI) Established: December 2012 Established: December 1988 Main business: Mineral resources trading Main business: Businesses related to investments in Number of employees: Approximately 60 ferrous raw materials, mainly iron ore, Carries out trading operations worldwide from Singapore, where human resources and non-ferrous metal raw materials, and information are concentrated. In Japan, carries out the same business at Mitsubishi Corporation RtM Japan Ltd. mainly copper Number of employees: Approximately 40 Japan Engages in businesses related to investments in iron mine company Compañia Minera del Pacifico S.A. (CMP) in Chile and makes Mitsubishi Development Pty Ltd (MDP) investments in copper mines in Chile and Peru (five investments). Established: November 1968 Main business: Businesses related to investments in mineral resources Singapore (coking coal, thermal coal, iron ore and uranium) Number of employees: Approximately 60 Invests, produces and sells mineral resources, mainly coking coal, through BMA, Australia Chile which owns eight coal mines in Australia. 20 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from President and CEO Special Features Platform for Value Creation Finance and ESG To execute our growth strategy of accurately ascertaining business and professionals to strengthen expertise, and are raising productivity and industry trends and securing new investment opportunities, we must implementing expansion and development plans after undertaking deeply immerse ourselves at the actual locations where information discussions with partners. Moreover, through mutual collaboration MDP is accumulated and strong human networks have been formed. In and MCI are raising each other’s knowledge levels and contributing to addition to staff dispatched from the Head Office, MDP and MCI locally creating value for projects. Group/Business Groups hire professional human resources such as technology and finance MDP MCI MDP jointly operates its coking coal business MCI is a company that oversees a total through BMA, together with BHPB. of six copper and iron ore projects, with In order to maximize the value of BMA, operations spanning the two countries of employees at MDP’s head office in Brisbane Chile and Peru. Regional Initiatives and who are skilled and experienced in the MCI strives to raise the value of its mineral resources business address dayassets by pursuing best practices among to-day operational matters to BMA, such as its projects and dispatching staff to Human Resources production, transport and sales. MDP also has investee businesses. In parallel, as one Keisuke Hoshino equally skilled employees seconded to divisions Tadashi Omatoi of its crucial roles MCI also focuses on CEO of BMA, who work in unison with MDP and the CEO responding to its stakeholders, including Mitsubishi Development Pty Mineral Resources Investment Division in Tokyo M.C. Inversiones Limitada the political and business establishment. Ltd (MDP) to ensure MC maintains strong collaboration (MCI) To the present, I’ve been posted in Chile, Sustainability with BHPB and BMA. As a result of ongoing collaboration between the J/V Venezuela and South Africa, while my experience in products has partners, BMA continues to identify and implement major improvements in spanned multiple fields that include steel products, iron ore and raw costs and productivity. MDP provides an opportunity for junior employees to materials of stainless steel. I’d like to utilize my business experience in enhance their skills and expertise, an opportunity I myself was given through dealing with diverse cultures and products to enhance MCI’s network working in the copper and iron ore business upon joining MC. in Central and South America. Corporate Governance Internal Management Process for Existing Projects Business Plan (PLAN) MC formulates single-year and medium-term business plans of investees within the annual Business Plan and Management undertakes monitoring (business management) of status of achievement and response measures for management Principle Day-to-day (PRINCIPLE) operations issues. We’ve also built a process whereby whenever there is a significant change in any given conditions from an (DO) Business Strategy originally assumed plan, the plan is to be reviewed at the necessary level (Executive Committee, etc.) and the adequacy (STRATEGY) of response measures must be re-discussed. Business management Additionally, we regularly visit business locations to check on actual conditions for principal businesses such as (CHECK ACTION) BMA and Anglo American Sur. Comments by Corporate Auditor Tadashi Kunihiro on the Inspection of BMA and MDP Corporate Data Corporate auditors attend the Board of Corporate Auditors meeting and the Board of Directors meeting and audit the decision-making process of directors. Besides these duties, corporate auditors also actively make on-site audits at bases in Japan and overseas for a first-hand observation of business sites. In October 2013, I made an inspection visit to BMA and MDP in Australia. During this visit, I gained a real sense of the extensive scale of an open cut coking coal mine and the wide reach of operations that extend from the mine all the way to port operations for shipment. While at these business sites, I could also truly feel the resilience of MC employees who made great efforts to undertake coal mining operations as equal partners of major overseas mineral resources companies. For details about MC’s Corporate Auditors, please refer to the “Approaches to Corporate Governance” on page 104. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 21 Creating Value in the Coking Coal and Copper Businesses Special MC’s Corporate Value Feature 1 Creation Story In the coking coal and copper businesses, MC deploys staff to a variety of business sites, such as coal and other mineral mines, ports and marketing and trading sites, as it works to create value. Here we introduce specific examples of the roles staff are fulfilling and how they are making contributions as they perform their jobs. Coking Coal Resource Planning & Development/ Production Business Development BMA owns eight coking coal mines in Queensland. I work at I am the Head of Business Development and Acting Head the Peak Downs coal mine, which produces one of the world’s of Resource Planning & Development for BMA. Resource highest-quality coking coal. Extracting coal from a mining Planning & Development focuses on understanding BMA’s pit requires efficient operation of many types of large-scale mineral resources and planning the mining operations to equipment. My responsibility is to analyze operating data Geoffrey Streeton extract those resources. We also plan the logistics chain to Masatsugu Oda of various types of equipment and implement improvement BMA deliver BMA’s coking coal from our eight operating mines Peak Downs Mine measures that contribute to increased productivity and cost (Australia) in Queensland by rail to the export ports for shipment to BMA reductions. This ensures stable supplies of high-quality (Australia) our customers globally. Business Development undertakes coking coal to the world’s steelmakers, who are BMA’s the commercial transactions to secure access to coal valuable customers, and at the same time strengthens the resources and infrastructure for future mining operations. competitiveness of the Peak Downs coal mine. Rail Mine Production Finance I’m primarily in charge of mining process management in I work in the Finance Department of the Antamina the Ore Mining Division at Los Bronces, the main copper copper mine and am involved in the procurement and mine of Anglo American Sur. Comparing budgets and management of funds. Copper mine operations and production plans with actual operating data on a daily basis investments require huge amounts of funds, and for this while analyzing various problems and bottlenecks during reason, carrying out optimal financing in accordance with Kenichi Anzai operations and discussing these issues with the managers Ippei Akiyoshi circumstances is crucial. I contribute to stable business Anglo American Sur*1 of each process and making improvement proposals are Antamina*2 operations by emphasizing the high quality of our assets (Chile) (Peru) a key part of my role. To avoid sub-optimization, I am and the future potential of our investment plans to banks working to make improvements to production from a broad inside and outside of Peru and then finalize competitive perspective in view of our entire operations. financing contracts. My goal for the future is to become involved with MC’s new businesses as well as M&A for *1: A Chilean copper mine in which Anglo American has a 50.1% stake, Codelco a 20% stake, Mitsui & Co. a 9.5% stake and MC a 20.4% stake reshaping our asset portfolio by utilizing the expertise through wholly owned subsidiary MC Resource Development gained from my current work assignment. *2: A Peruvian copper mine in which BHPB and Glencore each have a 33.75% stake, Teck a 22.5% stake and MC a 10% stake Copper 22 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Developing Personnel in Mineral Resources Every year since 2008, the Metals Group has seconded trainees to Australia, where they study mine management at the University of New South Wales, School of Mining Engineering, with the aim of developing personnel with technical abilities in mineral resources. Upon graduating, Message from the trainees undergo further training at actual mines. I graduated in 2014 and am currently undergoing on-site training at the Mount Thorley President and CEO Warkworth coal mine, a mine MDP owns a stake in that produces thermal coal for electric power generation. My goal is to gain a comprehensive understanding of mining operations through training in a variety of departments and to use the knowledge and experience I gained to contribute Fumiaki Hayashi to MC’s mineral resources business. Special Features Port Marketing Finance and ESG I work at the Hay Point Coal Terminal (HPCT), which BMA sells coking coal to customers via its sales is owned by BMA. Coking coal produced at BMA headquarters in Singapore, and sales offices in mines is transported to HPCT via rail and loaded onto London, Delhi, Shanghai and Tokyo. Since BMA’s vessels for delivery to customers all over the world. production and sales volumes equate to approximately HPCT is a crucial part of BMA’s supply chain, which one quarter of the world’s seaborne trade in hard Tomohiko Oh annually accepts around 4,500 BMA coal trains, Tetsuro Yamamoto coking coal, it is crucial to accurately determine Group/Business Groups Hay Point Port loading coal on approximately 400 vessels per year. In Marketing global demand trends in order to continue providing BMA BMA order to avoid export delays, which impact BMA and a stable coking coal supply. I work in Singapore as a (Australia) (Singapore) its valuable customers, I strive to efficiently schedule sales manager and my duties comprise confirming coal transport via rail and vessel to optimize BMA’s the execution of daily contracts, while analyzing sales port operations. data from our global offices, and developing BMA’s sales strategies. Regional Initiatives and Port Marketing Customer Human Resources Futures Trading Trading I have been working for 11 years starting in I’ve been involved in copper trading for the past 20 years and during this time I’ve cultivated customers Sustainability Operations and progressing forward to becoming Head Copper Trader in 2014, and successfully broking and markets. This includes making sales calls in Asia business from our global customer book. Due to for Chilean and Indonesian copper and unannounced the ever-changing financial climate, the market has sales visits in Germany for Russian copper when I Richard Tuesley become more volatile and demands quick trading Kokui Kamei was stationed in London. At RtMI, I currently formulate Triland Metals*3 decisions and healthy risk management. By utilizing RtMI global trading growth strategies for copper and am (U.K.) (Singapore) Corporate Governance all my skills and experience in base metals trading, responsible overseeing sales. Using my experience to I am able to execute client orders and try to ensure the present as a driving force, I am working together that a healthy profit is made for Triland Metals in a with the team to build up our contact performance dynamic market. results, which includes selling copper produced in MC’s mineral resources investment business. Going *3: The only Japanese company that is a Ring-dealing member of the London Metal Exchange. For 40 years, Triland Metals has provided forward, I’d like to become a business partner that is customers around the world with hedging against price fluctuation risk for metal products. deeply trusted by both producers and users. Corporate Data MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 23 Special MC’s Corporate Governance System Feature 2 Supporting Sustainable Growth Governance & Compensation Committee Roundtable Discussion MC’s Corporate Governance Features and Future Required Stance MC recognizes strengthening corporate governance on an ongoing basis as its important subject concerning management as it is a foundation for ensuring sound, transparent and efficient management. In this segment we hear from Outside members of the Governance & Compensation Committee regarding the features of MC’s corporate governance and Board of Directors operations. For details about MC’s corporate governance, please refer to the “Approaches to Corporate Governance” on page 104. From left: Tadashi Kunihiro Kunio Ito Apr. 1986 Admitted to the Japan Bar Apr. 1980 Lecturer, Hitotsubashi University’s Department of Commerce and Management, Tadashi Kunihiro Jan. 1994 Attorney at Kunihiro Law Office (Presently T. Kunihiro & Co., Attorneys-at-Law) (Present Position) Successively held the post of Associate Professor, Hitotsubashi University’s Department of Commerce and Ryozo Kato Jun. 2012 Corporate Auditor, MC (Present Position) Management Kunio Ito Apr. 1992 Professor, Hitotsubashi University’s Department of Commerce and Management Hidehiro Konno Ryozo Kato Aug. 2002 Professor, Postgraduate School of Hitotsubashi University, Head of Department of Commerce and Management Sakie T. Fukushima Dec. 2004 Associate Chancellor & Director, Hitotsubashi University Apr. 1965 Joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan Dec. 2006 Professor, Postgraduate School of Hitotsubashi University’s Department of Commerce and Management Having held the positions of Director-General, Asian Affairs Bureau; Director, General Affairs; Jun. 2007 Member of the Board, MC (Resigned in Jun. 2015) Director, Foreign Policy; and Ambassador to the U.S. Apr. 2015 Research Professor, Graduate School of Commerce and Management, Hitotsubashi University (Present Position) Jun. 2008 Retired from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan Jul. 2015 Member of the Governance & Compensation Committee (Present Position) Aug. 2008 Senior Corporate Advisor, MC Jun. 2009 Member of the Board, MC (Present Position) Sakie T. Fukushima Hidehiro Konno Jun. 1980 Joined Braxton International Apr. 1968 Joined Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) Sep. 1987 Joined Bain & Company Inc. Having held the positions of Director-General, Commerce and Distribution Policy; DirectorAug. 1991 Joined Korn/Ferry International-Japan General, International Trade Administration Bureau; Director-General, International Trade Policy May 1995 Member of Board, Korn/Ferry International (Resigned in Sep. 2007) Bureau; and Vice-Minister for International Affairs Sep. 2000 Regional Managing Director of Japan, Korn/Ferry International-Japan Jul. 2002 Retired from MITI May 2009 Chairman & Representative Director, Korn/Ferry International-Japan (Resigned in Jul. 2010) Feb. 2003 Chairman and CEO, Nippon Export and Investment Insurance (Resigned in Jul. 2009) Aug. 2010 President & Representative Director, G&S Global Advisors Inc. (Present Position) Jun. 2010 Member of the Board, MC (Present Position) Jun. 2013 Member of the Board, MC (Present Position) 24 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Corporate Governance Message from President and CEO Taking the Lead among Japanese Companies Special Features Ito: If I express MC’s exceeds consolidated capital cost, as a result of creating corporate governance in a single word, value. This is an excellent initiative that fits the essential purpose of Finance and ESG it would be “pioneering.” My corporate governance to “enhance corporate value.” connection with MC began Another pioneering initiative is the fact that the President’s when I became a member of Performance Evaluation Committee has been established as a the Governance Committee subcommittee to the Governance & Compensation Committee (name at the time) established so that the President’s performance can be assessed by Outside Group/Business Groups in 2001. Since then, I have Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors. This pioneering spirit has been involved in discussions undoubtedly become the cornerstone of MC’s current corporate concerning such matters as the Ordinary General Meeting of governance system. Shareholders and the Board of Directors and remuneration for Directors and Corporate Auditors, which made me cognizant of the Kunihiro: Although debate importance of corporate governance from an early stage. concerning governance often Regional Initiatives and MC has adopted a Corporate Auditor System so that Outside revolves solely around whether Directors can also play a key role in management supervision a Committees System or Audit and decision-making in order to create a more effective corporate Committee System should be governance system. MC’s Corporate Auditors are comprised of employed, as Mr. Ito says, MC Human Resources three highly specialized Outside Corporate Auditors, with the current sufficiently fulfills its corporate structure also incorporating a person who experienced Senior governance functions under Executive Vice President and a person with a considerable degree a Corporate Auditor System. Sustainability of knowledge concerning finance and accounting. In this context, MC shows by example that it is not the container that is important I feel that MC is taking full advantage of the merits of the Corporate but what is inside. In essence, corporate governance requires selfAuditor System. discipline and the establishment of a framework enabling this. A One pioneering initiative in MC’s corporate governance that is company in which employees can govern themselves is perhaps the worth noting concerns the method of determining bonuses for ideal situation. Efforts are finally being made to strengthen corporate Corporate Governance Directors and Corporate Auditors. Although many companies in governance in Japan, but MC has been one step ahead in this regard Japan pay bonuses upon generating consolidated net income, in the for years. case of MC, bonuses are paid only when consolidated net income Corporate Data MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 25 Fukushima: It is indeed Kato: Diversity is vital and the way a company deals with women, important for companies foreigners and persons with disabilities will become increasingly to have self-discipline, and critical going forward. I would like to see MC really take the lead that is why selection criteria on this point. While it is essential to embrace diversity, it goes and the composition of without saying that the proper rules and philosophy must also be Outside Directors and Outside implemented. MC has its Three Corporate Principles that it has Corporate Auditors are critical. passed down over many years and that have been instilled in Speaking from experience in employees. I believe that this provides MC with a huge advantage. introducing personnel suitable for the position of Outside Director and Outside Corporate Auditor to Konno: In some respects, meet corporate requirements, I am very much aware that prospective true reform of corporate candidates are limited in Japan at present. On top of this, the number governance in Japan is yet to of Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors in a company is take place. We have entered a generally structured to fit the format of the organization, such as the period in which capital markets Corporate Auditor System or the Audit Committee System, whereas are globalizing and companies the key points are actually the combination of people with experience listed on the stock market can consistent with corporate strategies. In Japanese companies, an no longer be viable unless image still exists of a lack of diversity among Outside Directors and they have firmly established a Outside Corporate Auditors. This extends beyond occupation to also framework for corporate governance and are valued from investors. gender and nationality. This has prompted many companies to pay attention to corporate On that point, MC has struck a good balance in the composition governance in substantive terms. In that context, this raises the of its Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors as a global question of whether we have reached a diverging point at this period entity operating in different countries worldwide, comprising in time. As Mr. Ito touched on earlier, it is critical that MC continues a person well versed in economics and international affairs, a to play a leading role among Japanese companies as a pioneer in university professor who is researching governance and accounting, corporate governance. and an attorney. I would like to see MC further enhance this diversity to also cover Executive Officers and personnel under their guidance. Governance & Compensation Committee Since its establishment in 2001, the Governance & Compensation Committee has met around twice a year. While a majority of the members of the Committee comprises Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors, the Committee conducts continuous reviews of corporate governance-related issues at MC and also discusses the remuneration system for Directors and Corporate Auditors, including the policy for setting remuneration and appropriateness of remuneration levels, and monitors operation of this system. Main Discussion Themes Composition of Committee • Composition of the Board of Directors and Board of Corporate Auditors, policy on (*Committee Chairman) (as of July 2015) appointment of Directors and Corporate Auditors Outside members (6): Kunio Ito (Outside Member) • Requirements of corporate executive officers and basic policy on their appointment Ryozo Kato (Outside Director) • Review of the remuneration system including the policy for setting remuneration and Hidehiro Konno (Outside Director) appropriateness of remuneration levels Sakie T. Fukushima (Outside Director) Akihiko Nishiyama (Outside Director) • Assessment of operations of the Board of Directors Tadashi Kunihiro (Outside Corporate Auditor) In-house members (3): Furthermore, the President’s Performance Evaluation Committee has been established Yorihiko Kojima* (Chairman of the Board) as a subcommittee to the Governance & Compensation Committee to deliberate the Ken Kobayashi (President and CEO) assessment on the President’s performance. Hideyuki Nabeshima (Senior Corporate Auditor) 26 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Corporate Governance Message from A Valuable Platform for Learning a Sense of President and CEO Direction to Win Over the Global Community Special Features Konno: As a company deploying business globally, MC is required to Kato: The knowledge of the members in the International Advisory constantly implement initiatives that are ahead of the times. On that Committee and the discussions that are held are exceptional, and Finance and ESG point, the Governance & Compensation Committee is fulfilling the for me personally, it is the ultimate place to learn. There are cases extremely important role they have to play. Furthermore, members where members from abroad are retained as directors, but gathering of the International Advisory Committee, which comprises prominent leaders from around the world in this way is an extremely useful and experts from around the world, offer opinions on the global situation effective way of sharing the conditions and challenges being faced in and hold highly meaningful debate based on these opinions. As the each region and for discussing the future direction of MC. Group/Business Groups world faces a turning point both economically and geopolitically, these committees serve as a very valuable platform in providing a Fukushima: As I stated earlier when discussing the diversity of sense of direction essential to win over the global community. Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors, there is a shortage of foreign candidates for the position of Executive Officer in Japan. As such, it is effective to first establish an advisory board such as MC’s International Advisory Committee and appoint personnel to the Regional Initiatives and position of Executive Officer from among the members. Human Resources Sustainability Corporate Governance Corporate Data Special MC’s Corporate Governance System Feature 2 Supporting Sustainable Growth MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 27 Corporate Governance Knowing the Workplace Helps Generate Practical Opinions and Advice Kunihiro: Being disciplined in management and having a set of Kato: Dialogue with Business checks and balances are indispensable components of corporate Group CEOs, Managing governance. MC’s Board of Directors meetings are set up in such Directors and Corporate a way that personnel responsible for business execution and Auditors as well as the those responsible for management supervision face each other in numerous sessions set the boardroom with the business execution team headed by the up to provide information President & CEO on one side and the Chairman, Corporate Auditors via the Board of Directors’ and Outside Directors on the other. When I raise a question at a Office provide a useful basis Board of Directors meeting, I try to get others present to pose their for discussion at Board of own questions and points in order to draw out the crux of the matter. Directors meetings and facilitate a better understanding of the Rather than merely agreeing with an explanation, I always take the company. In addition, visiting subsidiaries of MC offer the opportunity time to challenge what has been said if needed. to gain an insight into the business of a sogo shosha. Using a baseball analogy, I think it is sufficient for Outside On top of this, it is necessary to pay attention to methods of Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors to go one-for-three with communication as relationships between the Head Office and the statements they make. Rather than meticulously going over subsidiaries grow in importance alongside continued globalization. each statement, it is important to listen to opinions from differing As an example, when information needs to be communicated to a perspectives that perhaps nobody envisioned as a kind of check foreign subsidiary, whether the said information has been translated and balance for management. It also provides a platform for deeper into English and disseminated sufficiently among local staff or not. In discussion. that sense, it is important to be as close to the frontline as possible. 28 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Special MC’s Corporate Governance System Feature 2 Supporting Sustainable Growth Message from Kunihiro: I try to get as close as I can to the frontline and to younger company using a variety of channels instead of relying solely on the employees so that I can really see what is going on, including Board. President and CEO studying crisis management simulations. However, the Board would be able to offer more practical advice alongside a greater Ito: It is true that the Board of Directors must be decisive when Special Features understanding of the Company’s actual condition, including the fast decision-making is required. But I think that it is also okay to concerns and doubts of management. I am confident that repeated take a certain amount of time to develop a well-conceived strategy efforts in this regard would lead to advancement in MC’s corporate for mediumand long-term challenges and topics by utilizing the governance. knowledge of Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors with Finance and ESG diverse backgrounds. Fukushima: MC’s internal plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle is functioning extremely well and topics brought up by the Board Kunihiro: Although there are already opportunities for discussions are well conceived on the business execution side. A point for in which Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors have a consideration, however, is that one may lose sight of the crux of an majority such as the Governance & Compensation Committee, it Group/Business Groups issue as the PDCA cycle runs its course. As an outside perspective, would also be good for In-house Directors and Outside Directors I am strongly aware that even if a process is firmly established, one to engage in active debate concerning topical issues without must also check that nothing is being overlooked within that process necessarily aiming to draw any conclusions. and that the logic makes sense outside of the company as well. To achieve this, it is important to communicate with people inside the Regional Initiatives and Human Resources MC’s Corporate Governance Initiatives Since 2001, MC has made continuous efforts to strengthen its corporate governance. Sustainability This has included the appointment of highly independent Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors and the establishment of such advisory bodies for the Board of Directors as the Governance & Compensation Committee and International Advisory Committee. The Board of Directors at present has a good balance, comprising Executive Corporate Governance Officers well versed in the operations of a sogo shosha and global business (nine In-house Directors and two In-house Corporate Auditors) and Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors with expertise in various fields (five Outside Directors and three Outside Corporate Auditors). I believe the corporate governance system is functioning well for a sogo shosha with such a complex business makeup. By having Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors communicate at Board meetings, it Yorihiko Kojima is possible to keep management on their toes. As Chairman of the Board, my job is to Chairman of the Board make sure that the questions and recommendations posed by Outside Directors and Corporate Data Outside Corporate Auditors are given the attention they deserve. Going forward, it is important to further expand and enhance the provision of information to Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors in order to energize debate by the Board of Directors. Over the years, Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors have visited MC’s subsidiaries and Outside Directors have attended dialogue sessions with Corporate Auditors and members of management as part of efforts to enhance understanding of MC’s business. Moving ahead, we aim to establish a framework that can reflect advice and recommendations from Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors in management. This includes expanding and improving the provision of information to Outside Directors through the Board of Directors’ Office and increasing opportunities for communication. Through these and other initiatives, MC will continue working to reinforce its corporate governance system. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 29 Finance and ESG 30 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from Special Features Finance and ESG Group/Business Groups Regional Initiatives and Sustainability Corporate Governance Corporate Data President and CEO Human Resources 31 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from the Chief Financial Officer Financial ESG Highlights 32 38 Message from the Chief Financial Officer Delivering Both Financial Soundness and Efficiency with a Priority on Growth Potential Shuma Uchino Member of the Board, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Joined MC in April 1978. After serving as Group Controller of Metals Group became Senior Vice President and Senior Executive Officer at Mitsubishi Motors Corporation in April 2009. Appointed Senior Vice President and General Manager of Corporate Accounting Dept. in July 2010. Became Senior Vice President and General Manager of Corporate Accounting Dept. as well as Senior Assistant to Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer in November 2010. Appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) in April 2013. Assumed current position as Member of the Board, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) in June 2013. Performance Review for the Fiscal Year Ended March 2015 Net income attributable to owners of the Parent to the fiscal year ended Parent rose ¥77.7 billion from the previous fiscal year to an all-time record March 2015 exceeded our forecast of ¥400.0 billion at ¥400.6 billion, an of ¥314.5 billion as gains on reversal of impairment losses for owned increase of ¥39.2 billion from the previous fiscal year. shares augmented investment returns in our fund investment business and In the resource field, net income attributable to owners of the Parent fell favorable results in our livestock and other businesses. In this way, stable ¥30.0 billion from the previous fiscal year to ¥85.4 billion due to impairment profits from the non-resource field compensated for the downturn in the losses in shale gas and the exploration and development business. resource field through growth investments and reshaping our portfolio. In the non-resource field, net income attributable to owners of the Net Income Attributable to Owners of the Parent INNOVATION 2007-2009 Midterm Corporate Strategy 2012 New Strategic ■ Global Environmental & (¥ billion) Direction ROE (%) Infrastructure Business Group 600 40 IFRS U.S. GAAP ■ Industrial Finance, Logistics & IFRS IFRS Development Group 500 471.3 464.5 452.3 419.0 371.0 30 ■ Energy Business Group 400.6 400 356.4 ■ Metals Group 360.0 361.4 275.8 323.5 ■ Machinery Group 300 20 ■ Chemicals Group 18.6 200 16.0 16.5 ■ Living Essentials Group 14.3 15.1 13.4 10 10.4 ■ Others 100 9.4 7.8 7.5 7.5 ■ Adjustments and eliminations 0 0 –100 06.3 07.3 08.3 09.3 10.3 11.3 12.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 * Based on U.S. GAAP (net income attributable to MC) until the year ended March 31, 2012 32 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Results by Segment Message from Year-over-Year Segment Net Income by Resource and Non-resource Fields President and CEO Resource (¥ billion) 115.4 (33%) –30 85.4 (21%) Energy Business (-31%) Special Features Recording of impairment losses in the gas and oil development business in Oceania, North America and Europe in –36.3 line with changes in the business environment. Metals Resource 118.6 82.3 Reflects mainly higher dividend income and earnings from resource-related investees (non-ferrous metals) along –3.2 3.1 with the recording of lower impairment losses on resource-related investments. Finance and ESG Year ended +6.3 Year ended March 2014 March 2015 Non-resource (¥ billion) Global Environmental & Infrastructure Business (+26%) Reflects mainly higher earnings from Asian and North American power generation businesses and gains on the reversal of impairment losses recognized in prior fiscal years. These factors were partly offset by provision for losses 236.8 (67%) +77.7 314.5（79%) Group/Business Groups on guarantee obligations for oil field businesses. Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development (+35%) 20.4 Increased earnings in the fund investment business. +4.2 40.1 16.2 +10.4 Machinery (-8%) 29.7 91.3 Rebound of a one-off gain associated with the revaluation of asset holdings recorded in the previous fiscal year. –7.5 98.8 31.4 Chemicals (+45%) +9.7 Higher earnings on transactions at the Parent, as well as at methanol, plastics, food science and other related 21.7 120.5 59.2 +61.3 business companies. Regional Initiatives and 11.2 –0.4 10.8 Living Essentials (+104%) Year ended Year ended Gain on the reversal of impairment losses recognized in prior fiscal years. March 2014 March 2015 Metals Non-resource (-4%) Human Resources *Earnings related to steel products operations in Metals are counted in Non-resource fields. — Main Investments and Divestments during the Fiscal Year under Review Sustainability In addition to new development at Daunia coal mine in our coking coal among others. business in Australia, new investments in the resource field during the Our aggressive program of portfolio reshaping exceeded expectations, fiscal year ended March 2015, which totaled ¥220.0 billion, targeted the yielding ¥720.0 billion in the aircraft lease business, fund investment shale gas, LNG and other businesses. Investments in the non-resource field business, real estate business, LNG business and shipping business, totaled ¥540.0 billion and targeted the Norway salmon farming business, among others. fund investment business, real estate business and shipping business, Corporate Governance New Investments and Portfolio Reshaping Year ended March 2014 Year ended March 2015 (¥ billion) Cumulative Cumulative Main investment and divestment total 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q total areas in the year ended March 2015 Coking coal/thermal coal business in Resource 330 80 40 50 50 220 Australia, shale gas and LNG business New Salmon farming business, fund investment Investments Non-resource 470 100 110 220 110 540 and real estate business, ship business Corporate Data Total 800 180 150 270 160 760 Aircraft leasing business, fund investment and real Asset sales* 510 70 110 80 260 520 estate business, LNG business, ship business Portfolio Depreciation 170 50 40 50 60 200 — Reshaping Total 680 120 150 130 320 720 Net Investment 120 60 0 140 –160 40 *Profit and loss on sales is not included in the amount of “Asset sales.” MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 33 Investment Policy Under New Strategic Direction, we are continuing to make average annual two-year cumulative total to ¥1,400.0 billion. As a result, net investment investments at approximately the same levels as Midterm Corporate was ¥200.0 billion for the two-year period, an amount that is less than the Strategy 2012 in an effort to improve our earnings base, with gross same period’s cumulative consolidated net income of ¥800.0 billion. investments during the three-year period totaling ¥2,500.0 billion. Going forward, in order to adhere to our policy of keeping investments Gross investments during the fiscal year ended March 2015 totaled within the scope of profit and divestment, we will accelerate our ¥800.0 billion as planned, bringing the two-year cumulative total to divestment program, including in peak-out and non-core businesses. ¥1,600.0 billion. Asset divestments totaled ¥700.0 billion, bringing the Investing Policy and Financial Policies New Strategic Direction Results (3-year plan) Year ended March 31, 2014 Year ended March 31, 2015 Cumulative Gross investment (A) 2,000-2,500 billion yen 800 billion yen 800 billion yen 1,600 billion yen Depreciation, amortization and asset replacement (B) 1,500 billion yen 700 billion yen + 700 billion yen = 1,400 billion yen Net investment (A-B) 500-1,000 billion yen 100 billion yen 100 billion yen 200 billion yen Consolidated net profit over 1,100 billion yen 400 billion yen + 400 billion yen = 800 billion yen NET DER around 1.0 0.8 (as of March 2015) Cash Flow Analysis Free cash flow was positive ¥643.4 billion for the fiscal year ended March the sale of aircraft, the collection of loans receivable at subsidiaries and 2015. Net cash provided by operating activities was ¥798.3 billion due proceeds from a paid-in capital reduction at an affiliated company. to factors including an increase in operating revenue, reduced working Net cash used in financing activities was ¥305.3 billion, mainly due to capital requirements due to declining oil prices and the sale of real estate the purchase of treasury stock and the payment of dividends at the Parent, held for sale. Net cash used in investing activities was ¥154.9 billion, in addition to the repayment of debt in line with asset sales and the mainly due to an investment in a salmon farming company and capital recovery of working capital. expenditures in the Australian coal business, despite cash provided by Cash Flows (¥ billion) 798.3 643.4 571.4 561.1 550.7 506.9 453.3 527.2 544.6 331.2 381.6 81.1 68.6 –154.9 –262.6 –300.5 –337.7 –550.2 –791.0 –1,100.9 Year ended March 31, 2011 Year ended March 31, 2012 Year ended March 31, 2013 Year ended March 31, 2014 Year ended March 31, 2015 Operating cash flows Investing cash flows Free cash flow Underlying operating cash flows: Operating cash flows excluding changes in assets and liabilities. (Net income (including noncontrolling interest) + Depreciation – Profit and loss related to investing activities – Equity in earnings of affiliated companies not received through dividends) *Years ended March 31, 2011 and 2012 are based on U.S. GAAP. 34 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from the Chief Financial Officer Message from Financial Policies President and CEO Total assets for the fiscal year ended March 2015 rose ¥873.2 billion from Equity Attributable to Owners of the Parent / the end of the previous fiscal year to ¥16,774.4 billion, while liabilities Interest-Bearing Liabilities (¥ billion) rose ¥357.1 billion from the end of the previous fiscal year to ¥10,718.8 billion. Equity attributable to owners of the Parent rose ¥502.8 billion from Interest-bearing liabilities (net) Special Features the fiscal year ended March 2014 to ¥5,570.5 billion. Relative to those Total shareholders’ equity figures, net interest-bearing debt totaled ¥4,467.7 billion, yielding a net Debt-to-equity ratio (net) DER of 0.8, which is below the targeted threshold of 1.0. 5,570.5 As of the fiscal year ending March 31, 2016, we began utilizing Hybrid 5,067.7 4,517.1 Finance and ESG Bonds and Hybrid Loans (Unsecured and Subordinated Loans) as a fund 4,601.1 4,420.1 4,467.7 procurement method conducive to both growth potential and financial 3,773.5 stability without having an adverse impact on ROE. It was especially 3,710.8 noteworthy that the Hybrid Bonds we issued in June 2015 were the firstever public replacement by corporate issuers in the Japanese market. 1.0 1.0 ● ● 0.9 ● 0.8 Going forward, MC is willing to issue Hybrid Bonds regularly to develop ● Group/Business Groups and cultivate a new market for Hybrid Bonds in Japan. Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2012 March 31, 2013 March 31, 2014 March 31, 2015 Status of Shareholder Returns Under New Strategic Direction, we introduced a two-stage dividend policy to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the Company’s founding, the Regional Initiatives and with a base dividend and a performance based variable dividend in order total annual dividend was ¥70 per common share. Human Resources to provide a stable return to shareholders regardless of changes in the Furthermore, under New Strategic Direction, we will continue to external environment. Our policy is to pay an annual base dividend of make investments aimed at growth while working to restore ROE over ¥50 per common share, regardless of our earnings level each year, as the medium and long term. To do so, our approach is to optimize the the base portion of this two-stage dividend. On top of that, we will pay a scale of equity, which is the denominator in the ROE calculation, while performance based variable dividend at a consolidated dividend payout giving priority to restoring profitability, which is the numerator. Based on Sustainability ratio of at least 30% for consolidated net income above ¥350.0 billion, this approach, we decided to continue last year’s policy of using some while taking into consideration our capital demand for investing in further of the funds from the greater than expected replacement of assets for growth. share buybacks of ¥100.0 billion in treasury stock. Going forward, we Based on this policy, we paid a total dividend for the fiscal year ended will continue to look into measures to improve ROE in a manner that March 2015 of ¥60 yen per common share, comprising a base dividend of is compatible with maintaining financial soundness while taking into ¥50 per common share plus a performance based variable dividend of ¥10 consideration cash flows and investment plans. Corporate Governance per common share. Combined with ¥10 per common share that was paid Dividend per Share Shareholder Returns Dividend in year ended Year ending March 2016 March 2015 dividend forecast ■ Dividend (left scale) ● Total payout ratio (right scale) 60th anniversary (including share buybacks) commemorative 10 yen (yen) (%) dividend 6 yen 80 60 Variable (Approx. 100%) 10 yen 52% dividend 10 yen Variable 70 Commemorative 50 (payout ratio) (Approx. 30%) dividend dividend (payout ratio) 60 Corporate Data 40 50 43% Ordinary Ordinary 30 annual annual 40 24% 25% 25% 23% dividend dividend 30 Base Base 20 dividend 50 yen 60 yen dividend 50 yen 56 yen 20 65 yen 65 yen 55 yen 68 yen 60 yen 56 yen 10 10 0 0 Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ending March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 * Year ended March 31, 2011 to 2014 are based on U.S. GAAP MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 35 Risk Management It is becoming increasingly important to comprehensively identify risk and strengthen risk management as business operations grow in complexity, become more global in nature and expand in size. MC handles risk management from the dual perspectives of “portfolio management” aimed at ensuring the appropriate distribution of management resources and “management of individual investments” aimed at ensuring the stable operation of respective investments. These efforts seek to maintain a sound management framework. Portfolio management Monitoring of risk asset Management of concentration risk Management of earnings Management of individual fluctuation risk investments Deliberation on new investments Monitoring of existing investments Consideration and execution of investment withdrawal Portfolio Management Monitoring of risk asset MC defines risk asset as the amount of probable maximum loss that may be incurred from all of its businesses and monitors this twice a year. In order to ensure the continuation of business activities even in the worst case scenario, MC conducts portfolio management by comparing risk against management capability to ensure that risk asset does not exceed said capability (expressed by capital) and visualizing the riskreturn balance for each business with risk asset expressed as quasi-capital. Comparison of risk MC assets against management Risk buffer Business capability sub-segments Utilization as an indicator for A Assets A monitoring whether or not total risk B across the company falls within the C scope of management capability Business D sub-segments (capital) E Assets B Risk asset Management capability Indistinctive evaluation of (probable maximum loss) (capital) assets from diverse Business Risk businesses and sub-segments calculation of risk asset asset Assets C (probable maximum loss) Winning businesses Business sub-segments Risk-return Return Assets D Utilization as an indicator when visualizing the risk-return balance in each business sub-segments Divestment candidates Business sub-segments Risk-return Assets E Management of concentration risk An overly lopsided business portfolio has a huge impact on overall management once a risk has materialized in a specific business. MC manages concentration risk by placing an upper limit on investment amount per business in order to avoid over-concentration in a specific business. 36 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from President and CEO Management of Individual Investments Special Features A management framework for individual investments has been established in order to enable a timely and appropriate response to individual investments. A decision is made on whether to go ahead with a new investment or not after discussing its viability in both qualitative and quantitative terms and deliberating based on structured competences. Once an investment has been executed, MC conducts monitoring aimed at identifying the degree of achievement of the business plan and formulating measures in response to management issues. This is done primarily through an annual management plan and a review of business Finance and ESG investment results. As a result of this monitoring, MC specifies those investment that do not satisfy clear standards stated in the EXIT rules and then examines and executes investment withdrawal. Deliberation on new investments Group/Business Groups MC carefully examines individual investments from both qualitative and Monitoring of existing investments quantitative standpoints, regarding them After making an investment, MC evaluates the degree of achievement of as means of strategy execution the business plan and reviews measures in response to management issues through an annual “Management Plan”. Regional Initiatives and Consideration and execution of investment withdrawal New Human Resources investment Closely examine the reasonability of investment continuation, etc., and Key bring forward replacement of management Management investments that do not satisfy systems standards as stated in the EXIT rules Sustainability operation guideline Cancellation Investment ● Detailed examination relative to Investment common quantitative standards and qualitative elements unique to Investment Management Corporate Governance the investment; plan Evaluation ● Multi-layered deliberation of asset according to the level of Investments conflicting authorization required for each value with EXIT rules amount; and Review Investment ● Decision from a comprehensive of business standpoint whether or not to invest investment results Decision on Investment whether to continue continuation investment or not Corporate Data Investment EXIT EXIT rules Investment Loss posted over three consecutive periods or excessive debt Total of profit/loss for three periods being less than capital cost Profit level not reaching a set standard for three consecutive periods MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 37 Financial ESG Highlights Mitsubishi Corporation and Subsidiaries Years ended March 31 The consolidated financial information is prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. 2006.3 2007.3 2008.3 2009.3 2010.3 (U.S. GAAP) (U.S. GAAP) (U.S. GAAP) (U.S. GAAP) (U.S. GAAP) Results of Operations: Revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ¥ 4,813,468 ¥ 5,068,199 ¥ 6,050,654 ¥ 6,156,365 ¥ 4,540,793 Gross profit. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,054,371 1,144,982 1,172,665 1,465,027 1,016,597 Income from investments accounted for using the equity method . . . . . . 124,867 153,973 155,614 163,256 117,857 Net income attributable to owners of the Parent*1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 356,444 418,965 471,262 370,987 275,787 Financial Position at Year-End: Total assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10,283,887 11,350,293 11,638,265 10,837,537 10,803,702 Working capital*2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,243,841 1,335,452 1,429,764 1,613,776 1,780,008 Borrowings (less current maturities)*1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,877,050 2,863,558 3,096,818 3,467,766 3,246,029 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent*1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,347,451 2,882,924 2,832,293 2,359,397 2,926,094 Interest-Bearing Liabilities: Gross interest-bearing liabilities*3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,766,343 3,829,060 4,183,592 4,879,397 4,154,692 Net interest-bearing liabilities*4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,130,046 3,081,050 3,443,861 3,567,633 2,968,151 Cash Flows: Net cash provided by operating activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 384,278 448,573 327,712 558,226 761,573 Net cash used in investing activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (91,851) (303,251) (353,480) (693,550) (138,502) Free cash flows . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 292,427 145,322 (25,768) (135,324) 623,071 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (239,415) (108,363) 69,700 650,608 (755,347) Net cash flows . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53,012 36,959 43,932 515,284 (132,276) Per Share Information: Net income attributable to owners of the Parent per share: Basic (yen, U.S. dollar) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 219.32 248.34 284.06 225.88 167.85 Diluted (yen, U.S. dollar) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 209.39 246.99 282.79 225.38 167.46 Cash dividends per share (yen, U.S. dollar) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35.00 46.00 56.00 52.00 38.00 Equity per share attributable to owners of the Parent (yen, U.S. dollar) . . . 1,392.51 1,728.22 1,725.74 1,436.11 1,780.37 Payout ratio*5 (%) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 19 20 23 23 Common Stock: Number of shares outstanding at year-end*6 (thousands of shares) . . . . 1,685,767 1,688,303 1,641,203 1,642,904 1,643,532 Financial Measures: ROE*7 (%) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18.6 16.0 16.5 14.3 10.4 ROA*8 (%) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.7 3.9 4.1 3.3 2.5 Net DER*9 (times) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.3 1.1 1.2 1.5 1.0 DOE*10 (%) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.0 2.9 3.2 3.3 2.4 Stock Price Information: Stock price (annual average) (yen, U.S. dollar) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,042 2,371 3,110 2,299 1,969 Price Earnings Ratio (PER)*11 (times) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.67 9.56 11.18 10.51 12.11 Price Book-value Ratio (PBR)*12 (times) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.5 1.4 1.9 1.7 1.1 Notes: The U.S. dollar amounts represent translations, for convenience, of yen amounts at the rate of ¥120=$1. *1 Net income attributable to owners of the Parent corresponds to net income attributable to Mitsubishi Corporation under U.S. GAAP. Borrowings (less current maturities) correspond to long-term debt, less current maturities under U.S. GAAP. Equity attributable to owners of the Parent corresponds to total Mitsubishi Corporation shareholders’ equity under U.S. GAAP. *2 Working capital consists of all current assets and liabilities, including cash and short-term debt. *3 Gross interest-bearing liabilities is defined as short-term debt and Borrowings (less current maturities). *4 Net interest-bearing liabilities is defined as gross interest-bearing liabilities minus cash and cash equivalents and time deposits. *5 The payout ratio was calculated based on net income attributable to owners of the Parent for the fiscal year before reclassification (this includes the restatement of results for the Financial Years ending March 2013 and March 2014 due to the change from U.S. GAAP to IFRS standards). *6 Excluding treasury stock held by the Company 38 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Figures from the year ended March 2006 through the year ended March 2011 have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect a change in year-end at certain consolidated subsidiaries. Message from However, 1) No retrospective adjustments have been made to figures in the year ended March 2009 or prior years for gross interest-bearing liabilities, net interest-bearing liabilities and net debt-to-equity ratio. President and CEO 2) No retrospective adjustments have been made to figures for the year ended March 2008 or prior years for cash flows. Millions of U.S. Millions of Yen Dollars Special Features 2011.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2015.3 (U.S. GAAP) (U.S. GAAP) (U.S. GAAP) (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) ¥ 5,206,873 ¥ 5,565,832 ¥ 5,968,774 ¥ 6,009,887 ¥ 7,635,168 ¥ 7,669,489 $ 63,912 1,149,902 1,127,860 1,029,657 1,054,933 1,186,005 1,209,894 10,082 Finance and ESG 167,002 192,418 164,274 167,840 168,356 203,818 1,698 464,543 452,344 360,028 323,457 361,359 400,574 3,338 11,272,775 12,588,320 14,410,665 15,064,738 15,901,125 16,774,366 139,786 2,012,098 1,709,310 2,098,147 2,076,570 2,417,452 2,629,705 21,914 Group/Business Groups 3,188,749 3,760,101 4,498,683 4,498,683 4,693,855 4,835,117 40,293 3,233,342 3,507,818 4,179,698 4,517,107 5,067,666 5,570,477 46,421 4,257,563 5,016,383 5,805,238 5,889,642 6,075,835 6,348,993 52,908 2,947,308 3,647,408 4,335,829 4,420,068 4,601,094 4,467,714 37,231 Regional Initiatives and 331,204 550,694 403,313 453,327 381,576 798,264 6,652 (262,601) (1,100,913) (752,477) (791,026) (300,502) (154,852) (1,290) 68,603 (550,219) (349,164) (337,699) 81,074 643,412 5,362 Human Resources 76,749 599,059 401,687 388,366 (118,845) (305,334) (2,544) 145,352 48,840 52,523 50,667 (37,771) 338,078 2,817 218.66 246.39 2.05 Sustainability 282.62 274.91 196.45 219.30 281.87 274.30 218.18 196.02 218.80 245.83 2.05 65.00 65.00 55.00 55.00 68.00 70.00 0.58 1,966.66 2,130.89 2,537.52 2,742.36 3,074.03 3,437.75 28.65 23 24 25 25 25 28 – Corporate Governance 1,644,074 1,646,173 1,647,158 1,647,158 1,648,541 1,620,384 – 15.1 13.4 9.4 7.8 7.5 7.5 – 4.2 3.8 2.7 2.3 2.3 2.5 – 0.9 1.0 1.0 1.0 0.9 0.8 – 3.5 3.2 2.4 2.2 2.3 2.1 – 2,102 1,840 1,626 1,626 1,897 2,143 17.86 Corporate Data 7.68 6.73 7.47 8.31 8.68 8.69 – 1.1 0.9 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 – *7 ROE is calculated by dividing net income attributable to owners of the Parent by the average of equity attributable to owners of the Parent at the beginning and end of the fiscal year. *8 ROA is calculated by dividing net income attributable to owners of the Parent by the average of total assets at the beginning and end of the fiscal year. *9 Net DER is calculated by dividing net interest-bearing liabilities by equity attributable to owners of the Parent at the end of fiscal year. *10 DOE is calculated by dividing cash dividends per share by equity per share attributable to owners of the Parent at the beginning and end of the fiscal year. *11 PER is calculated by dividing market capitalization, as determined by multiplying the average share price during the fiscal year by the number of shares issued at the fiscal year-end, by net income attributable to owners of the Parent. *12 PBR is calculated by dividing market capitalization, as determined by multiplying the average share price during the fiscal year by the number of shares issued at the fiscal year-end, by equity attributable to owners of the Parent. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 39 Financial Measures Equity attributable to owners of the Parent*1 / Net income attributable to owners of the Parent*1 / ROE*7 Net interest-bearing liabilities*4 / Net debt-to-equity ratio (¥ billion) (%) (¥ trillion) (times) 500 471.3 50 6 3 464.5 5.57 452.3 419.0 5.07 400.6 5 400 40 4.52 4.60 371.0 4.42 4.47 356.4 360.0 361.4 4.34 4.18 323.5 4 3.65 2 3.57 2.97 3.51 3.44 300 275.8 30 3.23 3.13 3.08 1.5 2.88 2.83 2.93 2.95 3 1.3 2.35 2.36 18.6 200 20 1.2 16.5 1.0 1.0 1.0 15.1 1.1 0.9 14.3 2 1.0 1 16.0 13.4 0.8 0.9 100 10.4 7.8 7.5 7.5 10 9.4 1 0 06.3 07.3 08.3 09.3 10.3 11.3 12.3 13.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 0 0 06.3 07.3 08.3 09.3 10.3 11.3 12.3 13.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 0 U.S. GAAP IFRS U.S. GAAP IFRS ■■ Net income attributable [left] ROE [right] ■■ Equity attributable to owners of the Parent [left] ■■ Net interest-bearing liabilities [left] Net debt-to-equity ratio [right] Net income attributable to owners of the Parent per share (Diluted) Total assets / ROA*8 (¥) (¥ billion) (%) 300 282.8 20,000 10 281.9 274.3 247.0 16,774.4 245.8 250 15,901.1 225.4 15,064.7 8 218.2 218.8 14,410.7 209.4 15,000 196.0 11,350.3 200 12,588.3 10,803.7 11,638.3 167.5 11,272.8 6 10,837.5 10,283.9 150 10,000 4.1 4.2 3.9 3.8 3.7 4 3.3 100 2.5 2.3 2.3 5,000 2.7 2.5 2 50 0 06.3 07.3 08.3 09.3 10.3 11.3 12.3 13.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 0 06.3 07.3 08.3 09.3 10.3 11.3 12.3 13.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 0 U.S. GAAP IFRS U.S. GAAP IFRS ■■ Total assets [left] ROA [right] 40 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from ESG Data President and CEO Number of board members Number of employees CO2 emissions on a global basis (Units: Thousands tons of CO2) Special Features 20 80,000 5,000 71,994 68,383 65,975 4,000 15 14 14 60,000 3,325 3,376 3,350 12 Finance and ESG 3,000 10 9 9 40,000 7 2,000 5 20,000 1,000 Group/Business Groups 5 5 5 0 13.3 14.3 15.3 0 13.3 14.3 15.3 0 13.3 14.3 15.3 Number of outside directors * F rom the year ended March 2012 onward, the scope of data aggregation covers direct CO2 emissions from fuel consumption as Environmental Performance well as indirect CO2 emissions from electricity consumption. In addition, from the year ended March 2013 onward, the scope of 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 data aggregation also covers greenhouse gases from energy Head offices 5,796,441 5,384,950 5,010,103 sources other than CO2. Electricity Consumption Domestic branches 958,528 923,462 904,175 (Unit: kWh) Regional Initiatives and All head offices and branches in Japan 6,754,969 6,308,412 5,914,278 Head offices 2,403 2,233 2,078 CO2 Emissions*1 Domestic branches 398 383 375 (Unit: t-CO2) Human Resources All head offices and branches in Japan 2,801 2,616 2,453 CO2 Emissions from Distribution factors 70,644 66,229 59,831 *1 Converted electricity consumption Logistics*2 (Unit: t-CO2) The conversion from electricity consumption to CO2 emissions was Waste produced (kg) 794,628 704,856 668,557 Waste Production performed using coefficients contained in The Greenhouse Gas Waste recycling rate (%) 99.0 98.6 98.3 Protocol (GHG Protocol) GHG Emissions from Purchased Electricity Head offices 75,709,250 67,857,500 60,094,716 Version 4.4 (WRI/ WBCSD) (Country: Japan, Year: 2009, Fuel mix: Paper Consumption*3 Sustainability All). Domestic branches 6,142,623 6,106,505 5,742,661 (Unit: sheets) *2 Data collected in compliance with the Act on the Rational Use of All head offices and branches in Japan 81,851,873 73,964,005 65,837,377 Energy in Japan and covers domestic (Japan) transport where MC Water Consumption is the cargo owner. Head offices 43,410 43,460 41,722 (Unit: m3) *3 Copy paper consumption [Period] Financial Year (April 1 to March 31) [Policies and Standards] Information is provided in accordance with internal regulations such as the Environmental Management Policy Regulations and the Environmental Management Standards, and in compliance with relevant environmental laws and regulations. Corporate Governance [Scope of Aggregation] The scope of all data provided is for MC's branches and offices in Japan. Head Offices: Mitsubishi Shoji Building, Marunouchi Park Building and some other offices in Tokyo Domestic branches and offices: Six Japan-based branches and offices under MC's jurisdiction Electricity consumption: Excludes electricity of common areas and some electricity used for air-conditioning, etc., in certain office areas. Waste production: Aggregate amount for Head Offices only Employee Data 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 Number of employees (consolidated) 65,975 68,383 71,994 Male 4,720 4,749 4,703 Number of employees Female 1,603 1,609 1,619 (non-consolidated) Total 6,323 6,358 6,322 Corporate Data Male 93.6 92.9 92.1 Gender ratio in management positions (non-consolidated)* (%) 4 Female 6.4 7.1 7.9 Average years of service (non-consolidated) 18.9 18.7 18.6 Number of employees on overseas assignments 1,210 1,272 1,295 (including global trainees)*5 Employment rate of people with disabilities*6 (%) 2.12 2.12 2.06 *4 As of April 1 of each calendar year Male 1 0 2 *5 The Global Trainee System is an overseas assignment system Number of employees who took leave of absence for childcare*7 Female 25 25 42 aimed at young employees, in order to handle the global Total 26 25 44 development of MC's business portfolio and strengthen MC's global competitiveness in terms of human resources. Male 2 2 1 Number of employees who shortened working hours for *6 As of June 1 of the previous calendar year Female 66 62 57 childcare *7 The number of employees who began taking that type of leave of Total 68 64 58 absence during each fiscal year MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 41 Group/Business Groups 42 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from President and CEO Special Features Finance and ESG Group/Business Groups 44 Our Business Regional Initiatives and 46 Results of Business Groups Human Resources 48 Organizational Structure 49 Business Service Group Sustainability 50 Global Environmental & Infrastructure Business Group 54 Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development Group 58 Energy Business Group Corporate Governance 62 Metals Group 66 Machinery Group Corporate Data 70 Chemicals Group 74 Living Essentials Group 78 Mineral and Energy Resource Data MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 43 OUR BUSINESS MC’s subsidiaries and affiliates are diverse organizations engaged in a wide variety of activities on a global scale. We manufacture and market a wide range of products, including energy, metals, machinery, chemicals and living essentials through our domestic and overseas networks. We also are involved in diverse businesses by actively investing in areas such as natural resources development and infrastructure, and we are engaged in finance businesses. We are also engaged in diversified businesses such as creating new business models in the fields of new energy and the environment, and new technology-related businesses. Some of our basic functions enhance the above activities and enable us to provide various services to customers. Global Environmental & Infrastructure Business Group P.50 The Global Environmental & Infrastructure Business Group conducts infrastructure projects, related trading operations and other activities in power generation, water, transportation and other infrastructure fields that serve as a foundation for industry. MC Constructs Fertilizer Plant in Turkmenistan In August 2014, MC, Turkish construction and real estate development company Gap Insaat Yatirim ve Dis Ticaret A.S., and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. have been awarded a contract from Turkmen state-owned company Turkmenhimiya for the construction of a large-scale fertilizer TOPICS plant in Turkmenistan, with contracts amounting to some 1.3 billion US dollars. The plant will be the country’s largest ammonia and urea fertilizer plant, using feedstock drawn from the country’s abundant natural gas resources. Through this project, MC is aiming to increase our presence in the oil and gas based chemical / fertilizer plant market in central Asia, the Middle East and Africa and expect to be awarded similar related projects in the future. Image picture Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development Group P.54 The Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development Group is developing shosha-type industrial finance businesses. These businesses range from asset management, infrastructure investment, and buyout investment to leasing, real estate development and logistics services. Employees Provident Fund Malaysia Appoints Diamond Realty Management for Japan Core-Plus Logistics Investments In February 2015, Diamond Realty Management Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of MC was awarded a non-discretionary mandate to invest in Japan Core-Plus Logistics on behalf of TOPICS Employees Provident Fund Malaysia (EPF). Diamond Realty Management arranges and manages private real estate funds for institutional investors worldwide. Leveraging its insight into incomegenerating real estate developed as a sogo shosha, MC will supply capital to industry and provide investment opportunities to investors. The logistics facility that is the target of the investment Energy Business Group P.58 The Energy Business Group conducts a number of activities including oil and gas exploration, development and production (E&P) business, investment in Natural Gas liquefaction projects, trading of crude oil, petroleum products, carbon materials and products, liquefied natural gas (LNG), and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), and planning and development of new energy businesses. Companies Behind LNG Canada Mark Milestone for Proposed LNG Export Project In May 2014, Shell Canada Energy, Korea Gas Corporation, PetroChina Corporation and MC announced the signing of a joint venture agreement to develop a proposed liquefied natural gas (LNG) export project – LNG Canada. The new operating entity, LNG Canada Development Inc. was TOPICS set up to undertake the design, construction and operation of the LNG export plant in British Columbia, Canada. The partners are expediting specific initiatives toward making a Final Investment Decision. Notably, the Project Description for the LNG plant has been submitted and the Environmental Assessment is currently underway. Signing ceremony for the joint venture agreement 44 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Metals Group P.62 Special Feature 1 MC’s Corporate Value Creation Story P.20 The Metals Group trades, develops businesses, and invests in a range of metals fields. These include steel products such as steel sheets and thick plates, ferrous raw materials such as coking coal and iron ore, and non-ferrous raw materials and products such as copper and aluminum. Opening of Caval Ridge Coal Mine in Australia In October 2014, MITSUBISHI DEVELOPMENT PTY LTD (MDP), a wholly-owned subsidiary of MC announced the opening of the Caval Ridge Coal Mine in Queensland, Australia. The mine is run by TOPICS BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance (BMA), a joint venture between resource major BHP Billiton and MDP. The mine features high production efficiency owing to the introduction of cutting-edge facilities and equipment, as well as potential for further expansion with a mine-life of about 60 years. MC intends to further enlarge BMA operations and to enhance the reliable supply of coking coal in order to respond to prospective increases in global demand. BMA coking coal mine in Queensland, Australia Machinery Group P.66 The Machinery Group is involved in sales, finance, logistics and investment in a wide range of fields which include machine tools, agricultural machinery, construction equipment, mining equipment, elevators and escalators, ships, aerospace-related equipment and motor vehicles. Mitsubishi Motors Reconstruction of Vehicle Production in Indonesia In April 2015, Mitsubishi Motors Corporation and MC established a new vehicle manufacturing joint venture company (plant), Mitsubishi Motors Krama Yudha Indonesia (MMKI), with their local partner PT Krama Yudha in an industrial complex on the outskirts of Jakarta. The new plant will start operation in TOPICS April 2017 with a production capacity of 160,000 units per year. The new plant is expected to play an important role as the second largest MMC production site in the region behind Thailand. In Indonesia, MC has been involved over 45 years in the motor vehicle businesses such as production, distribution, and automobile finance. Taking advantage of its long-term experience, MC will further strengthen its business foundation in the country. Groundbreaking ceremony for the new plant Chemicals Group P.70 The Chemicals Group trades chemical products in a broad range of fields, in which it also develops businesses and invests. These fields extend from raw materials to industrial products such as ethylene, methanol, and salt produced from crude oil, natural gas, minerals, plants and marine resources; plastics, electronic materials, food ingredients, fertilizer and fine chemicals. Reinforcing the Food Science Business Through the Transfer of MC Food Specialties Inc. Stocks In April 2015, MC transferred stocks of MC Food Specialties Inc. (MCFS, Shareholding: MC TOPICS 96.97%) to a wholly-owned subsidiary of MC, Mitsubishi Corporation Life Science Limited (MCLS). MCFS is engaged in the manufacturing and sales of food ingredients and seasonings. MCLS already has two subsidiaries, Mitsubishi Shoji Foodtech Co., Ltd. and Kohjin Life Science Co., Ltd., both of which are engaged in the food science business. Bringing MCFS under MCLS will therefore allow MC to reinforce its management infrastructure for the food science business field. MC Food Specialties plant Living Essentials Group P.74 Special Feature 1 MC’s Corporate Value Creation Story P.16 The Living Essentials Group conducts businesses that support and further enrich the daily lives of consumers around the world by providing lifestyle essentials related to food, clothing and shelter. It supplies products and services, develops businesses and invests in various products fields covering an expansive range of areas from upstream to downstream parts of the value chain. Acquisition of Cermaq ASA, World’s Third Largest Salmon Farming Company In November 2014, MC converted Cermaq Group AS (Cermaq) into a wholly owned subsidiary through a takeover bid. Cermaq is the world’s third largest salmon farming company in terms of TOPICS production volume. As demand for food increases in step with global population growth, the seafood farming business is anticipated to continue growing. Salmon farming offers strong prospects for growth in demand based on its low environmental footprint. Harnessing its production know-how and business foundation accumulated in the food sector, MC will contribute to securing a safe, reliable and sustainable food supply network. A salmon farming site operated by Cermaq MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 45 Results of Business Groups Global Environmental & Infrastructure Business Group Other, Adjustments Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development Group and Eliminations Metals Group 3.5% Chemicals Group 0.2% Share of Energy Business Group Machinery Group Living Essentials Group Net Income*1 5.1% 10.0% 7.8% 20.5% 22.8% 30.1% by Segment Year Ended March 2015 Net Income*1 ¥ 400.6 billion Global Environmental & Infrastructure Business Group*5 P.50 Gross Profit and Income from Net Income*1, Equity Method Investment Total Assets and ROA*2 Gross profit..................................................¥31.6 billion Income from equity method investment ......¥28.9 billion 31.6 20.4 Net income*1 ..............................................¥20.4 billion 28.5 28.9 Total assets .................................................¥ 1.0 trillion 16.2 1.0 ROA*2 ............................................................ 2.2 % 18.4 0.9 No. of employees Consolidated*3 ................1,578 2.1% 2.2% No. of employees Parent company*3 ............. 625 ■ Gross Profit (¥ billion) ■ Net Income*1 (¥ billion) No. of consolidated subsidiaries and ■ Income from Equity ■ Total Assets (¥ trillion) Method Investment (¥ billion) equity-method affiliates*4 ............................. 51 ROA*2 14.3 15.3 14.3 15.3 Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development Group P.54 Gross Profit and Income from Net Income*1, Equity Method Investment Total Assets and ROA*2 Gross profit..................................................¥75.7 billion Income from equity method investment ......¥33.1 billion 75.7 40.1 Net income*1 ..............................................¥40.1 billion 67.2 4.2% Total assets .................................................¥ 0.9 trillion 29.7 ROA*2 ............................................................ 4.2 % 1.0 0.9 33.1 No. of employees Consolidated*3 ................2,765 No. of employees Parent company*3 ............. 383 16.2 ■ Gross Profit (¥ billion) ■ Net Income*1 (¥ billion) ■ Income from Equity 2.9% ■ Total Assets (¥ trillion) No. of consolidated subsidiaries and Method Investment (¥ billion) equity-method affiliates*4 ............................. 87 ROA*2 14.3 15.3 14.3 15.3 Energy Business Group P.58 Gross Profit and Income from Net Income*1, Equity Method Investment Total Assets and ROA*2 Gross profit..................................................¥59.2 billion Income from equity method investment ......¥71.6 billion 71.6 2.5 Net income*1 ..............................................¥82.3 billion 2.3 62.2 65.7 59.2 5.0% Total assets .................................................¥ 2.3 trillion 118.6 3.5% ROA*2 ............................................................ 3.5 % 82.3 No. of employees Consolidated*3 ................1,568 No. of employees Parent company*3 ............. 584 ■ Gross Profit (¥ billion) ■ Net Income*1 (¥ billion) ■ Income from Equity ■ Total Assets (¥ trillion) No. of consolidated subsidiaries and Method Investment (¥ billion) ROA*2 equity-method affiliates*4 ............................. 92 14.3 15.3 14.3 15.3 Metals Group P.62 Gross Profit and Income from Net Income*1, Equity Method Investment Total Assets and ROA*2 Gross profit................................................¥199.3 billion Income from equity method investment ....¥ 2.7 billion 4.7 4.8 Net income*1 ............................................¥ 13.9 billion 241.9 Total assets ...............................................¥ 4.8 trillion 199.3 ROA*2 ............................................................ 0.3 % 0.3% No. of employees Consolidated*3 .............. 11,879 2.7 0.2% No. of employees Parent company*3 ............. 285 ■ Gross Profit (¥ billion) ■ Net Income*1 (¥ billion) 1.2 ■ Income from Equity 13.9 ■ Total Assets (¥ trillion) No. of consolidated subsidiaries and Method Investment (¥ billion) 8.0 equity-method affiliates*4 ............................. 26 ROA*2 14.3 15.3 14.3 15.3 46 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from Global Environmental & Infrastructure Business Group Other, Adjustments Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development Group Chemicals Group and Eliminations President and CEO Share of Energy Business Group Metals Group Machinery Group Living Essentials Group Total Assets 5.9% 5.3% 5.8% 10.2% 28.6% 11.9% 18.7% Special Features by Segment 13.4% As of March 31, 2015 Total Assets ¥ 16.8 trillion Finance and ESG Machinery Group P.66 Gross Profit and Income from Net Income*1, Equity Method Investment Total Assets and ROA*2 Gross profit................................................¥197.3 billion Income from equity method investment ....¥ 32.2 billion 197.3 98.8 Net income*1 ............................................¥ 91.3 billion 186.7 91.3 32.2 1.9 2.0 Total assets ...............................................¥ 2.0 trillion 30.0 Group/Business Groups ROA*2 ............................................................ 4.7 % 5.3% No. of employees Consolidated*3 ................9,429 4.7% No. of employees Parent company*3 ............. 539 ■ Gross Profit (¥ billion) ■ Net Income*1 (¥ billion) ■ Income from Equity No. of consolidated subsidiaries and ■ Total Assets (¥ trillion) Method Investment (¥ billion) equity-method affiliates*4 ........................... 124 ROA*2 14.3 15.3 14.3 15.3 Chemicals Group P.70 Net Income*1, Regional Initiatives and Gross Profit and Income from Equity Method Investment Total Assets and ROA*2 Gross profit................................................¥110.9 billion Income from equity method investment ....¥ 18.8 billion 31.4 Net income*1 ............................................¥ 31.4 billion Human Resources 102.6 110.9 Total assets ...............................................¥ 1.0 trillion 21.7 1.0 ROA*2 ............................................................ 3.2 % 1.0 18.8 3.2% No. of employees Consolidated*3 ................6,897 17.3 No. of employees Parent company*3 ............. 637 ■ Gross Profit (¥ billion) ■ Net Income*1 (¥ billion) ■ Income from Equity 2.2% ■ Total Assets (¥ trillion) No. of consolidated subsidiaries and Sustainability Method Investment (¥ billion) equity-method affiliates*4 ............................. 52 ROA*2 14.3 15.3 14.3 15.3 Living Essentials Group P.74 Gross Profit and Income from Net Income*1, Equity Method Investment Total Assets and ROA*2 Gross profit................................................¥525.4 billion Corporate Governance Income from equity method investment ....¥ 20.6 billion 120.5 Net income*1 ............................................¥120.5 billion 525.4 Total assets ...............................................¥ 3.1 trillion 480.9 3.1 2.7 ROA*2 ............................................................ 4.2 % 22.6 20.6 No. of employees Consolidated*3 .............. 34,030 59.2 4.2% No. of employees Parent company*3 ............. 897 ■ Gross Profit (¥ billion) ■ Net Income*1 (¥ billion) ■ Income from Equity ■ Total Assets (¥ trillion) No. of consolidated subsidiaries and Method Investment (¥ billion) 2.3% ROA*2 equity-method affiliates*4 ........................... 111 14.3 15.3 14.3 15.3 Corporate Data *1 Net income refers to “Net income attributable to owners of the Parent.” *2 ROA is calculated by dividing net income by the average of total assets at the beginning and end of the fiscal year. *3 Data as of March 31, 2015. The number of Corporate Staff Section employees not shown on this page was 3,848 on a consolidated basis and 1,687 on a Parent company basis. Accordingly, the total number of employees was 71,994 on a consolidated basis and 5,637 on a Parent company basis. *4 Data as of March 31, 2015. Figures do not include companies consolidated by subsidiaries. Not shown on this page are 7 consolidated subsidiaries and equity-method affiliates belonging to the Business Service Group, 12 consolidated subsidiaries and equity-method affiliates belonging to the Corporate Staff Section and 44 overseas regional subsidiaries. Accordingly, the total number of consolidated subsidiaries and equity-method affiliates was 614. *5 Figures for the Global Environmental & Infrastructure Business represent those of the Global Environmental & Infrastructure Business Group’s infrastructure-related businesses. Figures for this Group’s environment-related businesses are included in Others, Adjustments and Eliminations. In addition, effective from April 1 and July 1, 2014, certain environment-related businesses included in this Group were integrated into the infrastructure-related businesses. In line with this change, MC has restated the figures of related segments for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 47 Organizational Structure (As of July 1, 2015) General Meeting of Shareholders Global Environmental & Infrastructure Business Group CEO Office Corporate Auditors Corporate Auditors’ Office Global Environmental & Infrastructure Global Environmental & Business Group Administration Dept. Infrastructure Business Board of Group Environmental Business Div. Corporate Auditors New Energy & Power Generation Div. Infrastructure Business Div. Governance & Compensation Committee Board of Directors Industrial Finance, Logistics & International Advisory Development Group CEO Office Committee Industrial Finance, Logistics & Industrial Finance, Development Group Administration Dept. Logistics & Asset Management Business Div. Development Group Internal Audit Dept. Industrial Finance Div. Corporate Strategy & Real Estate Development & Construction Div. President and Chief Planning Dept. Logistics Div. Executive Officer Executive Energy Business Group CEO Office Committee Corporate Staff Section Energy Business Group Administration Dept. E&P Business Div. Corporate Communications Energy Business Group Natural Gas Business Div. Dept. Business Strategy Petroleum Business Div. Committee Corporate Administration Dept. Carbon & LPG Business Div. Market Strategy CSR & Environmental Committee Affairs Dept. Compliance Committee Legal Dept. CSR & Environmental Global Human Affairs Committee Resources Dept. Metals Group CEO Office Human Resources Global Strategy & Metals Group Administration Dept. Development Committee Business Development Dept. Metals Group Steel Business Div. Disclosure Committee Global Relations Dept. Mineral Resources Trading Div. International Economic Mineral Resources Investment Div. Cooperation Dept. Logistics Management Dept. Market Strategy Corporate Accounting Dept. Chief Compliance Officer Risk Management Dept. Machinery Group CEO Office SEVP, CSR & Finance Dept. Machinery Group Administration Dept. Environmental Affairs Structured Finance, Industrial Machinery Business Div. Chief Information Officer M&A Advisory Dept. Machinery Group Ship & Aerospace Div. Investor Relations Dept. Motor Vehicle Business Div. Isuzu Business Div. Business Service Group Business Service Group Chemicals Group CEO Office CEO Office Chemicals Group Administration Dept. IT Service Business Div. Phoenix Dept. IT Planning Dept. Saudi Petrochemical Project Dept. Chemicals Group Commodity Chemicals Div. A Commodity Chemicals Div. B Functional Chemicals Div. Life Sciences Div. Living Essentials Group CEO Office Living Essentials Group Administration Dept. Global Consumer Business Div. Living Essentials Group Retail Div. Living Essential Products Div. * Organizational structure of the Head Office Living Essential Resources Div. 48 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Business Service Group The Business Service Group undertakes the roles of providing IT functions required for Message from the MC Group’s and our clients’ business as well as making investments and handling other matters for this purpose. President and CEO IT has become an essential tool for all types of business following environmental changes such as advances in the digital society and business diversification, which has prompted a growing need for IT on a global basis. The Business Service Group will Special Features develop and provide IT services boasting global responsiveness and competitiveness through ties with business partners in Japan and overseas. We will also contribute to continuously raising the enterprise value of the MC Group and clients and business expansion by helping to promote the use of IT in business. Finance and ESG Toshimitsu Urabe Executive Vice President, Group/Business Groups Group CEO, Business Service Group Business Service Group Joined MC in 1978. After working in Personnel Dept. and Corporate Planning Office, dispatched to Mitsubishi International Corporation (New York). Appointed General Business Service Group CEO Office Manager of Personnel Dept. in 2006 and Senior Vice ■IT Service Business Div. President, as well as Deputy Chief Representative for China and concurrently President of Mitsubishi Corporation (Hong ■IT Planning Dept. Kong) Ltd. in 2009. Assumed current position in 2013. Regional Initiatives and IT Service Business Division Human Resources The IT Service Business Division provides integrated IT services The division will leverage its wealth of knowledge and a variety of through business investees and partners in order to resolve customer networks in the different industries of MC’s business groups and issues, improve business processes and raise corporate value. We combine these with IT services and new technologies to promote Sustainability also work to strengthen and expand IT-related businesses by utilizing business expansion and the evolution of business platforms for our advanced information technologies. customers. IT Planning Department The IT Planning Department is responsible for MC’s company-wide IT measures such as IT Corporate Governance systems and infrastructure, covering strategies and planning, as well as investments and cost management. The business needs of the MC Group are becoming increasingly diverse and more globalized, and IT technology is ever advancing. Always quickly responding to these changes, Tata Consultancy Services Japan the IT Planning Department not only deploys MC’s company wide IT measures on a consolidated Pooling MC’s customer relations expertise with the basis, but also proposes and promotes IT internal control and information security measures. international successes of India’s Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), TCS Japan’s comprehensive IT services provide robust support for innovation and globalization at client companies. MC Group human resources — Acting Globally Corporate Data Contribute to corporate growth by nurturing and making full use of people I am on temporary assignment at iVision Shanghai Co., Ltd., which and making full use of our human resources. It provides provides IT services in China. When it was first established in 2003, me with a feeling of satisfaction and joy knowing that I the company was small with only three employees, but now it has am contributing to corporate growth by executing various grown to encompass four sites in China with around 200 employees human resource measures at a company where employees Gu Zheng and a customer base of over 100 companies. I believe that people of differing nationality and age challenge one another and Deputy General Manager of Administration Division are the source of corporate growth so I am focused on nurturing grow. iVision Shanghai Co., Ltd. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 49 Global Environmental & Infrastructure Business Group We will contribute to society and the environment while achieving sustainable growth by pursuing new business models. Global Environmental & Infrastructure Business Group Global Environmental & Infrastructure Business Group CEO Office Global Environmental & Infrastructure Business Group Administration Dept. ■Environmental Business Div. ■New Energy & Power Generation Div. ■Infrastructure Business Div. Hiroshi Sakuma Executive Vice President, Group CEO, Global Environmental & Infrastructure Business Group Joined MC in 1980. After being assigned to Power Systems International Dept., worked at Al Jubail and Al-Khobar Office. Later was temporarily transferred to Houston and Los Angeles from Power Systems & Traffic Business Development Dept., and then to Los Angeles from Power & Energy Project Development Dept. Assumed position as General Manager of Power Generation & Marketing, International Unit in Power & Electrical Systems Div. in 2007. Appointed Senior Vice President in 2011 and Division COO of New Energy & Power Generation Div. in 2012. Assumed current position in 2014. Our path to growth image by circa 2020 Our path to doubling earnings by circa 2020 Consolidated net income Balance of investments (¥ billion) Approx ¥60 billion level Infrastructure Approx Infrastructure Business Business Power Producer ¥600 billion Business 50% 35% 50% 50% Power Producer 65% Business 18.4 16.2 20.4 50% Year ended Circa 2020 Year ended Year ended Year ended March 2015 March 2013 March 2014 March 2015 Circa 2020 Creating sustainable societal and environmental value through business Commenced operation of one of Japan’s largest mega solar power plants On March 2, 2015, MC commenced commercial operation to produce around 81 MW of solar power, making it one of of a mega solar power plant in Tahara City, Aichi Prefecture, the largest in Japan, and will provide enough clean power for with Diamond Solar Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary 24,000 households. The Global Environmental & Infrastructure of MC, owning a 50% stake, C-Tech Corporation of the Chubu Business Group aims to contribute to the realization of a lowElectric Power Company Group holding a 35% stake and carbon society through the proliferation of renewable energy Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance Company Limited holding a that is kind to the environment such as solar power, wind 15% stake. The power plant is located on a site measuring power and geothermal power. approximately 100 hectares and boasts enough solar panels 50 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from President and CEO Q1 Could you explain the goals of the Global Environmental & Infrastructure Business Group under New Strategic Direction and your progress towards attaining these objectives? Special Features The Global Environmental & Infrastructure Business Group conducts infrastructure projects and related trading operations in power generation, water, transportation and other infrastructure fields that serve as a foundation for industry. We also engage in projects in fields that are highly public and have a high degree of growth potential centered on trading in environment-related fields such as renewable energy projects and lithium-ion battery projects that contribute to the prevention of global warming and energy safety and security. Through these projects, we aim Finance and ESG to contribute to the creation of a sustainable society and the realization of greater corporate value. The Group’s earnings have been steadily increasing in line with the goal of doubling consolidated earnings in the non-resource field by 2020. We aim to achieve our objective of approximately ¥60 billion in consolidated earnings by fiscal 2020. Group/Business Groups Q2 As you strive to attain your goals, how do you perceive the medium-to-long-term business environment as well as risk? This Group’s business is indispensable to the sustainable development of society, and it is therefore important to always consider things from a mediumto long-term perspective and a public standpoint. While business opportunities for the Group are steadily increasing on the back of the easing of regulations and ongoing privatization on a global basis, some social infrastructure related projects require considerable time from Regional Initiatives and development to realization. In order to drive sustainable growth, it is important to create a suitable asset portfolio by striking a good balance between projects that take on a mediumto long-term perspective and projects with a forecast of stable earnings over a relatively short period. Human Resources Q3 How will you go about resolving the challenges you mentioned in Q2? Sustainability Also, could you please describe the future outlook and your growth strategies? We aim to reduce risk and drive sustainable growth over the long term by taking advantage of favorable opportunities to create new businesses in times of change such as the easing of regulations and ongoing privatization while maintaining and expanding our stable sources of earnings. We will also strive to realize initiatives with higher added value by leveraging our collective strengths that include regional knowledge, networks in a broad array of industries and financial capabilities, which are our strengths as a general trading company. Corporate Governance In addition, we aim to fulfill our corporate social responsibility by both building an environmentally friendly business portfolio and creating social value through contribution to regional advancement without focusing solely on the pursuit of profit. Business partner comments — Expectations towards MC Bosch Corporate Data Complementary strengths for joint success As a globally leading engineering company, Robert Bosch GmbH orientation, which is also in keeping with our corporate culture (Bosch) is on the vanguard of development with innovative at Bosch. Furthermore, as a partner, MC contributes tremendous technologies that set market trends. One of our main areas of focus know-how regarding the setup of global value chains, an activity it is electromobility, a challenge whose key element is the lithium-ion approaches with a clear strategic focus. battery. This fits perfectly with Bosch’s strengths, which include a portfolio In order to further refine this technology, we established Lithium of components for electromobility, as well as extensive expertise in Energy and Power GmbH & Co. KG a joint venture together with MC the areas of systems integration and processes for complex largeDr. Rolf Bulander and GS Yuasa International Ltd. We value the extremely high technical scale volume production. All the partners’ strengths thus complement Member of the Board of Management Chairman of the Mobility Solutions competence of our partners as well as their long-term strategic each other, and together they guarantee our joint success. Robert Bosch GmbH MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 51 Global Environmental & Infrastructure Business Group Environmental Business Division ■ Environmental Energy Business Dept. ■ Environment Business, R&D Dept. This division engages in environment-related business that includes development of lithiumion battery business required for eco-friendly vehicles and electricity storage systems, and next-generation energies using hydrogen energy and oceanic energy such as tidal current and wave power for creating a low-carbon society. The division continues to take up the challenge of developing technologies and businesses in environment-related fields that enable more people to optimally utilize the earth’s finite resources in an environmentally friendly manner. We will also promote businesses that will lead the next generation from a mediumand long-term perspective in order to contribute to the resolution of global energy and resource issues by utilizing networks with a broad range of partners in Japan and overseas. MC is engaged in the development, production and sale of lithium-ion batteries, a key component in eco-friendly vehicles. Together with strategic business partners, the division will promote lithium-ion battery business for eco-friendly vehicles and electricity storage systems that emit minimal levels of CO2 and have little impact on the environment in order to prevent global warming and drive sustainable growth. We will also work on utilizing hydrogen energy and oceanic energy such as tidal current and wave power in the next-generation energy field. In addition, we will cooperate with customers, business partners and research institutes in Japan and overseas in pursuing the development of new business models from a mediumto long-term standpoint. New Energy & Power Generation Division ■ EMEA Power Business Development Dept. ■ Americas Power Business Dept. This division strives to contribute to the improvement of power infrastructures worldwide ■ Asia & Oceania Power Business Dept. through power generation business overseas and in Japan and power transmission business ■ Power Systems Dept. A in Europe as well as trading of power generation plants and transmission facilities, while ■ Power Systems Dept. B attaching importance to the environmental value added by engaging in power generation by ■ Power Systems International Dept. renewable energies. In the field of power generation business overseas and in Japan, the division plans to increase its worldwide installed power capacity (on an equity basis) from the current 5,000 MW to 7,500 MW by 2020, which includes thermal power as well as renewables such as solar (photovoltaic and thermal), wind and geothermal power generation. The division’s transmission business in Europe engages in sending the electricity from offshore wind farms to the onshore grids, thus playing an indispensable role in realizing a low-carbon society, and plans are in place to boost the length of its transmission lines from 870 km to 1,500 km by 2020. MC has a 20% stake in Star Energy Geothermal Pte Ltd. that owns the Wayang Windu While steadily operating existing power generation and transmission facilities, the Geothermal Power Plant in Indonesia, which is one of the world’s largest geothermal division will take advantage of opportunities to expand initiatives to participate in new power plants, with a capacity of 230 MW. projects worldwide. In the business of trading power generation plants and transmission facilities, the division will continue providing optimal solutions to customers by leveraging relationships with a wide range of business partners and experience accumulated over the years. More challenges will be made to create new business models in line with the market environment changing with the times. 52 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Infrastructure Business Division ■ Water Business Dept. Message from ■ Transportation Infrastructure Business Dept. President and CEO This division develops infrastructure business to build, own and operate infrastructures in ■ Engineering Business Dept. the fields of water, such as water supply and sewerage systems and desalination plants; ■ Plant Projects Dept. transportation, such as airports, ports and railway systems; and plant engineering, such as oil and gas related facilities, steel plants and other plants. During worldwide economic advancement and the easing of regulations including Special Features privatization, this division will exert various capabilities accumulated through experience of projects in different regions globally and become an integrated infrastructure business Finance and ESG operator engaged in the building, owning and operation of infrastructure from the project development phase. We will endeavor to contribute to the international community by supporting the basis of economic activities and aim to establish a long-term, stable earnings base. Metito Holdings Limited, in which MC has a stake, owns and operates a sewerage treatment plant with a capacity of 315,000 m3 per day in Hefei City, Anhui Group/Business Groups Province, China. The division will strive to increase high-quality infrastructure business assets in each of the water business, transportation infrastructure business and plant engineering business. To achieve this, we will create mutual trust with customers and partners around the world, have a mediumto long-term perspective and strengthen ties with the Japanese government. In particular, we will take a chance of changes, such as the easing of regulations and the establishment of legal systems, and exploit new business opportunities in each country. Regional Initiatives and Human Resources MC-JALUX Airport Services Co., Ltd., in which MC holds a 45.5% stake, will operate Mandalay International Airport for a period of 30 years from April 2015. Sustainability Corporate Governance MC Group human resources — Acting Globally TRILITY continues with long-term growth Corporate Data TRILITY is a private water utility in Australia that owns, operates and and capital. constructs water, wastewater treatment and desalination plants. We pride ourselves in that we make a difference in the lives of Since becoming part of the MC Group during 2010, TRILITY embarked people as well as the environment by supplying safe, reliable water. on an aggressive expansion strategy consisting of organic growth, With our widespread water infrastructure portfolio spanning Australia diversification and acquisitions. and New Zealand and the excellent support provided by Mitsubishi Private sector participation in the Australian water sector Australia Ltd. (MAL) and the MC Water team in Tokyo, TRILITY is Francois Gouws commenced during the mid 90’s. This is a market that is set to strongly positioned for continued, long-term growth. Managing Director expand with the ever increasing pressure on the natural environment TRILITY MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 53 Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development Group We will identify changes in the environment and create a new flow of funds for industry through techniques befitting a trading company. Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development Group Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development Group CEO Office Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development Group Administration Dept. ■Asset Management Business Div. ■Industrial Finance Div. ■Real Estate Development & Construction Div. ■Logistics Div. Eiichi Tanabe Executive Vice President, Group CEO, Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development Group Joined MC in 1978. After working at Motor Vehicle Dept., acquired MBA from Stanford University. Thereafter, dispatched to Mitsubishi Corporation Finance PLC. in London. Assumed post as Member of the Board of Lawson, Inc. in 2001 and Senior Executive Vice President of Lawson, Inc. in 2005. Appointed Senior Vice President of MC in 2008. Became General Manager of Group CEO Office in Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development Group in 2011. Assumed current position in 2012. Our path to growth image by circa 2020 Our path to doubling earnings towards circa 2020 Consolidated net income Asset portfolio (¥ billion) Logistics Logistics Real estate development Asset Real estate managementdevelopment Asset related managementrelated 40.1 Leasing-related Leasing-related 27.9 29.7 Year ended Year ended Year ended Circa 2020 Year ended March 2013 Circa 2020 March 2013 March 2014 March 2015 Creating sustainable societal and environmental value through business Retail property REITs with exceptional environmental and social attributes Japan Retail Fund Investment Corporation, which is managed to properties that have exceptional environmental and by Mitsubishi Corp. UBS Realty Inc. (MCUBSR), a subsidiary social attributes. MCUBSR has organized the Sustainability of MC, obtained DBJ Green Building Certification offered Committee to continuously implement measures to reduce by Development Bank of Japan Inc. in the year ended environmental burdens and contribute to local communities March 2015 for six of the properties in its portfolio, a first with the aim of achieving a sustainable society through its for retail property REITs in Japan. The certification is given business activities. 54 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from President and CEO Q1 Could you explain the goals of the Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development Group under New Strategic Direction and your progress towards attaining these objectives? Special Features As a unique financial services player, we aim to expand our profit base through a combination of strengthening our financing capability to provide risk capital required in a wide variety of industries and executing measures related to real estate development business targeting the growing middle class in emerging countries and to the privatization of public infrastructure in Japan. In part due to favorable conditions in the real estate market in Japan and the United States in the year ended March 31, 2015, we achieved consolidated net income of ¥40.1 billion, Finance and ESG which was well over our initial target. We will strive to boost the level of profit further as we head towards 2020. Q2 As you strive to attain your goals, how do you perceive the medium-to-long-term business Group/Business Groups environment as well as risk? Structural changes have started to emerge in the capital market in Japan and in society on the whole. Specifically, institutional investors are considering investment in real assets as part of their fund management. In addition, companies are liquidating real estate and non-core businesses from the perspective of focusing on capital efficiency. The Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development Group will provide solutions driven by its financing function and a deep knowledge of real assets as a trading company to meet these needs. At the same time, over the medium and long term I believe it is necessary to make provisions due to uncertainty in financial markets, notably rising volatility caused by Regional Initiatives and increasing geopolitical risk and ultra monetary easing policies in developed countries. Human Resources Q3 How will you go about resolving the challenges you mentioned in Q2? Also, could you please describe the future outlook and your growth strategies? Sustainability We will pay close attention not only to profitability when investing but also to liquidity and diversification, and will combat risk by creating a portfolio based on a disciplined approach. Going forward, we will continue to provide financial products befitting a trading company that meet the needs of investors in the field of real assets, including real estate, infrastructure, ships and aircraft, as well as in the field of private equity, which are our areas of comparative strength. By doing so, we can identify new fund management needs and capital demand in Japan and overseas and translate this into growth in our businesses. Corporate Governance Business partner comments — Expectations towards MC MC-Seamax Management We are excited to collaborate with MC to continue to expand the MC Seamax footprint globally. Corporate Data MC Seamax Management Limited is a joint venture between Seamax deployed in all major global trade lanes with some of the Partners LLC and Mitsubishi Corporation established in 2013 as an world's top shipping lines. alternative investment management firm to provide major shipping The combination of Seamax’s sector expertise and lines with creative outsourcing alternatives to vessel ownership by MC’s global financial prowess has been key to MC Seamax offering leases on large, modern container vessels. Our management strategy execution. team has over 100 years of combined experience in commercial, We consider it a great privilege to work with the MC financial and technical vessel operations. team in developing Seamax’s global footprint in the The MC-Seamax joint venture closed its first real asset fund transportation industry and look forward to many more Ronald Petrunoff Cao Deambrosio Managing Partner Managing Partner in 2015 and has rapidly grown assets under management with years of collaboration. MC-Seamax MC-Seamax investments in vessels secured by multi-year charter contracts Management Limited Management Limited MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 55 Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development Group Asset Management Business Division ■ Real Estate Asset Management Business Dept. ■ Asset Management Business Development Dept. This division provides capital to industry and real asset investment opportunities for ■ Merchant Banking Dept. investors through an asset management business for real assets, businesses and companies that leverages MC’s deep knowledge of industry and networks as a sogo shosha. The Asset Management Business Division aims to form an asset management company group with a strong presence in the global market that specializes in real assets. The division will work to strengthen its management structure in Japan and overseas with the objective of doubling current total assets under management (AUM) by 2020. The Asset Management Business Division conducts asset management operations centered on domestic real estate and private equity (PE). In recent years, we have expanded the range of assets we deal with to include overseas real estate, transportation Espoir Omotesando owned by an investment corporation that delegates asset and PE in the United States and Asia to complement conventional assets. management duties to a business investee Going forward, the division aims to expand AUM by focusing further on overseas real estate and transportation, and diversifying targeted investment areas and asset class. Industrial Finance Division ■ Infrastructure Finance Dept. ■ Lease & Finance Dept. ■ Aviation Business Dept. With an industrial finance perspective, this division provides risk capital to the industrial sector and a wide variety of investment opportunities to institutional investors focusing on Unlisted infrastructure assets under management the two fields of infrastructure finance business and leasing business. ($ billion) 105 96 The division will seize investment opportunities and business chances in the 82 90 infrastructure finance field amid a global tide of infrastructure development using private 68 funds. In the leasing field, we will take advantage of steady demand for leasing services 64 63 171 191 due to monetary easing and expanded public investment in Japan as well as a rise in 61 127 149 11 15 92 capital investment in emerging countries overseas. At the same time, we will promote 43 54 6 9 16 37 33 49 60 business growth in the aircraft leasing field, in which an increase in demand is forecast due to a growing number of passengers and the new entry of airlines to the market. 2002/12 2003/12 2004/12 2005/12 2006/12 2007/12 2008/12 2009/12 2010/12 2011/12 2012/12 2013/12 2014/6 Dry Powder Unrealized Value (Source: preqin) The division aims to create new investment opportunities in infrastructure finance business by leveraging our long-standing experience with our partners. In general leasing in Japan and overseas, we will support the growth of MC affiliates Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance Company Limited and Mitsubishi Auto Leasing Corporation. In the aircraft leasing field, we aim to drive growth globally through MC subsidiary MC Aviation Partners Inc. and through the joint venture with Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited. Real Estate Development & Construction Division ■ Commercial Real Estate Development Dept. ■ China Real Estate Development Dept. This division provides high value-added real estate developed by utilizing its access to wide■ Urban Development Dept. ranging industries and global networks as a sogo shosha. Its business varies not only in areas worldwide but also in assets, including medical industries, infrastructure and industry related facilities. The division conducts a wide variety of real estate development projects in Japan, North America, China and the ASEAN region, which include retail properties, industirial facilities, Minato Mirai 21 Shinko district 4 block (tentative name) currently being developed by condominiums and industrial parks. In particular, it is contributing to the creation of highbusiness investee Mitsubishi Corporation Urban Development, Inc. 56 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from quality townships and economic advancement by promoting real estate development with high value added through the transfer of Japan’s extensive knowledge to China and the ASEAN region. President and CEO Special Features The division will promote balanced business development in light of market trends in Japan, North America, China and the ASEAN region. In Japan, we will conduct revenuegenerating real estate development and mixed-use development that meets investor needs, and in the United States where we boast an investment track record spanning over 20 years, we will continue conducting development of rental housing and logistics Finance and ESG facilities. A condominium complex In addition, the division will pursue condominium development according to actual development project being demand and revenue-generating real estate development in China and the ASEAN implemented together with Ayala Land, Inc. region, where continued growth is forecast over the medium and long term. (Ortigas district of Manila in the Philippines) Group/Business Groups Logistics Division ■ Logistics Business Dept. ■ Dry Bulk Business Dept. ■ Logistics Business Development Dept. This division conducts a comprehensive logistics solutions business globally that includes distributing products such as automobiles and apparel, transporting raw materials such as coal and grains, and providing support to the distribution sector to remove assets from the balance sheet. Regional Initiatives and The division will seek sustainable growth in the global economy through the provision Human Resources of advanced logistics services and deployment to emerging markets by leveraging the capabilities, knowledge and networks built up as a logistics division of a sogo shosha. Utilizing the financial expertise of the MC Group, we will work to meet the needs for solutions in the distribution sector. Sustainability The division is securing bases in the major regions of Asia, Europe and the The division will provide advanced logistics services through MC subsidiaries such as Americas, while aiming to respond globally and seamlessly to all needs related to Mitsubishi Corporation LT, Inc. (product distribution) and Diamond Bulk Carriers Pte. Ltd. distribution. (raw material transport). It will also promote business development in emerging markets that hold the promise of growth, notably the ASEAN region, Greater China and Russia. In addition, the division will provide solutions in different areas that include removing Corporate Governance assets (real estate, movable assets) from the balance sheet and business reorganization for logistics companies and other entities aiming to add a level of sophistication to their management. MC Group human resources — Acting Globally Aiming to be a company with a strong presence in the U.S. real estate industry Corporate Data Since being established in 1994, Diamond Realty Investments, Inc. Immediately upon being appointed as president in October 2014, I (“DRI”) has made a significant contribution to the U.S. real estate stated “Become a Big Player with Sustainable Growth” as one of DRI’s development industry, specializing in joint venture partnerships with mid-term goals. It is not easy building a strong presence in the tough local developers. To date we have invested in over 120 Multifamily, competitive market environment in the United States and realizing Student Housing and Industrial projects. DRI develops and eventually sustainable growth in the cyclical real estate market. However, we are disposes the income-generating properties upon stabilization to the constantly on the move finding new business opportunities to achieve Katsumi Nakamoto U.S. institutional investors as financial assets while managing market our goals together with our capable national staff as a professional U.S. President and CEO risks inherent the changing U.S. real estate investment market. real estate company. Diamond Realty Investments, Inc. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 57 Energy Business Group We will continue to implement measures that contribute to the stable supply of energy in Japan and around the world. Energy Business Group Energy Business Group CEO Office Energy Business Group Administration Dept. ■E&P Business Div. ■Natural Gas Business Div. ■Petroleum Business Div. ■Carbon & LPG Business Div. Jun Yanai Member of the Board, Senior Executive Vice President, Group CEO, Energy Business Group Joined MC in 1973. After working at Crude Oil Dept., London Branch and Carbon Business Development Dept., assumed position as General Manager of Petroleum Products Supply Dept. in 1997. Appointed Senior Assistant to CEO of Energy Business Group in 2001, Senior Vice President in 2004 and Division COO of Petroleum Business Div. in 2005. Became Executive Vice President and Group COO of Energy Business Group in 2008 and CEO of Energy Business Group in 2011. Assumed current position in 2013. Our path to growth image by circa 2020 Our path to doubling attributable equity production by circa 2020 Attributable equity production of LNG Project plan for LNG (Million tons) · Circa 2015 Donggi-Senoro · Circa 2016 Wheatstone · Circa 2018 Cameron 7.4 7.4 7.4 · 2019~2020 Expand Tangguh · 2020 onward LNG Canada · 2020 onward Browse Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ending Circa 2020 March March March March 2013 2014 2015 2016 Creating sustainable societal and environmental value through business Contribute to the local community by enabling self-independence for local residents PT Donggi-Senoro LNG devises ways to support the selfAside from these activities, our sustainability of local residents and enable ongoing support programs for the local contribution to the local community. After researching and community cover a wide range of analyzing the agricultural and fishing activities conducted areas, including micro-financing for since long ago by local residents, we introduced new local female residents, initiatives to methods to cultivate such items as melon, cacao, capsicum protect rare species and support for and shallots as well as more efficient fishing techniques. local infrastructure development. 58 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from President and CEO Q1 Could you explain the goals of the Energy Business Group under New Strategic Direction and your progress towards attaining these objectives? Special Features Under New Strategic Direction, MC aims to double its attributable equity production of LNG and double earnings in non-resource fields such as trading eyeing circa 2020. To achieve these goals, we are working to build an optimal portfolio through strategic business investments. In the natural gas business, we will advance several projects scheduled to commence production around 2020. In the E&P business, we aim to attain sustainable growth as we replace assets in our portfolio. In the petroleum, carbon and LPG businesses, we will continue to promote projects Finance and ESG that will entail investments that strengthen our trading business. In the process, we will allocate management resources with an emphasis on achieving an efficient risk-return profile. Group/Business Groups Q2 As you strive to attain your goals, how do you perceive the medium-to-long-term business environment as well as risk? Prices have declined due to a sharp drop in the cost of crude oil since the latter half of 2014 and growing geopolitical risk globally, particularly in the Middle East. Such events demonstrate the immense changes the environment surrounding our energy business is undergoing. In addition, progress in negotiations over Iran’s nuclear program and further turmoil in the Middle East will presumably add to the uncertainty. In Japan, there is ongoing debate over the realization of an optimal energy mix with a view to the level of sustainable societal and environmental Regional Initiatives and development. We will boldly confront these changes and risks and seek to translate them into new business opportunities. Human Resources Q3 How will you go about resolving the challenges you mentioned in Q2? Also, could you please describe the future outlook and your growth strategies? Sustainability Our unchanging vision concerns the long-term supply of energy to customers, and to this end, we will promote development from a long-range perspective of 20 or 30 years, undertaking efforts to ensure supply is not impacted solely by the business environment. To implement this vision in an ongoing manner, we aim to implement each one of our projects no matter what the circumstances while doing our utmost to boost the competitiveness of our operations. Our goals of doubling production volume and doubling earnings eyeing circa 2020 under New Strategic Direction are just a milestone towards the realization of our mission. Going forward, we will work to strengthen functions and develop new businesses in order to remain an indispensable presence for our customers. Corporate Governance Business partner comments — Expectations towards MC Pertamina Corporate Data Mitsubishi Corporation, a partner in energy industry Pertamina and Mitsubishi has a very long relationship in the oil and factors for the success of the project. gas industry for more than 3 decades. MC Energy group has expanded its role not only as an oil and gas I have worked closely with Mitsubishi Energy group mainly in the trading group but as a project development as well both in upstream LNG business. and downstream. My last experience with MC is to develop the first downstream LNG Indonesia energy sector is in the new era especially with project in Indonesia namely Donggi Senoro LNG Project. increasing domestic gas demand. I believe this is an opportunity for Through this project MC team for Indonesia Project has company like MC to play bigger role in Indonesia and further enhance Yenni Andayani demonstrated a high standard of work, good knowledge of project the cooperation with Pertamina. New & Renewable Energy Director management and excellent stakeholders engagement which are key PT Pertamina MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 59 Energy Business Group E&P Business Division ■ Asia E&P Business Dept. ■ Europe & Africa E&P Business Dept. ■ Americas & Oceania E&P Business Dept. The E&P Business Division is engaged in the efficient exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas in Asia, Africa, Europe, the Americas and other parts of the world, and contributes to the stable supply of finite oil and natural gas. Amid a growing focus on energy policies, this division will strive to secure, develop, produce and ensure the stable supply of crude oil and natural gas, the source of light, heat and power that are indispensable to the advancement of industry and the enhancement of people’s lives. Together with MC’s consolidated subsidiary Mitsubishi Corporation Exploration Co., Ltd., Offshore production facility in the Kangean block offshore Indonesia in which MC has the division aims to establish medium-to long-term earnings foundations for existing invested in 2007 projects in addition to expanding reserves and production volume and optimizing our resource portfolio. We also seek to participate in new projects. Natural Gas Business Division ■ LNG Operation & Trading Dept. ■ Brunei Natural Gas Business Dept. With the aim of contributing to the improvement of energy security and a natural gas supply ■ Malaysia Natural Gas Business Dept. that meets customer needs, this division is engaged in natural gas and LNG projects in ■ Australia Natural Gas Business Dept. various areas around the world. ■ Indonesia Natural Gas Business Dept. ■ Middle East Natural Gas Business Dept. ■ Russia Natural Gas Business Dept. Natural gas is an important primary energy source with the added advantage of having a ■ Americas Natural Gas Business Dept. comparatively low environmental impact. In addition, total global demand for natural gas ■ Shale Gas Business Dept. is expected to exhibit the greatest growth among fossil fuels, achieving a solid annual growth rate of 4.0% going forward. Alongside this, demand for LNG is also expected to Global LNG Demand expand. MC forecasts the trading volume of LNG in 2025 to increase to approximately 1.7 (Million tons/year) 396 times compared with the 2014 figure. 20 330 82 16 235 37 The division is participating in over 10 projects in the world’s LNG exporting countries 76 and is developing business across the natural gas and LNG value chain, including 37 the production and liquefaction of natural gas and the shipping of the resulting LNG. 45 Moreover, with an eye on the future and with the aim of adding to the earnings base of 83 the division’s LNG business and diversifying its portfolio, we are also pushing forward 2014 2020 2025 with new projects such as the Donggi-Senoro LNG Project in Indonesia and a project to develop shale gas resources in North America. Japan China India SE/ME Korea Taiwan Europe US Petroleum Business Division ■ Crude Oil Dept. ■ Petroleum Products Dept. This division engages in comprehensive activities that include the purchase and sale of crude ■ Industrial Petroleum Marketing Dept. oil and petroleum products, as well as petroleum refinery business, fuel logistics business ■ Utility Feedstock Dept. and fuel retail sales to general consumers via service stations through affiliated companies. ■ Petroleum Feedstock Dept. We also invest in businesses overseas centered on the sale of petroleum products. The division’s mission is to add further economic value and business value to petroleum, which offers outstanding utility in emergency situations and value to society in terms of supporting people’s daily lives and industry. 60 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from Although demand for petroleum is declining in Japan, demand is expected to increase even further in Asia and Oceania. Against this backdrop, we aim to strengthen sales capabilities and trading functions globally, maintain and expand our businesses in Japan and secure demand in President and CEO growing markets with our businesses overseas. Special Features In Japan, we will work to strengthen competitiveness through further business streamlining and efficiency, and maintain and expand business by increasing the domains in which we are engaged. In marketing crude and heavy oil to electric utilities, we will optimize and make effective use of petroleum terminals and shipping space in light of the positioning of oil-fired Finance and ESG thermal power. Overseas, we will promote investment in business in growing markets and work MC sells petroleum products produced by Showa Yokkaichi Sekiyu Co., to establish and strengthen a system to expand and enhance global trading business. Ltd., in which it is a 19.68% shareholder. Carbon & LPG Business Division ■ Carbon Materials Dept. Group/Business Groups ■ Petroleum Coke Dept. This division conducts carbon business, which handles global trading for a broad range of carbon ■ Aluminium-Related Carbon Materials Dept. materials and products, and LPG business worldwide with foundations in Japan through Astomos ■ Specialty Carbon & Graphite Business Dept. Energy Corporation, one of the world’s largest dedicated LPG companies. ■ LPG Business Dept. [Carbon Business] By applying our strong relationships with a broad range of industries to a series of investment Regional Initiatives and and M&A projects, we aim to expand operations as a composite business sub-segment of trading and investment. [LPG Business] Human Resources LPG is a disaster-resilient, decentralized energy resource, which makes it valuable into the future. Through the business activities of our affiliated company, Astomos Energy Corporation, we Interior of the anode baking plant of MC Zhenjiang Anode Solutions are committed to developing our functions in sourcing, logistics and sales of LPG to support our Co., Ltd. in Jiangsu Province, China, for the production of anodes for homes and businesses. aluminum smelting [Carbon Business] Sustainability Focusing our resources on ongoing investment projects, we are reinforcing our management foundations to drive the growth of businesses. Together with our strengths in trading business, we aim to establish a management system that is optimum for both trading and investment. [LPG Business] We have numerous strategies to expand our businesses both internationally and domestically. For instance, in international business, we aim to Corporate Governance expand our global trading flow, while adding U.S. shale-derived LPG to our procurement source, and, in domestic business, we will make our utmost efforts to stabilize LPG supply by utilizing our logistics infrastructures such as import terminals. MC Group human resources — Acting Globally Establishing value chain for global fuel oil trading Corporate Data Currently, Petro Diamond Singapore Fuel Oil trading is mainly focused From current situation, we’re going to put more focus on on sourcing cargoes for outlets in Far East Asia -Japan and Korea, expanding our value chain geographically and functionally. Based on where we have a sound basis. Power plants and refineries are main our strength in Far East, extend business area from South East Asia customers of fuel oil. Our advantage in logisticsterminal and vessels to Europe and start to add more functions like blending and trend and customer oriented service has strengthened our business activity trading which will contribute to establish global value chain for fuel oil in Far East. trading. Jin-woo, Kim Manager, Fuel Oil Trading Petro-Diamond Singapore (Pte) Ltd MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 61 Metals Group We will enhance resilience to changes in the business environment and make preparations to take advantage of future opportunities. Metals Group Metals Group CEO Office Metals Group Administration Dept. ■Steel Business Div. ■Mineral Resources Trading Div. ■Mineral Resources Investment Div. Jun Kinukawa Member of the Board, Senior Executive Vice President, Group CEO, Metals Group Joined MC in 1975. After working at Ferrous Materials Dept. and Coal Dept., dispatched to Vancouver Office. Appointed Senior Vice President and Division COO of Ferrous Raw Materials Div. in 2005. Became Executive Vice President and concurrently served as Group COO of Metals Group and Division COO of Ferrous Raw Materials Div. in 2008. Appointed Executive Vice President and CEO of Metals Group in 2009. Assumed current position in 2013. Our path to growth image by circa 2020 Our path to doubling attributable equity production by circa 2020 Attributable equity production of coking coal and copper [Coking coal] [Copper] (Million tons) （Thousand tons） · Opened Daunia and Caval Ridge mines · Expand existing projects (Chile) 50 · Improve productivity in existing mines 500 · Develop Quellaveco and prospective exploration properties of AAS, etc. 40 400 30 300 32 20 28 200 248 259 237 10 20 100 0 0 Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ending Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ending March 2013 March 2014 March 2015 March 2016 Circa 2020 March 2013 March 2014 March 2015 March 2016 Circa 2020 Creating sustainable societal and environmental value through business Regional contribution through coal business in Australia Since its establishment in 1968, MC’s wholly owned and medium-sized companies with the aim of ensuring subsidiary Mitsubishi Development Pty Ltd has conducted harmonious coexistence with local communities. The program resource mining operations in Australia, particularly for coal, has led to job creation for approximately 3,800 people with while actively undertaking community-based activities. participation by around 570 companies to date. As part of efforts in the coal business in Queensland, we are implementing a buying program for the procurement Introducing the buying program to local companies of certain equipment and services from local small62 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from President and CEO Q1 Could you explain the goals of the Metals Group under New Strategic Direction and your progress towards attaining these objectives? Special Features In mineral resources investment, we are steadily building up our equity production through the implementation of expansion plans of our existing mines and development of new projects. In addition, we have improved our earnings structure through efforts to thoroughly reduce costs and enhance productivity amid prolonged stagnation in the market. In the field of trading, we are working to further strengthen our earnings base. At Metal One Corporation (Metal One), we have accelerated Finance and ESG structural reforms and the selection and concentration of businesses in order to swiftly execute our strategy under a new management system. Moreover, in the RtM business, in which two years have passed since getting underway, we are striving to strengthen sales capabilities and secure customers primarily through the recruitment of specialists. Group/Business Groups Q2 As you strive to attain your goals, how do you perceive the medium-to-long-term business environment as well as risk? Despite signs of a slowdown in economic growth, demand for mineral resources is projected to expand steadily over the medium to long term, driven by emerging countries, particularly in Asia. Conversely, we expect development of mineral resources to become increasingly complex due to the strengthening of environmental regulations, water and power shortages, increasing personnel costs, declining ore grades and Regional Initiatives and deteriorating mining conditions. It will therefore be increasingly important to conduct a detailed assessment of each project. In the steel products field, we are beginning to see industrial reorganizations taking place due to bleak prospects of significant growth in the Japanese market over the medium and long term. As such, there will be a stronger movement towards seeking new opportunities overseas. In mineral resources trading, we expect volatility in prices to intensify due to the commoditization of various resources. Human Resources Q3 How will you go about resolving the challenges you mentioned in Q2? Sustainability Also, could you please describe the future outlook and your growth strategies? In mineral resources investment, we have worked to optimize our portfolio by closely examining projects in terms of scale, mine life, expansion potential and cost. At the same time, we are maximizing asset value through ongoing cost reduction and productivity enhancement initiatives. In addition, we will push ahead with expansion plans and new developments in periods of market stagnation and be prepared to swiftly meet market needs in the future when demand is expected to grow. Corporate Governance In trading, at Metal One we will focus on key countries, regions and fields where growth is forecast and endeavor to further boost asset efficiency and expand earnings. In the RtM business, we will work to drive differentiation through the provision of high value-added services made possible by strengthening our global structure and reinforcing our functions. Business partner comments — Expectations towards MC Anglo American An enduring, warm and successful partnership founded and operating in challenging market conditions Corporate Data Anglo American plc’s strategically important partnership with MC hard at all times to preserve and enhance sustainable value for all is based on MC’s holdings in our world class copper portfolio, stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, partners, customers, specifically, 20.4% in Anglo American Sur S.A. in Chile and 18.1% in host countries and communities. We know that MC recognises and the Quellaveco Project in Peru. understands the importance of this approach. We consider ourselves very fortunate to have a partner of MC’s The resources industries are now experiencing very challenging calibre. The relationship was forged in challenging circumstances and markets. The strongest partnerships work well in both good and bad continues to strengthen based on firm foundations of shared values, times; we are confident that we shall receive MC’s continuing support, mutual respect and clear and open communication. Mining is a tough encouragement and advice as we seek to optimise the assets within Mark Cutifani and long-term business requiring the courage and conviction to make our partnership, and we commit to reciprocate in kind. Chief Executive major capital investments in a cyclical environment while working Anglo American plc MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 63 Metals Group Steel Business Division ■ Metal One Dept. ■ Auto Components Dept. This division works on business areas that include distribution and processing of steel products through Metal One, a trading company specializing in steel products that is 60% owned by MC. We invest in and develop steel related projects by leveraging our capabilities as a integrated steel trading company for emerging markets and growing industries, such as automotive components. We attain Metal One’s sustainable growth in corporate value to meet the expectations and the trust of all stakeholders. Metal One will be the world No.1 integrated steel trading company in 2020. We also aim to expand business further by developing downstream business, such as automotive components manufacturing business. The division focuses on building a strategy for business investments Metal One has a sales network of more than 140 offices and subsidiaries in Japan and overseas that provide a and seeking business opportunities, taking a broader perspective in variety of services. the entire steel industry by the followings: contributing to the sustained development of steel distribution through Metal One, promoting a steel business strategy based on utilization of comprehensive capabilities and providing higher added-value services in the automotive components business. Mineral Resources Trading Division ■ RtM office ■ Triland Business office This division deploys trading business globally for such items as ferrous raw materials and non-ferrous metals through Mitsubishi Corporation RtM* International Pte. Ltd. (RtMI), which serves as global headquarters. In Japan, the division’s most important market, we conduct the same business at Mitsubishi Corporation RtM Japan Ltd. and we also trade on the London Metal Exchange (LME) through U.K.-based Triland Metals Ltd. * RtM stands for “Resources to Market.” MC named the new subsidiary company RtM International due to its objective of realizing sustainable growth over the medium to long term through capacity enhancement, which enables it to effectively bridge the gap between producers and end-users and to add value to the whole supply chain. With the establishment of its headquarters in Singapore, where there is a high concentration of market information and human resources, the division will strive to enhance responsiveness to diversifying customer needs and meet demand in growing markets, particularly in Asia, amid increased market changes due to further globalization. MC has established a subsidiary, RtMI, in Singapore for coordinating its mineral resources trading business. The company is located in the building second from the right. The division will devise strategy with a view to the global market at RtMI and work to strengthen its capabilities by making use of its global network and diverse human resources in order to provide services with even higher added value than before. 64 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Mineral Resources Investment Division ■ Iron Ore Dept. ■ MDP Dept. ■ Base Metals Dept. Message from ■ Aluminium Dept. ■ Hernic Dept. ■ Rare Metals Development office President and CEO This division strives to ensure a stable supply of high-quality mineral resources to global markets through mineral resource investments such as coal (coking coal and thermal coal), iron ore, uranium, copper, aluminum, nickel, chrome and PGM*. Special Features * PGM: Platinum Group Metals (platinum, palladium and other platinum group metals) Although the business environment remains tough due to stagnation in commodity prices primarily as Chinese economic growth slows, demand Finance and ESG for mineral resources is expected to be firm over the medium to long term on account of global economic growth, particularly in emerging nations. In preparation for such a future business environment, the division will BMA Saraji coking coal mine in Queensland, eastern Australia work to double attributable equity production of coking coal and copper, Group/Business Groups its core businesses. The division will also maximize value for the entire business and attain sustainable growth while continuing to review its mineral resources portfolio, including other products. To build a unified management framework for all projects in the mineral resources investment business and to increase management efficiency, Regional Initiatives and we integrated the ferrous raw materials business and the non-ferrous metals business sub-segments to form the Mineral Resources Investment Human Resources Division in April 2014. To promote these businesses, the division will Anglo American Sur’s Los Bronces copper mine located northeast of Santiago in Chile make use of the Metals Group’s collective strengths through ties with other divisions (Mineral Resources Trading Division, Steel Business Division, etc.) and work to further strengthen and innovate the business Sustainability base while responding to customer needs worldwide. Corporate Governance MC Group human resources — Acting Globally The journey from good to great I have been working in the commodity industry for over 20 years, blending our internal talent together with professional external talent, started with Mitsubishi Corporation India Private Ltd., then moved to in which their combined skills, knowledge and experience will be the Corporate Data BHP Billiton Marketing Services India Private Ltd., and currently once foundation of our business. again working for Mitsubishi Corporation RtM International Pte. Ltd. The journey ahead presents both opportunities and challenges. (RtMI) since August 2014. We at RtMI are moving forward each day with a sense of purpose, This year RtMI will enter its third year, following an initial setup drawing great strength and inspiration from the core values of MC phase in the first two years. The focus is now shifting toward building especially from other divisions in the Metals Group and overseas a market presence by scaling up our business, which comes at a offices. time when the commodity markets are facing its greatest challenge We are changing and stepping up our efforts to become a truly Vineet Kohli of survival amid historic lows. We believe this timing in the market top-class global trading house for metals and mineral resources. Executive Vice President Mitsubishi Corporation RtM presents a great opportunity to build a world-class business by International Pte. Ltd. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 65 Machinery Group Vitality of the individual, Dynamic strength of the Group and Creativity for the future Machinery Group Machinery Group CEO Office Machinery Group Administration Dept. Machinery Group Business Development Office ■Industrial Machinery Business Div. ■Ship & Aerospace Div. ■Motor Vehicle Business Div. ■Isuzu Business Div. Kozo Shiraji Executive Vice President, Group CEO, Machinery Group Joined MC in 1977. Since that time has been involved with the automobile business and gained experience working at Seoul Branch in Korea and was temporarily transferred to an automobile importer and distributor in Indonesia. Appointed Division COO of Motor Vehicle Business Div. in 2004 and Senior Vice President in 2009. Assumed current position in 2013. Our path to growth image by circa 2020 Our path to doubling earnings by circa 2020 Consolidated net income Basic policy by division (¥ billion) Motor Vehicle: Strengthen business foundation in Thailand and Indonesia and expand businesses to other emerging countries Ship: 98.8 91.3 Strengthen the competitiveness of the fleet of Company-owned 61.5 vessels as well as sales capabilities Industrial Machinery: Develop elevator, rental, agricultural machinery and other Year ended Year ended Year ended Circa 2020 businesses in the ASEAN market March 2013 March 2014 March 2015 (Plan) (Result) (Result) (Result) Creating sustainable societal and environmental value through business We will contribute to the realization of a low-carbon society by expanding sales of electric vehicles (EVs) and developing infrastructure for recharging. MC has been promoting the proliferation of environmentally Setting up this infrastructure will help create an friendly EVs since 2008 in conjunction with Mitsubishi Motors environment in which users can drive EVs with peace of mind, Corporation. We have cooperated with the development of and this in turn will provide momentum for more widespread recharging infrastructure, including by providing support use. Major benefits will be reductions in noise, atmospheric to Nippon Charge Service LLC, which was established in pollution and CO2. MC aims to contribute to the realization of 2014 for the purpose of promoting the spread of recharging a sustainable, eco-friendly society through activities such as infrastructure. these going forward. 66 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from President and CEO Q1 Could you explain the goals of the Machinery Group under New Strategic Direction and your progress towards attaining these objectives? Special Features In working towards our goal of doubling earnings by 2020, the Group will further strengthen our existing “winning businesses” and bolster our portfolio through proactive asset replacement. The Machinery Group is currently facing a harsh business environment owing to such factors as sluggishness in emerging country economies. Nevertheless, we have achieved the originally established goals for net income each year thanks in part to the tailwind provided by the weak yen. The Group is also steadily promoting our regional strategies in terms of strategies for the Asia Finance and ESG and ASEAN regions. Meanwhile, in line with our efforts to strengthen human resources, we are also promoting various measures for crosssectional human resources training, exchanges and the movement of personnel transcending the boundaries of the Machinery Group. Group/Business Groups Q2 As you strive to attain your goals, how do you perceive the medium-to-long-term business environment as well as risk? Although the Machinery Group operates with a business model centered on product volume sales and the ownership and operation of assets that is easily susceptible to the markets and market conditions in each country, the state of emerging country markets and trends regarding geopolitical risks are of concern. At the same time, however, emerging country economies still have room for further growth and we recognize that there are significant earnings opportunities from a mediumto long-term standpoint. Moreover, despite an endless wave of innovation, we Regional Initiatives and must always keep in mind that combining functional value created by this innovation with utility value demanded by users in all our products represents the needs of society and users. Human Resources Q3 How will you go about resolving the challenges you mentioned in Q2? Also, could you please describe the future outlook and your growth strategies? Sustainability The business environment is continually evolving. For this reason, it is crucial that we diversify to some extent the regions where we do business and reinforce as much as possible those aspects of our business that are not easily affected by market conditions. Additionally, we will steadily promote initiatives for new businesses with an eye toward further growth. We also have launched a new organization within the Group to strengthen our efforts towards business initiatives that extend beyond the boundaries of existing businesses. We will support these strategies by effectively replacing assets in our portfolio and promoting the movement of personnel. At the same time, we will strive to build a Corporate Governance muscular Machinery Group with the strength to respond to changes in the external environment. Business partner comments — Expectations towards MC Sigdo Koppers Grow together and develop South American markets with MC Corporate Data I believe that the future is built based on past successful results. Last year, together with our Chilean MMC dealer partners, we The partnership between Sigdo Koppers (SK) Group and MC goes proudly celebrated 100,000 MMC accumulated sales in Chile. back in 1980. As the Chairman of the Japan/Chile Economic Committee and SK conducts business with many divisions of MC, including those having been honored with The Order of the Rising Sun, Gold Rays with related to energy, copper mining, acid refineries, generation plants Neck Ribbon conferred by the Japanese government, I wish to further and our recent successful Mitsubishi Motors Corporation (MMC) reinforce the ties between Japan and Chile and to achieve business distributor (vehicle/spare parts) in Chile and Peru. success in the same manner as with our Japanese partner MC. In 1994, our joint venture distributor MMC Chile S.A (MMCC) We have achieved this success together. By utilizing MC’s overall Juan Eduardo Errazuriz O. started operations. In 2011, we established our second joint venture, capabilities, let us continue our business partnership in the interest of Chairman and CEO MC Autos del Peru S.A. (MCAP), both achieving great results. South American markets and economic development! Sigdo Koppers S.A. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 67 Machinery Group Industrial Machinery Business Division ■ Elevator & Escalator Operation & Marketing Dept. ■ Industrial Equipment Business Dept. Operating globally in markets worldwide, this division conducts sales and services of various ■ Construction Equipment & Rental Business Dept. industrial machinery such as construction equipment, mining equipment, machine tools, agricultural machinery, elevators and escalators. It also handles rental, finance business and other related business investments. The division will contribute to the mechanization and enhanced efficiency of industry worldwide by providing such functions as sales, maintenance services, as well as rental and financing services, in accordance with market needs through a global business network created over many years in the industrial machinery field. The division will work to drive growth in the market by responding to customer needs and through the addition of various services and functions in Japan and other places in the world. The division conducts rental services and sales centered on construction and industrial related machinery through rental services provider Nikken The basic policy is to deploy the business operational know-how it has accumulated in Japanese Corporation. business in emerging markets and seek to cultivate these markets by building close ties with local communities. In particular, it will work to create a revenue base and strengthen functions in all of its business fields in the ASEAN region, which has been positioned as the division’s key market. Ship & Aerospace Division ■ Commercial Vessel Dept. ■ Offshore and Gas Carrier Dept. This division conducts shipping related business that includes trading, ownership and operation of ■ Defense and Aerospace Dept. commercial vessels, and ownership and operation of offshore and gas carriers, as well as aerospace related business that includes the trading of defense related equipment and satellite imagery data service sales. The commercial vessel business will seek to play a part in maritime transport supporting the world economy by pursuing synergies in both trading and business investment (ownership and operation). The offshore and gas carrier business will contribute to the world’s energy supply through the gas carrier business in which significant demand is anticipated as a result of the shale gas revolution and the special ship business for offshore oil and gas exploration. The aerospace and defense business will contribute to a safe and secure society through the introduction of state-of-the-art technologies. With MC also having an equity interest, the state-of-the-art Sayaendo type LNG carrier Esshu Maru was launched in December 2014. (Photograph The commercial vessel business will promote a bulk carrier ship owning business at a subsidiary supplied by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd.) in Singapore, a marine transportation hub, and strengthen trading while also working on new business. The offshore and gas carrier business will continue its participation in ownership and operation of Floating Production, Storage and Offloading (FPSO) systems and expand the gas carrier business. The aerospace and defense business will steadily promote trading and expand new services business in the satellite imagery field and other areas. Motor Vehicle Business Division ■ Motor Vehicle Asean & South West Asia Dept. ■ Motor Vehicle North Asia Dept. This division is developing business with a broad value chain centered on sales and finance ■ Motor Vehicle Europe, Middle East & Africa Dept. operations for vehicles produced by Mitsubishi Motors Corporation (MMC) and Mitsubishi Fuso Truck ■ Motor Vehicle Americas & Australia Dept. and Bus Corporation (MFTBC) around the world. The division will strive to expand its business foundation, particularly in emerging nations where MMC and MFTBC products hold an advantage and mediumto long-term growth can be expected. 68 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from It will also contribute to the sustainable growth of MMC, which has entered a new stage, by expanding sales of MMC’s products. President and CEO In Indonesia, the division’s most important market, a new vehicle manufacturing joint venture Special Features company with MMC and PT Krama Yudha, a local partner, was established to strengthen the passenger vehicle business. In addition, the division will work to further strengthen business for MFTBC products by commencing the import of midsize trucks made in India. We will contribute to the realization of a sustainable, eco-friendly Russia is still positioned as a key market over the long term despite deterioration in the society by promoting greater use of electric vehicles such as the business environment and we will strengthen our business foundation to make it into a second Outlander PHEV (photo). Finance and ESG earnings driver. Profitability is recovering in mature markets, particularly the United Kingdom where results have been solid for the Outlander PHEV, and we will strive to strengthen business in these markets as well to ensure a stable source of earnings. Group/Business Groups A groundbreaking ceremony was held for a new MMC factory in Indonesia in March 2015. Isuzu Business Division ■ Isuzu ASEAN Dept. ■ Isuzu Europe, Middle East, Americas & Oceania Dept. In this division, we sell, provide services and export Isuzu motor vehicles that are essential for a wide ■ Isuzu Asia Dept. range of industries and people’s lives around the world, particularly in Thailand. Regional Initiatives and Efforts will be made to strengthen and expand existing business, beginning with the Thai Human Resources business, which forms the foundation of this division. We also aim to take the next leap forward by actively challenging new markets and introducing new business models. Sustainability In Thailand, we have established Isuzu as the leading brand in the commercial vehicle market through sales activities that are closely tied with the local community. Going forward, we will pay close attention to local needs and strive to reinforce and expand existing business, mainly sales Isuzu’s D-MAX pickup truck is one of the core products in our Thai operations. operations. At the same time, working together with Isuzu Motors Limited, we aim to strengthen and expand business in areas aside from Thailand such as India where there is future potential. We will also offer products according to global trends with regard to the energy supplydemand balance and the environment by expanding our sales of Isuzu motor vehicles, which have Corporate Governance exceptional environmentally friendly attributes such as low fuel consumption. In this way we will contribute to the realization of a society that enables sustainable development. MC Group human resources — Acting Globally Success with Outlander plug-in hybrid electric vehicle (EV) – The Colt Car Company Corporate Data The Colt Car Company Ltd. is the importer and distributor of Mitsubishi like Nissan and Toyota. This has positioned MMC at the forefront of EV Motors Corporation (MMC) vehicles in the UK. technology in the UK. We’ve just enjoyed a tremendously successful year, in which car As our sales have grown, the support we have received from sales were up over 90%, turnover was more than double fiscal 2013 MC has grown as well. Being part of such a huge and prestigious and we sold more than 10,000 new plug-in hybrid Outlander PHEVs organisation has meant that we have the financial and commercial in its first year on sale. This was more than in any other world market, support to meet and exceed our goals. including Japan. Our aim for the coming years is to continue to grow and exceed Lance Bradley The Outlander PHEV is already the best-selling EV of any kind in those goals. Managing Director the UK, overtaking much longer-established rivals from companies The Colt Car Company Ltd. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 69 Chemicals Group We will forge a valuable market nexus in the chemicals field using our sogo shosha network. Chemicals Group Chemicals Group CEO Office Chemicals Group Administration Dept. ■Phoenix Dept. ■Saudi Petrochemical Project Dept. ■Commodity Chemicals Div. A ■Commodity Chemicals Div. B ■Functional Chemicals Div. ■Life Sciences Div. Takahisa Miyauchi Member of the Board, Senior Executive Vice President, Group CEO, Chemicals Group Joined MC in 1975. Successively gained experience working in Saudi Arabia and at Mexico ESSA EVP and held posts of General Manager of Chemicals Group CEO Office and was appointed Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Chemicals Group CEO Office in 2005. Became Senior Vice President and Division COO of Commodity Chemicals Div. in 2006 and Executive Vice President and Group CEO of Chemicals Group in 2009. Assumed current position in 2013. Our path to growth image by circa 2020 Our path to doubling earnings by circa 2020 Consolidated net income Portfolio creation (¥ billion) Life Sciences Div. 50〜60 Direct control by Earnings from new investments Life Sciences Group 20〜25 Functional Direct control Div. 31.4 Chemicals Div. by Group Commodity 25.6 Functional Chemicals 21.7 Chemicals Div. A Organic growth Div. 30〜35 Commodity Commodity Chemicals Div. A Chemicals Div. B Commodity Year ended Year ended Year ended March 2013 March 2014 March 2015 Circa 2020 Chemicals Div. B ¥31.4 billion ¥50 ~ 60 billion Year ended March 2015 Circa 2020 Creating sustainable societal and environmental value through business Using the bounty of nature for energy and a sustainable recycling-oriented society As part of countermeasures against global warming, Japan is Brazil. This product satisfies standards for sustainability making efforts to reduce CO2 emissions by blending bio ethyl that also include key points aside from the reduction of CO2, tert-butyl ether (ETBE) made from low-environmental-impact namely avoiding food competition and protecting biodiversity. bio-ethanol with gasoline. In this way, MC is contributing to the realization of a In response to this initiative, MC is enabling the stable recycling-oriented society. procurement and supply of sugarcane bioethanol made in 70 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from President and CEO Q1 Could you explain the goals of the Chemicals Group under New Strategic Direction and your progress towards attaining these objectives? Special Features The Chemicals Group is pursuing new business opportunities while focusing on enhancing and enlarging existing businesses, which has enabled us to lay a solid foundation. In the petrochemical and plastics fields, we are continuing to strengthen trading functions as we further enhance these existing businesses. At the same time, we are promoting a strategy of increasing resilience to market changes. In the methanol and fertilizer fields, we are expanding the regions and sub-segments in which we do business and increasing the scale of our business Finance and ESG through new investment based on competitive resources. In the life sciences field, we are creating a value chain spanning from materials to seasoning products in the food science field, where growth is projected, and expanding business. Group/Business Groups Q2 As you strive to attain your goals, how do you perceive the medium-to-long-term business environment as well as risk? Demand is expected to continue increasing in emerging countries, particularly in Asia, in line with a growing middle class and higher standards of living. At the same time, conditions in product markets are forecast to become unstable due to the continued impact of stagnating oil prices as well as overcapacity and expectations of a slowdown in economic growth in China. Additionally, competitiveness and supply are increasing in the petrochemical industry in North America, which is based on shale gas, driving expectations of global industry reform and changes to Regional Initiatives and distribution and product flows in the supply chain. Leveraging our global network, the Chemicals Group will stay abreast of such changes in the business environment and create new business opportunities. Human Resources Q3 How will you go about resolving the challenges you mentioned in Q2? Also, could you please describe the future outlook and your growth strategies? Sustainability The Chemicals Group conducts business in the global market and has contact with a wide variety of industries. In order to heighten our resilience to sudden changes in the market environment and changes in industry structure, we will implement a well-balanced business portfolio strategy and strive hard to drive growth in markets in Japan and overseas. The Chemicals Group has embraced the vision of becoming “a strong collective business entity with sustainable earnings drivers and an influential presence in the marketplace” from the standpoint of chemistry. We aim to advance to a new stage of growth through the two wheels of expanding our trading platform and investing Corporate Governance in growing business sub-segments. Business partner comments — Expectations towards MC Republic of Trinidad and Tobago Corporate Data New investment in Trinidad and Tobago I am pleased to welcome MC as a new major investor in a US$1 billion foreign investors. methanol/DME (di-methyl-ether) project in the Republic of Trinidad Over the past 40 years, Trinidad and Tobago has established 18 and Tobago. MC has a positive global reputation as a company with natural gas-based petrochemical plants, producing over 11 million admirable principles of corporate social responsibility, integrity and tons of ammonia and methanol. I am very optimistic that this new fairness. project with MC will contribute significantly to the future economic The time spent on project development has been and continues to landscape of Trinidad and Tobago through industrial diversification and be positive in developing mutual trust and understanding among MC, development of the downstream sector. Kevin Ramnarine its partners and the Government of Trinidad and Tobago. Our country In the future, we look forward to a mutually promising partnership Senator the Honourable Minister of Energy and Energy Affairs has a very positive reputation for integrity in its relationship with with MC. Republic of Trinidad and Tobago MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 71 Chemicals Group Commodity Chemicals Division A ■ Olefins & Aromatics Dept. ■ Petrochemical Intermediates Dept. This division engages in trading and business investment activities for commodity chemicals such as ■ Polyester Dept. ■ Chlor-Alkali Dept. raw materials for resins and fibers, industrial salts and caustic soda in the fields of petrochemicals and chlor-alkali. The division will work to deliver value to customers by leveraging our expansive worldwide network to swiftly grasp changes in the business environment and customer needs, and by utilizing our trading assets such as distribution facilities. We will also exercise our trading functions to adjust imbalances between supply and demand in the market. Nowadays, we are seeing structural changes in the petrochemical industry and in distribution flows in the global market, catalyzed by a resurgence in the petrochemical industry in the United States on the back of shale gas development. As these trends gather momentum, we will pursue LOTTE UBE Synthetic Rubber SDN. BHD. (production capacity: 50,000 tons/ year), a joint venture for the production and sale of poly-butadiene rubber, new business investment opportunities with a view to emerging markets such as Asia where was established in response to growing demand in the Asia market. steady growth is forecast, and aim to further strengthen our trading base and expand business. Commodity Chemicals Division B ■ Methanol Dept. ■ Ammonia Dept. ■ Fertilizer Dept. ■ Inorganic Chemicals Dept. This division engages in trading and business investment activities for commodity chemicals such as methanol, ammonia, fertilizers, sulfur and sulfuric acid, and ethanol. The division will work to ensure the stable procurement of products and expand and enhance our business chains amid expectations of steady growth in demand in the global market. In addition, we will further strengthen our trading functions with the aim of providing even more value to customers and driving sustainable growth. The division will look into investing in businesses for the manufacture of methanol and ammonia, Metanol de Oriente, METOR S.A. was established in Venezuela in 1992 as a which use competitive natural gas as the main feedstock, and in scarce raw materials used for joint venture for the production and sales of methanol. A second plant was producing fertilizer. In addition, we will work to expand our trading base on a global scale by utilizing launched in 2010, which increased production capacity to 1.6 million tons a year. these business investments and to capture growing markets, including those in emerging countries. Functional Chemicals Division ■ Plastics Dept. ■ PVC Dept. ■ Functional Materials Dept. ■ Specialty Chemicals Dept. This division trades in plastics (general-purpose resin and industrial resin) and functional products (materials such as urethane, synthetic rubber, coating raw materials and industrial minerals, and products such as cosmetic raw materials and electronics materials). We also make investments in businesses. In the plastics field, the division will work to expand the scale of raw material trading and strengthen product sales capabilities, as well as aim to further enhance profitability by boosting their synergies. In the functional products field, we seek to sustain growth globally and meet customer and partner needs by harnessing our capabilities as a sogo shosha . DM Color Mexicana S.A. de C.V., established in Mexico where the automobile The division will make investments with a focus on new business in industries and regions industry is booming, has commenced production of resin compounds. where growth is forecast. We have launched a joint venture company and sales base for resin compounds in Mexico, where the automobile industry is expanding at a rapid rate. In addition, Chuo Kagaku Co., Ltd., a subsidiary engaged in food packaging materials business primarily in Japan, is strengthening operations in China in response to the growing consumer goods market. 72 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Life Sciences Division ■ Bio-Fine Chemicals Dept. ■ Life Science Products Dept. Message from President and CEO This division is engaged in trading and business investment activities in the food science field where we handle food ingredients such as sugar alcohols and yeast extracts under the key themes of health, safety, comfort and good taste, as well as in the pharmaceutical, agrochemical and fine chemical fields. Aiming to form a food science entity with a strong global presence, the division will Special Features strengthen our product lineup from materials to seasoning products centered on our subsidiary Mitsubishi Corporation Life Sciences Limited. In the pharmaceutical and Finance and ESG agrochemical fields, we will focus on expanding contract manufacturing business and work to extend and enhance our business portfolio through business investments. Yeast extracts, one of the strategic products in the Life Sciences Division, have maintained competitiveness through the technologies for fermentation and cell cultures in MC subsidiaries in Japan. In the food science field, the division will enhance profitability by pursuing synergies in the three business companies under the umbrella of Mitsubishi Corporation Life Sciences Group/Business Groups Limited. We will also expand and enhance our product portfolio and further promote overseas business development with investment as an option. The policy of the pharmaceutical and agrochemical business is to capitalize on growth in markets, particularly in emerging countries, in conjunction with our good business partners. Saudi Petrochemical Project Department This business is centered on Eastern Petrochemical Co. (SHARQ), which was established as Regional Initiatives and a joint venture with SPDC Ltd. and Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (SABIC). It is one of the Human Resources most important businesses of the Chemicals Group as a source of raw materials for upstream industries in such fields as packaging, film, PET resins and polyester fiber. MC will contribute to the advancement of the petrochemical industry in Saudi Arabia by Sustainability helping to maintain and expand SHARQ’s business through SPDC Ltd. We will also cooperate with human resources development and employment promotion in Saudi Arabia through ongoing support of a school for training on plastics fabrication, which we contributed to the establishment. SHARQ boasts one of the largest production capacities for ethylene glycol and polyethylene for a single plant in the world. Corporate Governance We aim to sell high-quality products produced by SHARQ to markets in Asia, including Japan and China, and in Europe by leveraging our global network. We also plan to strengthen the value chain from raw materials to final products. MC Group human resources — Acting Globally Actively pursue global business development Corporate Data Mitsubishi Corporation Plastics Ltd. was established in 1989 as a have made efforts to expand our business. In 2014, we extended our functional subsidiary spun off from MC. Since that time, we have business portfolio following the transfer of global head office functions handled a broad array of items in the plastic resin field from raw for the industrial plastics and PET resins businesses from MC. While materials to final products for the midstream and downstream working to further strengthen ties with MC, we will actively promote domains of the petrochemical industry mainly for the Japanese global business development and work to drive further growth market. Our operations cover a wide range of areas, including food together with our business partners in Japan and overseas with whom Fuyuki Watanabe and distribution, automobiles, electric and electronic products, office we have built trusting relationships over many years. President and Chief Executive Officer automation (OA), logistics and beverages, and over the years, we Mitsubishi Corporation Plastics Ltd. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 73 Living Essentials Group We aim to realize sustainable Living Essentials Group growth by fulfilling consumers’ Living Essentials Group CEO Office Living Essentials Group Administration Dept. daily lives around the world. ■Global Consumer Business Div. ■Retail Div. ■Living Essential Products Div. ■Living Essential Resources Div. Takehiko Kakiuchi Executive Vice President, Group CEO, Living Essentials Group Joined MC in 1979. After working in Feed & Meat Business Dept., was dispatched to Mitsubishi Australia Limited (Sydney). Appointed General Manager of Living Essentials Group CEO Office in 2006 then Division COO of Foods (Commodity) Div. in 2008 and Senior Vice President in 2010. Assumed current position in 2013. Our path to growth image by circa 2020 Our path to doubling earnings by circa 2020 Consolidated net income Group strategy (¥ billion) Gains on the reversal of 120.5 impairment losses recognized in prior fiscal years · Strengthen functions and enhance efficiency in 62.0 existing business in Japan · Establish global supply network · Develop vertically integrated business model 59.2 58.5 outside Japan 39.0 · Develop overseas business with leading Japanese Year ended Year ended Year ended Circa 2020 companies March 2013 March 2014 March 2015 Creating sustainable societal and environmental value through business Total solutions partner for medical institutions MC Healthcare, Inc. procures and manages medical materials, the operations of medical institutions. In addition, the Group pharmaceuticals and medical equipment for hospitals companies MC Medical, Inc. and Japan Medicalnext Co., Ltd. nationwide while also providing a variety of menus to help import and sell state-of-the-art medical equipment and aim improve management, including group purchasing systemized to contribute to the realization of more enriched medical care between multiple hospitals, thereby offering total support for through the advancement of medical technology. 74 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from President and CEO Q1 Could you explain the goals of the Living Essentials Group under New Strategic Direction and your progress towards attaining these objectives? Special Features We are steadily implementing our strategy to realize our goal of doubling earnings by 2020. In Japan, we are striving to strengthen capabilities and boost efficiency in existing businesses in response to changes in the structure of industries and the market environment. Overseas, we are focusing on expanding our global resource supply system, which includes making Cermaq ASA, a salmon farming Finance and ESG company with production bases in the three countries of Norway, Canada and Chile, a subsidiary in 2014. In addition, we will transplant our vertically integrated business model, which we established in Japan, spanning from resource procurement to retailing in growing markets such as Indonesia and Myanmar, and push ahead with efforts to develop joint ventures with leading partners in Japan. Group/Business Groups Q2 As you strive to attain your goals, how do you perceive the medium-to-long-term business environment as well as risk? We always look at the state of our consolidated management as we expand business worldwide. The Living Essentials Group, which comprises over 100 business investees and more than 30,000 employees on a consolidated basis, views the development of management-level human resources who can support mediumto long-term growth and the establishment of a governance system befitting the attributes of our business as critical management challenges. In addition, our policy is to continue responding Regional Initiatives and to compliance-related risk as a priority issue as we expand the scale of our consolidated businesses. At the same time, a basic premise in our operations is to contribute to the environment and the local community as means to achieve Human Resources sustainable business growth. As such, I believe it is essential to realize both economic value based on a growth strategy and societal value that includes environmental preservation and employment creation. Q3 How will you go about resolving the challenges you mentioned in Q2? Sustainability Also, could you please describe the future outlook and your growth strategies? Although the consumer market in Japan is maturing and the fiercely competitive environment is expected to continue, domestic operations will remain the business root of the Living Essentials Group going forward. We will keep providing better products and services to consumers in Japan who have a critical eye, as well as strengthen our capabilities, which will be the key to building a growth strategy overseas. Corporate Governance In addition, in our salmon farming operations and other areas, we will implement environmentally friendly measures to ensure coexistence with nature while working to expand the scale of our business through a global supply system. By doing so, we aim to achieve both economic value and societal value. Business partner comments — Expectations towards MC Capital Diamond Star Group Working with MC to expand food manufacturing and distribution businesses in Myanmar Corporate Data I was excited with the opportunity to form JV with MC in 2012. When not least the inputs from the senior MC management on corporate MC and Capital Diamond Star Group (CDSG) started the talks, I could structures and strategies. realize we shared each other’s visions of becoming a leader in the That way MC contributed to Lluvia’s good start. I strongly believe branded packaged foods, to look after the interests of producers as Lluvia will help both CDSG and MC to spread their wings in the well as consumers. We also believe in the integrated business model branded food sector in ASEAN and beyond. where we have presence in up, mid and downstream sectors. A successful Lluvia will help cement the legacy of the current MC I was also impressed by the knowledge, dedication, courteousness, leaders who initiated “New Strategic Direction.” integrity and fairness of MC employees. I look forward to having a long and fruitful collaboration with MC Ko Ko Gyi Lluvia Ltd. (Lluvia) gained a lot from MC employees’ global/regional family. Chairman, Lluvia Ltd Group Managing Director, macro views, their insight from the regional operations and last but Capital Diamond Star Group MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 75 Living Essentials Group Global Consumer Business Division ■ Indonesia Dept. ■ China & ASEAN Dept. ■ New Markets Development Dept. In order to horizontally expand our business model focusing on food and consumer goods that has been established in Japan in overseas markets, the Global Consumer Business Division plans, executes and promotes new businesses in emerging markets and operates the European food business with a focus on the U.K. The division plays a key role in business development in overseas growth markets. We leverage consumer demand, which is growing rapidly in countries such as Indonesia and Myanmar, in line with population growth and dramatic economic development. Also, the division ties our group functions together and realizes a vertically integrated business model. We aim to create sustainable social value to contribute to the well-being of targeted countries Through a strategic partnership with the Alfa Group in Indonesia, the Global by streamlining manufacturing and distribution and providing safe and reliable consumer Consumer Business Division is promoting businesses in areas such as bread, confectionaries and beverages. goods and services. The division is collaborating in Indonesia with the Alfa Group, which is one of the country’s largest retailers, and in Myanmar with the Capital Diamond Star Group, which has one of the country’s largest flour-milling and coffee companies. We will continue to rapidly respond to the pace of growth in these emerging markets. With regard to Princes Limited, we will continue to strive for business expansion in the U.K. and Europe by further enhancing our capabilities in terms of a stable product supply and the ability to respond to customers such as major retailers. Retail Division ■ Food Retail Dept. ■ Apparel and Consumer Products Dept. The Retail Division, which handles products and services closely related to consumers’ daily lives, ■ Product Development Dept. operates businesses in the retail and restaurant sectors that include apparel and foods. We also ■ Retail Support Dept. conduct sales promotion operations utilizing loyalty point and payment settlement services to support these businesses. In these ways, the division comprehensively meets the various needs of consumers. The division contributes to providing consumers with healthy, secure and safe lifestyles along with comfortable living environments by offering a wide range of products and services from the consumer’s perspective. This includes supplying living essentials for a broad scope of categories, ranging from foods to apparel and living items, through the operation of retailers such as convenience stores and supermarkets as well as restaurant business in addition to providing loyalty point services and payment settlement solutions. The division provides optimum solutions to customers in the retail field, which has a major role The convenience stores of Lawson, Inc., in which MC invests, aim to contribute to in consumers’ lives, by leveraging MC’s unique total coordination abilities as a sogo shosha customers’ healthy lifestyles by offering health and wellness to our communities. (global integrated business enterprise) together with the business investees that comprise our value chains. In addition, we aim to seize various business opportunities arising from the diversification of consumer lifestyles to offer high added-value products and services from the consumer’s perspective. Living Essential Products Division ■ Processed Foods Dept. ■ Paper & Packaging Dept. ■ Apparel Dept. ■ S.P.A. Manufacturing Dept. At the Living Essential Products Division, we handle a broad array of products, including food, ■ Tire & Consumer Goods Dept. ■ Healthcare Dept. paper and packaging products, textile products, tires and healthcare-related products, and are responsible for processing, manufacturing and distribution and logistics operations in these fields. 76 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from President and CEO The division aims to supply various products and services in accordance with the respective needs of these fields, responding flexibly to changes in the market and industry environments, and to comprehensively meet the needs of diverse consumers in Japan and overseas. At the division, based on our flexible and diverse way of thinking, which goes beyond the limits Special Features of specific products, we work to strengthen and develop our business base that encompasses processing, manufacturing and distribution and logistics operations in Japan and overseas Finance and ESG together with our important partners. In the supply chain for providing daily necessities to consumers, we also continue to strengthen the competitiveness of our subsidiaries in The Living Essential Products Division develops businesses in various fields which are closely related to our daily life, including, food, apparel and respective fields. healthcare. Group/Business Groups Living Essential Resources Division ■ Agricultural Produce and Oils & Fats Dept. ■ Grain & Oilseeds Dept. The Living Essential Resources Division carries out the upstream sourcing of resources in the ■ Marine Products Dept. supply chain. The division realizes the safe and secure sourcing and supply of resources as ■ Sweetener & Starch Products Dept. primary materials for daily necessities related to food and housing through the operation of ■ Feed & Meat Products Dept. businesses such as production, procurement, manufacturing, processing and sales. ■ Beverage and Dairy Products Dept. ■ Housing & Construction Materials Dept. ■ Salmon Farming Business Office Regional Initiatives and Demand in Japan in the food and materials sectors is shrinking due to a declining birthrate and aging population, while conversely, demand for these products is increasing globally mainly due to marked economic and population growth in emerging countries. Furthermore, Human Resources consumer needs are becoming increasingly sophisticated and diversified both in Japan and overseas. To respond flexibly to the rapid changes in such a market environment, we will remain highly perceptive while making efforts to ensure we can maintain and replicate our competitive advantage in a self-sustaining manner. Sustainability The division will strive to construct and expand a flexible business platform that allows us to maintain and replicate our distinctive competitive advantage in a self-sustaining manner in the face of any changes by perceptively responding to changes in market environments A grain export facility, owned by AGREX. Inc., operating in the heart of the and industry structures. Moreover, through our efficient supply chain that meets increasingly U.S. Gulf Coast, which is the largest grain exporting area in the U.S. This MC sophisticated and diversified consumer needs, the division aims to be able to provide Corporate Governance subsidiary is strengthening its grain procurement and export capabilities in innovative and original products, services and other benefits on a timely schedule. the United States. MC Group human resources — Acting Globally Contributing to Indonesian society with the vertically integrated business model for daily necessities Corporate Data In Indonesia, the middle class is growing rapidly in line with bread, and following this, we plan to launch other operations economic advancement, and by 2020 it is expected that the number that include confectionaries and beverages. We aim to contribute of people in this demographic will roughly double to 140 million to fulfilling the lifestyles of consumers in Indonesia through the people. In the Living Essentials Group, we produce and sell products provision of a diverse range of high-quality products and services. in the living essentials field such as food, daily commodities and We will achieve this by making further improvements from a local clothing in conjunction with local companies and business partners perspective to the capabilities we have accumulated over many Takeshi Arakawa around the world, including Japan. Last year, we commenced years, from the procurement of raw materials to retail functions. President Director production operations for processed oils and fats, dressing and PT. MC Living Essentials Indonesia MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 77 Mineral and Energy Resource Data [Mineral Resource Related] JCU (Japan Canada Uranium) ■ Coking coal (Canada) ■ Iron ore West McArthur ■ Nickel, Chrome AREVA Mongol (Canada) ■ Copper (Mongolia) ■ Aluminum PACIFIC METALS CO., LTD. IOC ■ Uranium (Japan) Marathon (Canada) ■ PGM (Platinum Group Metals) Furuya Metal Opening of the Caval Ridge Coal Mine (Canada) ○ Existing project (Japan) (Australia) ☆ Project in exploration / under development In October 2014, MC announced the opening of Weda Bay the Caval Ridge Coal Mine. The mine is run by (Indonesia) BMA, a 50/50 joint venture between resource Albras major BHP Billiton and Mitsubishi Development (Brazil) Gresik Pty Ltd (MDP), MC’s wholly-owned subsidiary. Antamina (Indonesia) Kintyre (Peru) Mozal (Australia) Crosslands Resources Quellaveco (Mozambique) (Australia) BMA Escondida (Australia) (Peru) (Chile) Oakajee Port & Rail Boyne CMP (Chile) (Australia) Ulan (Australia) Los Pelambres Hernic Ferrochrome Clermont (Australia) (Chile) (South Africa) (Australia) Warkworth/ Anglo American Sur AREVA Resources Coal & Allied (Los Bronces, etc) Australia (Australia) (Australia) (Chile) CAP (Chile) BMA annual production volume (50% basis) MDP annual sales volume Imports to Japan and MC’s Share* (Million tons) (Million tons) (Year ended December 31, 2014) 40 50 55 million tons (total) 44.9 32.4 40 40.2 Coking 29% Others 71% 30 Coal 28.4 30 29.0 29.0 22.1 26.7 20 19.4 20.1 128 million tons (total) 20 Thermal 10 Coal 16% Others 84% 10 0 0 11.3 12.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 11.3 12.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 * MC’s share includes imports where MC’s only involvement is 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q Hard coking coal Semi soft coking coal trading. * Total from April to March Thermal coal * Includes equity share of thermal coal sales volume other than from BMA. ** Adjustments have been made to figures from the year ended March 2011 in order to reflect the impact of the equity-method consolidation of Coal & Allied. Equity Share of Production (Total from January to December) COPPER IRON ORE ALUMINUM (Thousand tons) (Million tons) (Thousand tons) 250 248 259 8 250 237 233 230 234 232 229 6.9 6.9 7.1 200 6.5 6.4 200 6 150 150 128 126 4 100 100 2 50 50 0 0 0 10.12 11.12 12.12 13.12 14.12 10.12 11.12 12.12 13.12 14.12 10.12 11.12 12.12 13.12 14.12 Escondida Antamina IOC CMP Mozal Boyne Others Los Pelambres Anglo American Sur *Figures for CMP express equity share of sales. For more information about the Metals Group, please see page 62. 78 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 [Energy Resource Related] Message from U.K. North Sea President and CEO Canada Development/Production Shale Gas (Crude oil) Development Projects LNG Canada Sakhalin II LNG Special Features Iraq Production (Crude oil) Cameron LNG Iraq SGU Qalhat LNG U.S. Gulf of Mexico Côte d’Ivoire Development /Production Exploration (Crude oil) (Crude oil / Natural gas) Oman LNG Venezuela Finance and ESG Gabon Development of Exploration/Development/Production Orinoco Heavy Oil (Crude oil) Myanmar Production (Crude oil) Angola (Crude oil/Natural gas) Development/Production Browse LNG (Crude oil) Brunei LNG Wheatstone LNG Malaysia LNG Donggi-Senoro LNG Participation in oil and gas exploration business North West Shelf LNG Investment in MEDCO Tangguh LNG (Côte d’Ivoire) Kimberley Exploration Group/Business Groups In September 2014, MC agreed to acquire a 20% (Crude oil / Natural gas) Kangean Papua New Guinea ownership interest in an oil and gas exploration and Exploration/Development Development/Production mining area off the coast of Côte d’Ivoire from (Natural gas) (Crude oil / Natural gas) Anadarko Petroleum. Donggi-Senoro LNG Imports to Japan and Equity Share of LNG Production (Million tons/year) LNG Project MC’s Share* 8 8.27 7.37 7.37 7.37 7.37 7.37 Regional Initiatives and 6 MC 34% 88.5 4 Human Resources Others Mil. Tons 66% 2 0 Sustainability 10.12 11.12 12.12 13.12 14.12 15.12 (Year ended March 31, 2015) (est.) * MC’s share includes imports where MC’s only involvement is trading. Brunei Malaysia I Malaysia II Malaysia III* North West Shelf* Oman Qalhat (Oman) Sakhalin II* Tangguh* Donggi-Senoro * Owns upstream working interest. Corporate Governance MC’s Reserves Equity Share of Oil and Gas Production (Yearly Average)* (Billion BBL) (Thousand BBL/Day) 200 Crude oil/condensate 0.24 169 170 150 146 148 141 100 Total *1*2 Natural gas 1.69 Corporate Data 1.45 50 0 10.12 11.12 12.12 13.12 14.12 15.12 (est.) Natural gas Crude oil/Condensate (As of December 31, 2014) * Oil equivalent. Includes consolidated subsidiaries and equity-method affiliates. * Natural Gas: Malaysia III, Canada Shale Gas. *1 Oil equivalent. Includes consolidated subsidiaries Crude oil/Condensate: Gabon, Angola, U.S. Gulf of Mexico, U.K. North Sea. and equity-method affiliates. Natural Gas + Crude oil/Condensate: North West Shelf, Sakhalin II, Tangguh, Kangean, MEDCO. *2 Participating interest equivalent. Includes reserves based on original standards set by MC. For more information about the Energy Business Group, please see page 58. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 79 Regional Initiatives and Human Resources 80 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from Special Features Finance and ESG Group/Business Groups Regional Initiatives and Sustainability Corporate Governance Corporate Data President and CEO Human Resources 81 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 MC Group Human Resources Strategy Regional Initiatives 82 84 Regional Initiatives Accurately identifying changes in the global operating environment will lead to quick action. MC boasts a truly global network, consisting of more than 200 offices and subsidiaries and over 600 Group companies in approximately 90 countries around the world. The front lines of this expansive network enable us to gather information for controlling risk in existing businesses and for forming measures ensuring safety overseas, as well as identifying new business opportunities. This information is fed back within the MC Group, providing support on a consolidated basis. Each of our key regions has been assigned a Regional CEO, who devises solutions to problems commonly faced in the region and identifies new business opportunities spanning various countries and regions. Specifically, in addition to Japan, we have mapped out six key overseas regions (North America; Latin America; Europe & Africa; Middle East & Central Asia; East Asia; and Asia & Oceania), assigning a Regional CEO to each. Each Regional CEO is endeavoring to ensure that optimal activities are conducted on a consolidated basis within their respective regions, while actively utilizing the locally hired workforce. Under New Strategic Direction, we have set forth a market strategy of developing business globally by leveraging our shift towards Asian markets. At the same time, in other regions as well as Asia, taking into account the business environment of the various regions, we actively target growth countries and regions from a mediumto long-term perspective as part of our strategy, seeking new business opportunities for MC. Hideto Nakahara Member of the Board, Senior Executive Vice President, Global Strategy & Business Development Key Overseas Regions of MC Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Regional CEO, Europe & Africa Regional CEO, East Asia Executive Vice President, Haruki Hayashi Shunichi Matsui Regional CEO, North America Member of the Board, Yasuyuki Sugiura Europe & Africa Executive Vice President, East Asia Executive Vice President, Regional CEO, Middle East & Regional Strategy (Japan) North America Central Asia Shigeaki Yoshikawa Kazuyuki Mori Middle East & Japan Central Asia Latin America Asia & Oceania Senior Executive Vice Executive Vice President, President, Regional CEO, Asia & Oceania Regional CEO, Latin America Toru Moriyama Seiji Shiraki 82 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from Voices from management Actions and Objectives to Develop New Businesses President and CEO Looking towards 2020 Special Features North America To contribute MC’s innovation Latin America Our three strategic pillars to contribute MC Group value The San Francisco Bay Area holds two of the ten most productive cities in the world (San Francisco and San We are expanding our businesses, bearing in mind MC’s Jose). With more than thirty Fortune 500 companies growth vision of double attributable equity production Finance and ESG and hundreds of startup companies, Silicon Valley is for resources and double earnings for non-resources by the technological and business model innovation capital circa 2020. We believe this vision is to be attained based of the world. We monitor local companies and trends on innovative business practices encompassed with across a range of industries and disseminate this sound and sustainable organization. We will contribute information, and also leverage the knowledge gained to to improve MC Group value through three strategic Kevin Kuhn influence business strategy and develop new businesses Montserrat Galimany pillars aligned with Latin America regional strategy: (1) Group/Business Groups General Manager in North America. Current areas of focus include Managing Director Execution of current EPC and investment projects in Silicon Valley Branch Mitsubishi Chile Limitada Mitsubishi Corporation healthcare, new business models in the power industry, infrastructure, marine products and development of new (Americas) advanced manufacturing and the evolving automotive business models with borderless strategy, (2) Human business. resources development, (3) Ensure adherence to our corporate principles and laws. Regional Initiatives and Europe & Africa Build closer customer relationships to Middle East & To maximize our businesses in the young Central Asia achieve further business opportunities and growing market Norway’s natural resources include oil & gas, seafood Baku office covers Republic of Azerbaijan and Georgia, Human Resources and hydro power. In addition we have a strong shipping as a member of growing MECA (Middle East and Central and aluminum industry and a growing sovereign wealth Asia) region. Azerbaijan’s high economic growth has been attributable to large oil and gas exports. For further fund. MC seeks new opportunities in enhancing oil & growth, it promotes economic diversification by boosting gas project and in ship sales and chartering as well as non-oil sector through foreign investments. We are in offshore segments. With the recent 100% acquisition Sustainability supporting MC’s businesses such as tires, automobiles, of fish farming company Cermaq Group AS in 2014, elevators, air conditioners and graphite electrode, as well Jan Erik Paulsen MC is well placed for the future potential of seafood Mehmet Ciftcioglu as newly developed methanol business and a cement General Manager industry. Looking towards 2020 we support MC to General Manager plant project. Having young population with expanding Oslo Liaison Baku Office consumer market, we will not only reinforce the existing Representative enhance trading business and identify investment Mitsubishi Corporation business but also further plant & infrastructure project Mitsubishi Corporation opportunities, with a strong focus on customer needs opportunities. Leveraging MC’s strength in cooperation and relationships. Corporate Governance with our strategic partners in region will play an important role. East Asia Grasping “One Belt, One Road” – Asia & Oceania To grasp growing Malaysian market and Collaboration with energetic Chinese head into ASEAN region companies Malaysia targets its average GDP growth to about While China’s economy is shifting to a more stable 4-5% towards 2020, reflecting its affluent oil & gas growth, the western area including Chengdu and resources, and expanding internal demand especially Chongqing still keeps almost double-digit growth as in consumer and infrastructure areas. We believe Corporate Data the central area of Chinese government’s strategic government initiatives through its policies will be the key Economic belts; Silk Road Economic Belt and 21st for successive growth of the country, and increase its Century Maritime Silk Road (“One Belt, One Road”). involvement to ASEAN. Collaborating with MC and other Xingya Hu With collaboration with MC and other offices, we focus Datuk Rosman HJ Hasan offices, we, Sinar Berlian Sdn. Bhd., will continue to General Manager on co-working with Chinese companies expanding their President & CEO expand our local presence in all areas of MC’s business. Chengdu Branch Sinar Berlian Sdn. Bhd. Mitsubishi Corporation activities along these strategic areas. Also, all our staffs To enable our goal, we continue to focus on human (Shanghai) Ltd. are always united to develop MC group businesses with resources development of the staff to grasp internal and the aim of capturing growing demand in neighboring regional opportunities. areas upon “One Belt, One Road” in China. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 83 MC Group Human Resources Strategy We are striving to strengthen our human resources functions and promote the development and empowerment of human resources throughout the entire MC Group. The MC Group is promoting the development and empowerment of human resources on a consolidated global basis in response to the continued diversification and globalization of our operations. As one measure, we are further reinforcing our efforts to develop and foster future business leaders based on the key concepts of “strengthening management capabilities,” “human resources management” and “organizational operation.” In addition, we will continue our efforts in supporting women’s careers at MC, ensuring an inclusive and flexible working environment where diverse employees can share their values and develop their career regardless of gender, nationality or other factors. We are also taking steps to encourage new work styles as part of our efforts to create attractive working environments that reaps the benefits of diversity and a corporate culture that embraces diverse work styles. These efforts are not limited to the Global Human Resources Department at the MC Head Office. In order to continue enhancing our human resources functions and framework, joint efforts are being made together with those in charge of human resources operations in respective regional and oversea offices, subsidiaries and MC Group companies. Yasuhito Hirota Member of the Board, Executive Vice President, Human Resources Consolidated Global Human Resources Framework We are strengthening our human resources functions and framework together at the MC Head Office to increase awareness and understanding on a group-wide basis in order to reinforce our measures for human of Head Office policy, exchange information and opinions and share good resources on a consolidated global basis as well as business support to practices. We also leverage the human resources, networks, knowledge MC’s offices and subsidiaries and MC Group companies. and know-how possessed within the MC Group to provide support Specifically, we hold a global human resources conference once a when new companies are being established or consolidated overseas year where officials and those in charge of human resources operations by dispatching human resources and conducting personnel-related from MC’s offices and subsidiaries and MC Group companies come consulting befitting the phase of each company. Number of Employees throughout the Entire MC Group MC Subsidiaries Domestic MC Group Japan companies (approx. 36,000) MC (approx. 6,300) Overseas offices Overseas MC Group Overseas and subsidiaries companies (approx. 3,400) (approx. 28,000) Global human resources conference for fiscal 2014 84 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from Training Future MC Group Leaders Currently, MC has approximately 600 consolidated subsidiaries and of managing numerous businesses going forward. As such, we conduct President and CEO equity method affiliates in Japan and overseas and around 6,300 stepwise management and leadership development programs targeting employees, with roughly 1,700 of them on temporary assignments to not only employees at the MC Head Office but also employees from Special Features consolidated subsidiaries amid rapidly advancing diversification and MC’s offices and subsidiaries and MC Group companies in Japan and globalization of the MC Group’s operations. Of this number, over 200 are overseas. We will continue developing human resources throughout the continuously dispatched to management positions. MC recognizes the organization by training future leaders of the MC Group. need to reinforce efforts to develop and foster human resources capable Finance and ESG Stepwise Management and Leadership Development Programs MC KEIEIJUKU (executive development program) Group/Business Groups Joint Programs* Program for Global Leaders (PGL) Off-JT (General Manager level / Professors from business school) Program for Leadership Development (PLD) (Manager level / Collaboration with business school) Junior Management Program (JMP) Regional Initiatives and (Assistant Manager level / Professors from business school in Japan) Planned career path that includes MC’s offices and subsidiaries and MC Group companies worldwide Human Resources OJT Experience a diverse array of practical on-site training beyond one’s own division *Joint programs: Joint training for employees at the MC Head Office, MC’s offices and subsidiaries and MC Group companies Sustainability Leadership Development at Management Level give them a better understanding of MC’s corporate values and the MC Group’s operations. With the aim of enhancing the mindset and perspective MC organizes various training programs targeting management-level required for an MC Group leader, sessions are held to further hone elements employees from the MC Head Office, MC’s offices and subsidiaries and MC of education and skills needed for management. Intensive courses at major Group companies. Through group discussions and seminars taught by Corporate Governance business schools’ executive education programs are also available for business school professors from Japan and overseas, these programs are candidates. designed to equip employees with the most advanced business skills and Number of Participants in Joint Programs Total number of participants (left axis) Percentage of participants from MC’s offices and subsidiaries and MC Group companies (right axis) 300 35 31.0% 29.7% Corporate Data 250 26.2% 30 25 200 20 150 249 255 15 100 221 10 50 5 0 0 2012 2013 2014 FY MC KEIEIJUKU (executive development program) MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 85 Promoting Human Resources Development throughout the Entire MC Group In the MC Group, diverse human resources take on active roles in diverse business fields, and we are establishing frameworks to promote human resources development regardless of gender, nationality and other aspects. Transfers across Countries Sharing MC Values In recent years, we have been transferring more employees hired at MC’s The MC Group Gateway Program is conducted eight times a overseas offices and subsidiaries to other countries to meet the growing needs year in Tokyo as an orientation training program for of our global operations. We have introduced globally shared transfer guidelines employees of MC’s offices and subsidiaries and MC Group that set forth a basic philosophy on evaluations and work conditions during the companies worldwide. Its purpose is to encourage transfer period in order to ensure smooth transfers. employees to share MC’s corporate principles and values and to foster a greater understanding of the MC Group. Approximately 400 employees participate every year Number of Employees Hired at Overseas Offices and Subsidiaries (cumulative total of around 1,700 employees). Similar Transferred from Home Office to Another Country orientation training programs are being held in other regions 70 Transferred from overseas to another overseas country as well to share our values throughout the MC Group. Transferred from overseas to the MC Head Office (over one year) Number of Participants in the MC Group Gateway Program 60 MC Group Gateway Program (English) 15 20 50 MC Group Gateway Program (Japanese) 9 17 500 40 400 12 9 10 231 30 10 12 300 216 229 47 45 6 41 43 161 20 200 30 31 1 26 28 25 10 1 3 3 215 18 100 169 172 11 136 9 9 9 6 0 0 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 FY 11 12 13 14 FY C O LU MN IN TE RV IEW New Work Styles Befitting MC Helping to Increase Employment Opportunities for We are working to realize new work styles befitting MC Persons with Disabilities that improve productivity and efficiency while delivering high results and performance. The aim is to ensure that – Mitsubishi Shoji & Sun Co., Ltd. each organization and individual autonomously Mitsubishi Shoji & Sun Co., Ltd. was established in 1983 as an IT company following practices a work style that best suits their needs. We joint investment by MC and Social Welfare Organization Japan Sun Industries, with are also building working environments in which its headquarters in Beppu City, Oita Prefecture, and diverse human resources are able to take active roles offices in Tokyo (Marunouchi) and Hokkaido and fostering a corporate culture that encourages fair (Iwamizawa). Operating under its corporate performance-based evaluations. philosophies of coexistence of people with Although MC values organizational and individual disabilities and persons without disabilities, initiatives amid differing business environments and self-reliance as a company and new corporate industries, at the same time, we aim to raise the values, the company works to increase employment percentage of paid leave taken to at least 70% by opportunities for a various persons with disabilities encouraging employees to take their allotted time off in and also provides various IT services to numerous a planned manner. We also put in place improvement business partners including MC and MC Group companies, such as system development, data Tatsuo Yamashita plans on an individual basis in cases of prolonged President overtime. entry, DTP and server operation. Mitsubishi Shoji & Sun Co., Ltd. 86 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from Supporting Women’s Careers at MC President and CEO MC initially aims to increase the percentage of women in managementas setting up a “MC Childcare Concierge” withinn level positions to more than 10% by the year ending March 2021. We the Global HR Dept. and establishing a new paidd Special Features have already taken a number of steps to encourage women to continue leave system to attend school conference and and pursue their careers. These include securing daycare facilities to events. The office also offers career support support a smooth return to work after taking childcare leave and as that considers significant life events such as well as providing flexible working styles to ensure a healthy work-home childbirth and child care. In order to create balance. We also have a re-hiring system for employees who resigned a comfortable and supportive atmosphere Finance and ESG their positions in order to accompany their spouse to locations of that understands and encourages the active use of these systems domestic or international job transfer. and policies, MC will further focus on building a corporate culture that In October 2014, MC established the Diversity Office to further focus embraces diverse work styles. on supporting a greater work-home balance that includes practices such Group/Business Groups Percentage of Women in Management Positions (MC) Number of Female New Graduate Entrants (Professional Staff) Number of Female New Graduate Entrants (Professional Staff) (left axis) 12 Percentage of Female New Graduates Entrants (Professional Staff) (right axis) 40 25 23% 10.0% 21% 22% 21% 10 35 19% 19% 20 19% 19% 7.9% 30 18% Regional Initiatives and 17% 8 7.1% 15% 15% 17% 17% 6.4% 25 15 5.4% 13% 14% Human Resources 6 20 4.7% 38 38 34 36 35 3.8% 31 32 10 15 8% 29 4 27 3.1% 26 10 19 18 19 5 14 14 16 Sustainability 2 12 5 2% 3 0 0 0 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 20 FY 87 95 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 FY I NTE RVIE W Corporate Governance Leveraging Compliance Know-How and Experience in the Workplace – From a Working Woman’s Perspective Ever since I started to work in the first year following the cooperation of those around me in allowing me to handle enactment of the Equal Employment Opportunity Act for both in a natural manner. Since this spring, I have been Men and Women, I have been consistently involved with endeavoring to enhance compliance that is entrenched in corporate legal affairs and compliance. Having a career the workplace as a Compliance Officer of one of MC’s Corporate Data has really made me feel like a contributing member of business groups. In this capacity, I am able to make the society through engaging in a variety of projects and work most of the knowledge and experience I accumulated Yuko Furumoto Living Essentials Group related to various systems and policies amid everduring my time in the Corporate Section. I hope to forge Compliance Officer changing laws and social conditions. Although I was ahead in my work with fresh ideas and a broad extremely busy for a while in balancing work and perspective with a view to society and the company childcare, I’m grateful for the understanding and 10 years and 20 years into the future. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 87 Sustainability 88 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from President and CEO Special Features Finance and ESG Group/Business Groups 90 Creating Sustainable Corporate Value Regional Initiatives and 91 MC’s Sustainability Policies Human Resources 92 MC’s Sustainability Framework 93 Key Sustainability Themes for MC Sustainability 98 Supply Chain Management 99 Corporate Governance Great East Japan Earthquake Restoration Efforts 100 MC’s Corporate Philanthropy Activities 102 CSR & Environmental Affairs Advisory Committee Corporate Data MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 89 Creating Sustainable Corporate Value Working towards the Creation of Sustainable Corporate Value Here at MC, our Three Corporate Principles form the foundation of all of our business activities, and our Corporate Standards of Conduct, Environmental Charter and Social Charter build upon that foundation by establishing our expectations with regard to how our business should be conducted. These standards encompass aspects such as our commitment to enriching society, respecting human rights and striving to protect and improve the global environment. Each of these commitments was emphasized in our Midterm Corporate Strategy 2012, highlighting the importance of creating sustainable corporate value. This same goal continues in our current corporate strategy, New Strategic Direction. Valuing the Opinions of Our Diverse Stakeholders In promoting sustainability initiatives, we recognize the need as a company to address the ever-evolving needs of the global environment and the societies in which we operate. To achieve this, we believe it is essential to incorporate feedback from our various stakeholders, based on ongoing dialogues. MC has been a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and its earlier forms since 1995. Furthermore, MC became a signatory of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in 2010, declaring our commitment to the UNGC's 10 universal principles in four fields: human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. We are promoting initiatives in each of these four areas, guided also by the spirit of our Three Corporate Principles. Giving Back to Local Communities As part of our efforts to grow together with the communities in which we conduct business around the world, we engage in a number of corporate philanthropy programs in a variety of fields. In Japan, a key initiative is our collection of activities to promote the recovery of the Tohoku region following the Great East Japan Earthquake and tsunami disaster which struck on March 11, 2011. Even though our initial four-year commitment concluded in March 2015, we are committed to continuing our employee volunteer programs as well as various other support activities through the Mitsubishi Corporation Disaster Relief Foundation. We have also kicked-off our new vertically integrated “Sixth Industry” fruit farming project in Fukushima Prefecture with the aim of contributing to the long-term revitalization of the Tohoku region. We promote initiatives that pay close attention to the needs of local communities and the global environment. Yasuhito Hirota Member of the Board, Executive Vice President, CSR & Environmental Affairs The Smile Africa Project in Kenya This project provides gently used athletic shoes that are still in good condition to children in Africa in need. MC has donated a total of 73,107 pairs of shoes up to the year ended March 31, 2015. 90 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from MC’s Sustainability Policies President and CEO Basic Policies Centered around the Environmental Creating Sustainable Corporate Value by helping to address global Charter and Social Charter sustainability issues through our business activities, taking into Special Features MC considers addressing sustainability challenges as one of our most account the needs and expectations of all of our stakeholders important management issues. We have therefore been actively engaged in promoting a range of initiatives towards realizing a sustainable society through every aspect of our business. The cornerstone of these activities has Finance and ESG been our Environmental Charter, which we established in 1996. This charter Sustainable Economic Value clearly outlines our basic stance regarding environmental issues to all of Aim for sound earnings growth and our stakeholders. MC revised our Environmental Charter in 2010, reflecting Creating Sustainable increased corporate value through the the fact that environmental issues and awareness continue to evolve over Corporate Value proactive reshaping of our business models and portfolio time. Changes to the revised charter included addressing climate change, Sustainable Societal Value presentation of biodiversity and the sustainable use of resources as new Group/Business Groups Contribute to economic key global environmental themes. The charter's mandate towards protecting development as a responsible the environment and reducing our environmental impact is in line with our corporate citizen commitment to creating sustainable environmental value. Sustainable Environmental Value Following on from this, MC formulated our Social Charter in April 2014. Work towards preserving and improving the global environment, recognizing that This charter expresses our fundamental commitment towards making a posour planet is our greatest stakeholder itive contribution to society by working to address societal issues. Based on our Environmental Charter and Social Charter, MC strives to Regional Initiatives and create environmental and societal value through our core businesses and our various community investment projects. Human Resources Mitsubishi Corporation Mitsubishi Corporation Sustainability Environmental Charter Social Charter At Mitsubishi Corporation we consider the Earth itself to be our Mitsubishi Corporation strives to achieve sustainable societal most important stakeholder and are continually working value though our business operations by contributing towards towards the realization of a sustainable society through our lasting solutions to the wide spectrum of sustainability chalbusiness activities. lenges facing today’s global society. We will strive to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by continually We will work to address local societal challenges in the regions Corporate Governance implementing new efficiency measures and embracing new and communities in which we operate, contributing to lasting technologies. and sustainable development through our business activities. We will promote the sustainable use of natural resources We will continue our wide-ranging philanthropic commitments including energy, minerals, food stocks and water throughout while regularly adapting our approach in line with ever-evolving our global business operations. societal needs and challenges. We recognize the critical importance of what ecosystems can We will fully respect human rights and indigenous peoples’ provide and are committed to protecting ecosystems and mitirights. We will also fully respect fundamental labor rights and gating any potential impacts on biodiversity. endeavor to ensure the provision of safe and healthy working We will strive to create and enhance environmental benefits by environments. undertaking conservation activities and reducing our environWe will not engage in corruption of any kind and will take mental footprint. appropriate preventative measures to safeguard against such Corporate Data We will continue to actively engage and work with our various practices. stakeholders openly and transparently and disclose information We will continue to actively engage and work with our various on the environmental impacts of our business operations in an stakeholders openly and transparently and disclose information appropriate and timely manner. on the social impacts of our business operations in an appropriWe will conduct all of our activities in compliance with ate and timely manner. environmental laws while adhering to international rules and social standards. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 91 MC’s Sustainability Framework Organizational Framework At MC, we have established the CSR & Environmental Affairs Committee, which Organizational Framework is attended by the Executive Vice President in charge of CSR & Environmental Affairs. This committee oversees our basic sustainability policies and also makes Executive Committee recommendations to the Executive Committee. In addition, the CSR & Environmental Affairs Advisory Committee, which is CSR & Environmental CSR & Environmental Affairs comprised of outside experts, provides MC with recommendations regarding the MC Affairs Committee Advisory Committee Group’s sustainability initiatives (Please refer to page 102 for more information). ESG Management of Loans and Investments As part of MC’s strategic decision-making process, all loan and investment proposals Screening Process for Loan and Investment Proposals are reviewed by our Executive Committee. The screening and review process is an extensive one, taking into account not only Board of Directors financial and legal risks but also environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors. Comment (s) Comment (s) Proposals for certain projects are examined by the Board of Directors as well. Executive Committee CFO Loan and investment decisions by the Executive Committee are based on advisory input from the Investment Advisory Committee, which in turn bases its advice on Investment Advisory Committee comments submitted by specialized internal departments, including the CSR & Comment (s) Environmental Affairs Department (Please refer to the chart on the right). Proposal In addition to performing detailed reviews of relevant documents such as Application CSR & Environmental Affairs Dept., etc. Environmental, Social & Health Impact Assessments (ESHIA) and conducting site • Environment (climate change, biodiversity, etc.) visits, MC’s ESG screening takes into account various standards including the • Community and Society (indigenous people, cultural heritage, etc.) International Finance Corporation (IFC) guidelines and the Guidelines for Confirmation • Human Rights and Labor (child labor, forced of Environmental and Social Considerations published by the Japan Bank for Corporate Group labor, etc.) Corporate Development • Governance (management system, internal International Cooperation (JBIC). control, etc.) Section MC has also formulated our own sustainability criteria which are used for screening loan and investment proposals as part of the approval process. In addition to screening for environmental criteria, social criteria such as human rights and Analysis of environmental and social impacts as well as governance working conditions are also examined with careful consideration based on the unique systems by various divisions and business groups circumstances of each country or region. ESG screening by the CSR & Environmental Affairs Dept. and other departments, with comments submitted as necessary MC’s Environmental Management System (EMS) MC develops a wide range of businesses across the globe, and accordingly, Our EMS activities are promoted in line with our Environmental Policy, which we believe it is important to continually assess how each of these businesses was established based on the principles of our Environmental Charter. impacts the environment. Our President and CEO is responsible for maintaining Please refer to page 41 for our EMS performance data. environmental management systems (EMS) that are compliant with ISO 14001. MC’s Environmental Policy MC has created out Environmental Management System (EMS) based upon our (2) We will make efforts to reduce resource and energy consumption. Environmental Charter, and we have set out the following Environmental Policy (3) We recognize the importance of biodiversity and will pay close attention to our with the aim of preserving the global environment and working towards the impact on the natural environment. realization of a sustainable society through our business activities. 3. Continuous Improvement of our EMS We will strive for continuous utilization and improvement to our EMS in line with 1. Compliance with Environmental Laws and Standards our business activities. We will uphold environmental laws and standards in addition to our own environmental commitments. 4. Disclosure of our Environmental Policy We will ensure that our Environmental Policy is conveyed to all of our employees, 2. Working to Address Climate Change and we will promote understanding through training and dissemination efforts. We (1) We will make efforts to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions in order to will also publicly disclose our Environmental Policy. address climate change. February 10, 2011 92 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from Key Sustainability Themes for MC President and CEO MC has identified the following sustainability issues as having high materiality in our business activities: addressing climate change; preservation of biodiversity; sustainable use of resources; prevention of pollution and accidents; respect for indigenous peoples’ rights Special Features and respect for human rights and labor rights. We aim to create sustainable corporate value by addressing these key issues through our business activities. Finance and ESG Stakeholder Expectations and Opinions Customers NPOs/NGOs Shareholders Employees Communities Governments Group/Business Groups • Advice from our CSR & Environmental Affairs Advisory Committee • Insight received from various NGOs and SRI indexes through direct engagement Identify Themes • Domestic and international media monitoring • Developments within the legal and regulatory environment, as well as international treaties and conventions (climate change, biodiversity, etc.) Regional Initiatives and Addressing Preservation of Climate Change Biodiversity Human Resources Sustainable Use of Key Sustainability Themes for MC Prevention of Pollution Sustainability Resources and Accidents (Materiality) Respect for Indigenous Respect for Human Peoples’ Rights Rights and Labor Rights Corporate Governance • Important internal measures/policies related to New Strategic Direction Identify Themes • Global business expansion • Creation of new business opportunities • Ongoing risk management for business projects Impacts on MC Corporate Data Business Opportunities Risk Mitigation Increase positive impacts Reduce negative impacts MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 93 Addressing Climate Change Global Developments and MC’s Response Our Performance During the UN Climate Summit which was held in September of 2014, the As part of ongoing efforts to reduce our carbon footprint, in April 2009 MC world moved one step closer to reaching an international agreement to limit launched our CO2 Action Project, designed to promote the reduction of CO2 global warming to 2ºC from pre-industrial levels. The following month, the produced by our Japanese offices. Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change As a result of these efforts, MC’s CO2 emissions (indirect CO2 emissions (IPCC) released its Synthesis Report concluding that “human influence on the from electricity consumption) in the year ended March 2015 on a nonclimate is clear, and recent anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases consolidated basis were approximately 6% lower than the previous year. (GHG) are the highest in history.” The year 2015 will also be a significant Furthermore, our direct CO2 emissions from fuel consumption, indirect year with respect to climate change with events leading up to the 21st CO2 emissions from electricity consumption and other CO2 emissions on a Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework consolidated, global basis (including subsidiaries) in the year ended March Convention on Climate Change (COP21), where world leaders are expected 2015 totaled approximately 3.35 million tons.** to reach agreements on matters including post-2020 GHG emissions MC’s emissions performance information has received independent reductions targets and necessary financial support. assurance from Deloitte Tohmatsu Evaluation and Certification Organization MC recognizes climate change as being highly material to our company, Co., Ltd. Please see the following link to access the certification document and we continue to actively address this issue through investments in on our website: http://www.mitsubishicorp.com/jp/en/csr/management/pdf/ renewable energy and other low-carbon business fields. Furthermore, pfm_01.pdf given the diverse business risks associated with climate change including increased operational costs, additional taxes and regulations, and the Information Disclosure evolving expectations of stakeholders, we are also committed to working In addition to disclosing our environmental performance and efforts to towards reducing our GHG emissions throughout our business. address climate change in our Integrated Report and website, MC has been In this regard, starting from the fiscal year ending March 2016, MC began sharing this information through our participation in CDP*** since 2003, and, initiatives which aim to reduce the intensity of our GHG emissions on a as of 2014, through joining the Fun to Share campaign run by the Japanese global, consolidated basis by at least 1% (from fiscal 2012 levels) each year Ministry of the Environment. through the year ending March 2018. Contributing to a Low-carbon Society through Our Business MC’s Global Environmental & Infrastructure Business Group aims to *The conversion was performed using emissions coefficients contained in the GHG Protocol for contribute to the realization of a low-carbon society while also improving our CO2 emissions from oil-fired thermal power generation: Emission Factors from Cross-Sector Tools (August 2014). corporate value through our renewable energy businesses including wind, **The following metrics were adopted as the basis for calculating CO2 emissions. Also, please solar and thermal energy, as well as other businesses in the fields of water, note that emissions from projects with high communality, including power generation and heat smart community integration, energy solutions and more. Our commitment generation, are not included in the calculations. Direct CO2 emissions from fuel consumption to the creation of sustainable environmental value also spreads across the The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) “Emission-Factors-from-Cross-Sector-ToolsCompany’s other business groups as we pursue a wide range of initiatives (April-2014)” (WRI/WBCSD) including electric vehicles and eco-friendly condominiums. Indirect CO2 emissions from electricity consumption As an example of our accomplishments in this field, in the year ended The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) “Emission-Factors-from-Cross-Sector-Tools(August-2012)” (WRI/WBCSD) March 2015, MC successfully reduced greenhouse gas emissions by Greenhouse gas emissions other than energy-related CO2 approximately 1.6 million tons* (equivalent reduction of emissions from Greenhouse Gas Emission Calculation and Reporting Manual (Version 3.4) (May 2013, Ministry of fuel combustion) on a consolidated, global basis through our investments the Environment and Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) ***CDP: Formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project. A project conducted in conjunction with institutional in renewable energy. These emissions reductions were estimated based on investors that encourages major companies around the world to disclose their GHG emissions, the assumption that greenhouse gas emissions would have increased by climate change strategies and other information 1.6 million tons had conventional methods (oilfired thermal power generation) been employed to generate the same amount of power generated from renewable energy sources in MC’s business portfolio in the year ended March 31, 2015. Solar power generation project in Ontario, Canada (50% investment The London Array, the world’s largest offshore wind farm and by MC) underwater transmission system linked to the UK power grid. MC became project operator in 2013. 94 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from Preservation of Biodiversity President and CEO Humanity benefits greatly from the services provided by ecosystems contributing to the preservation of biodiversity. The initiative encourages replete with diverse forms of life. These ecosystem services are varied and members to give proper consideration to environmental issues in their Special Features multifaceted, supplying us with food and water, regulating the climate and daily operations, as well as to contribute to the preservation of biodiversity purifying the water we drink. What enables all of these natural benefits is by reducing any negative impacts associated with their businesses. biodiversity. Through active collaboration with other JBIB members, we hope to further Similarly, MC benefits from the services that ecosystems provide in enhance MC’s ongoing efforts towards protecting biodiversity on a global many regions worldwide. Accordingly, MC views the preservation of scale. Finance and ESG biodiversity as a vitally important issue. To support our commitment, MC strives to mitigate the impact that our businesses have on biodiversity and seeks ways to contribute to ecosystem conservation through our businesses and social contribution activities designed to protect the environment. Group/Business Groups Since 2012, MC has incorporated the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool (IBAT) into our screening process for investment and loan proposals. IBAT is a map-based biodiversity tool formulated through a partnership among Birdlife International, Conservation International, the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) World Conservation Monitoring Center. IBAT combines the data from these organizations and other sources into a web-based decision support tool. This allows MC to conduct screening of Regional Initiatives and investment and loan proposals based on data regarding various threatened species, important sites for biodiversity and protected areas around the world. Human Resources A former mining site before (top) and after (bottom) the rehabilitation process Furthermore, in April 2015 MC became a member of the Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB). JBIB brings together businesses from a variety of fields to conduct collaborative research with the goal of Sustainability Environmental Conservation Projects MC conducts a number of environmental conservation projects with the aim Global Coral Reef Conservation Project of preserving the biodiversity of our global ecosystems through partnerships Coral reefs play a crucial role in marine ecosystems. Since 2005, MC has with NGOs, universities, research institutes and other stakeholders. conducted comprehensive research in three key locations of Okinawa, the Corporate Governance Seychelles and Australia in collaboration with universities and conservation The Tropical Forest Regeneration Experimental NGOs with the goal of establishing and disseminating methods to preserve Project the health of coral reefs. This project has also been approved as an official partnership project by The destruction of tropical rainforests, treasure troves of biodiversity, is one the Japan Committee for the United Nations Decade on Biodiversity (UNDB-J). of the most serious threats to our global environment. Once degraded, it is estimated that a tropical forest requires roughly 300-500 years in order to fully return to its natural state. This project aims to achieve the same level of recovery in only 40-50 years by planting a variety Corporate Data of indigenous tree and plant species through a dense, mixed-planting method. MC first began this project in 1990 in Malaysia, and This project has been approved as a partnership project by the since then it has expanded Japan Committee for the United to sites in Brazil, Kenya and Nations Decade on Biodiversity (UNDB-J). Indonesia. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 95 Sustainable Use of Resources As a company developing business in a wide variety of resource fields CASE STUDY including mineral resources, energy, food and water, MC considers the sustainable use of resources as a crucial aspect of our business. In 2014, MC undertook a strategic investment in Metito Holdings In particular, issues related to water resources are expected to become Ltd., the leading water management solutions provider for emerging increasingly severe on a global scale due to a number of factors. These markets, headquartered in Dubai, UAE. The acquisition will allow MC include economic development and rising global population, driven and its partners to expand their presence in the water business in especially by emerging markets, and problems such as droughts, floods fast-growing Middle Eastern, African and Asian markets, and at the and drinking water shortages caused by changing rainfall patterns brought same time, to make contributions to improving living conditions and on by climate change. the local environment by helping to address water scarcity issues MC is actively contributing towards finding solutions to address these and lack of infrastructure in those areas. pressing global water-related issues. We are committed to minimizing negative impacts on the environment and local communities when securing water resources, and also to improving access to water by supplying and recycling water through our businesses. As part of these efforts, MC has disclosed its water management measures through CDP Water, an information disclosure initiative under the CDP, since 2011. In the years ended March 2014 and 2015, MC’s water withdrawals and recycling/reuse rate* on a consolidated, global basis (including subsidiaries) totaled approximately 150 million m3 (8.5% recycled/reused) and 155 million m3 (11.3% recycled/reused), respectively. *Water withdrawals equal the sum of water withdrawn from all sources including municipal / industrial water, rivers / lakes, seawater and rainwater. The water recycling/reuse rate is calculated as the amount of water recycled/reused divided by the sum of water withdrawn and water recycled/ reused. A sewage treatment plant in Dubai operated by Metito Holdings Ltd. Prevention of Pollution and Accidents MC conducts a number of businesses that involve manufacturing sites and CASE STUDY plants. Maintaining safe operations without accidents is of course essential for MC has developed Oil Spill Risk Guidelines for projects related to oil avoiding negative impacts on employees, customers, local communities and gas developments and tankers. Regardless of operator status, and the global environment. MC also recognizes that prevention of MC regularly confirms the oil spill prevention measures and safety pollution and accidents is a key factor in maintaining our social license management systems of projects in these areas. to operate. Our approach towards this issue includes ensuring a swift Mitsubishi Corporation Exploration Co., Ltd. (MCX), an investment response in the event of an accident, as well as constant review and of the Energy Business Group, regards HSE (Health, Safety, improvement of our safety awareness and management systems. Environment) as a top priority for oil and gas exploration projects. MCX believes that proper management of HSE risks is crucial in order to contribute to sustainable societal development, and accordingly, promotes a variety of initiatives in line with its HSE Policy. Based on this policy, MCX formed an HSE Office under the direct administration of the CEO and has also established an HSE Management Committee comprised of relevant board members under the CEO. MCX will continue to revise and improve its HSE Management System (HSEMS) and to promote HSE activities companywide with the aim of preventing pollution and accidents, reducing environmental impact and mitigating risks related to labor, safety and sanitation. Oil fence deployment during an oil spill response drill 96 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from Respect for Indigenous Peoples’ Rights President and CEO In the context of our overall commitment to respecting human rights, we CASE STUDY have formulated policies regarding the rights of indigenous peoples. MC Special Features conducts business in numerous regions around the world inhabited by Through the Mitsubishi Corporation Foundation for the Americas indigenous peoples, and we acknowledge and respect their unique social (MCFA), MC has had the opportunity to engage with organizations and legal status under national and international laws, conventions and such as International Funders for Indigenous Peoples, First Peoples declarations, such as the International Labour Organization Convention 169 Worldwide, the Indian Law Resource Center and the Wolf Lake First and the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. Nation in Quebec, Canada. MCFA has supported advocacy for the Finance and ESG When examining new business investment proposals, MC takes into rights of Indigenous Peoples and conservation initiatives that value consideration if and how the business operations may impact indigenous and promote indigenous ecological knowledge. peoples and undertakes to consult with all relevant stakeholders to ensure In 2014, MCFA organized a side event to the UN’s World that such investment is made having regard to relevant international Conference on Indigenous Peoples, which featured a presentation standards, and with full respect for the dignity, human rights, aspirations, by an MCFA grantee, FUNDESNAP, and indigenous community Group/Business Groups cultures and natural resource-based livelihoods of the indigenous peoples leaders from Bolivia about their involvement in the monitoring of concerned. the environmental, social and economic impacts of a major road infrastructure project. FUNDESNAP’s mission is to support the effective management and financial sustainability of the National System of Protected Areas in Bolivia. The relationships forged by MCFA have helped to reinforce and deepen MC’s understanding and appreciation of indigenous perspectives, which in turn have been comprehensively integrated into our business processes. Regional Initiatives and Human Resources Sustainability Mr. Mauricio Sarabia, President of the local community of Yucumo – Rurrenabaque, Bolivia Respect for Human Rights and Labor Rights Corporate Governance MC considers respect for human rights to be key material aspect of our CASE STUDY business. We have integrated respect for human rights into our Corporate Standards of Conduct and other internal policies, while our Code of MC is an active participant in the UN Global Compact Japan Conduct stipulates clearly that we will “respect human rights,” “will not Network working group on Human Rights Due Diligence. We are engage in discrimination on the basis of race, ethnicity, creed, religion also a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable or other grounds” and “will respect the cultures, customs and languages Development (WBCSD) Human Rights working group. of other countries and regions.” MC supports international norms and We take ideas from these international initiatives and codes regarding human rights including the Universal Declaration of incorporate them into our sustainability management measures, Human Rights, the core labor standards of the ILO (International Labour including our supply chain assessments. Respect for human rights Corporate Data Organization) and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. is also included in our internal training sessions. Our commitments extend from our own operations through to our supply chains as detailed on the following page. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 97 Supply Chain Management MC regards the management of supply chains from a sustainability Supplier surveys and site visits also play an important role in our supply standpoint as a vital aspect of our corporate social responsibility. In chain management. Moving forward, we plan to continue our efforts to February 2008, we established the CSR Action Guidelines for Supply ensure that our supply chain policy guidelines are embraced by overseas Chains (now the Mitsubishi Corporation Policy for Sustainable Supply Chain offices and MC Group companies, while eliciting the understanding and Management), which we share with all of our suppliers. These guidelines cooperation of suppliers on a global basis. are explained to new recruits and managers at various internal training MC regularly publishes the results of our supplier surveys and site visits sessions and to employees of overseas business sites and affiliated on our website. companies at seminars and other events. Mitsubishi Corporation Policy for Sustainable Supply Chain Management Mitsubishi Corporation strives to ensure that business is conducted 2. Monitoring responsibly throughout its supply chains. In order to convey this stance MC conducts regular surveys of suppliers to monitor the status of to suppliers, the Company has established the Mitsubishi Corporation their compliance with basic policies. Policy for Sustainable Supply Chain Management, as outlined below, Furthermore, MC visits suppliers to confirm the status of their which it expects all suppliers to understand, embrace and abide by. activities when it determines that site visits are necessary based on the regions where suppliers are active and their business activities. 1. Policy Areas (1) Forced Labor (6) Abuse and Harassment 3. Response to Compliance Violations (2) Child Labor (7) Working Hours If a violation of the basic policies is confirmed, MC will demand that the (3) Safe and Healthy Working (8) Suitable Remuneration relevant supplier implement corrective measures and will provide guidEnvironments (9) Anti-corruption ance and assistance, as necessary. (4) Freedom of Association (10) Environment If MC determines that the supplier is unlikely to implement corrective (5) Discrimination (11) Information Disclosure measures even after providing continuous guidance and assistance, MC will review its business relationship with the relevant supplier. Supply Chain Visits In May 2014, MC representatives visited Ipanema Coffees, one of the based on size, density and color, with only the highest quality coffee world’s largest coffee plantations, and coffee exporting company MC beans selected for export. Similar to the Ipanema Coffees plantation, Coffee do Brasil Ltda., both of which are located in southeastern Brazil operations at the plant pay due consideration to the environment in approximately 300km to the northwest of Sao Paolo. Ipanema Coffees addition to quality, being accredited with major certifications such as is not only world-renowned for producing high-quality coffee beans UTZ Kapeh and FLOCERT, and the company has earned an excellent but they also have a number of sustainability certifications including reputation around the world for its high-quality coffee. Rainforest Alliance, Fair Trade USA and UTZ Kapeh for having socially MC has also worked closely with our suppliers in other countries and and environmentally responsible operations. On this visit, the MC recommended that they work towards achieving Rainforest Alliance representatives, together with members of the Rainforest Alliance, certification for their product. As a result, the Thang Loi Plantation in observed all stages of the operations right through to the after-harvest Vietnam achieved certification in 2011 and the Edelweiss Plantation process. Through meetings with Ipanema Coffee’s management, MC in Tanzania did the same in 2015. In addition, MC Coffee do Brasil has representatives confirmed that the plantation was working to provide supported small-scale farmers in achieving Fairtrade certification, and safe, hygienic and healthy working conditions for employees, including these close relationships have allowed the company to handle one of temporary employees working during the harvesting period. With a the largest volumes of Fairtrade certified product in Brazil. In this way, full range of operations, from growing and harvesting to sorting and MC is further establishing a business model to source coffee beans export, MC observed through this inspection that the plantation has that are not only of high quality, but also sustainably produced. an unwavering commitment to quality and an extremely high degree of awareness of the environmental and social dimensions of its operations. At a plant of MC Coffee do Brasil Ltda., MC representatives inspected every stage of the after-harvest process, ranging from sorting to shipping of coffee beans. Inside the plant, guided by a policy of increasing labor efficiency, the company has been making efforts to automate its operations. The coffee beans are meticulously sorted Ipanema Coffees plantation Bag of coffee beans with Rainforest Alliance certification 98 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from Great East Japan Earthquake Restoration Efforts MC began conducting recovery efforts for the Great East Japan Earthquake Disaster Relief Foundation, which provides financial support in the form of President and CEO shortly after the disaster struck on March 11, 2011 by establishing the scholarships and relief support grants, as well as promotes the recovery Mitsubishi Corporation East Japan Earthquake Recovery Fund in April of and growth of industry and employment through investment and loan Special Features the same year. In March 2012, MC established the Mitsubishi Corporation projects. Support for Industrial Recovery and Employment Creation Finance and ESG We believe that revitalization of industry and employment creation are essential in order for the regions affected by the disaster to make Group/Business Groups a sustained recovery. In the year Nakashoku (Seafood processing facility, Otsuchi Town, Iwate Prefecture) Shirakawa Goyo Club (Food processing facility, Shirakawa City, ended March 2015, MC invested Fukushima Prefecture) a total approximately ¥480 million in 13 projects, including 5 seafood processed facilities, 3 food processing facilities, 2 large-scale farms, a winery, a timber facility and a sewn products manufacturer. Since the Regional Initiatives and year ended March 2013, MC has invested close to ¥2 billion in 44 projects (14 in Iwate Prefecture, 21 in Human Resources Miyagi Prefecture and 9 in Fukushima Aizu Chuou Nyugyou Co., Ltd. (Food processing facility, Aizubange Town, Asahiya (Food processing facility, Soma City, Fukushima Prefecture) Prefecture). Fukushima Prefecture) Sustainability Employee Volunteer Teams Volunteer Activities (Dispatched Regions) Ofunato City In response to the fact that so many of our Rikuzentakata City employees were eager to contribute directly to the recovery of the afflicted region, we Minamisanriku have been dispatching groups of employee Town Corporate Governance volunteers from MC and our Group companies Ishinomaki since shortly after the disaster struck. City As of March 2015, 3,606 employees had participated in the volunteer programs since they were first established. Sixth Industry Fruit Farming Project in Fukushima Prefecture In February 2015, The Mitsubishi Corporation Disaster Relief Corporate Data Foundation entered a partnership with Koriyama City in Fukushima Prefecture for the Sixth Industry fruit farming project, which utilizes local products through an innovative, vertically integrated business model. MC made a ¥1 billion investment through the foundation, and construction has started on a processing facility in Koriyama City, which will use approximately 30 to 50 tons of locally produced fruits including peaches, pears, apples and grapes each year to produce and sell liqueurs and wines. The facility will be capable of producing 25,000 liters of product per year. Illustration of completed facility MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 99 MC’s Corporate Philanthropy Activities MC’s corporate culture is based on a fundamental desire to grow in harmony with the Global b Environmen bal Environment Public Welfare Welfar are communities in which we operate both locally and internationally in order to contribute to MC’s Corporate Philanthropy Policy (Established in 1991) building truly prosperous, sustainable societies around the world. With this in mind, we We engage in a wide range of activities that contribute to engage in a variety of philanthropic projects at our operations in a wide range of fields the well-being of communities around the world, based on our such as the global environment, public welfare, education, culture and the arts, and commitment to be a good corporate citizen. international exchange and contributions. Our employees also play a key role in these International Education Exchange & Contributions activities by actively taking part as volunteers. Forest Conservation Project Culture and Arts MC’s Thousand Year Forest MC conducts forest conservation activities in Aki City, Kochi Prefecture, hometown of Yataro Iwasaki, the founder of the Mitsubishi Group. These activities provide hands-on environmental training to both MC employee volunteers and members of the local community. Friendship Camp for Mothers Agricultural Development and Children Project in India MC organizes a friendship camp where Since 2006, MC has provided a variety single mothers and their children can of support through this project including experience nature and forge new donating 200 solar-powered street personal connections. In addition to lamps to villages without electricity, having fun in the great outdoors, the building training centers, supporting program also aims to provide the farmers and installing irrigation mothers with networking opportunities. facilities. The project received the CSR Leadership Award in 2013. MC’s International MC Art Gate Program Scholarship for Studies This program provides career support in Japan for aspiring young artists. Each year MC provides scholarships to MC purchases around 200 pieces of outstanding international exchange artwork from young artists by public students studying in Japan who are invitation at the price of ¥100,000 each. expected to become the leaders of After being displayed within as well as tomorrow. As of 2014, MC has provided outside of the company, the works of scholarships to over 1,000 students art are sold through public auctions. All through this program. proceeds are returned to the artists in the form of scholarships. Employee Volunteer Activities Year ended March 2015 MC places great importance on promoting greater awareness of social contributions No. of employees among our employees. We therefore take steps to encourage employee participation in volunteer activities, for example, by establishing a volunteer leave system and taking volunteer leave 247 (cumulative no. of people) Volunteer leave days taken 323 holding in-house volunteer programs during lunch hours. Volunteer Token System Number of Tokens Given for Volunteer Work MC makes donations to public welfare, educational and environmental NPOs or 15,000 foundations based on a virtual token system. Employees earn tokens by participating 12,173 12,000 10,870 Donations made through tokens in volunteer activities, with each token worth a corporate donation of ¥500. Tokens 9,713 are not only awarded for volunteer work organized by MC, but also for activities 9,000 ¥6,086,500 undertaken independently by employees during their private time outside of work. 6,000 3,000 Volunteer Leave System Employees can take up to five days leave each year to participate in volunteer 0 activities. 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 100 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from Supporting Para-Sports President and CEO Project in Support of Para-Sports Special Features We hope to share the dreams and excitement with as many people Finance and ESG as possible by supporting the advancement of para-sports. 1 Widen the Field of Para-Sports 2 Raise Awareness and Understanding of Para-Sports Group/Business Groups We will provide opportunities for even more adults We will increase understanding and awareness of para-sports by giving more and children with disabilities (including children with employees and regular citizens opportunities to get involved in para-sports congenital disabilities) to enjoy sports. competitions and events as volunteers and participants. Sports Classes for Children with Seminars (Volunteer Training Disabilities Courses) We will provide opportunities to participate in We will periodically hold foundation seminars on Regional Initiatives and sports through such means as sports classes para-sports and volunteer training courses. We will and football 7-a-side schools for children with also promote involvement by volunteers in various cerebral palsy. types of competitions. Human Resources *Cooperating organizations: Tokyo YMCA, Japan Cerebral Palsy *Cooperating organizations: Japanese Para-Sports Association, Tokyo Football 7-a-side Association, etc. Sports Association for the Disabled, etc. Sports Events Competition We will offer opportunities for people to increase We will continue our support for the nurturing of their familiarity with and appreciation of paraathletes, such as sponsoring the Oita International sports by holding sports events that allow many Wheelchair Marathon and holding football 7-a-side Sustainability participants to join in regardless of whether or competitions for people with cerebral palsy. not they have disabilities. *Cooperating organizations: Oita Prefecture, Japan Cerebral Palsy Football *Cooperating organizations: Japanese Para-Sports Association, 7-a-side Association, etc. Tokyo Sports Association for the Disabled, etc. DREAM AS ONE. Charity Fund Corporate Governance We will collect the volunteer activities of all the participants as a virtual currency called “DREAM.” MC will convert the DREAMs and use the funds (1 time participating as a volunteer = 1 DREAM) for the promotion of para-sports. Support through Charitable Foundations Through Mitsubishi Corporation Foundation for the Americas (MCFA) and Mitsubishi Corporation Fund for Corporate Data Europe and Africa (MCFEA), MC supports a wide range of initiatives focusing on environmental conservation, education and poverty alleviation. For example, MCFA supports the activities of the Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) through projects including their Amazon Waters Initiative, which involves engaging indigenous and other local communities, government agencies and civil society organizations in participatory watershed and natural resource management in two key Amazon watersheds in Brazil and Peru. A flagship partner of MCFEA is SolarAid, a fast-growing organisation that provides access to clean, affordable solar lights to rural communities in order to eradicate the use of kerosene lamps in Africa by 2020. SolarAid is helping to combat climate change while Schoolchildren in Kenya have benefitted from improving the lives of over 10 million people. SolarAid’s distribution of solar lamps. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 101 CSR & Environmental Affairs Advisory Committee MC’s CSR & Environmental Affairs Advisory Committee is made up of external experts and provides advice on the MC Group’s sustainability activities from a multitude of perspectives. To deepen their understanding of MC’s businesses, the members of the Advisory Committee visit MC business sites annually in addition to participating in regular committee meetings. At the April 2015 meeting, joined by newest committee member Professor Nakashizuka from Tohoku University Graduate School, who is an expert in forest ecologies and biodiversity, the 11 committee members gave their opinions on the status of MC’s monitoring of sustainability risks, carbon management, supply chain management and initiatives in support of recovery efforts following the Great East Japan Earthquake. MC’s Approach to CSR & Environmental Affairs Supply Chain Management As a company with operations all over the globe, MC should not only It is wonderful that MC was able to conduct supplier site visits together be satisfied with adequately managing sustainability risks, but should with NGOs and other third parties to confirm the labor conditions and also challenge itself to have a clear vision and management approach other factors at each site. Given the vast number of suppliers who are towards addressing global sustainability issues, taking into account such subject to the supply chain assessment, however, only a small number international initiatives as the United Nations’ Sustainable Development of site visits can be conducted each year. Accordingly, MC should Goals (SDGs). In particular, it is important not only to look at the issues of constantly look to improve the ways in which the assessments are today, but also look towards future issues from a long-term perspective. conducted. Creating value through numerous business activities and corporate philanthropy initiatives which exceed stakeholder expectations will be a Great East Japan Earthquake Recovery Efforts key competitive factor for companies going forward. MC’s efforts to support the recovery of the Tohoku region are * The United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are targets for international sustainable development from 2015. commendable, and it is clear that the efforts go beyond disaster recovery to aim towards full revitalization of the areas affected by the Carbon Management Great East Japan Earthquake and tsunami disaster. In the future, MC Given the global movement towards a low-carbon society, MC should be should consider taking the knowledge and models utilized in Tohoku taking measures to reduce CO2 emissions in line with global standards. and apply them to support other regions in Japan and countries abroad. Although there is value in setting reduction targets on an efficiency This is a successful case study for addressing societal issues through basis, the Company should also consider setting an absolute target to targeted investments. reduce total emissions. Members of the CSR & Environmental Affairs Advisory Committee Eiichiro Adachi Takejiro Sueyoshi Yasushi Hibi Counselor, The Japan Special Advisor to the UNEP Director of Japan Research Institute, Keiko Katsu Finance Initiatives in the Program, Conservation Limited Freelance Newscaster Asia Pacific Region International Toru Nakashizuka James E. Brumm Mizue Unno Hiroshi Kito Professor, Graduate School Former Executive Adviser, Managing Director, So-Tech President, University of of Life Sciences, Tohoku Mitsubishi International Consulting, Inc. Shizuoka University Corporation Takeshi Okada Yasuhito Hirota Representative Director, Chairperson Imabari Yume-Sports (Former Kaori Kuroda Member of the Board, head coach of the Japanese Executive Director, Peter D. Pedersen Executive Vice President, national soccer team) CSO Network Japan Co-founder, E-Square Inc. CSR & Environmental Affairs 102 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from President and CEO Special Features Finance and ESG Group/Business Groups Corporate Governance 104 Approaches to Corporate Governance Regional Initiatives and 108 Approaches to Internal Control System Human Resources 110 Message from the Chief Compliance Officer 112 Members of the Board and Corporate Auditors Sustainability 114 International Advisory Committee Corporate Governance Corporate Data MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 103 Approaches to Corporate Governance MC’s Corporate Governance System Supporting Sustainable Growth Basic Policy MC’s corporate philosophy is enshrined in the Three Corporate Principles (page 01). Through corporate activities rooted in the principles of fairness and integrity, MC strives to continuously raise corporate value. MC believes that by helping to enrich society, both materially and spiritually, it will also meet the expectations of shareholders, customers and all other stakeholders. In order to achieve these goals, MC recognizes strengthening corporate governance on an ongoing basis as its important subject concerning management as it is a foundation for ensuring sound, transparent and efficient management. MC, based on the Corporate Auditor System, is thus working to put in place a corporate governance system that is even more effective. This includes strengthening management supervision by appointing Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors who satisfy the conditions for Independent Directors or Independent Corporate Auditors, and establishing advisory bodies to the Board of Directors, in which the majority of members are Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors and other experts from outside MC. At the same time, MC uses the Executive Officer System, etc. for prompt and efficient decision-making and business execution. Corporate Governance Framework (As of July 1, 2015) General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment/Dismissal Appointment/Dismissal Determination of Determination of Appointment/ Remuneration Parameters Remuneration Parameters Dismissal Request Corporate Auditors Board of Directors (Board of Corporate Auditors) 9 Executive Directors Independent Auditors Audit/Report 2 Full-time Corporate Auditors Report Advice 5 Outside Directors 3 Outside Corporate Auditors Governance & Compensation Committee Appointment and Proposal for discussion of important managerial Accounting Supervision of Audit International Advisory Committee matters, and report on execution of operations audit Executive Officers Executive Structure Refer to page 108 Board of Directors The Board of Directors is responsible for making decisions concerning important management issues and overseeing business execution. In-house Directors utilize their wealth of experience of working within MC and Outside Directors utilize their practical, objective and professional perspectives to ensure appropriate decision-making and management oversight. Currently, the Board comprises 14 members, including 5 Outside Directors. The Board meetings are attended by 5 Corporate Auditors, 3 of whom are Outside Corporate Auditors. The composition of the Board of Directors and the policy and process for appointing nominated Directors are deliberated at the Governance & Compensation Committee, and then decided by the Board of Directors as follows. Composition of the Board of Directors and the Policy for several Directors are appointed from both within and outside MC with the depth of Appointing Nominated Directors experience and high levels of knowledge and expertise needed for fulfilling their To ensure MC’s decision-making and management oversight are appropriate for a duties. sogo shosha involved in diverse businesses and industries in a wide range of fields, More specifically, in addition to the Chairman of the Board and the President & 104 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from CEO, MC’s In-house Directors are appointed from Executive Officers responsible Matters Deliberated by the Board of Directors President and CEO for companywide management, corporate staff operations and other areas. Matters requiring a resolution by the Board of Directors in accordance with laws Outside Directors are appointed from those who possess a practical perspective of and regulations and the Articles of Incorporation and important matters concerning highly experienced officers and those who possess an objective and professional management are resolved by the Board of Directors. In particular, for acquisitions perspective with a deep insight on global developments and socio-economic trends. and disposals of shares, equity stakes and fixed assets, and investments and loans Special Features In principle, the total number of Directors is around 15, with one third or more involving loans and guarantees, the Board of Directors sets out monetary threshold being made up of Outside Directors. standards for each of various types of risk, such as credit risk, market risk and business investment risk (amounts do not exceed 1% of total assets and are set Process for Appointing Nominated Directors individually depending on the nature of the risk). Investments and loans that exceed Based on the above policy, the President & CEO proposes a list of nominated this monetary threshold are deliberated and resolved by the Board of Directors. Finance and ESG Directors, which is then deliberated at the Governance & Compensation Committee Furthermore, business execution other than these matters for resolution by and resolved by the Board of Directors before being presented at the Ordinary the Board of Directors is entrusted to Executive Officers in accordance with the General Meeting of Shareholders. allocation of duties decided by the Board of Directors for prompt and efficient business execution. Business is executed through the President, as the Chief Executive Officer, and the Executive Committee (held twice monthly), as a management decision-making body to take responsibility for business execution. Board of Directors’ Advisory Bodies Group/Business Groups MC also has a Governance & Compensation Committee and an International Advisory Committee as advisory bodies to the Board of Directors. These committees are made up mostly of Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors as well as other experts from outside MC. The Governance & Compensation Committee conducts continuous reviews of corporate governance-related issues at MC and also discusses the remuneration system for Directors and Corporate Auditors, including the policy for setting remuneration and appropriateness of remuneration levels for these corporate officers, and monitors operation of this system. The International Advisory Committee holds Regional Initiatives and discussions on management issues and offers proposals and advice to MC management from a global perspective. For details regarding each committee, please see pages 26 and 114. Board of Corporate Auditors Human Resources The Board of Corporate Auditors audits Directors’ decision-making process and their performance of duties according to the Companies Act and other laws and regulations, MC’s Articles of Incorporation and internal rules and regulations. In-house Corporate Auditors conduct audits from a perspective of their wealth of experience of working within MC, and Outside Corporate Auditors from a neutral and objective perspective, to ensure that management is sound. Currently the Board of Corporate Auditors Sustainability comprises 5 Corporate Auditors, 3 of whom are Outside Corporate Auditors. The composition of the Board of Corporate Auditors and the policy and procedure for appointment of nominated Corporate Auditors are deliberated by the Governance & Compensation Committee, and then, decided by the Board of Directors as follows. Composition of the Board of Corporate Auditors and the Details of the Duties, etc. of the (Board of) Corporate Auditors Policy for Appointing Nominated Corporate Auditors The Corporate Auditors hold regular meetings with MC’s Independent Auditors Corporate Governance To ensure MC’s sound business development and improve its social credibility and Internal Audit Department as the Board of Corporate Auditors. In addition, through audits, several Corporate Auditors are appointed from within and outside Corporate Auditors visit important offices in Japan and overseas to conduct audits MC with the depth of experience and high level of expertise needed for conducting and actively engage in dialogue with the Chairman of the Board, the President & audits. CEO and other corporate officers (Directors and Executive Officers) as part of their More specifically, In-house Corporate Auditors are appointed from those with efforts to accurately grasp the current state of management execution. The fullknowledge and experience in corporate management, finance, accounting, risk time Corporate Auditors actively gather information by attending important In-house management or other areas. Outside Corporate Auditors are appointed from those meetings aside from Board of Director meetings and holding discussions with with rich knowledge and experience across various fields. internal departments and through open channels of communication with people in In principle, the total number of Corporate Auditors is around 5, with more than the company. half their number being made up of Outside Corporate Auditors. In addition to conducting on-site audits and holding discussions with the Corporate Data corporate officers of respective companies, the full-time Corporate Auditors strive to create an environment conducive to auditing the corporate group by exchanging Process for Appointment of Nominated Corporate Auditors opinions during regular meetings with the Corporate Auditors of main subsidiaries Based on the above policy, the President & CEO consults with the Senior Corporate and affiliates. Auditor and creates a proposal for the appointment of nominated Corporate Moreover, the Board of Corporate Auditors creates opportunities to hold regular Auditors, which is then deliberated by the Governance & Compensation Committee discussions with respected individuals from outside MC. The knowledge gained and and approved by the Board of Corporate Auditors before being resolved by the external perspectives are put to good use in audit activities. Board of Directors and presented at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. Through these activities, the Board of Corporate Auditors audits Directors’ decision-making process and their performance of duties. By requesting improvements and providing advice as necessary, the Board of Corporate Auditors seeks to ensure MC’s healthy, sustained growth and contribute to the establishment of a corporate governance system that earns society’s trust. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 105 Selection Criteria for Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors To make the function of Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors stronger and more transparent, MC has set forth Selection Criteria for Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors as follows, after deliberation by the Governance & Compensation Committee, which is made up of a majority of Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors. Each of the 5 Outside Directors and 3 Outside Corporate Auditors satisfy the requirements for independent Directors and Corporate Auditors as stipulated by Japanese stock exchanges, such as the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and MC’s Selection Criteria for Outside Directors. Selection Criteria for Outside Directors Exchange, Inc., and whether the person concerned is currently any of the 1. Outside Directors are elected from among those individuals who have an eye following items (1) to (7) and whether they have been at any time in the past 3 for practicality founded on a wealth of experience as corporate executive fiscal years. officers, as well as an objective and specialist viewpoint based on extensive insight regarding global conditions and social and economic trends. Through (1) A major shareholder of MC (a person or entity directly or indirectly holding their diverse perspectives, Outside Directors help ensure levels of decision10% or more of the voting rights), or a member of business personnel of making and management oversight appropriate to the Board of Directors. such shareholder (*1). 2. To enable Outside Directors to fulfill their appointed task, attention is given (2) A member of business personnel of a creditor of MC exceeding the threshold to maintain their independency*; individuals incapable of preserving this set by MC (*2). independency in effect will not be selected to serve as Outside Directors. (3) A member of business personnel of a supplier or a customer of MC 3. MC’s operations span a broad range of business domains; hence there may exceeding the threshold set by MC (*3). be cases of conflict of interest stemming from business relationships with (4) A provider of professional services, such as a consultant, lawyer, or certified firms home to a corporate executive officer appointed as Outside Directors. public accountant, receiving cash or other financial benefits from MC, other MC appropriately copes with this potential issue through the procedural than directors’ or corporate auditors’ remuneration, where the amount exclusion of the director in question from matters related to the conflict of exceeds ¥10 million per fiscal year. interest, and by preserving a variety of viewpoints through the selection of (5) A representative or partner of MC’s independent auditor. numerous Outside Directors. (6) A person belonging to an organization that has received donations exceeding a certain amount (*4) from MC. (7) A person who has been appointed as an Outside Director or Outside Selection Criteria for Outside Corporate Auditors Corporate Auditor of MC for more than 8 years. 1. Outside Corporate Auditors are selected from among individuals who *1 A member of business personnel refers to a managing director, corporate possess a wealth of knowledge and experience across various fields that officer, executive officer, or other employee of a company. is helpful in performing audits. Neutral and objective auditing, in turn, will *2 Creditors exceeding the threshold set by MC refer to creditors to whom MC ensure sound management. owes an amount exceeding 2% of MC’s consolidated total assets. 2. To enable Outside Corporate Auditors to fulfill their appointed task, attention *3 Suppliers or customers exceeding the threshold set by MC refer to suppliers is given to maintain their independency*; individuals incapable of preserving or customers whose transactions with MC exceed 2% of MC’s consolidated this independency will not be selected to serve as Outside Corporate revenues. Auditors. *4 Donations exceeding a certain amount refer to donations of more than ¥20 million per fiscal year. (Note) Independency for the purpose of Selection Criteria for Outside If a person is still judged to be effectively independent despite one or more of Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors the above items (1) to (7) applying, MC will explain and disclose the reason To make a judgement of independence, MC checks if the person concerned at the time of their appointment as an Outside Director or Outside Corporate meets the conditions for independent directors and independent corporate Auditor. auditors as specified by stock exchanges in Japan such as the Tokyo Stock Board of Directors’ Office and Board of Corporate Auditors’ Office To ensure that the Directors and Corporate Auditors are able to perform their management supervision and audit functions adequately, the Board of Directors’ Office and the Board of Corporate Auditors’ Office have been established, and have been providing necessary information appropriately and in a timely manner for them to perform their duties. For Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors, the Board of Directors’ Office and the Board of Corporate Auditors’ Office provide Board of Directors’ meeting materials and explanations as well as related information before the Board of Directors’ meetings to ensure that they can participate in the discussion fully. The offices also provide an orientation to newly appointed Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors, as well as ongoing opportunities to understand the business of MC, including annual observation tours of subsidiaries and affiliates and opportunities for dialogue with the management. Furthermore, to enhance the management supervision function, MC holds meetings of the Governance & Compensation Committee, the President’s Performance Evaluation Committee and other bodies comprising a majority of Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors in their memberships, enhancing close cooperation between them. Policy for Setting Directors’ and Corporate Auditors’ Remuneration In line with the Basic Policy on Corporate Governance (page 104), MC has established a remuneration system for Directors and Corporate Auditors and related systems to ensure a sustainable increase in corporate value and strives to administer the system with a high degree of transparency. The basic policy, composition of remuneration, etc., and method for setting remuneration are as follows. Directors’ Remuneration provide further incentive and motivation to improve performance and a 1. In-house Directors sustainable corporate value, further align the Directors’ interests with those (1) Basic Policy of the shareholders and strengthen the link with business results. The level of A remuneration system for MC In-house Directors has been designed to remuneration is set by comparing levels of remuneration at other companies in 106 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from the same industry and other major Japanese companies of similar scale, and is option-based Remuneration and Reserved Retirement Remuneration, the 2010 also commensurate with performance. For In-house Directors who also serve as Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders approved a payment limit of ¥1.6 Executive Officers, the position as an Executive Officer is taken into account as billion per annum. Remuneration is paid within this remuneration limit subject to President and CEO one factor when setting Directors’ remuneration. resolution of the Board of Directors. The policy for setting remuneration, appropriateness of remuneration levels Meanwhile, Bonuses are subject to approval by the Ordinary General Meeting and operation of the remuneration system for In-house Directors are discussed of Shareholders every year given their strong linkage to MC’s net income. Special Features and monitored by the Governance & Compensation Committee. (2) Composition Corporate Auditors’ Remuneration The remuneration of In-house Directors consists of Directors’ Base 1. Basic Policy and Composition Remuneration, Individual Performance Bonus, Bonus, Stock-option-based The remuneration for Corporate Auditors is limited to monthly Corporate Auditors’ Remuneration and Reserved Retirement Remuneration. The details of each type Base Remuneration only, due to their role as an independent supervisory Finance and ESG of remuneration are explained as below. function for management. Corporate Auditors remuneration does not have a 2. Outside Directors performance-linked component. The basic policy and composition for remuneration for Outside Directors is to 2. Method for Setting Remuneration pay Directors’ Base Remuneration only, due to their role as an independent The monthly remuneration of Corporate Auditors was set at an upper limit of ¥15 supervisory function for management. Outside Directors’ remuneration does not million per month in total by resolution of the 2007 Ordinary General Meeting have a performance-linked component. of Shareholders. Corporate Auditors’ Base Remuneration is paid within this 3. Method for Setting Remuneration Group/Business Groups remuneration limit subject to discussions by the Corporate Auditors. Regarding Directors’ Base Remuneration, Individual Performance Bonus, StockIn-house Directors’ Remuneration Fixed/ Included within Form of Remuneration type Remuneration composition Variable remuneration limit payment (Note 2) (Note 1) Base An amount determined according to position, paid monthly Fixed Cash ○ Regional Initiatives and Remuneration* For Directors who also serve as Executive Officers, Individual Performance Bonuses are determined and paid on an individual basis after the President & CEO’s yearly performance assessment of each Director for the previous fiscal year. The assessment on the President & CEO’s performance is Individual Variable Human Resources Performance Bonus* deliberated by the President’s Performance Evaluation Committee, a subcommittee to the (Single year) Cash ○ Governance & Compensation Committee. The subcommittee comprises the Chairman, who also serves as the Chairman of the Governance & Compensation Committee, and members made up of Outside Directors and Outside Corporate Auditors. Bonuses are determined and paid on an individual basis after deciding whether or not Bonuses will — be paid and what the total amount will be based on the previous year’s consolidated earnings and (Paid upon resolution of other factors. Bonuses are distributed from earnings where MC achieves a level of earnings that Variable Sustainability Bonus Cash the Ordinary General leads to improved corporate value. Specifically, Bonuses are only paid when consolidated net income (Single year) Meeting of Shareholders (attributable to owners of MC) exceeds consolidated capital cost, and an upper limit is set for the each year) total amount to be paid. Stock options as remuneration are grants from the perspective of aligning Directors’ interests with Shares those of shareholders and creating value over the medium and long terms. Stock options cannot be Variable Stock-option-based (Stock Remuneration exercised for two years from the date they are granted. As a basic policy, In-house Directors cannot (Medium to long acquisition ○ sell shares, including shares acquired by exercising stock options, during their terms of office until term) rights) their shareholdings reach a certain level. Corporate Governance Reserved Retirement Remuneration is set aside in a certain amount every year as consideration for Reserved Retirement Remuneration the performance of duties, and the accumulated amount is calculated and paid in full upon Fixed Cash ○ retirement of a director by resolution of the Board of Directors. *Previously presented as “monthly remuneration.” From the fiscal year ended on March 31, 2015, the presentation is changed to classify the remuneration according to its composition. (Note 1) “Fixed” indicates a fixed payment amount and “Variable” indicates a payment amount that varies based on performance and other factors. “Single year” indicates amounts that correspond to previous fiscal year performance or individual performance assessment. “Medium to long term” is used for stock options as remuneration to indicate their role as a mediumto long-term incentive. (Note 2) “ ” indicates remuneration paid by a resolution of the Board of Directors within the ¥1.6 billion per annum limit approved by the 2010 Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. In-house Directors’ Remuneration Makeup Percentages Reserved Retirement Remuneration Corporate Data Fixed Remuneration Ratio: Approx. 50% Stock-option-based Base Remuneration Variable Remuneration Ratio: Approx. 50% Remuneration (Varies based on performance and other factors) Bonus Individual Performance Bonus MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 107 Approaches to Internal Control System Internal Control System (System for Ensuring Proper Business) MC, namely, the MC Group that includes its subsidiaries, is building and operating an internal control system, as indicated below, so as to ensure that business activities are conducted properly and in conformity with the law and its Articles of Incorporation. Efforts are ongoing to reform and improve this system. Internal Control Framework Corporate Governance Framework Executive Structure Cooperation among Corporate Auditors/ Internal Audit Dept./Independent Auditors President and CEO Internal Audit Dept. Executive Committee Main Internal Control-Related Committees Establish and inform about Disclosure Committee internal control-related systems and strategies Compliance Committee CSR & Environmental Affairs Committee Corporate Staff Section Investment Advisory Committee National Security Trade Management Committee, etc. Executive Organization (Business Groups, etc.) Refer to page 104 Efficient Business Execution The President and CEO delineates basic management policies for the MC Group Furthermore, the organizational chain of command is clearly laid out and authority and sets specific management goals. At the same time, the President and CEO is delegated to managers and staff of internal organizational bodies to the extent formulates management plans and oversees progress in achieving targets necessary to accomplish targets. These people are required to submit reports efficiently. The organization is realigned and resources are deployed as necessary regularly. so as to achieve management targets in the most efficient manner possible. Compliance Compliance, which is defined as acting in compliance with laws and regulations is also taking preventive and corrective measures such as offering any needed and in conformity with social norms, is regarded as a matter of the highest priority training on a consolidated basis regarding the various laws and regulations. in conducting business activities. MC has formulated a Code of Conduct for all Regarding the status of compliance, in addition to a framework for receiving officers and employees, which specifies basic matters in relation to compliance. reports from all officers and employees in internal organizations and subsidiaries Efforts are made to ensure that all officers and employees are familiar with the throughout the MC Group, MC has established an internal whistleblower system. Code of Conduct and that MC’s corporate philosophy is understood and practiced Through these structures and systems, MC identifies problems and shares throughout the entire MC Group. information. Regular reports are also made to the Board of Directors and to the To accomplish this, MC has built a group-wide compliance promotion framework Corporate Auditors on the status of compliance. Moreover, MC rigorously protects that includes the appointment of compliance officers in each organization and people making reports from internal organizations and subsidiaries to ensure that subsidiary by appointing the Chief Compliance Officer as a project manager. MC they do not suffer any disadvantage. Risk Management MC has designated categories of business activity risk corresponding to the department make decisions within the scope of their prescribed authority after details and scale of the MC Group’s businesses, such as credit, market, business analyzing and assessing the risk-return profile of each project in accordance with investment, country, compliance, legal, information management, environmental company-wide policies and procedures. Projects are executed and managed on an and natural disaster-related risks, and has specified departments responsible for individual basis in accordance with this approach. each category. Furthermore, MC also has in place policies, systems and procedures In addition to managing risk on an individual project basis, MC assesses risk for for managing risk on a consolidated basis, including by responding to new risks by the MC Group as a whole with respect to risks that are capable of being monitored immediately designating a responsible department to manage such risks. quantitatively and manages these risks properly, making reassessments as With respect to individual projects, personnel responsible for the applicable necessary. 108 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from Financial Reporting To ensure proper and timely disclosure in financial statements, MC has appointed For the internal control system governing financial reporting, MC conducts President and CEO personnel responsible for financial reporting and for preparing financial statements internal control activities and monitoring in accordance with the internal control in conformity with legal requirements and accounting standards. These financial system based on the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. MC develops statements are released after being discussed and confirmed by the Disclosure activities on a group-wide basis to ensure the effectiveness of internal controls. Special Features Committee. Ensuring Proper Business in Group Management MC has established internal rules and regulations concerning the management of MC strives to ensure proper business conduct by subsidiaries that conforms to Finance and ESG subsidiaries and specifies a department that is responsible for the oversight of each laws, the Articles of Corporation and internal regulations by sending Directors to subsidiary and affiliate. The person responsible in the specified department requires sit on their boards, executing joint venture agreements, exercising its voting rights the directors of the subsidiaries to report on matters regarding business execution and in other ways. Through various initiatives designed to sustain growth at each and quantitatively monitor business performance, management efficiency and other company through the efficient execution of business, MC aims to raise corporate operational aspects of each company every year. Efforts are also made to monitor value on a consolidated basis. qualitative issues such as compliance and risk management. Group/Business Groups Management and Storage of Information For information related to business activities, the person responsible for managing The responsible person retains, for a predetermined period, documents that business activities classifies information individually in accordance with its degree must be stored by law and information that MC specifies as important in terms of of importance. They also instruct users on the handling of this information. The aim internal management. For all other information, the responsible person determines is to ensure information security while promoting efficient administrative processing the necessity and period for storage of information and stores such information and the sharing of information. accordingly. Regional Initiatives and Auditing and Monitoring To more objectively review and evaluate business activities, MC conducts regular Human Resources audits of each organization and subsidiary through an internal audit organization. Corporate Auditors The Corporate Auditors attend and express opinions at meetings of the Board and procedures, and subsidiaries are also required to report if necessary, going of Directors and other important management meetings. In addition, the through the responsible department concerned or other channels. To raise the Sustainability Corporate Auditors gather information and conduct surveys, keeping channels of effectiveness of audits conducted by Corporate Auditors, an internal organization communication open with MC Directors, Senior Vice Presidents and employees, directly reporting to the Board of Corporate Auditors and personnel working only for directors and corporate auditors of subsidiaries, and others, who cooperate with Corporate Auditors are appointed to assist Corporate Auditors in carrying out their these efforts whenever necessary. Moreover, MC shall bear the necessary expenses duties so that they can quickly respond in providing such assistance. Mindful of the to ensure the effectiveness of auditing. need for independence, the opinions of Corporate Auditors are respected and other If there is a risk of a certain level of financial loss or a major problem, personnel factors taken into consideration when evaluating and assigning persons to assist Corporate Governance responsible in the department concerned are required to immediately report such them. matters to the Corporate Auditors in accordance with predetermined standards For more detailed information regarding corporate governance and the internal control system, refer to the Corporate Governance Report on the Company’s website. http://www.mitsubishicorp.com/jp/en/about/governance/pdf/governance_report_e.pdf Business Continuity and Disaster Preparedness Planning Corporate Data MC engages in rigorous crisis management on a consolidated basis, including (Reference) Formulation of BCP in the Event of a Large-Scale individual MC Group companies, in light of the increasing diversity and complexity Earthquake in Japan of risk that accompanies business expansion. Select prioritized operations (vital operations that must be restored A Business Continuity Plan (BCP) refers to an action plan formulated in advance quickly or for which stoppage is unacceptable), designate the personnel with the aim of preventing the stoppage of prioritized company operations or or staff required to perform these operations and formulate an restoring and restarting them in as little time as possible if they are interrupted by implementation structure and implementation methods the occurrence of an unexpected event such as a natural disaster or incident. MC Specify estimations of earthquake damage has formulated BCPs for different types of crises such as natural major disasters, Confirm contact points with important business suppliers and share new infectious diseases, international or political problems, and incidents. content of BCP MC will immediately initiate its own BCP in the event of such crises and work to, Determine safety management policies and thoroughly understand the at minimum, ensure the continuity of prioritized operations and to quickly restore situation of important suppliers and contractors operations. MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 109 Message from the Chief Compliance Officer We will continue to improve and reinforce compliance promotion activities and initiatives that instill an awareness of compliance in each and every officer and employee of MC as well as its subsidiaries and affiliated companies. Initiatives to Reinforce Compliance MC has long been engaged in upholding compliance based on the Three Corporate Principles, which constitute our corporate philosophy. MC established the Mitsubishi Corporation Code of Conduct and introduced the Compliance Officer system, which has laid a solid foundation for compliance. In addition, MC has focused on the introduction of compliance-related regulations and employee education in order to enable immediate response to the ever-changing laws and social climate. Recently, MC has actively adopted new initiatives such as holding Compliance Discussions at respective workplaces in an effort to reinforce awareness and knowledge of compliance. Strengthening Compliance on a Group-wide Basis MC is practicing compliance on a group-wide, global basis through the introduction of similar compliance-related regulations and systems in Group companies, the provision of support for the holding of various seminars and other measures. MC has put compliance as the major premise upon which we conduct all our corporate activities, and MC will continue its efforts to improve and reinforce effective compliance promotion activities and initiatives on a groupwide, global basis. Jun Yanai Member of the Board, Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer Importance of Compliance MC Internal Rules and Regulations The Three Corporate Principles Generally accepted Laws and Internal rules standards for regulations and regulations the conduct Corporate Standards of Conduct Code of Conduct of business 1. Aim of Corporate Business Activities Basic Rules for the 2. Fairness and Integrity in Corporate Organization and Business Activities Implementation of 3. Respect for Human Rights and Employees Compliance 4. Information Security and Disclosure Code of Prohibition against 5. Consideration for Environmental Issues Improper Payments or 6. Contribution to Society Other Types of Benefits MC defines compliance as observance of laws, rules, regulations, international standards and internal regulations, and respect for generally accepted standards for the conduct of business. Under the Three Corporate Principles, which constitute MC’s corporate philosophy, MC has the Corporate Standards of Conduct, which regulate the Company, and the MC Code of Conduct, which regulates all officers and employees. Various rules and regulations are formulated under this conceptual framework. 110 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from Compliance Framework President and CEO Mitsubishi Corporation President and CEO Appointment Compliance Committee Report Special Features Group CEO, Regional CEO Chief Compliance Officer Chairperson: Chief Compliance Officer Administration Office: Legal Dept. Compliance Administration Office Appointment Directive Report Compliance Officer Internal Whistleblower System Group Compliance Officer Compliance Mail Box and Hotline Finance and ESG Domestic Branch Compliance Officer Internal Audit Dept. Compliance Mail Box and Hotline Overseas Regional Compliance Officer Outside Legal Counsel Compliance Mail Box and Hotline Report Directive Report and Consultation Organization Heads (BU, Division, Department, Branch, etc.) Report and Consultation Directive Report and Consultation Group/Business Groups Employees Report Report and Subsidiaries and Affiliated Companies MC Group Consultation Outside Legal Counsel Compliance Immediate Manager Compliance Officer Mail Box and Hotline Report and Consultation Directive Report and Consultation Report and Consultation Employees Regional Initiatives and (Target: Registered MC Domestic Subsidiaries) Human Resources Chronology of Efforts to Strengthen Compliance An important aspect of compliance is to repeat compliance activities day in and day out at the frontlines of business operations. MC believes that such Sustainability repetition leads to corporate sustainability and enhanced corporate value. March 1998 Formulated Code of Prohibition against Improper Payments or Other Types of Benefits Formulated Code of Conduct September 2000 Introduced Compliance Officer post Corporate Governance November 2001 Established the administration office for the Compliance Committee April 2003 Started to require all officers and employees to sign a written commitment to the Code of Conduct Conducted a Compliance Awareness Survey January 2009 (Conducted at MC Group companies in July and every fiscal year thereafter) January 2010 Obtained a written commitment to the Code of Conduct and launched an e-learning program (conducted every fiscal year since) October 2010 Revised the Code of Prohibition against Improper Payments or Other Types of Benefits and related guidelines Corporate Data June 2011 Launched an e-learning program for MC Group companies (conducted every fiscal year since) 2013 Prepared and distributed the Compliance Case Study Q&A Booklet for MC Group companies in April and MC Group in November October 2013 Launched Compliance Discussions (conducted every fiscal year since) MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 111 Members of the Board and Corporate Auditors (As of July 1, 2015) Members of the Board Yorihiko Kojima Ken Kobayashi*1 Hideto Nakahara*1 2010 Chairman of the Board (present position) 2010 President and Chief Executive Officer 2011 Senior Executive Vice President (present position) 2004 President and Chief Executive Officer (present position) 2009 Global Strategy & Business Development, 1965 Joined Mitsubishi Corporation (MC) 1971 Joined MC Global Relations, International Economic Cooperation, Logistics Management (present position) 1973 Joined MC Takahisa Miyauchi*1 Shuma Uchino*1 Kazuyuki Mori*1 2013 Senior Executive Vice President (present position) 2013 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 2014 Executive Vice President, Regional Strategy 2009 Group CEO, Chemicals Group (present position) (present position) (Japan), General Manager, Kansai Branch 1975 Joined MC 1978 Joined MC (present position) 1977 Joined MC Kazuo Tsukuda*2 Ryozo Kato*2 Hidehiro Konno*2 2013 Senior Corporate Advisor, Mitsubishi Heavy 2009 Member of the Board, MC (present position) 2010 Member of the Board, MC (present position) Industries, Ltd. (present position) 2008 Retired from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of 2003 Chairman & CEO, Nippon Export and 2008 Member of the Board, MC (present position) Japan Investment Insurance (Resigned in July 2009) 1968 Joined Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. 1965 Joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan 2002 Retired from MITI 1968 Joined Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) Corporate Auditors Hideyuki Nabeshima Hiroshi Kizaki Eiko Tsujiyama*3 2014 Senior Corporate Auditor (full time) 2015 Corporate Auditor (full time) 2008 Corporate Auditor, MC (present position) (present position) (present position) 2003 Professor, Graduate School of Commerce, 1972 Joined MC 1981 Joined MC Waseda University (present position) 112 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from President and CEO *1 Indicates a representative director. *2 Indicates the fulfillment of the conditions for Outside Directors as Special Features provided for in Article 2, Item 15 of the Companies Act. Also indicates the fulfillment of the conditions for independent Directors as specified by the Tokyo Stock Exchange and other stock exchanges in Japan as well as Selection Criteria for Outside Directors specified by MC (See page 106 for Selection Criteria for Outside Directors specified by MC). Jun Yanai*1 Jun Kinukawa*1 Finance and ESG 2014 Chief Compliance Officer (present position) 2013 Senior Executive Vice President (present position) 2013 Senior Executive Vice President (present position) 2009 Group CEO, Metals Group (present position) 201 1 Group CEO, Energy Business Group (present position) 1975 Joined MC 1973 Joined MC Group/Business Groups Yasuhito Hirota*1 Regional Initiatives and 2014 Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications, Human Resources Corporate Administration, CSR & Environmental Affairs, Legal, Human Resources (present position) 1980 Joined MC Sustainability Sakie T. Fukushima*2 Akihiko Nishiyama*2 Corporate Governance 2013 Member of the Board, MC (present position) 2015 Member of the Board, MC (present position) 2010 President & Representative Director, G&S Global Advisors Inc. 2013 Adjunct Professor, Hitotsubashi University (present position) (present position) 2009 Chairman & Representative Director, Korn/Ferry International-Japan 2004 Professor, Dept. of International Liberal Arts, (Resigned July 2010) Tokyo Jogakkan College (Resigned March 2013) 1980 Joined Braxton International 1975 Joined Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd. (Resigned March 2015) *3 Indicates the fulfillment of the conditions for Outside Corporate Auditors as provided for in Article 2, Item 16 of the Companies Act. Also indicates the fulfillment of the conditions for independent Corporate Auditors as specified by the Tokyo Stock Exchange and other stock Corporate Data exchanges in Japan as well as Selection Criteria for Outside Corporate Auditors specified by MC (See page 106 for Selection Criteria for Outside Corporate Auditors specified by MC). Hideyo Ishino*3 Tadashi Kunihiro*3 2012 Corporate Auditor, MC (present position) 2012 Corporate Auditor, MC (present position) 2007 Retired Board of Audit of Japan Auditor, 1994 Attorney at Kunihiro Law Office The National Institute of Advanced Industrial (Presently T. Kunihiro & Co., Attorneys-at-Law) Science and Technology (Retired March 2011) (present position) 2004 Deputy Secretary General, Board of Audit of Japan 1986 Admitted to the Japan Bar 1972 Joined Board of Audit of Japan MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 113 International Advisory Committee International Advisory Committee: Purpose, Function and Recent news MC’s International Advisory Committee (IAC) has met once a year since it was established in 2001. The aim of the IAC is to strengthen the Board of Directors’ functions. Committee members offer advice and recommendations on management of MC’s global businesses from the perspective of enhancing governance, and on corporate strategy from an international standpoint. The committee members also report and exchange opinions on the geopolitical and economic conditions in their respective regions. In June 2014, George Yeo and Niall FitzGerald became members of the IAC in an effort to further enrich the advisory system. The fourteenth IAC meeting held in October 2014 involved discussions concerning such areas as progress in New Strategic Direction, economic conditions in emerging countries, new geopolitical threats, the situation in China, cyber security and human resources development. Members of International Advisory Committee (As of October 27, 2014) front row (from left) back row (from left) Dr. Herminio Blanco Mendoza Mr. Ratan N Tata Ryozo Kato Former Secretary of Trade & Industry (Mexico) Chairman, Tata Trusts (India) Outside Director 1985 Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Commerce and 1981 Chairman of Tata Industries, Ltd. Minoru Makihara Industrial Promotion 1991 Chairman of Tata Sons Limited Senior Corporate Advisor 1988 Chief of Negotiation of NAFTA Treaty 2012 Chairman Emeritus of Tata Sons Limited 1994 Secretary of Commerce and Industrial Promotion Mikio Sasaki (~ 2000) Mr. George Yeo Former Chairman Chairman, Kerry Logistics Network (Singapore) Senior Advisor to the Professor Joseph S Nye 1998 Ministers including the Ministry of Information and Board Harvard University Distinguished Service Professor and the Arts, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Trade and Sultan of Oman Professor (U.S.A.) Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Chairman of IAC 1993 Chairman of the National Intelligence Council 2012 Chairman, Kerry Logistics Network Yorihiko Kojima 1994 Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Chairman of the Board Secretary Affairs Mr. Jaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala II 1995 Dean of Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government Chairman and CEO, Ayala Corporation (the Philippines) Ken Kobayashi (~ 2004) President and CEO 1994 President & CEO, Ayala Corporation University Distinguished Service Professor 2006 Chairman & CEO, Ayala Corporation Hidehiro Konno Outside Director Sir John Bond Mr. Niall FitzGerald, KBE Chairman, KKR Asia Ltd. (U.K.) Former CEO and Chairman, Unilever (Ireland) 1998 Group Chairman of HSBC Holdings 1996 CEO and Chairman, Unilever (~ 2004) 2006 Chairman of Vodafone Group 2004 Chairman of Reuters (~ 2011) 2008 Chairman of KKR Asia Ltd. 2008 Chairman of Hakluyt & Co. (~ 2013) 2011 Chairman of Xstrata plc (~ 2013) 114 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from A Letter from IAC Member President and CEO Special Features Dear Partners and Friends of Mitsubishi Corporation It is an honor for me to write this letter as a new member of the International Advisory Committee. MC’s success is Finance and ESG dependent on its ability to sense changes in the world and move with economic trends. It is able to do this because of a strong corporate culture which embeds its officers in local environments while fostering a high degree of cooperation and information-sharing within the organization. Being simultaneously local and global enables MC to add value in different parts of the world, benefiting host communities, staff and shareholders. Group/Business Groups China’s dramatic re-emergence is transforming the global landscape. India is also growing sustainably and will overtake China in population within twenty years. On all dimensions – political, economic, cultural and military – the world is becoming multipolar. President Xi Jinping’s promotion of a New Silk Road for the 21st century can help a large part of the world develop on the basis of cooperation and peaceful competition. It is like an Internet which requires participants to adhere to certain rules and protocols. It is open to all and the greater the number of participants, the more each will be able to derive benefit. It is voluntary; no one is forced to join; anyone is free to leave. Everyone can keep his own internal operating system. Inherent in Regional Initiatives and the Silk Road idea is the acceptance of diversity. If globalization threatens diversity, it will be fiercely opposed. But globalization will create a certain convergence in human society because it is natural for human beings to learn from one another. Thus Human Resources towns and cities along the old Silk Road like Dunhuang, Malacca and Venice were centers of learning and sharing. It is natural that different regions have different perspectives of the new Silk Road. East Asia’s perspective must be different Sustainability from that of Southeast, South and West Asia. For Europe, going back to the Roman Empire, the Silk Road is not a new idea. For Africa, North and South America, it may be. For North America, there were analogues in the fur trade of the 17th and 18th centuries and the Yankee clipper trade of the 19th century. For South America, there was a silk road which included spices and silver, controlled by Iberians from the time of Magellan and Vasco da Gama. For Africa, there was a hint of it during the Corporate Governance voyages of the Ming Admiral Zhenghe in the early 15th century. One way to look at MC’s future is the role it will play in the new Silk Road of the 21st century. It is well placed to ride the trends which are gathering force in different parts of the world. Interacting with MC’s staff, I can sense an excitement about what the future holds for them and for the Corporation, and feel proud to be associated with their endeavors. Yours sincerely, Corporate Data Mr. George Yeo Chairman, Kerry Logistics Network MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 115 Global Network (As of July 1, 2015) Including offices in Japan, MC has more than 200 offices and subsidiaries, and develops business in collaboration with over 600 group companies in approximately 90 countries around the world. Middle East & Central Asia East Asia Europe & Africa Japan Asia & Oceania Mitsubishi Corporation (Head Office) Domestic Network Overseas Network MC’s Regional CEOs * Locations of offices and subsidiaries are marked. (excluding project offices and annex offices in Japan) Head Office Network (Location of MC Operations) Tokyo Japan Overseas (Number of offices: 29) (Number of offices and subsidiaries: 192) Including 18 annex offices Including 34 project offices North America Latin America Europe & Africa Sapporo Osaka New York Guatemala City London Sofia Sendai Takamatsu San Francisco Panama City Madrid Moscow Seattle Quito Paris Vladivostok Nagoya Hiroshima Silicon Valley Lima Brussels Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk Niigata Fukuoka Los Angeles La Paz Amsterdam Kiev Toyama Naha Houston Bogotá Düsseldorf Johannesburg Washington, D.C. Santiago Frankfurt Dakar Shizuoka Dallas Caracas Berlin Casablanca Pittsburgh Puerto Ordaz Milan Abidjan Boston Asunción Oslo Algiers Tucson Buenos Aires Prague Lagos Vancouver São Paulo Stockholm Tunis Toronto Rio de Janeiro Warsaw Maputo Victoria Belo Horizonte Bucharest Nairobi Mexico City Santos Belgrade Addis Ababa Querétaro Athens Dar es Salaam 116 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Message from President and CEO Number of Consolidated Subsidiaries and Equity-method Affiliates by Operating Segment (As of March 31, 2015) Special Features No. of Consolidated Subsidiaries and Equity-method Affiliates Global Environmental & Infrastructure Business Group 59 Industrial Finance, Logistics & Development Group 87 Finance and ESG Energy Business Group 92 Metals Group 26 Machinery Group 124 Chemicals Group 52 Living Essentials Group 111 Business Service Group 7 North America Group/Business Groups Corporate Staff Section 12 Regional Subsidiaries 44 Total 614 · Number of employees at parent company and all of its consolidated subsidiaries: 71,994 · Number of employees at parent company alone: 5,637 · Companies affiliated with subsidiaries are not included in the number of consolidated subsidiaries and equity-method affiliates. Regional Initiatives and Head Office Human Resources Latin America Sustainability Corporate Governance Middle East & Central Asia East Asia Asia & Oceania Istanbul Amman Ulaanbaatar Karachi Haadyai Noumea Ankara Riyadh Beijing Islamabad Kuala Lumpur Melbourne Baku Jeddah Chengdu Lahore Bintulu Sydney Corporate Data Ashgabat Al Khobar Guangzhou New Delhi Singapore Perth Tashkent Basra Shenzhen Mumbai Phnom Penh Brisbane Astana Doha Wuhan Kolkata Vientiane Mount Waverley Almaty Abu Dhabi Tianjin Chennai Hanoi Auckland Dubai Muscat Xiamen Colombo Ho Chi Minh City Seoul Cairo Kuwait Nanjing Dhaka Jakarta Kwangyang Tel Aviv Tehran Qingdao Yangon Surabaya Pohang Ramallah Shanghai Nay Pyi Taw Bandar Seri Begawan Dalian Bangkok Manila Shenyang Hong Kong Taipei MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 117 General Information (As of March 31, 2015) Share Data (1) Authorized share capital: 2,500,000,000 shares of common stock (2) Number of shares issued and number of shareholders as of March 31, 2015 Number of shares Number of issued shareholders As of March 31, 2014 1,653,505,751 305,210 Change −29,469,000 −40,480 As of March 31, 2015 1,624,036,751 264,730 Principal Shareholders Shareholding (Rounded down to the nearest thousand shares) Number of shares Shareholding Name (thousands) (%) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 94,850 5.85 Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. 74,534 4.59 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 67,273 4.15 Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company 64,846 4.00 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Limited Account, 32,276 1.99 Retirement Benefit Trust Account) The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. 25,620 1.58 STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 505223 25,374 1.56 The Nomura Trust and Banking Co., Ltd. (Pension Benefit Trust Account, 22,088 1.36 Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation) THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON SA/NV 10 21,463 1.32 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 9) 19,810 1.22 Notes: 1. In addition to the above, the Company has treasury stock of 3,591,047 shares. 2. Shareholding was computed excluding total treasury stock and to two decimal points. Number of Shareholders (Number of shareholders) 332,187 300,000 298,301 305,210 281,707 253,316 200,000 188,925 264,730 158,521 233,034 100,000 161,590 70,000 60,000 65,298 50,000 05.3 06.3 07.3 08.3 09.3 10.3 11.3 12.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 Shareholder Composition (Shareholding Ratio) Financial Securities Other Foreign Individuals and Public sector institutions companies companies companies, etc. others Year ended March 2015 39.9% 3.3% 8.7% 31.8% 16.3% 0.0% Year ended March 2010 39.7% 1.6% 8.1% 35.5% 15.1% 0.0% Year ended March 2005 48.3% 0.7% 11.9% 30.0% 9.1% 0.0% (One Unit Stock /100 shares) Securities Foreign Individuals and Public sector Financial institutions companies Other companies companies, etc. others Total Year ended March 2015 2 6,477,513 531,424 1,408,520 5,167,434 2,650,389 16,235,282 Year ended March 2010 561 6,729,628 269,655 1,376,247 6,027,557 2,557,435 16,961,083 Year ended March 2005 2 7,572,158 104,710 1,865,911 4,702,818 1,421,727 15,667,326 118 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Executive Officers Message from (As of July 1, 2015) President and CEO President and Chief Executive Kazuyuki Mori* Shinichi Nakayama Tsutomu Takanose Officer Regional Strategy (Japan) Division COO, Commodity Chemicals Head of Living Essentials Group for China (Concurrently) Div. B Ken Kobayashi* General Manager, Kansai Branch Shinya Yoshida Masaji Santo General Manager, Corporate Strategy & Special Features Kazushi Okawa Division COO, Infrastructure Business Div. Planning Dept. Group COO, Machinery Group (Industrial Senior Executive Vice Presidents Machinery Business, Ship & Aerospace Mitsuyuki Takada Katsuhiro Ito Business) Managing Director & CEO, Mitsubishi Senior Assistant to Corporate Functional Hideto Nakahara* Australia Ltd. Officers (General Administration of Global Strategy & Business Development, Yasuhito Hirota* (Concurrently) the Section) Global Relations, International Economic Corporate Communications, Corporate Managing Director, Mitsubishi New Finance and ESG Cooperation, Logistics Management Administration, CSR & Environmental Zealand Ltd. Mitsumasa Icho Affairs, Legal, Human Resources (Concurrently) General Manager, Risk Management Dept. Jun Yanai* Deputy Regional CEO, Asia & Oceania Group CEO, Energy Business Group Hajime Hirano (Oceania) Takajiro Ishikawa (Concurrently) Group COO, Energy Business Group Division COO, Asset Management Chief Compliance Officer (E&P Business, Natural Gas Business) Kenichi Koyanagi Business Div. (Concurrently) General Manager, Nagoya Branch Jun Kinukawa* Division COO, Natural Gas Business Div. Yasuteru Hirai Group/Business Groups Group CEO, Metals Group Yoichi Shimoyama Deputy Regional CEO, East Asia Hiroshi Sakuma Deputy Regional CEO, East Asia (Concurrently) Takahisa Miyauchi* Group CEO, Global Environmental & (Concurrently) President, Mitsubishi Corporation Group CEO, Chemicals Group Infrastructure Business Group President, Mitsubishi Corporation (Hong (Shanghai) Ltd. Kong) Ltd. (Concurrently) Seiji Shiraki Yuichi Hiromoto General Manager, Shanghai Office Regional CEO, Latin America Group COO, Industrial Finance, Logistics & Akira Murakoshi (Concurrently) Development Group (Industrial Finance, President, Mitsubishi Company General Manager, Mitsubishi Corporation Real Estate Development & Construction) (Thailand), Ltd. (Shanghai) Ltd. Wuhan Branch (Concurrently) (Concurrently) Executive Vice Presidents Division COO, Industrial Finance Div. President, Thai-MC Company, Limited Noboru Tsuji Regional Initiatives and (Concurrently) Division COO, Motor Vehicle Business Div. Toru Moriyama Kanji Nishiura General Manager, Haadyai Office, Regional CEO, Asia & Oceania Group COO, Metals Group Mitsubishi Company (Thailand), Ltd. Norikazu Tanaka (Concurrently) Division COO, Mineral Resources Human Resources Eiichi Tanabe Haruki Hayashi General Manager, Haadyai Office, Thai-MC Investment Div. Group CEO, Industrial Finance, Logistics & Regional CEO, Europe & Africa Company, Limited Development Group (Concurrently) Fuminori Hasegawa Managing Director, Mitsubishi Corporation Koichi Kitamura Division COO, Petroleum Business Div. Shigeaki Yoshikawa International (Europe) Plc. General Manager, Machinery Group Regional CEO, Middle East & Central Asia Administration Dept. Yutaka Kyoya Division COO, Living Essential Sustainability Yasuyuki Sugiura Masakazu Sakakida Resources Div. Regional CEO, North America Senior Vice Presidents Chairman & Managing Director, Mitsubishi (Concurrently) Corporation India Private Ltd. Tetsuji Nakagawa President, Mitsubishi Corporation Yasuhiko Kitagawa (Concurrently) Division COO, New Energy & Power (Americas) General Manager, Global Strategy & Deputy Regional CEO, Asia & Oceania Generation Div. Business Development Dept. (South Asia) Shuma Uchino* Hidenori Takaoka Chief Financial Officer Kenji Yasuno Hiroshi Nakagawa General Manager, Energy Business Group President Director, TRI PETCH ISUZU Corporate Governance Division COO, Ship & Aerospace Div. CEO Office Toshimitsu Urabe SALES COMPANY LIMITED Group CEO, Business Service Group Hidemoto Mizuhara Noriyuki Tsubonuma President, Mitsubishi International Kazuyuki Masu Chairman & CEO, MITSUBISHI Kozo Shiraji Corporation General Manager, Corporate CORPORATION RTM INTERNATIONAL Group CEO, Machinery Group (Concurrently) Accounting Dept. PTE. LTD. EVP, Mitsubishi Corporation (Americas) (Concurrently) Shunichi Matsui Takeshi Hagiwara Division COO, Regional CEO, East Asia Junichi Iseda Division COO, Commodity Chemicals Div. A Mineral Resources Trading Div. (Concurrently) Chief Regional Officer, Indonesia President, Mitsubishi Corporation China (Concurrently) Keisuke Hoshino Yasushi Okahisa Co., Ltd. President, PT. Mitsubishi Corporation Chief Executive Officer, MITSUBISHI General Manager, Industrial Finance, (Concurrently) Indonesia DEVELOPMENT PTY LTD Logistics & Development Group CEO Office President, Mitsubishi Corporation China Corporate Data Commerce Co., Ltd. Kazuyasu Misu Koichi Wada Division COO, Global Consumer Deputy Division COO, Natural Gas Takehiko Kakiuchi Business Div. Business Div. Group CEO, Living Essentials Group * Represents members of the Board MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 119 Corporate Information (As of March 31, 2015) Mitsubishi Corporation American Depositary Receipts: Date Established: July 1, 1954 Ratio (ADR:ORD): 1:2 (Date Registered: April 1, 1950) Exchange: OTC (Over-the-Counter) Symbol: MSBHY Capital: ¥204,446,667,326 CUSIP: 606769305 Shares of Common Stock Issued: Depositary: 1,624,036,751 The Bank of New York Mellon Head Office: 101 Barclay Street, Mitsubishi Shoji Building New York, NY 10286, U.S.A. 3-1, Marunouchi 2-chome, Telephone: (201) 680-6825 Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 100-8086, Japan U.S. toll free: 888-269-2377 (Registered address of the Company) (888-BNY-ADRS) Telephone: +81-3-3210-2121 URL: http://www.adrbnymellon.com Marunouchi Park Building 6-1, Marunouchi 2-chome, Contact: Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 100-8086, Japan Investor Relations Department, Number of Employees: Mitsubishi Corporation Parent company: 5,637 3-1, Marunouchi 2-chome, Consolidated: 71,994 Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 100-8086, Japan Independent Auditors: Telephone: +81-3-3210-2121 Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC/ Tohmatsu Tax Co. Internet Number of Shareholders: 264,730 Mitsubishi Corporation’s latest integrated reports, financial reports and news releases are available on the Investor Stock Listings: Relations homepage. Tokyo, Nagoya, London URL: http://www.mitsubishicorp.com/jp/en/ir/ Transfer Agent for Shares and Special Accounts, Account Management Institution: Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Corporate Agency Division 10-11, Higashisuna 7-chome, Koto-ku, Tokyo 137-8081, Japan Telephone: 0120-232-711 (within Japan) Forward-Looking Statements This integrated report contains forward-looking statements about Mitsubishi Corporation’s future plans, strategies, beliefs and performance that are not historical facts. They are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industries in which Mitsubishi Corporation operates and beliefs and assumptions made by management. As the expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, they may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Mitsubishi Corporation, therefore, wishes to caution readers not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Furthermore, Mitsubishi Corporation undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or other developments. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions mentioned above include, but are not limited to, commodity prices; exchange rates and economic conditions; the outcome of pending and future litigation; and the continued availability of financing, financial instruments and financial resources. 120 MITSUBISHI CORPORATION INTEGRATED REPORT 2015 Printed in Japan
