COP REPORT 2010‐2014 Laxmi Wood Craft Udhyog (LWCU) Maharajganj, Kathmandu Submitted to the UN Global Compact 1. Introduction Laxmi Wood Craft Udhyog (LWCU), founded in 1982, is the first button factory in Nepal. It is also the first industry in Nepal to produce handicraft items from bones and horns of domestic animals, particularly buffalo. When Laxmi Sharma founded, LWCU the concept of using bone and horn to produce buttons had not been enter in Nepal. LWCU developed its own technology to make tools and hand‐operated machines needed for handmade production. Since then, LWCU has created more than 10 thousand styles of buttons, from simple round ones to exclusive animal designs. 1.1 About Laxmi Sharma: Laxmi Sharma is a first women tempo driver in Nepal as well in the South‐Asia. She has been producing buttons and other handicraft since 32 years and introducing Nepali arts and handicraft through buttons around the world. She had hardly attended 3 days in School but she can speak many languages very fluently. However, she belongs to one of the backward ethnic group, her father belongs to the Magar and mother belongs to Tamag ethnic group. Since establishment of the LWCU, he has provided employment opportunity to over 4 thousand people through her industry. The same number of people became skillful and trained in making buttons, weaving Dhaka and other handicrafts production. Many skilled workers now established their own business and handicraft production. Laxmi Sharma is a founder and currently chairperson of the Kathmandu Animal Treatment (KAT) Centre. KAT Centre is one of the renowned social organization that works for the animal rights especially dog and other domestic animals. Many national and international organizations and governments has award Ms. Sharma for her social services and as a successful women entrepreneur in Nepal. 1.2 Current Situation of LWCU: LWCU is running in 30th year of its establishment as a typical Nepali industry using local human resource and raw materials. It has provided skilled training with training allowance and accommodation to the participants over four thousand people. LWCU has special policy of selecting participants to the training; including marginalized community, minority ethnic/endogenous people, disabled people, x‐ leprosy survivor, and abnormal people from the various remote and backward region of Nepal. LWCU has been sending its products in more than a dozen countries around the world. As other Nepalese industries and businesses, the LWCU has also affected by the decade long armed conflict and political instability. In the back force of political parties, it's workers demanded unlawful demand and benefits from the industry. While LWCU could not give them such benefits and fulfill their demand, workers disturbed to industry to run smoothly and later on, they went to the court. Unfortunately, factory had closed for six months totally and still the case is under prosecution at the Supreme Court. Due to the irresponsible government with trade and business sector, there had huge lost in economic sector, similarly, LWCU has also lost business of millions dollars during the period of last 15 years. However, political situation for business and industries has not improved yet. As all Nepalese, we have also been waiting the political consensus in making new constitution that is the only hope to regain business in Nepal again. 2. Social Services of LWCU LWCU is not only a profit making industry, despite that it has been spending up 15 percent of its profit in social services. Since its establishment it has been supported many helpless people for saving their life and opening windows for their survival, you may look back to our previous reports. Chairperson Laxmi Sharma, herself is also earning from other sources. She is delivering lecture in various business studies, selling paintings, song albums, and books. She has been spending her personal earning also in social services. Many children who were helpless and orphan, LWCU has provided support to shelter, study, and career development. This report includes the activities conducted during the period of 2010‐2014. Due to facing several workers' and other political problem by LWCU, and due the health problem of our communication officer, as he has been suffering from cancer, it became unable to report to the UN Global Compact on timely. 3. Activities Conducted: 3.1 Documentary Production 1. Prepared a documentary on Beggar of Kathmandu and surrounding: This documentary has aimed to use as a tool of advocacy to aware government and citizen to manage bagger problem of Kathmandu and throughout the country. LWCU has been initiating to reduce beggaring and concern problem. 2. Documentary on Mahapuja Culture of celebrating self‐respect as being human Production of this documentary is to preserve culture and value of customs. Such customs and culture help to introduce these social customs to the future generation. 3. Documentary This is a Democracy This documentary is about the democracy and industry. 3. 2 Album Released Laxmi Sharma has released an album of nationalist songs and the royalty of this album is dedicated to social welfare activities. 3.3 Educational and guardianship Support: LWCU has been supporting many helpless children and street children. Suraj Basnet is orphan and helpless boy. He did not find people to be guardian in taking Citizenship certificate. Laxmi Sharma became his guardian for providing citizenship. Now he is doing professional job. Similarly, Manzil Lama and Monika Lama‐brother and Sister, both were provided shelter and support in education. Now they are in Morocco and earning very well. Similarly, LWCU has been supporting to two children in their study at SOS. 3.4Contribution to the Kathmandu Animal Treatment Centre (KAT Centre) LWCU has been supporting financially and technically to the Kathmandu Animal Treatment Centre (KAT Centre). Founder of LWCU is the chairperson of the KAT Centre, so that LWCU has been providing financial support, goods, and kinds as well. KAT Centre have been managed difficult street dog problems and eliminated rabies through Animal Birth Control (ABC) and widespread rabies vaccinations. KAT Centre is also advocating for the animal's rights and violence on women. 3.5Contribution to Make first Women Movie Director Ms. Suchitra Shrestha is a journalist, later she tried to be film director. She proposed to the LWCU to support her financial and other logistics for being the first women movie director in Nepal. LWCU has provided financial support to her and she directed the film Prem‐Youdha . Now, it is our great achievement that Suchitra is the first film director. 3.6Continue publishing Successful Dream Successful Dream has been publishing in Nepali as named on Safal Sapana has been publishing from LWCU. This magazine released the information and education on environment protection, culture, religion, and cultural heritages. The contents of the Safal Sapana are arts, crafts, culture, rituals, temples, and social‐cultural heritages. We believe that we have been contributing to preserve and project heritage of Nepali culture and society.
