Hilding Anders COP 2014 October 2015 Hilding Anders is the leading bed manufacturer in Europe and Asia, with headquarters in Malmö, Sweden. What started as a family business in 1939, has grown to into a company with almost 7,000 colleagues in over 40 countries. Through selected core brands and private label concepts, we’re able to offer beds and mattresses for all needs, and bring a good night’s sleep to people around the world. hildinganders.com 4 November 2015 Scope of reporting • Includes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment • Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption • Includes a measurement of outcomes Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Hilding Anders International reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Christer Åberg CEO & President Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals 2011 was the year where we have overhauled our entire corporate governance set up including all relevant policies using the Ten Global Compact principles as our starting point. In 2012 we have started a group wide implementation program. Implementation During 2012 we have started the company wide initiative ONE Hilding Anders focusing on Visual Identity, Corporate Governance and Performance Management. The training material includes all headlines of the UN Global Compact, namely Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti2 4 November 2015 Corruption. The process was kicked off late 2012 and is continuing throughout 2013 in 19 countries Europe, Russia and Asia. In 2013 the process has continued and been completed. Measurement of outcomes are assessed both systematically as part of our HR department follow up system as well as ad hoc by Group top management when visiting sites. Outcome and issues are put on the table as part of Group general management meetings We further follow-up with our business regions in the quarterly meetings and in an evaluation report to the Board of Directors of the Group. Labour Assessment, policy and goals 2011 was the year where we have overhauled our entire corporate governance set up including all relevant policies using the Ten Global Compact principles as our starting point. 2012 has been the year where the policies were implemented on Group level, the past year saw a continuation of the last years’ steps. Implementation Health & Safety issues are highly prioritized is on the agenda of all supply chain meetings (country, region and group). The operation manual is fully implemented at all major sites. Lost time injuries and near misses is followed by Group VP Supply Chain and Regional Supply Chain managers Measurement of outcomes Returning to our Whistleblower system that was set up in 2012; we received one complaint during the year from Croatia that was handled, settled and solved. Environment Assessment, policy and goals 2011 has been the year where we have overhauled our entire corporate governance set up including all relevant policies using the Ten Global Compact principles as our starting point. During 2012 we took the next step including energy consumption in the scope. Implementation In 2013/14 additional focus has been put towards our carbon dioxide foot print. Several investigations have been carried through (road map optimization) and relevant measures taken for reducing total mileage from our warehouses to customers. In addition, we have changed our car policy and put maximum emission target (130g/km) on our company car fleet, comprising 300 cars. The changes are gradually implemented upon renewal of the car leasing contract. 3 4 November 2015 Measurement of outcomes Outcome is followed “continuously” and a continuous improvement program is in place. Additional central resources has been added to the Group Supply Chain organization, hence creating additional potential for both continue and accelerate the in-house activities but also for initiating additional initiatives in cooperation with Group suppliers Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals 2011 was the year where we have overhauled our entire corporate governance set up including all relevant policies using the Ten Global Compact principles as our starting point. 2012 has been the year where we have taken further action and the past year served to nurture the topic in the organization. Implementation Regional have signed corporate governance documents including Business Compliance, Delegation Letter, Mutual Compliance Agreement with suppliers. Local trainings have been held in 2013 and are part of new managers’ introduction program that is available on the Group intranet in major local languages. Measurement of outcomes There are two ways of measuring the outcome of our approach: one is that Corporate Governance issues are very much on the agenda of our business meetings and thus get the attention they deserve. Secondly, the Whistleblower system will allow the organisation to challenge management to improve the organisation further. 4
