UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 Human rights & labour Environment Anti-corruption MISSION To develop reliable waste water and stormwater management, tailored to our customers’ requirements, with respect for those around us and the environment. UN GLOBAL COMPACT 3 ABOUT AQUAFIN O n a daily basis, over 1,000 employees at Aquafin work on the development and management of the infrastructure for the treatment of domestic waste water in Flanders. The company was established in 1990 by the Flemish Region. Over a period of 25 years, the treatment level in Flanders has risen from barely 30% to over 80%. Aquafin collects the domestic waste water from the municipal sewers in collector sewers and transports it to treatment plants, where it is processed in accordance with EU and Flemish standards. It is Aquafin’s responsibility to ensure the optimum operation and maintenance of the infrastructure in which the region has invested. Aquafin also offers the same services for the municipal sewer system. In all we do, we want to create real value for society and the natural environment. Therefore, we also want to help our customers deal with stormwater differently, by making space for it in public areas. Starting with the design, we pay attention to the entire lifecycle of the infrastructure, continuing to keep a close eye on its operation once it is up and running. Smart energy consumption, recovery of raw materials from waste water and reducing emissions in the water treatment process are central to all our activities. Based on the expertise we have built up over the years, Aquafin has become a much sought-after partner in research projects aimed at implementing the EU Water Framework Directive, both in Belgium and abroad. 4 UN GLOBAL COMPACT FOREWORD T he goal of Aquafin’s core business is to create added value for society. The development and sustainable management of the treatment infrastructure enable more and more domestic waste water to be treated, thus reducing the chance of society suffering through the failure of the infrastructure. Our specialist local knowledge forms the basis for a broad view of well-functioning water treatment areas. We also aim to carry out our activities as sustainably as possible throughout all our business processes. Every year, we report on this in the “Corporate Social Responsibility” section of our annual report. In addition, we keep an eye on global issues around water. Water and sanitation are human rights. For this reason, through the “Corporate Social Responsibility” programme, Aquafin supports projects in this area in the South, led by Protos and Young Water Solutions. In the case of Young Water Solutions, we provide technological as well as financial support. These projects are initiated and carried out by local young persons supported by GoodPlanet. Experts from Aquafin advise the young person directly, thereby making a truly valuable contribution to the project. In this way, we generate engagement among our staff and work together to create a better world. Luc Bossyns Managing Director COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 5 AQUAFIN AND THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Human rights & labour Safety is a basic right under European and Belgian > Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect legislation. Aquafin aims to play a leading role in fostering the protection of internationally proclaimed human and promoting safety awareness among its employees and rights. technical partners and on construction sites. It supplies the > Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that necessary tools for this through various channels including they are not complicit in human rights abuses. posters, training courses, e-learning, guidelines and ergotools. > Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Internally, safety instructions are not only transmitted labour. through the hierarchical line, but also directly by the health > Principle 5: Businesses should support the and safety officers from the Health and Safety Department. effective abolition of child labour. Along with general themes, the information sessions organised by them also cover lessons learnt from accidents and near misses. In 2014, we recorded 24 accidents at work, in line with the figure for the previous year. As a company incorporated under Belgian law, Aquafin is subject to Belgian social legislation. Protecting human Externally, Aquafin encourages its technical partners to rights, banning forced and child labour these are work safely by informing and raising awareness, but also fundamental principles of Belgian and European social by making safety a criterion for the “Minder Hinder” (Less legislation. In complying with Belgian legislation, Aquafin Nuisance) award. From 2016, it will even play a role in the respects these 4 principles since its establishment. awarding of contracts. 6 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Environment > Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. > Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. As prescribed by Belgian law, Aquafin has a Works Council and a Health and Safety Committee with equal representation. The employee representatives represent In Flanders, Aquafin is responsible for the development the various categories of employees: white collar, and management of the infrastructure for the treatment executives and young workers (no one has blue-collar of domestic waste water. We also offer these services for status at Aquafin). Employees are free to decide which the municipal system. trade union to join, if any. Both the Works Council and the Health and Safety Committee meet on a regular basis. The waste water we discharge after treatment in a waterThe Works Council met 13 times in 2014, the Health and course must comply with the Flemish standards that are Safety Committee 11 times. The minutes of these meetings even more rigorous than the European standards. In 2014, are accessible to all employees. The well-being and 99.7% of the waste water treatment plants complied with satisfaction survey the company organised, was an all of the standards. important topic through the year. All critical elements of our waste water treatment plants and pumping stations are monitored constantly by alarms. Online controls enable the treatment process to be > Principle 6: Businesses should support the adjusted very quickly if required. elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation The Flemish Environment Agency audits Aquafin’s environmental performance. To measure the performance of the treatment infrastructure which we manage on behalf of the Flemish Region, we together with the Flemish As required by Belgian legislation, Aquafin does not Environment Agency have devised a set of ecological discriminate between people on the basis of ethnic or indicators which are reviewed on an annual basis. Of the social origin, gender, age, sexual orientation, political or 459 incidents we reported to the Flemish Environment religious beliefs or whether or not they are members of Agency last year, 291 had an ecological impact. a trade union. In view of the high engineering content in the company’s activities, Aquafin’s workforce remains predominantly male. In 2014 the ratio (expressed in FTE) was 667.5 men to 216.6 women. All employees, regardless of qualifications, position and seniority, are classed as white-collar workers. In order to increase the employment rate among older workers, Belgian legislation requires companies with more than 20 employees to draw up an employment plan to maintain or increase the number of employees aged 45 or older. Aquafin has drawn up such an employment plan, in consultation with the social partners. The content of the plan is reviewed and updated on an annual basis. On 31 December 2014, 381 employees were aged 45 or older. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 7 > Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives > Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the to promote greater environmental responsibility. development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The development of the sewer network frequently requires extensive works in public spaces. Roads are dug up, Although our waste water treatment plants are designed access to homes is difficult at certain times and retailers to be energy-efficient, treating waste water remains a temporarily have lower footfall because access is restricted. highly energy-intensive process. Aquafin keeps a close eye Nevertheless, the works are necessary in order to be able to on energy consumption and is taking steps to reduce treat more domestic waste water. Aquafin informs local this further. In 2014, a series of new projects were initiated residents and retailers about planned works and why in this area, including no longer leaving parts running they are necessary. In 2014, Aquafin organised 157 continuously when they have no impact on the treatment information evenings. process or the treatment results. Every year, five waste water treatment plants are scrutinised in detail with We invite everyone who has a waste water treatment plant regard to their energy consumption and improvements are in their neighbourhood to the plant to find out about made where possible. the water treatment process. Last year we organised 10 of these “neighbourhood tours”. The main function of a waste water treatment plant is of course to process domestic waste water. However, we are To highlight what Aquafin undertakes for clean watercourses, finding more and more ways of creating added value for together with the Flemish Region, the municipalities, society through the recovery of energy and raw materials the Flemish Environmental Agency, technical partners, … from the waste water. Sludge is a by-product of water we organised the first “Chap’eau” event in September 2014. treatment. It is fermented to form biogas. We convert this Enjoying clean water together is central to this event to into green electricity, which replaces some of the electricity which everyone is welcome. About 800 visitors joined this that we would otherwise have had to take from the grid at first “Chap’eau”. our waste water treatment plants. Of the non-digested sludge and the sludge that remains after the sludge digestion process, in 2014, 36% was dried in our own sludge drying plants in Deurne, Houthalen or Leuven. 8 UN GLOBAL COMPACT We supply the dried sludge to the cement industry in the Anti-corruption form of granules or pellets for co-incineration in cement furnaces, to replace fossil fuels. The domestic waste water arriving at the waste water > Principle 10: Businesses should work against treatment plants contains a variety of substances that corruption in all its forms, including extortion and can be re-used following efficient recovery. For instance, bribery. human urine is rich in the mineral phosphorus, global reserves of which are gradually being exhausted. In 2013 and 2014, Aquafin carried out tests by adding magnesium Corruption, extortion and bribery are prohibited by Belgian chloride to the sewage sludge to cause the phosphates law. Aquafin is subject to Belgian law and acts as such. to precipitate as struvite, or phosphorus crystals. At the beginning of June 2015, Aquafin received a raw materials The internal auditor, external auditor and the financial certificate from OVAM so that the struvite won could also regulator for the Flemish Region all supervise the company. be used as fertiliser. The internal auditor carries out quality audits on the procedures followed within the company. Ernst & Young Using a test set-up with a fine screen during the Assurance Services have been appointed as external auditors mechanical treatment stage, Aquafin is trying to recover of the financial statements. The financial regulator for cellulose which flows into the plant from toilet paper. At a the Flemish Region checks the invoices falling under the later stage, we will investigate further how and under Management Agreement with the Flemish Region. what conditions the cellulose can be used as a raw material. Known applications include the production of Aquafin’s Corporate Governance Charter is available at insulation materials and bioplastics. www.aquafin.be. The annual report can be consulted on jaarverslag.aquafin.be. Organic waste is also rich in carbon, another substance which we may be able to recover and convert into biocoal. Biocoal can be used in industry, agriculture or environmental technology. The waste water treated in Aquafin’s plants is of excellent quality and can be discharged into a watercourse. It is also suitable for replacing expensive drinking water in industrial applications where this quality is not required. After a little pre-treatment, for example, it makes excellent process or cooling water for industry. Aquafin has agreements with a number of Flemish companies and intermunicipal utility companies for the supply of treated waste water. Cleaning companies also use it as cleaning water. In 2104, about 1.5 million m³ treated waste water was reused in that way. Provided that it is thoroughly treated, waste water can also be further upgraded to any desired quality, even to drinking water. This is what happens in Koksijde, where drinking water company IWVA takes about 2.9 million m³ treated waste water on a yearly basis from the treatment plant and turns it into drinking water. In 2014, a meat-processing company whose waste water is treated by subsidiary Aquaplus, started up an extra treatment plant. The treated waste water is now upgraded to drinking water which can be used in meat-processing activities. The excellent and consistent quantity of the treated waste water has a major impact on the taste and quality of the company’s products. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 9 WWTP AS A RECYCLING PLANT Domestic waste water Watercourse Waste water treatment plants Drinking water production ↘ Basis for drinking water ↘ Ultrapure water Sludge granules ↘ Cement industry Phosphorus ↘ Fertilizers C Carbon ↘ Biocoal Cellulose ↘ Bioplastics ↘ Insulation materials Electricity 10 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Clean watercourses for successive generations and a living environment in harmony with water. Aquafin NV Dijkstraat 8 2630 Aartselaar 03 450 45 11 www.aquafin.be Publisher: Luc Bossyns, Managing Director Aquafin NV, Dijkstraat 8, 2630 Aartselaar.
