Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report 2014 Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 1 From the CEO Assaad Razzouk Chief Executive Officer To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Pte. Limited reaffirms its support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Sindicatum joined Global Compact in August 2014 and is determined to become an active supporter of the initiative. In this, our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication which include our website and our annual report to shareholders. Yours sincerely, Assaad Razzouk Chief Executive Officer Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 2 Sindicatum at a glance Overview Singapore Sustainability Awards Environmental Finance 2014 2014 Market Awards Leadership in Best Project Developer Sustainability & Primary Originator 21.4 Million 4,160 GWh Clean electricity generated tCO2e Reduced Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 3 From the CEO 2 Health & Safety 30 Sindicatum at a glance 3 Goal & Targets for 2015 32 About Us 5 Training & Education 33 Our Mission 6 Diversity and Equal Opportunities 34 Our Approach to Sustainability 7 Human Rights 35 Sustainable investing 7 Targets for 2015 35 Sustainability is integral to our business 8 Environmental Performance 36 Sustainable resources are vital to a Energy Consumption and Management sustainable economy 9 37 Organizational Structure 10 Reduction in Energy Consumption 39 Corporate Governance 12 Power Generation from Sindicatum’s Risk Management 15 Projects 39 Value Creation 17 Carbon footprint – Emissions Aspect 40 Sustainability Strategy and Reporting Reduction in GHG Emissions 42 Approach 19 Emission Reductions from our Green Stakeholder Groups 22 Projects 42 Identifying Stakeholders 22 Economic Performance 44 Sindicatum’s Stakeholders 23 Significant indirect economic impacts 44 Global Outreach 24 Awards and Accolades – 2014 47 Engagement and communication with Materiality Disclosure for “In Accordance” stakeholders 25 – Core 48 Stakeholder communication process 25 Social Performance 26 Labour Practices and Decent work 28 Benefits for Employees 28 2014 Performance 29 2015 Targets 29 Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 4 About Us Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Pte. Limited (“Sindicatum”) is a developer, owner and operator of clean energy Renewable Energy projects worldwide and a producer of Sindicatum Renewable Energy Company sustainable products from natural Pte. Ltd (Singapore) (“SREC”) develops, resources and waste. Founded in 2005, owns and operates renewable energy Sindicatum provides a one stop solution, projects in South and Southeast Asia. At developing, operating and financing the core of SREC’s track record is the projects that produce clean energy and proven ability to identify, develop, invest, sustainable resources (biogas, sustainable finance and operate small-scale biomass, water and physical renewable energy projects in its target commodities) whilst reducing greenhouse markets. A key feature of each of its gases and producing emission reduction projects is a secure supply of fuel which credits and other environmental ensures projects are not constrained in commodities. their ability to generate power or exposed A global footprint across four of the to fuel price risk. largest renewable energy markets (i.e. the Resource Efficiency US, China, India and Southeast Asia) allows Sindicatum to be close to the Sindicatum’s projects in this category aim sources of supply of natural resources and to maximize the value realized from waste as well as to the largest population natural resources so that natural capital centres in the world with rapidly rising depletion can be minimized. Efficient demand for energy. In addition, this utilization of natural capital is a prefootprint allows an exposure to local and requisite for both a functioning global global compliance and voluntary society and the transition to an economy environmental markets and therefore the which functions within environmental ability to benefit from different outcomes limits. This concept applies equally to both in an evolving regulatory landscape. the elements of the planet’s natural capital which are renewable – such as At present, Sindicatum is headquartered1 timber or fish stocks – and those which are in Singapore and has offices in Bangkok non renewable, at least on an (Thailand), Beijing (China), Jakarta anthropological time scale, such as fossil (Indonesia), New Delhi (India), Taiyuan fuels. (China), London (UK) and Philippines. Sindicatum’s business is organised in two divisions, Renewable Energy and Resource Efficiency. 1 http://www.sindicatum.com/ Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 5 Corporate Vision To be a publicly-listed developer, owner and operator of 2,000 MW of distributed, profitable clean energy projects worldwide from the utilization of captive natural products and waste. Our Mission Sindicatum’s portfolio of green projects Environmental standards, introduce new has a tremendous beneficial impact on technologies and provide jobs and skills the environment. These projects transfer to local communities. implement the highest Health, Safety & Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 6 Our Approach to Sustainability Sustainability lies at the heart of our business. We undertake our work because we believe in the strength of our company, our business and in the importance of what we do in a broader sense. As a result we are highly motivated to achieve our goals. Sustainable Investing Sustainability in our Business Sustainable Economy Sustainable investing The need to work within environmental increasing demand for resources) will and social limits in an increasingly continue to strain natural resources resource-constrained world is crucial to worldwide. Our investment thesis is based our investment approach and to our on the premise that such macro-trends will ability to meet the expectations of our have an important influence on the stakeholders – we believe it has a direct pricing of increasingly scarce resources link to our long-term profitable such as energy, water, agricultural performance and sustainability as resources and clean air. recognized in our Investment Approval Consequently, our aim is to produce long Process. term supplies of these sustainable The theme of “resource scarcity” is central products as well as related environmental to our strategy. We believe that, globally, commodities. economic development (and thus Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 7 Sustainability is integral to our business We recognize that all of our investments A core feature of our sustainability depend on our relationships with a wide projects is the mitigation of carbon range of stakeholders and, in particular, emissions. To date, Sindicatum’s portfolio the local communities where our projects has reduced 21.4 million tonnes of CO2 are undertaken. Our business model equivalent and in the last year alone has therefore aims to meet the highest exported over 1,000,000 MWh of clean standards of ethical investing, energy. governance and sustainability with a Our projects, however, have more than strong emphasis on health and safety. just a beneficial impact on the We also consider sustainability to be environment. They also ensure critical to the management of our most international standards of health and crucial asset – our staff. Our aim is to safety, introduce new technologies, and promote a working environment where provide skills transfer and training while people feel they are “in it for the longpropagating the importance of the run”. We aim to ensure people feel they sustainability message on national and and their contributions are appreciated international levels. and that a proper balance between work and their life outside Sindicatum is This approach helps safeguard our future. maintained. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 8 Sustainable resources are vital to a sustainable economy Since the industrial revolution, natural the case of fossil fuels, create global capital has been gradually depleting and environmental risk through climate commodities from aquatic life to forests change. The traditional economic model have become increasingly scarce. What’s of resource utilisation is a linear process by more, such commodities are often which natural capital is exploited, produced from unsustainable fossil creating waste, pollution and sources, which have a finite life, and in environmental degradation: Traditional Economic Model Natural Capital Ecosystem Goods and Services Consumption Waste, Pollution and Environmental Degradation Sindicatum seeks to redress this balance commodities required for the functioning through the production of long-term of a global economy which is viable into “sustainable resources”, in order to help perpetuity. Through this we aim to help displace our reliance on unsustainable facilitate the transition to a system which sources. We aim to create supplies of key utilises natural capital without depleting it. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 9 Sustainable Model Natural Capital Ecosystem Goods PRESERVATION and Services Consumption We continue to revise our management all individuals within the company. The approach to adapt to the changing management of health, safety and business and climate change landscape. environment is the responsibility of The organizational structure within everyone. However, the EHS&S Policy, and Sindicatum reflects the fact that the promoting a positive safety culture and responsibility for all EHS&S issues rests at implementation of effective EHS&S in the the highest level of management, workplace is driven by senior cascading down to engage management. Organizational Structure Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 10 Due to the importance we place on our appropriately within the organization and environmental and social activities, reports on a regular basis on the responsibility ultimately lies at the highest Company’s performance to the Board at level with our Board – and is its main Board meetings. A Group EHS&S implemented across the company Director ensures the EHS&S coordination, through the Executive Committee (Ctraining and auditing across the suite). The Group President ensures the company. EHS&S function is discharged The EHS&S Director is accountable to the and activities to ensure full compliance Group President and will provide advice with the national and international EHS&S and support on all aspects of policy, regulations and 3rd Party standards. development and implementation of Safe Additional details can be found on Working Procedures (SWP) and any Sindicatum’s Environmental & Social changes necessary to the documents Corporate Policy Statement. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 11 Corporate Governance Sindicatum is committed to maintaining approach to fair employment practices, good corporate governance and zero-tolerance to corruption, sustainability business integrity in all of its business and compliance with laws and activities. The Board and Senior regulations. The Code of Conduct Management are committed to supports high standards of business ethics conducting business with integrity, and corporate governance and provides consistent with high standards of business an understandable framework for ethics, and in compliance with all employees to observe the Company’s applicable laws and regulatory principles. It defines acceptable requirements. This shapes a culture of standards of conduct in compliance with responsibility among employees, with a Sindicatum’s policies and serves as system of checks and balances at all guidance to employees for business levels of the organisation. Sindicatum’s conduct and behaviour. Where corporate strategy is underpinned by Sindicatum has invested in a joint venture clear policies that outline our commitment or in another company, we will to sustainability. Our Code of Conduct, encourage our joint venture partners to Sustainability Policy and Environmental adopt the relevant aspects of the Code and Social Corporate Policy Statement of Conduct for the joint venture guides our staff and stakeholders on our company. The code provides guidance on the 8 Key Principles as specified below: Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 12 Compliance with Laws and Regulations Serves as guidelines for all employees to understand and comply with the laws and regulations of the countries where business is being conducted. It emphasizes the importance of lawfully conducting business and specifies the procedures by which dealings of securities should be conducted. Confidentiality Highlights the importance of protecting personal and corporate information. The principle of protecting personal information states that all personal information regarding Sindicatum’s employees, agents, joint venture partners, customers and suppliers will be handled in an appropriate and lawful manner. Similarly, the principle of protecting corporate information provides employees with information and guidance on recognizing, addressing and communicating this information to third-parties. Zero-tolerance to corruption Sets out the Company’s “zero-tolerance” stance for all forms of corruption, bribery and extortion. It provides employees with information and guidance on how to identify, address, resolve, avoid and prevent corruption, bribery and extortion which may occur as part of their work. Sindicatum maintains a zero-tolerance policy to corruption and any third-party that we cooperate with are required to sign up to our Anti-Corruption Principles. It is Sindicatum’s policy to conduct its business in such a way as to be consistent with all relevant anti-bribery laws in all the jurisdictions in which the group transacts business. It is vital for all in Sindicatum to ensure zero-tolerance to corruption, even if the country that the business is being conducted does not have its own anti-bribery laws. Sindicatum’s strategy and policy on Anti-Corruption principles are centred around the implementation of Principle 10 of the United Nations Global Compact: “Sindicatum is committed to eradicate corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery” – Principle 10 Our stand on anti-corruption is further elaborated in our Code of Conduct that also serves to communicate our anti-corruption policies and procedures to our employees across all of our operations. Last year, there were zero incidents of corruption at Sindicatum’s corporate offices and project sites. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 13 Avoidance of conflicts of interest This framework guides employees to identify and mitigate situations where their personal interests could conflict with the interests of the company. Fair dealings with others This principle aims to promote fair business practice amongst employees internally and externally. All staff are encouraged to act in an honest, trustworthy and fair way with all customers, suppliers, and competitors. Fair employment practices This principle aims to showcase the fair employment practices that govern Sindicatum’s recruitment and retention policy. Implementing fair employment practices is consistent with our values, and also aims to boost Sindicatum’s reputation. Unbiased treatment benefits all in the Sindicatum community, improving employees’ well-being and aiding in the retention of our competent staff. Health, Safety & Environment Policy Serves as a framework by which effective Health & safety systems are applied throughout Sindicatum’s operations and projects. This is further elaborated in our Health & Safety Aims and Rules Manual. Whistle-blowing policy As well as the Code of Conduct, Sindicatum has also implemented the Employee Guide to supplement the policies addressed in the Code of Conduct. It essentially provides employees with a working manual for understanding the day-to-day administration of personnel policies and practices. The whistle-blowing policy specified in the employee guide serves as guidance for employees to raise concerns through the proper channels within the organization and to reassure staff that they should be able to raise genuine concerns in good faith without fear of reprisals, even if they turn out to be mistaken. Once a concern has been raised, the HR team will carry out an initial assessment to determine the scope of any investigation. In some cases we may appoint an investigator or team of investigators including staff with relevant experience of investigations or specialist knowledge of the subject matter. The investigator(s) may make recommendations for change to enable us to minimise the risk of future wrongdoing. Sindicatum prohibits retaliation against anyone raising or helping to address an integrity concern. Staff must not suffer any detrimental treatment as a result of raising a concern in good faith. Detrimental treatment includes dismissal, disciplinary action, threats or other unfavourable treatment connected with raising a concern. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 14 Risk Management Risk management plays an essential role in the Company’s business activities and is an essential component of Sindicatum’s planning process. Top-down Approach Sindicatum’s Executive Committee meets on a regular basis to discuss corporate strategy which includes a risk analysis of the Company and the industry within which it operates. Examples of threats that are monitored and discussed include financial, credit, foreign exchange as well as country, political and operational risks. Furthermore, Sindicatum’s quarterly Risk Monitoring Reports summarise key risk factors taken from project operational reports and additional risk factors at group level, any mitigating actions taken and the corresponding results. These regular reports are reviewed by Sindicatum’s Executive Committee for further action. Determining materiality of Risks •Risk assessment conducted at the investment approval Project and project design stage which are carried out for each project and managed in the company’s risk registry Level Risk •To be approved by the investment committee, the Assessment projects will need to show how the risks can be managed or mitigated Quarterly •Quarterly Risk Monitoring Reports summarize key risk factors taken from project operational reports and Risk additional risk factors at group level, any mitigating Monitoring actions taken and the corresponding results •Sindicatum has undertaken a risk audit in order to looking in depth at the possible substantial risks that face the Risk Audit company and industry •Risk audit has provided the basis for Sindicatum’s ongoing and regular Risk Monitoring Reports Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 15 Project and Portfolio Risk A risk assessment is done at the investment approval and project design stage which are carried out for each project and managed in the Company’s risk registry. For projects to be approved by the company’s Executive Committee, the projects will need to show how these risks can be managed and, where possible, mitigated. Through both regular risk assessment meetings held by Sindicatum’s senior management and quarterly Risk Monitoring Reports, Sindicatum is systematic about its identification and management of risks both on company and industry levels. As part of our investment process, Sindicatum uses methodical risk analysis in order to evaluate business opportunities carefully including sensitivity analysis around major risk parameters that have been identified. This risk assessment includes macro and project specific risks analysis encompassing rigorous due diligence, feasibility studies and sensitivity analysis on key investment assumptions and variables. Risk mitigation and avoidance strategy Risk mitigation and management are incorporated into project design and implemented within the construction of the projects themselves. Sindicatum’s risk mitigation and avoidance strategy encompasses the following: Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 16 Value Creation Our business model represents Our projects result in Greenhouse Gas sustainability to our end-users and aims to (“GHG”) emission reductions which meet the highest standards of contribute globally in the fight against sustainability, governance, and ethical climate change, as well as provide investing along with maintaining a strong numerous other benefits to the countries emphasis on health and safety. We and communities in which they are identify, design and implement profitable located such as improved air quality for renewable energy, energy substitution the community, technology and skills and energy demand projects using new transfer to the local population, local job and innovative technologies while creation, development of human producing environmental commodities to resources and improved local enhance our returns. infrastructure. Social and environmental considerations Rice and coconut husks, bagasse and are integral to Sindicatum’s investment other organic wastes that are usually criteria and this has resulted in positive burned or discarded in a baseline financial returns and longevity in our scenario, are converted into useful inputs projects. in the production of commodities such as biogas, sustainable biomass and clean The unique aspect of Sindicatum’s energy. business strategy is the generation of socio-economic-environmental value Along with power generated from our from low value products such as Solar Photovoltaic (PV) power plants, the municipal, agricultural and industrial clean electricity generated bridges the organic wastes. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 17 demand-supply gap in countries that are The dual revenue stream is comprised of: perennially short of reliable power. (i) The production of clean The success of Sindicatum’s projects can resources/energy, and be attributed to its innovative business (ii) The creation of environmental model coupled with the usage of the commodities such as carbon most up-to-date technology to generate credits achieved through fossil a dual revenue stream that results in high fuel displacement. value-added projects. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 18 Sustainability Strategy and Reporting Approach Sindicatum’s sustainability framework is Kenyan clinic to developing and defined by its triple-bottom line of People, disseminating educational materials on Planet and Profits. This framework of Social coal mining best practices in China. Progress “People”, Environmental Sindicatum also runs an internal program Stewardship “Planet” and Economic where our staff are allocated two weeks Growth “Profits” form the cynosure of our per annum of paid leave to contribute to sustainability strategy and play an integral pro-bono initiatives which advance role in our business model. We operate a sustainable development in local proven business model meeting the communities. highest standards of sustainability, governance, and ethical investing, with a strong emphasis on health & safety. As Sindicatum’s footprint and power capacity continue to expand, we are also well placed to attract opportunities with partners who appreciate our track record in sustainability and as a project developer. Although our business activities inherently promote sustainability due to the very nature of our green projects, Sindicatum goes beyond a business-as-usual approach by instigating sustainability initiatives within the communities in which we operate and in collaboration with our local project partners. Jointly with the Sindicatum Climate Change Foundation2 (“SCCF”), which was created in 2009, these initiatives range from designing and implementing a turnkey solar solution to supplying electricity and water to a rural 2 http://www.sindicatumccf.org/ Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 19 Whilst our operations over the last decade Management Approach (DMA) and have observed the highest standards in indicators related to the Material Aspects, sustainable practices and policies, 2014 we have incorporated data and results will mark the first year for reporting our from all of Sindicatum’s operations and sustainability performance. For this entities. The entities included encompass maiden Sustainability Report, we have all our 20 projects and operations adopted Global Reporting Initiative’s spanning across 7 countries and the (GRI) G4 guidelines as a framework to reporting scope has been expanded to provide our standard disclosures in disclose 2014 data from our key accordance to the Core Standard. subsidiaries, including: The GRI G4 guidelines define Material a. All projects developed and Aspects as key facets of an organization operated by Sindicatum (including that reflect its significant economic, – Sindicatum’s role as a consultant) environmental and social impacts and b. Sindicatum Carbon Capital (SCC) substantially influence the decisions of our Holdings (UK) stakeholders. For this report, our c. SCC Singapore organization’s specific standard d. Sindicatum LFG Company disclosures include: (Singapore) • Projects and operations Economic: (Thailand) o Indirect Economic Impact e. Sindicatum Captive Energy Singapore Environmental: • Projects and operations (India) o Energy f. PT Biogas Energy Indonesia o Emissions • Projects and operations Social: (Indonesia) g. Sindicatum Renewable Energy o Labour Practices and Decent Work Holdings Philippines o Human Rights • Projects and operations o Society (Philippines) h. Verdeo Sindicatum (USA) This Report emphasizes the economic, • Projects and operations environmental and social aspects that (USA) have been determined as material to our i. SCC Hydro (Singapore) business and stakeholders. For this j. SCC NZEM (Singapore) disclosure, materiality only applies to • Projects and operations operations under Sindicatum’s direct (China) control. For each Disclosure on Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 20 This report contains a full year’s data from 1st January 2014 to 31st December 2014 and highlights information on performance regarding the key aspects that have been identified as material to our operations and stakeholders. In order to help us improve our sustainability performance and reporting standards, feedback from our stakeholders is essential. We welcome all comments and feedback which can be directed to: Ms. Sonia Luis Sonia.luis@sindicatum.com Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 21 Stakeholder Groups Stakeholder Groups are defined as significance and impact of their interest individuals, groups or organisations that on Sindicatum’s business, we have are impacted by the activity of the identified five key stakeholder groups: business and its operations. Based on the External Stakeholders Local Governments Local Community Project Partners Investors Employees Internal Stakeholders Identifying Stakeholders At the project design stage, Sindicatum identifies its stakeholders by distributing invitations to its stakeholder consultation meetings – this is in the form of direct invitations to government, local officials, NGOs, academic institutions, as well as indirectly through advertisements in the local newspaper and notices in the local community areas. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 22 Sindicatum’s Stakeholders Local Governments • Sindicatum's approach to Sustainability goes beyond compliance, to partner key agencies for successful project implementation, elevating industry standards for renewable energy projects, sustainable practices as well as health and safety standards. Local Community • A core feature of our sustainability projects is the mitigation of carbon emissions & generation of clean reliable power. Our projects yield addtional benefits to the local communities in the form of improved living conditions, improved infrastructure, job creation and technology transfer. Ahead of investing and developing a project we hold consultations with the local community and continue to engage the local community once our projects are operational to ensure continued buy-in Project Partners • Sindicatum works closely with partners in our value chain – such as coal mines, sugar mills and landfill owners to ensure that international EHS&S standards are adhered to. We partner only with companies who share our dedication to sustainable development and have signed up to our sanctionable practices governing the responsible way we operate Investors • We believe that integrating sustainability into our investment approach can create opportunities for long-term enhanced risk-adjusted returns for our shareholders, while producing a wide range of benefits for society as a whole Employees • Sustainability is also crucial in relation to our most important asset, our staff. Our aim is to promote a working environment where people feel they are “in it for the long-run”. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 23 Global Outreach On a global level, Sindicatum has strived to expand policies that govern the sustainability sector, often against a changing and unpredictable political backdrop. As well as cofounding the Project Developer Forum – the most respected lobbying group in the carbon markets – we also sit on the Board of the Carbon Markets & Investment Association and Chair the Association for Sustainable & Responsible Investment in Asia3. Our CEO, Assaad Razzouk, has been on a continual mission to speak out to the wider world on the importance of building a sustainable economic future. This is reflected in some 30 articles, blogs and interviews in the past year alone where Assaad’s ardent appeals for positive environmental change backed by supportive political and institutional reforms are persuasive and inspiring. 3 http://www.sindicatum.com/about-us/partnerships/ Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 24 Engagement and communication with stakeholders With each of our sustainability projects, Furthermore, as part of our third-party we conduct stakeholder consultations in verification processes, independent order to inform, educate and engage all verifiers interview a sample of the local individuals and organisations that may be residents during the verification to ensure affected by the implementation of our that social as well as environmental project. As well as our stakeholder standards are being maintained to the consultation programme, we also satisfaction of all local stakeholders. encourage stakeholders to communicate Additionally, the manager of each of our with us if any problems arise at any point projects has Corporate Social during the lifetime of the project. This is Responsibility activities as part of their done in the form of request/complaint yearly KPIs. This leads to staff engaging in boxes positioned at local government activities linked to education and welfare offices surrounding the project area. within the communities that we operate. Stakeholder communication process Stakeholder and local community consultations prior to and during project implementation informing surrounding communities of the benefits of the project while responding to any concerns. Local communities continue to be informed/engaged once our projects are operational. Quarterly shareholder newsletter – reporting on new and future company initiatives, project performance as well as regulatory and market analysis Quarterly Board Meetings and Monthly Executive Committee (senior management) reports and meetings – the minutes of which are circulated to staff so they are kept abreast of business developments. Monthly CEO update to all staff on business performance and strategy and weekly team meetings led by senior management to discuss current and upcoming projects, share ideas and transfer knowledge Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 25 Social Performance The Company’s contribution to sustainable development is implemented through social responsibility principles and practices that take into account the needs and expectations of its stakeholders. In furthering the corporate objective of generating wealth and wellbeing for society, the Company adopts a statement of responsible corporate ethics that is contained in the ten principles noted below:1) Compliance with applicable law in the 6) Encourage communication and countries in which we do business, with dialogue with the various groups the supplemental adoption of related to the Company’s activities, in international provisions and guidelines, order to match corporate values and where appropriate, in those countries social expectations in which the legal framework is 7) Disseminate relevant and truthful inadequate information regarding the activities 2) Respecting human rights and, in carried out and subject such particular, those the violation of which information to internal and external degrades workers, which entails the verification procedures that ensure its opposition to child labour and reliability and encourage the compulsory labour continuous improvement thereof 3) Develop a favourable employment 8) Promote a culture of respect for the relationships framework based on natural environment, reducing the equal opportunities, nonenvironmental impact of the discrimination, and respect for Company’s activities and fostering diversity, promoting a safe and healthy information and training in this culture environment and facilitating 9) Favour transparency and free market communication with the workforce rules, rejecting bribery, corrupt 4) Develop responsible practices in the practices, or other types of chain of value, establishing contributions aimed at obtaining transparent, objective, and impartial corporate advantages, and processes with suppliers and providing respecting the rules of free users with all relevant information competition regarding the principal activities of the 10) Adopt corporate governance Company and its related companies practices, in line with good 5) Promote socially responsible actions at governance recommendations those companies in which the generally recognized in international Company has control or management markets, based upon corporate capacity, and also advance such transparency and mutual trust in the actions at supplier companies through relationships with shareholders and the processes of selection and hiring investors Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 26 Sindicatum’s strategy and policy on human capital are centred around the implementation of Principles 1 – 6 of the United Nations Global Compact: “Sindicatum supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights – Principle 1 Sindicatum ensures that our practices are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals – Principle 2 Sindicatum upholds the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining – Principle 3 Sindicatum has eliminated all forms of compulsory labour in its operations – Principle 4 Sindicatum has ensured the effective abolition of child labour – Principle 5 Sindicatum has taken great efforts to abate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals – Principle 6” Underpinned by our commitment to responsible corporate ethics, Sindicatum has established and maintains a robust environmental management system that supports its assessment of all investments against the IFC Performance Standards and includes environmental, health & safety, stakeholder and labour principles. The Director of EHS&S is responsible for developing specific policies, standards, work procedures and reporting requirements to ensure compliance with the IFC Performance Standards. Sindicatum ensures that all its partners comply with its health, safety and environment policies and procedures, all environmental and social requirements, basic terms and conditions or employment and core labour standards, in all cases consistent with the IFC Performance Standards. It ensures its partners and investee companies are contractually obliged through investment agreements to comply with IFC Performance Standards. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 27 Labour Practices and Decent work Sindicatum adheres to the “Core Labour full-time and 7 part-time) who are all Standards” on child and forced labour, under a system established by a discrimination and freedom of association professional Human Resource manager. and collective bargaining, stemming from All staff have accepted Sindicatum’s the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Code of Conduct and received a copy Principles and Rights at Work. We also of the Employees Handbook. All of our require wage, working hours, labour employment practices comply with the contracts and occupational health & Global Compact’s Labour Principles. safety issues to conform with conventions Moreover, Sindicatum maintains an 26 and 131 (on remuneration), 1 (on anonymous grievance mechanism system working hours) and 155 (on health & in place to remediate any concerns or safety). Sindicatum has 104 employees (97 impacts. Benefits for Employees Sindicatum has in place a comprehensive organising a wide range of sports, health insurance coverage which includes and volunteer activities. This is medical and a Group Personal Accident implemented by employees and the Scheme including Permanent and Group HR department. At our Singapore Temporary Disablement benefits. We also office, soccer matches are held twice a support employees’ wider personal week where our employees participate in development and well-being by corporate leagues and friendly matches. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 28 Additionally, all offices and project sites team building activities. have bi-monthly cohesion sessions with 2014 Performance Sindicatum has ensured that all There have been no filings on grievances employees have up-to-date contracts in with respect to labour practices in 2014 which their rights are enshrined. Our 2015 Targets Organization also has in place the Staff In the coming year, Sindicatum will strive handbook which details how staff should behave and how staff should be treated. to promote Labour Rights to our partners As part of the CDM or Gold Standard and throughout the supply chain and will assess the risks to selected projects which Verification and issuance process, are highly dependent upon large labour external inspections were conducted at forces and highlight the results to our many of our projects which involve an project partners. external audit of legal compliance with site visits by external experts and assessors. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 29 Health & Safety Health and safety is essential to sustaining • ISO 14001 based on IFC our human capital, and all our employees Performance Standards for the have the right to a safe and healthy management of environmental matters working environment. As a developer, • OHSAS 18001 for the management operator and owner of clean energy of occupational, health and safety projects worldwide, we are committed to matters. creating a safe and healthy environment at our project sites and offices. Many of In 2014, our Thailand projects successfully our projects involve working in hazardous underwent dual certification to the environments and with machinery. Any international Environmental Management failure to ensure safe working practices standard ISO 14001 and the international could result in serious injury to staff and Health and Safety standard OHSAS 18001 damage to property and production. for the first time. Sindicatum’s EHS&S Management System We have also adopted a ‘lost time aims to ensure issues, risks, and impacts incident’ (“LTI”) frequency rate to are identified, standards are established, measure our overall performance on training is provided, goals are set and ESH&S issues, with the aim being to audits conducted. This management reduce the LTI frequency to zero on all system also includes maintaining projects. Last year, Sindicatum achieved certification to the following standards for a LTI frequency rate of 0.46 (for every its business and a number of its projects, 100,000 hrs worked). including dealing with suppliers: Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 30 SSR Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate 0.90 0.80 0.77 0.70 0.60 Frequency Rate 0.50 0.49 0.50 0.46 0.41 0.40 0.37 0.37 0.35 0.29 0.30 0.30 0.27 0.20 0.10 0.00 0.00 Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 SSR 2 per. Mov. Avg. (SSR) All project sites incorporate an emergency response plan into their management plan to ensure that any incident is effectively managed and impacts on community and environment are mitigated. All project sites conduct an annual review of its internal emergency response program as well capabilities of the community emergency response organization and develop action plans to address any areas needing improvements. SSR Accident Incident details 2014 6 5 5 4 4 Numbers 3 3 2 1 1 1 0 LTI Fire (minor) First Aid Property Medical Damage treatment The Director of EHS&S monitors EHS&S Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). Monthly reports are provided to executive management and quarterly reports provided to the Board of Directors. These reports cover projects as well as all SSR offices worldwide. Indicators are disclosed in internal performance reports and, in the case of emission reductions for many of our CDM-registered projects, external reports that are verified by third parties under the stringent rules of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. A grievance Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 31 management is in place at all our projects and settlement of grievances is a part of our EHS&S management system. In addition to the EHS&S standards, a Human Resources management system framework has been established at the corporate and project levels. These are based on SSR’s HR Manual and IFC EHS Performance Standard 2. SSR Incident Details By Project 3.5 3 3 3 2.5 2 2 2 1.5 1 11 1 1 0.5 0 SSR Thai SSR Indo SSR Phili SSR China SSR India JV India LTI Fire (minor) First Aid Property Damage Medical treatment In 2014, 30 EHS&S training and awareness programs were conducted at our projects. In our India biomass projects, similar training programs were conducted at the sugar factories associated with our projects. National and International EHS&S events are celebrated to further increase awareness and commitment to full compliance with EHS&S standards and procedures. Additionally, Sindicatum utilized 3,205 man-hours for EHS&S training and awareness program and 975 man-hours for CSR initiatives so as to ensure that our employees are familiar with the standards and procedures implemented. Goal & Targets for 2015 For 2015, Sindicatum has set the following targets to improve on its EHS&S performance from 2014: 1) Initiate dual certification (ISO 14001 & OHSAS 18001) for India Biomass projects 2) Overall Environmental and Social Action Plan (ESAP) compliance at 90% or better from 65 – 79% in 2014 3) All project sites asbestos free 4) Zero lost time accident frequency rate and zero fire incidents 5) Introduce Spot the Hazard Scheme and recognition at project level 6) Adopt 5S4 for good housekeeping 7) Implement hazardous material safe storage, handling and disposal at all sites 8) Ensure that dedicated EHS&S Resources are in place at all project sites 4 5S is a system to reduce waste and optimize productivity through maintaining an orderly workplace and using visual cues to achieve more consistent operational results. Implementation of this method cleans up and organizes the workplace basically in its existing configuration Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 32 Training & Education Training and education is an essential our climate change team and financial aspect of the training roadmap for all modelling training for our finance teams. Sindicatum employees. The development of skills amongst all of our staff is a priority. Staff are encouraged to lead talks as well Sindicatum encourages staff at all levels as suggest topics for further learning. Our to realise their personal potential through Corporate Finance Team appoints a continual training, further education and ‘Knowledge President’ each month from strong manager-employee relationships. within the team whose responsibility it is to share relevant news articles and Sindicatum has a performance appraisal information to the rest of the team in a bid process which enables management to to keep staff up to date on industry effectively monitor and operate an developments and to foster discussions. effective performance management Sindicatum also financially supports system among all employees across the members of staff who decide to study for Group. This appraisal assists with agreeing external qualifications in order to further individual achievements and setting their personal development. personal goals aligned to corporate objectives and helps to identifying training Although staff undergo a formal review needs and supporting individual process each year in order to discuss and development. map out their development needs in detail, Sindicatum also strongly Sindicatum managers lead (and encourages staff to maintain a dialogue encourage their staff to lead) regular with their managers about their personal ‘Toolbox Talks’ within our organization in development needs throughout the year. order to increase knowledge about particular topics – examples include classes on monitoring and verification for In 2014, Sindicatum recorded: • an average of 206.5 hours per month worth of training • 10 internship placements • 4 scholarships through our partnership with TERI University in India Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 33 Diversity and Equal Opportunities Our culturally diverse workforce spans 7 of Sindicatum teams including HR, finance countries, a wide variety of professional and engineering. Sindicatum strives to backgrounds (finance, engineering, maintain good employee relations technology, climate change, IT to name through the promotion of active learning, just a few) and our teams are compiled of dialogue, flexibility and the formation of people of a range of ages. Equal internal networks in the workplace. By opportunities, especially when promoting a culture of openness and considering gender at senior levels, are of transparency, we enable people to share huge importance to Sindicatum. Female their concerns and their experiences. management staff are found in an array Active learning Dialogue Good employee relations Formation of Flexibility internal networks Sindicatum considers its staff as its most and a constant sharing of ideas in order vital asset and endeavours, daily, to to maintain an organization which is create a working environment that is permanently learning and developing its conducive to a happy work-life balance, people. leading to a low staff turnover which in Through formal and informal performance turn helps to protect our company’s review programs, regular training classes, future. In many cases our people have supported further education and joined Sindicatum to play a significant role in a dynamic team in a pioneering sector. effective manager-employee relationships, Sindicatum constantly strives We therefore believe that to maintain to create an environment where all of our motivation for our staff we must be able employees – full-time, part-time or to provide an environment where individual creativity and positive contract are prepared to take on new challenges, develop new skills and take teamwork can flourish. on responsibility for their continuous We aim to empower, inspire and educate learning; all of which contributes to a people. To achieve this, we promote an motivated and happy workforce who organization which is globally linked, with choose to remain with Sindicatum. strong networks between different offices Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 34 Human Rights Sindicatum’s commitment to sustainability o All employees are familiarised with is inclusive of our strong support of human the Code of Conduct and the Employee rights. Conscious of the specific areas in guide upon joining Sindicatum hence which we can make positive impact, we increasing employee awareness of recognise the importance of addressing Human Rights. Sindicatum employees are the key human rights issues such as nonencouraged to participate in the discrimination, gender equality, freedom implementation of our EHS&S policies of association, collective bargaining, child through contribution and communication labour, compulsory labour and indigenous as stated in the Code of Conduct. rights. Our commitment is underpinned by our adherence to the Core Labour o The Code of conduct also defines Standards on child and forced labour, the guidelines and channels for raising discrimination and freedom of association concerns/complaints &/issues pertaining and collective bargaining, stemming from to unfair treatment. These issues are then the ILO Declaration on Fundamental addressed by top management Principles and Rights at Work. immediately Sindicatum also believes in the right to In 2014, there were zero incidents of freedom of association and collective discrimination and compulsory labour at bargaining of employees to organize Sindicatum’s Corporate Offices and collectively in organizations of their own project sites. None of our operations have choice. As stipulated by Sindicatum’s been subject to human rights reviews and Employee Guide, employees have the impact assessments. Given that we right to belong to an independent trade partner only with companies that have union and to participate outside working signed up to our ‘sanctionable practices’ hours in the activities of a trade union of governing the responsible way we which one is a member or a prospective operate, our partners share our member. commitment to abolish child labour thus mitigating any risk of incidents associated Sindicatum has adopted the following with child labour and young workers steps to prevent human rights violations in exposed to hazardous work. its offices and project sites: Targets for 2015 Sindicatum does not invest in projects or encourage them to adopt similar deal with business partners who are practices respecting the Universal directly or potentially involved in Declaration of Human Rights. Additionally, committing human rights abuses. We will we also aim to provide our website continue to train our staff in the contacts and anonymous comments importance of and the need to respect page in Mandrin and Hindi to enable the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. stakeholders in those regions to contact In the coming year, we will reach out to us more easily. all our suppliers and partners to Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 35 Environmental Performance The environmental facet of sustainability environment and the living conditions of encompasses Sindicatum’s impact on local communities. Sustainability is our living and non-living natural systems. business, and we believe it is crucial to Given that we are a developer, owner work within environmental and social limits and operator of clean energy projects in order to mitigate environmental and a producer of sustainable products impacts and promote sustainability. from natural resources and waste, this Sindicatum’s strategy and policy on dimension is classified as a key material environmental protection are centred aspect. Having a global footprint of around the implementation of Principles 7, decentralized clean energy projects, our 8 & 9 of the United Nations Global projects have a direct impact on the Compact: “Sindicatum supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges – Principle 7 Sindicatum undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility – Principle 8 Sindicatum encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally benign technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals – Principle 9” Apart from setting the strategic associated with our operations in clean sustainability direction for all departments energy projects and as a producer of and employees, we have integrated an sustainable resources from the utilization Environmental & Social Corporate policy of natural products and waste. into our business operations and Additionally, the policies, procedures and incorporated measures to mitigate environmental impact. This policy was protocols implemented are benchmarked against the International Financial developed to define policy commitments, Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards organizational roles and responsibilities, on Environmental and Social Sustainability work procedures and implementation (2012) and associated IFC/World Bank EHS arrangements at the corporate level for guidelines. managing environmental & social risks Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 36 Energy Consumption and Management Sindicatum’s projects and operations owned or controlled by our organization. produce clean power that is consumed As part of this energy consumption by off-takers (businesses and industries) inventory, we have included our power and the local community (through the use in all of our offices and operational grid). In 2014, our organization invested project sites. For the remaining projects USD 242.6 million as part of our business that are under development and where plan to own 600 MW of clean energy Sindicatum has developed projects in the projects by 2016 and 2000 MW by 2020. To capacity of a consultant, we have date, Sindicatum has 20 projects in China, incorporated our environmental impact in India, Southeast Asia and the United the form of Air travel based emissions. States. For Office based power usage, electricity While these projects mitigate climate is the significant form of energy change and accrue environmental and consumption regardless of country of social benefits for local communities, our operation and was measured through operations also consume energy and as metering devices and electricity tariff part of this indicator, we will report the rates. The total office based energy usage energy consumption only by entities for 2014 amounted to 170,113 kWh. Office-Based Power Usage by Country 90,000 83,069 80,000 70,000 60,000 50,000 45,930 Annual Power Usage (kWh) 40,000 30,000 20,000 14,705 16,008 9,756 10,000 644 0 Indonesia UK China Singapore India Thailand Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 37 At Sindicatum’s operational project sites, emission reductions data for the Clean energy consumption data was measured Development Mechanism (CDM). The through electricity meters and monitoring total energy consumed by our projects devices retrofitted for keeping track of amounted to 29,562 MWh for 2014. Project-Based Energy Usage by Country 25,000 20,251 20,000 Total Energy Consumption = 29,562 MWh 15,000 Annual Power Usage (MWh) 10,000 4,464 4,657 5,000 190 0 China Thailand US India Sindicatum’s overall energy footprint for 2014 amounted to 29,732 MWh. Energy consumption per employee would then equate to c. 286 MWh/employee in 20145 5 Energy intensity based on 104 employees Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 38 Reduction in Energy Consumption Sindicatum’s raison d’etre as a global projects, we will constantly innovate and green brand means that we constantly improve our equipment (such as boilers strive to reduce resource wastage and and steam turbine driven generators) in due to their very nature, our sustainability order to achieve higher efficiency and to projects will continue to significantly enable plants to operate for longer reduce the use of non-renewable periods on renewable energy resources. resources for many years to come. Within our own offices, we have achieved Within each of our green projects we are a significant reduction in electricity usage constantly searching for ways to be even by implementing Microsoft Cloud services more efficient and effective to the to replace on-site servers, minimizing environment. For example, in our Indian power consumption and participating in bagasse-based cogeneration power Microsoft Office 365. Power Generation from Sindicatum’s Projects The very nature of our business is centred on the generation of clean energy and emission reductions. For the year of 2014 our projects generated 1,104,158 MWh of clean electricity which is equal to powering 104,728 homes’ electricity use6 for a year. Power Generation in 2014 by Country China 779,663 India 197,468 Total Electricity Generation: 1,104,158 MWh Thailand 127,027 0 100,000 200,000 300,000 400,000 500,000 600,000 700,000 800,000 900,000 Annual Power Generated (MWh) 6 http://www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy-resources/calculator.html Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 39 Carbon footprint – Emissions Aspect For this aspect, Sindicatum has reporting standards based on the WRI7 and WBCSD8 “Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard”9. This framework encompasses the classifying of GHG emissions into three scopes. A substantive portion of the GHG attributed to Sindcatum’s operations can be categorized under Scope 2 and Scope 3 Emissions in the form of purchased electricity and air-travel respectively. There is a very small portion of Scope 1 emissions as a result of emissions from transportation of agricultural feedstock and products by vehicles owned by Sindicatum. Additionally, emissions of ozone depleting substances and Nitrogen and Sulphurous oxides are indicators with negligible impact. For our Scope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions we have further segmented them by Office based and Project based emissions10 and is measured in Tonnes of Carbon Dioxide Equivalent. Office GHG Emissions by Country India 61,233 Thailand 52,063 Indonesia 441 Total: 142,299 kgCO2e = 142.3 tCO2e China 14,332 UK 4,961 Singapore 9,270 Note: A carbon dioxide equivalent is a metric measure used to compare the emissions from various greenhouse gases on the basis of their global-warming potential (GWP), by converting amounts of other gases to the equivalent amount of carbon dioxide with the same global warming potential. 7 World Resources Institute 8 World Business Council for Sustainable Development 9 GHG Protocol 10 Ecometrica (2011). Electricity-specific emission factors for grid electricity Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 40 Project Based GHG Emissions 131,761,000 Total: 215,413,770 kgCO2e = 215,414 tCO2e 51,028,724 16,445,204 13,129,000 252,295 2,797,548 US China India Philippines Thailand Indonesia The total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by entities owned or controlled by Sindicatum amounts to 215,556 tCO2e. For Sindicatum, GHG emissions from outside the organization that can be attributed to activities of the organization such as air-travel also account for considerable GHG emissions. We have chosen to measure and report emissions due to air-travel of all our staff using the International Civil Aviation Organization Carbon Emissions Calculator11. Airline GHG Emissions by Office 2014 India Thailand 9% Indonesia 1% 2% China 5% Singapore 31% UK 52% Total GHG Emissions: 164 tCO2e 11 http://www.icao.int/environmental-protection/CarbonOffset/Pages/default.aspx Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 41 Our corporate offices in UK and Singapore comprised of a substantive portion of air-travel in 2014 and this is largely due to frequent business travel as a result of Sindicatum’s overseas expansion strategy. The total GHG emissions from the air-travel of all Sindicatum employees for 2014 is 164 tCO2e bringing the total GHG emissions for the year to 215,720 tCO2e. The resulting GHG emissions intensity per employee equates to c. 2,075 tCO2e/employee for 2014. Reduction in GHG Emissions In our offices, we educate our staff about the importance of conserving electricity, resources and the importance of good consumption habits. Additionally, we have advocated the use of teleconferencing and other web-based communication technology where possible to minimize overseas travel. Moving forward, we target to expand scope 3 data to account for carbon emissions from hotel accommodation on top of air travel, during overseas business trips. We also hope to offset our emissions from air travel subsequently. Emission Reductions from our Green Projects12 Last year alone, Sindicatum’s projects generated more than 3 million tonnes of emission reductions. This equates to abatement of an equivalent volume of GHGs that would have been released into the atmosphere thereby representing the mitigation of annual GHG emissions equivalent to 805,790 passenger vehicles. Our emission reduction projects are exposed to independent inspection by third parties in order to verify and issue emission reductions and our monitoring reports are published on the internet as part of a local and international stakeholder consultation and transparency processes. GHG Emission Reductions by Country 6% US 32% China India 39% Philippines Thailand Indonesia 21% 0% 2% Total: 3,827,504 tCO2e 12 Emission reductions are calculated net of emissions Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 42 Tonnes of CO2e Project Emissions vs. Reductions 4,500,000 4,000,000 3,827,504 3,500,000 3,000,000 2,500,000 2,000,000 1,500,000 1,000,000 500,000 215,720 0 Project Emissions Total Redcutions Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 43 Economic Performance The economic facet of sustainability Therefore, we invest in the local measures Sindicatum’s impact on community through job creation, local economic systems at local, national and supplier contracts and fundraising support global levels. Our ability to create a for local schools. positive impact on our community forms a The largest socio-economic beneficiaries significant component of the wider of our projects are the surrounding economic value we create for the society. communities who profit from increased job opportunities not just at Sindicatum’s Sindicatum’s projects result in high levels projects but also at the other local of local involvement which will improve businesses that arise to support the needs the long-term stability of its operations. of the project and its staff. Significant indirect economic impacts Our projects have more than just a and training while propagating the beneficial impact on the environment. importance of the sustainability message They also ensure international standards on national and international levels. Some of health and safety, introduce new of the indirect economic benefits to the technologies, and provide skills transfer extended population include: Bridging the energy demand and supply gap Sindicatum’s projects are mainly located in developing countries that are perennially short of reliable power. By bridging the demand – supply gap for power, this opens up avenues of growth for other businesses and infrastructure in the region. These projects also reduce a country’s dependence on centralized fossil fuel based power generation and subsequently on fossil fuel based price fluctuations. Development of waste management infrastructure that is sustainable and environmentally benign The international health and safety standards implemented at our project sites by our world-class engineering teams and the very nature of our sustainability projects not only benefits the local employees working on site but also the surrounding communities. In Thailand, for example, the advanced management of waste in our landfill-gas-toenergy projects has resulted in improved local air quality and a significantly decreased risk of fire which, unfortunately, is not an uncommon feature of poorly managed landfills in Thailand and elsewhere. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 44 Development of supporting infrastructure such as transmission lines, roads and financial facilities Our Thailand landfill Gas-to-Energy projects handle approximately two-thirds of the municipal solid waste generated in Bangkok. The projects seek to collect landfill gas generated at the site to generate electrical power and maximize climate change mitigation. Apart from producing 130,000 MWh of clean electricity and reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 600,000 tonnes every year, these projects have resulted in the 15km extension of the network connection and transmission line which has helped economic development in the local area with the formation of numerous other factories. Alleviate poverty by job creation, internships and scholarships for local university students studying related vocations At our project sites, the majority of the suppliers are domestic with raw materials being sourced locally. In addition, local workers and contractors are employed through the construction phase and this continues into the operation phase where all staff from the projects are predominantly from the region. Investment in the local community is continual through job creation, local supplier contracts and internship/scholarship programs for local students. Sindicatum’s projects support the local communities and future generation by initiating internship programmes in cooperation with local universities. These internship programs allow students to develop skills in the industry and also create job opportunities. Aside from the sustainability credentials inherent in our core business, Sindicatum staff and management direct a great deal of effort to helping the communities in which our projects operate. Through the Sindicatum Climate Change Foundation, we fund education at the post-graduate level; taking science graduates in developing countries and providing them with the expertise to become directly involved in sustainability, clean energy and related industries. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 45 Implementation of ground-breaking first of its kind projects with the benefits accrued creating greater incentives for further investment in clean energy projects for the region Our engineers use their experience and expertise to adapt either new or existing technologies to the specific conditions. For example: 1. Sindicatum’s pioneering nZEM initiative represents the world’s first near-zero methane emissions mining projects. This remarkable achievement is made possible by a highly specialized, international coal mining engineering team that works with local project owners to enhance gas drainage performance and mine safety to international standards. 2. Sindicatum’s highly successful landfill gas-to-energy projects enhanced business competitiveness by introducing technical innovations such as a proprietary landfill gas collection system adapted to local conditions and a gas collection system developed by Sindicatum’s engineers allowing higher LFG collection efficiency. This also includes a LFG pre-treatment system to clean the gas of impurities to increase engine operational hours and to reduce engine maintenance cost. Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 46 Awards and Accolades – 2014 1) ASEAN Energy Awards 2014 Sindicatum Sustainable Resources (Thailand) has won the ASEAN Energy Awards 2014 under ‘On Grid – National Grid’ category of Renewable Energy Project Awards for its Thai Landfill-Gas-to-Energy (“LFGE”) projects 2) British Chamber of Commerce Singapore’s 15th Annual Business Awards Sindicatum Sustainable Resources won the Leadership in Sustainability award category at British Chamber of Commerce Singapore’s 15th Annual Business Awards 3) Singapore Sustainability Award (SME Category) Sindicatum Sustainable Resources was awarded the 2014 Singapore Sustainability Award (SME Category) by the Singapore Business Federation, the business chamber that champions the interests of the Singapore business community in trade, investment and industrial relations and represents over 21,000 companies 4) The Green Organisation’s Green World Ambassador and Green Apple Awards Sindicatum Sustainable Resources was awarded The Green Organisation’s Green World Ambassador and Green Apple Awards for its commitment to large-scale clean energy production and GHG emission reductions 5) Environmental Finance 2014 Market Awards Sindicatum Sustainable Resources was voted Best Project Developer and Best Primary Originator, in the Environmental Finance 2014 Market Awards. The 15th Annual Environmental Finance Market Awards are based on more than 1,000 votes cast by readers and other participants in the markets that are covered in Environmental Finance Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 47 Materiality Disclosure for “In Accordance” – Core GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE In Accordance Core REFERENCE Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision maker of the G4-1 2 organization Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization 5 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 5 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant G4-6 5 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 5 G4-8 Markets served 5 G4-9 Scale of the organization 3,5 G4-10 Employees profile 28 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining G4-11 28-30 agreements G4-12 Organization’s supply chain 22 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period 38-43, 47 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is G4-14 15,16 addressed by the organization Externally developed economic, environmental and social 12, 16, 22, 28, G4-15 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization 30 subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations 22 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries List entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial G4-17 20 statements or equivalent documents Process for defining the report content and the Aspect G4-18 Boundaries and how the organization has implemented the 19-21 Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining G4-19 19-21 report content For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the G4-20 19-21 organization G4-21 Report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 19-21 Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 48 Not Explanation effect of any restatements of information provided in applicable as G4-22 previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements this is the first submission Not Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope applicable as G4-23 and Aspect Boundaries this is the first submission Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 22-24 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to G4-25 22-24 engage Approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an G4-26 22-24 indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process Key topics and concerns that have been raised through G4-27 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 22-24 responded Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period for information provided 21 Not applicable as G4-29 Date of most recent previous report this is the first submission G4-30 Reporting cycle 21 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 21 Report on ‘in accordance’ option, GRI Content Index, reference G4-32 20 to the External Assurance Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external G4-33 19-21 assurance for the report Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 10-14 Ethics and Integrity Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of G4-56 12-14, 26-27 behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 49 PAGE SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURE REFERENCE Category Economic Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA DMA 20, 44 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and G4-EC7 44-46 services supported Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent G4-EC8 44-46 of impacts Category: Environmental Aspect: Energy G4-DMA DMA 20, 36-37 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 36-39 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 38 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 39 Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA DMA 20, 40 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 40-42 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 40-42 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 40-42 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 42 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 42-43 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 40 G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions 40 Category: Social SUB-CATEGORY: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Aspect: Occupational Health And Safety G4-DMA DMA 26-29 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that G4-LA5 30-32 help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost G4-LA6 days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related 30-32 fatalities, by region and by gender Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to G4-LA7 30-32 their occupation Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 50 Disclosure not applicable as Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with Sindicatum is G4-LA8 trade unions not a unionised company Aspect: Training And Education G4-DMA DMA 26-27, 33 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, G4-LA9 33 and by employee category Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that G4-LA10 support the continued employability of employees and assist 33 them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance G4-LA11 and career development reviews, by gender and by 33 employee category Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA DMA 26-27, 34 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, G4-LA12 34 age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Aspect: Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA DMA 20, 28 Number of grievances about labour practices filed, G4-LA16 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance 28-29 mechanisms SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS Aspect: Non-Discrimination G4-DMA DMA 26-27, 35 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective G4-HR3 35 actions taken Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-DMA DMA 26-28 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to Disclosure is exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-HR4 not material may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to to Sindicatum support these rights Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 51 Aspect: Child Labour G4-DMA DMA 26-27 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk G4-HR5 for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to 35 contribute to the effective abolition of child labour Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labour G4-DMA DMA 26-27 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures G4-HR6 35 to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour Aspect: Assessment G4-DMA DMA 26-27 Total number and percentage of operations that have been G4-HR9 35 subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY Aspect: Local Communities G4-DMA DMA 6, 8, 17-18, 44 Percentage of operations with implemented local G4-SO1 community engagement, impact assessments, and 17-19, 21, 44 development programs Not Applicable as all of our projects accrue Operations with significant actual and potential negative G4-SO2 positive impacts on local communities impacts on the environment and local communities Aspect: Anti-Corruption G4-DMA DMA 12 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks G4-SO3 13 related to corruption and the significant risks identified Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and G4-SO4 12-14 procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 13, 14 Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Sustainability Report | Our Journey | 2014 52
