Sustainability Report 2014 Reader’s Guide 2014 Edition Report scope and profile Stakeholder engagement Alignment with GRI and the UN This annual Report describes our ST interacts with many different Global Compact Sustainability performance in the stakeholders and has specific This report has been prepared calendar year 2014. It covers all of approaches with each of them following the Global Reporting STMicroelectronics’ activities and such as employee engagement Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability This report has been prepared by: sites unless otherwise stated. You surveys, customer surveys and Reporting Guidelines. We considered This report has been Director of publication: Jean-Louis Champseix can find details of ST’s structure and requests, supplier evaluations and the four GRI principles for defining prepared following the GRI Editors in chief: Sheila D’Annunzio, Dominique Tagarian countries of operations on page 6. audits, response to SRI analysts our Report content: materiality, Editorial team: Graziella Barbusse, Julia Genovini, Dominique La Mantia G4 Guidelines. It represents You can access last year’s report and agencies, industry coalition’s stakeholder inclusiveness, Editorial services: Stratton Craig Ltd a balanced and reasonable published in June 2014 and memberships, local associations sustainability context and presentation of our organization’s Graphic designer: AiBU (Salvo La Terra, Andrea Porto, Francesco Saitta), Clara reports from previous years at and educational partnerships. These completeness. economic, environmental and Colombo, Eric Desbarbieux, Fabienne Merli, Delphine Rabasté-Meilland www.st.com/company-reports different approaches are reported in We prepared the Report according to I G4-3 I G4-28 I G4-29 I G4-30 I this report wherever relevant. social performance. It also Printer: ProCo-Print GRI G4 to be “in accordance” with There is no restatement of demonstrates our commitment to Special thanks to: Manik Bansal, Monica Bianchi, Gerard Cronin, Nelly Dimey, the Core option. The GRI G4 content information provided in previous Indicators and use of symbols index service confirmed that the GRI the UN Global Compact, to which Paolo Epigrafi, Wendy Hudry Allen, Fumikazu Ito, Abhishek Jain, Philippe Laffargue, reports. I G4-22 I We report on performance against Content Index of the report (page 76) we have been a signatory since Philippe Levavasseur, Claudia Levo, Giulia Mancini, Pascal Roquet, Damien Tisserand, our objectives under each of our is accurate and aligned with GRI 2000. Eric Wong and Charlotte Yvard. Change in scope Sustainability priorities. Progress General Standard Disclosure G4-32. Thanks to: Veronique Ancelin, Patricia Banker, Alessandro Beretta, Elisabeth Beronio, In 2014, ST integrated the former updates for each objective can be The Global Compact and ISO Giovanna Bottani, Claude Boumendil, Denis Bovar, Denise-Ann Buhagiar, Micron R2 Fab, including 170 found in the “objectives” tables, 26000 Index table on page 79 Gaetano Caputo, Isabelle Catot, Denis Cazala, Sherwin Celestino, Frederic Chapuis, employees, into the perimeter of the illustrated by the following symbols: shows the correlation between the Carlo Bozotti Hc Chew, Lu Dai, Philippe Dereeper, Regis Di Frenza, Sylvie Drouot, site of Agrate (Italy). The safety, social STMicroelectronics Sustainability President and CEO Dominique Dubois, Karen Duhart, Abdellah Er Rachidi, Anne Falut, Anne Foerster, and environmental data have been Target achieved Report and the ten principles of the Franck Freymond, Christine Gombar, Jean-roger Hecquefeuille, Frederic Jatropoulos, updated accordingly. I G4-13 I Global Compact and the ISO 26000 Léa Jumelet, Jk Kang, Ws Kim, Olivier Leenhardt, Ulrike Leger, Eric Levallet, In progress standards. Laurence Maricot, Michel Masselot, Marion McDevitt, Benoit Mollaret, Vanessa Mulet, Materiality No progress/not achieved ST has been a signatory of the United Adeline Oliva, Daniel Orsatti, Muriel Paul, Philippe Quinio, Alain Quiniou, In 2014, ST conducted an extensive Nations Global Compact (UNGC) No data available since 2000, which commits us to Maximilien Roche, Mauro Rossi, Keiko Sako, Rosario Sanfilippo, Yvonne Seah, materiality exercise to define the top Tait Sorensen, Haiyan Zeng and Tingqing Zeng. sustainability priorities according to fulfilling its ten principles. This Report 3 Each of our Sustainability priorities the impacts of its business on the describes actions we have taken has a dedicated page within this We also would like to thank: environment, economy and society, to implement these principles and Report which clearly sets out the and according to its stakeholders’ serves as our communication on • Everyone who kindly agreed to be quoted in this report and provide testimony of objectives relating to that priority and expectations. The materiality exercise progress. I G4-15 I G4-32 I their collaboration with ST; the performance indicators showing process and its results are detailed our progress. We also include • Everyone who kindly agreed to have their pictures published in the report; on page 14. additional performance indicators at Assurance • Our interfaces on ST sites, SE coordinators and EHS teams who support our activity 13 Sustainability priorities along the end of each section. These are not DNV GL (Det Norske Veritas all year round; with related objectives were defined necessarily linked to our sustainability Germanischer Lloyd) is the entity • Site Directors and HR Managers; and validated by the Sustainability priorities but have been developed in that has been appointed to Council in December 2014. provide assurance services to • The teams audited in Agrate, Shenzhen and Tours for their availability. response to the separate external This report discloses our new stakeholder queries we receive. STMicroelectronics. In order to do Sustainability Strategy, our intentions I G4-18 I so, DNV interviewed all relevant and objectives, the progress made corporate departments and visited and the challenges we face. Accessibility three sites (Agrate-Italy, ShenzhenDetailed information about each of China, Tours-France) to review Our Sustainability report is our Sustainability priorities, as well as and validate ST’s data reporting also accessible on the web management approach can be found process and to provide assurance in interactive PDF format at in this report and/or on our website at of this year’s Report. ST Foundation www.st.com/company-reports along http://www.st.com/web/en/about_st/ information and data were not part with past reports. Printed copies are st_approach_to_sustainability.html of the external verification driven by available on request (see «We value I G4-19 I G4-23 I DNV GL. your feedback» to contact us). DNV GL’s assurance statement can be found on page 81. I G4-33 I We value your feedback You can write to us at We are committed to improving both our sustainability performance and the Corporate Social Responsibility ways we communicate with our stakeholders. We encourage contributions Although reasonable efforts have been made to ensure the consistency of the summary financial information for the year 2014 in this report with ST’s financial reporting, STMicroelectronics International NV and debate from all stakeholders and welcome feedback on the content and reliance should only be placed upon the complete financial reporting contained in ST’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2014, as filed with presentation of this report as well as suggestions for next year. Suggestions 39, Chemin du Champ-des-Filles the SEC on March 3rd, 2015, which can be found at www.st.com. Some of the statements contained in this report that are not historical facts are statements of future CH-1228 Geneva – Plan-Les-Ouates expectations and other forward looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 or Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act and feedback can be provided at sustainable.development@st.com. I G4-31 I of 1934, each as amended) based on management’s current views and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual Switzerland I G4-5 I results, performance or events to differ materially from those in such statements. Certain such forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as ‘believes’, ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘would be’ or ‘anticipates’ or similar expressions or the negative thereof or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. Some of the relevant risk factors are described in ‘Item 3. Key Information – Risk Factors’ included in our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2014. We do not intend, and do not assume any obligation, to update any information or forward-looking statements set forth in this report to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. Content Company...................................................................... 6 Environment & Operations......................................... 47 ST at a glance............................................................................................. 6 Environmental Efficiency GHG Air Emissions. ........................................ 48 Where you find us....................................................................................... 6 Environmental Efficiency Water................................................................ 50 Focus on a region. ..................................................................................... 7 Environmental Efficiency Energy.............................................................. 52 Value Chain................................................................................................. 8 Environmental Efficiency Waste. .............................................................. 54 Significant Events........................................................................................ 9 Environmental Efficiency Chemicals....................................................... 56 Foreword by our President and CEO. ................................................... 10 Sustainable Technology........................................................................... 58 Governance.............................................................................................. 12 Supply Chain Responsibility.................................................................... 60 Sustainability Strategy.............................................................................. 14 Environment & Operations Indicators. ................................................. 62 Ethics and Compliance.......................................................................... 18 Enterprise Risk Management. ................................................................ 20 Local Communities..................................................... 67 Local Communities. ................................................................................. 68 Business....................................................................... 23 Local Initiatives.......................................................................................... 70 Financial Performance............................................................................ 24 Local Communities’ Indicators. ............................................................. 72 Innovation.................................................................................................. 26 Customer Relations.................................................................................. 28 Awards........................................................................ 74 Business Indicators................................................................................... 30 GRI Content Index....................................................... 76 People.......................................................................... 33 4 Development and Engagement........................................................... 34 Global Compact and ISO 26000 Index....................... 79 5 Labor and Human Rights........................................................................ 36 Health and Safety..................................................................................... 38 Glossary....................................................................... 80 People Indicators...................................................................................... 41 External Assurance Statement .................................. 81 COMPANY ST at a glance I G4-6 I G4-9 I Focus on a region Japan and Korea France (Crolles, Rousset, Tours) China The headquarters The Region Italy (Shenzhen/Longgang*) The region counts five sites. ST Japan (Agrate, Catania) has its headquarters in Tokyo, sales Front-end offices in Osaka and Nagoya, and a manufacturing sites Morocco Malta central warehouse in Chiba. ST Korea Back-end has its headquarters in Seoul. manufacturing sites Malaysia The Philippines Our teams The headcount is 370 (204 in Japan and Singapore 166 in Korea), of which 93.8% have an ST contract. 22% are women. The average age is 40 years old. The split by job category is Exempt1: * Longgang closed at end of 2014 98%, Non-exempt: 2%. Activities Functions primarily relate to Customer • A global semiconductor leader • 79 sales offices in 35 countries • Advanced research and development Relations (250 employees), activities • The largest European • Listed on New York Stock Exchange, centers around the globe: include: Sales and Marketing, Application semiconductor company Euronext Paris and Borsa Italiana, • ~ 15,000 patents Support, Software Development, Milan • ~ 9,000 patent families Competence Center, Field Quality • 2014 net revenues of US$ 7.40bn • More than 500 new filings in 2014 Service, Supply Chain, Customer 6 • Approximately 43,600 employees • ~ 8,700 people working in Research 7 worldwide Services, Finance, Human Resources and Development, and Product Design Tokyo Seoul and Administration, ICT, Business • 12 manufacturing sites Japan Korea Support, External Communication. Major Sustainability initiatives Net revenue The region includes nine technical staff members, who share their expertise with the Where you find us community and help strengthen ST’s technological competitive advantage. Global Presence Activities to positively impact local communities include: partnering with Waseda (% by location of order shipment) I G4-4 I G4-8 I University to provide access to ST devices and solutions, delivering educational support to the young through technical seminars and scholarships in Japan, and 14% Our digital cooking and serving meals to the homeless and elderly in Korea. Our automotive products are making driving safer, consumer products A Local Social Contribution Committee has recently been created in ST Japan to Certifications are powering the support community involvement and drive future programs. greener and more entertaining ISO/TS 16949 certified augmented digital lifestyle Our smart power products are allowing our mobile products to operate longer and making more of our energy resources Our Microcontrollers Our MEMS & Sensors are everywhere making are augmenting the consumer experience everything smarter and more secure 1. Exempt: Refers to employees who hold positions normally requiring graduate or post-graduate education and who are not eligible for overtime compensation. COMPANY COMPANY Value Significant Chain Events STMicroelectronics is a global leader in the semiconductor market serving customers across the spectrum of sense and power technologies, automotive products, and embedded-processing solutions. From energy management and savings to trust and data security, from healthcare and wellness to smart consumer devices, in the home, car and office, at work and at play, ST products are found everywhere, microelectronics make a positive and innovative contribution to people’s lives. By getting more from technology to get more from life, ST stands for life.augmented. February ST and InvenSense settled all pending proceedings between June Suppliers Assembly line and them and entered into a patent The Annual July final test Back-end cross license agreement. General Meeting of ST signed an shareholders was agreement held in Amsterdam, with Enel The Netherlands. April Green Power We purchase silicon ingot, raw Carlo Bozotti was to transfer its materials, equipment, energy, gas, Manufacturing Electrical Wafer Jean-Marc Chery reappointed as the sole member equity stake in chemicals and services from many Front-end Sorting was appointed of the Managing Board and the The die are cut from 3Sun, a joint venture in photovoltaic suppliers and subcontractors. Chief Operating company’s President and Chief the silicon wafer before panels manufacturing. I G4-12 I Officer. Executive Officer for a three-year being assembled in a term, expiring at the 2017 Annual package. The chips General Meeting. 8 R&D conception are then tested prior to 9 and design delivery to the customer. September Business customers Paul Grimme Maurizio Tamagnini was appointed The manufacturing of We electrically ST and Tessera Technologies, chips is a process of was appointed as the Chairman and Didier Inc. announced they had reached test the die on around 400 separate Executive Vice Lombard as the Vice-Chairman of a settlement for all outstanding the wafer. It is stages, starting with a President, Mass the Supervisory Board. claims and litigation. also known as plain silicon wafer, and wafer sort or Market and resulting in the etching probing. Online Marketing Programs, a new position created The European New products are created in of several hundreds to We offer a broad range to coordinate the sales and Commission a multi-step process including thousands of die. November of products and we marketing activities in this strategic approved €400 architecture conception, million in aid for the serve a wide range of and growing area for the company. ST completed the repurchase of electrical layout, electrical and Nano2017 R&D customers across the 20 million shares of its common logic simulation, chip layout and program led by ST. markets described in stock for a total of US$ 156 million generation of the mask that will This aid, granted by France, will «Where you find us», under the share buy-back program. be used to etch the design in be dedicated to the development page 6. The repurchased shares will be silicon. May of new technologies in the held as treasury shares and used to Nanoeletronics sector. cover employee stock award plans. ST announced the pricing of a ST was recognized ST and Samsung Electronics US$1 billion dual-tranche offering among the world’s Co., Ltd. announced the signing of convertible bonds (the ‘Senior most innovative of a comprehensive agreement Bonds’). The Senior Bonds were companies and on 28-nm Fully Depleted Siliconissued in two tranches, one of was named a On-Insulator (FD-SOI) technology US$600 million with a maturity of Thomson Reuters for multi-source manufacturing 5 years and one of US$400 million Top Global Innovator for the third collaboration. with a maturity of 7 years. consecutive year. Foreword by our President and CEO I G4-1 I At ST, we believe technology, enabled by semiconductors, will continue to meet the chips, silicon photonics, vision-based advanced driver assist system processors, and challenges of our society in a sustainable manner and contribute to our vision of an infotainment and navigation devices. We were honored to have received more than a dozen augmented life for everyone. nominations and awards from industry publications, research organizations, customers, and The global population continues to grow and age as people live longer. Cities are associations recognizing ST and many of our innovative products. becoming larger and denser, increasing resource-management challenges. The But no success comes without the dedication and commitment of our people. welcomed growth in a global middle class is creating greater demand for goods and In 2014, we conducted our employee survey. With a participation rate of 84%, our results services tailored to the individual. These trends require innovative ideas to sustainably showed a favorable engagement--higher than the norm--and confirmed that our employees 10 manage the planet’s resources. are very proud, with a strong focus on quality and excellent team agility. 11 The many technologies ST pioneers and masters can make everything more energy Engagement is also visible in the actions that many employees are taking to support efficient, more intelligent, more secure and more aware of their environment as part of local communities. More than 300 community-related initiatives were recorded worldwide the Internet of Things. We enable equipment manufacturers to build smarter, powerin 2014, from cash donations to work hours inside or outside the company given by efficient infrastructure and device and car makers to enhance existing products or build volunteers. new solutions to assist people in their daily life. Providing a safe working environment, preventing work injuries and illnesses, and providing Our strategy is based on being an undisputed leader in Sense & Power and Automotive access to healthcare is part of our culture. During 2014 we continued to deliver good products and in Embedded Processing Solutions through a focused and marketresults, as our recordable case rate further decreased by 17% compared to last year, driven portfolio. It is also based on being a sustainable company, both financially and among the best of our peers. operationally. Manufacturing semiconductors requires energy-intensive processes. Since the midWe continuously evaluate the effectiveness of our sustainability initiatives and, during 1990s, we have been working on increasing our energy-efficiency and although we 2014 we re-focused our approach around three pillars -Business, People and have already halved our consumption per unit of production, it is still a point of focus Environment & Operations– taking into account our company priorities, the impact of for our manufacturing organizations. In 2014 we extended progress in meeting our our activities and the expectations of all our key stakeholders. green-energy objectives and further demonstrated our engagement in responsible Our sustainability approach includes driving improvements in our business performance energy sourcing. Consequently, with 20% of purchased energy coming from as a key to our long-term strategic goals. In 2014, we made significant progress in renewable sources, we recorded our best performance ever. Additionally, we re-used financial performance, customer expansion, and product and technology leadership. and recycled 92% of waste generated through our operations. In terms of financial performance, we achieved a significant year-over-year turnaround in Looking at 2015 and beyond, we will build on our re-focused sustainability strategy both operating income and net income, improving by over $600 million, and free cash through the engagement and dedication of our people, our involvement with flow improving by $376 million. We maintained our financial flexibility and continued to local communities, our product and technology leadership and our reward shareholders by distributing $354 million in dividends during the year. outstanding customer relationships. This will allow us to make We expanded our customer base, with our microcontrollers, automotive, industrial, further progress in our operational and financial performance power and discrete products making the greatest contribution to this success. Many and to continue working towards our vision of being of these products enable the Internet of Things and today we are working with many everywhere microelectronics make a positive contribution small and medium-size companies, in addition to our major global customers, creating to people’s lives. success together. We have demonstrated product and technology strength using our industry-leading technologies like FD-SOI, embedded Flash, BCD, RFSOI, Bi-CMOS, MEMS, Silicon Carbide and proprietary smart-power processes to deliver a range of innovative products. These included our STM32 and secure microcontrollers, motion and environmental sensors, touchscreen controllers and MEMS microphones, motor-control Carlo Bozotti ICs, intelligent power modules, power-management chipsets, UltraHD set-top-box President and CEO COMPANY Governance level of organizational independence objectives and strategy with the needs responsibility for sustainability. Part of his and unrestricted access to executive of stakeholders (employees, customers, remit is to chair the Sustainability Council management and the Supervisory Board. investors, subcontractors, suppliers and update the President and Chief In 2014, an external quality assessment and impacted communities), while Executive Officer, and Executives Officers review was conducted by a “Big 4” audit embedding responsible and ethical at quarterly corporate staff meetings. firm which confirmed that ST Corporate principles into all business operations. Corporate Governance determined the following independence sole member of the Managing Board, Audit performs its activity in conformance Our sustainability efforts adhere to Sustainability Council criteria for its members, in accordance and the Company’s President and Chief STMicroelectronics N.V., our parent with the International Standards for the following international guidelines The Sustainability Council meets with the corporate governance Executive Officer, for a three-year term company, is organized under the laws the Professional Practice of Internal and standards: International Labor bi-annually and comprises 12 Vice listing standards of the NYSE: expiring at the 2017 Annual General of The Netherlands, with its corporate Auditing (including the Definition of Organization Conventions; United Presidents, with the following mission: Supervisory Board members must Meeting. legal seat in Amsterdam. Its shares Internal Auditing and the Code of Ethics), Nations Global Compact Principles; “Manage the vision, strategy and not have any material relationship with In accordance with our Corporate are listed on the New York Stock released by the Institute of Internal United Nations Guiding Principles on governance of sustainability in ST STMicroelectronics N.V., or any of Governance Charter, the sole member Exchange (NYSE), Euronext Paris Auditors. Business and Human Rights; OECD and define, assess and update the our consolidated subsidiaries, or our of our Managing Board, as well as and Borsa Italiana. Our headquarters Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises; ST Sustainability strategy, corporate management. A ‘material relationship’ members of our senior management, and operational offices are managed Sustainability Governance Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition programs, overall goals and means.” can include commercial, industrial, may not serve on the board of a public through our wholly-owned subsidiary, At ST we get more from technology Code of Conduct; ISO 26000; OHSAS In 2014, the Council decided to revise banking, consulting, legal, accounting, company without the prior approval of STMicroelectronics International N.V., and to get more from life – and we do it 18001; ISO 14001; EMAS; ISO 50001; ST’s Sustainability strategy to align charitable or familial relationships, our Supervisory Board. I G4-34 I are located in Geneva, Switzerland. Our responsibly. With the environment and ISO 14064; and QC 080000. I G4-15 I with evolving business priorities and among others, but does not include operations are also conducted through Our commitment to these standards a relationship with direct or indirect Independence of the Corporate people at the heart of our core values, we stakeholder expectations. Following our various subsidiaries, which are strive to be among the most sustainable is reflected in our code of conduct, this decision, the Corporate Social organized and operated according to the shareholders. Audit function and responsible companies in the world. which provides guidelines to inform our Responsibility group ran a materiality In June 2014, Mr. Maurizio Tamagnini The Corporate Audit function is strictly laws of their country of incorporation and At ST we are committed to accounting behavior and decision-making. exercise1 with the resulting strategy and Ms. Heleen Kersten were appointed independent from corporate and local consolidated by STMicroelectronics N.V. for the social and environmental impact Corporate Vice President, Human presented to the Council and validated in as new members of our Supervisory management. In accordance with Dutch law, we have of our business operations. Through Resources and Sustainable December 2014. Board, replacing Messrs. Bruno Steve The mission of Corporate Audit, as a two-tier governance structure pursuant our dedication to sustainability we Development, Philippe Brun, reporting and Tom de Waard whose terms expired. defined in the ST Internal Audit Charter, to which our management is entrusted seek to align our business values, to the Chief Strategy Officer, has overall Messrs. Didier Lombard, Jean d’Arthuys, which is consistent with the Institute to our Managing Board under the Jean-Georges Malcor and Alessandro of Internal Auditors Standards and supervision of our Supervisory Board. Rivera were reappointed for a threeapproved by the Chair of the Audit Our Corporate Governance policies and year term, expiring at the 2017 Annual Committee and the Chief Executive practices are outlined in our Corporate General Meeting. Officer, is as follows: 12 Governance Charter and Supervisory 13 Furthermore, in June 2014, Mr. Maurizio Board Charter, which are available on our • Corporate Audit is an independent Tamagnini was appointed as the function designed to provide objective website, in the Corporate Governance Chairman and Mr. Didier Lombard as the assurance and consulting activity, section, at http://investors.st.com. Vice Chairman of our Supervisory Board which adds value, improves ST’s I G4-7 I for a three-year term expiring at the 2017 operations at all levels, and evaluates Annual General Meeting. and promotes compliance with ST’s Supervisory Board The biographies of the nine members Standard Operating Procedures and Our Supervisory Board advises our policies. of our Supervisory Board can be found Managing Board and supervises the • Corporate Audit helps ST accomplish in the Corporate Governance section at policies and actions of our Managing its objectives by bringing a systematic, http://investors.st.com. Board and the general course of our disciplined approach to evaluate affairs and business. Supervisory Board Committees and improve the effectiveness of risk Our Supervisory Board is composed of management, control and governance In performing its duties, our Supervisory processes. nine members appointed by our General Board is advised and assisted by • Corporate Audit is a major component Meeting of Shareholders for a threethe following committees: the Audit of ST’s governance framework and year term, which may be renewed one Committee, the Strategic Committee, assists the Audit Committee of the or more times in accordance with our the Compensation Committee, and the Supervisory Board and the Company’s Articles of Association, upon the nonNominating and Corporate Governance certifying officers in their fiduciary binding proposal of our Supervisory Committee. All committees are duties. Board. independent from the Managing Board Our Chief Audit and Risk Executive, In accordance with the Profile and the and senior management, and report Franck Freymond, is the head of Charter adopted by our Supervisory regularly to the Supervisory Board. Corporate Audit. He reports directly to Board, the members of our Supervisory A Charter governing the duties and the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board are carefully selected on the responsibilities of each committee is Board, attends all Audit Committee basis of their specific business, financial, published on our website and can be meetings, has direct interactions with the technical and/or legal expertise, prior found in the Corporate Governance Chair of the Audit Committee throughout professional experience, soundness section at http://investors.st.com. the year and attends executive of judgment, ability to make analytical management quarterly meetings. The enquiries and willingness to devote the Managing Board current functional reporting line and time required to adequately perform their At our 2014 Annual General Meeting, the practices now in place ensure the activities as Supervisory Board members. Mr. Carlo Bozotti was reappointed as the head of Corporate Audit the appropriate The Supervisory Board has also 1. See pages 14 to 15 COMPANY Sustainability Our new Sustainability strategy Strategy By aligning the topics highlighted by this topic remains important to us and structured according to the new strategy our stakeholders with the potential our stakeholders, and will therefore be and intentions. impact on our business, we selected addressed within Supply In 2015, we will continue 13 Sustainability priorities. These areas Chain Responsibility. Transport 13 key to increase awareness of, reflect the most significant challenges & Logistics is another area Sustainability and site involvement in key and opportunities we currently face. By where our initiatives, such as Sustainability issues, to Sustainability has been a guiding principle within ST for more than 20 years. In 2014, ST’s Sustainability priorities reducing this number to 13, we are able the Lean Packing program, strengthen our contribution Council decided to revise its Sustainability strategy to ensure the Company remains focused on the most to focus our efforts on key topics and have yielded good results, making this no to worldwide Sustainable Development. material topics and to define its sustainability initiatives for the coming years. activities. longer a priority. With the commitment of the Corporate When determining our priorities, we The 13 Sustainability priorities were EHS and CSR teams, site EHS experts considered our level of maturity within grouped into three pillars: People, and Sustainable Excellence coordinators, In 2014, we conducted a comprehensive Stakeholder survey each subject, as previous initiatives and Business, and Environment and we will define and implement programs materiality exercise and carried out a full programs enabled us to attain a certain Operations. Local Communities is treated aligned with our top priorities. Considering our stakeholders’ expectations is fundamental to determining materiality. review of our Sustainability strategy, to level of maturity in many areas. For as a transversal activity which is linked I G4-18 I G4-19 I G4-23 I G4-26 I G4-27 I We therefore conducted a survey to identify priority topics. We selected our respond to stakeholders’ expectations example, through our corporate program to the three pillars. In December 2014, I G4-DMA I stakeholders through a comprehensive mapping based on their importance, level and interests, and to ensure alignment we achieved a high level of control in our Sustainability Council validated the of influence, potential impact on our business, the benefits of engaging them and with business priorities and international managing conflict minerals. However, new Sustainability strategy. This report is the type of engagement. We invited over 300 stakeholders to participate, including standards. The revised Sustainability customers, employees, suppliers, investors, SRI analysts, academic and industry strategy defines our initiatives towards, associations, government representatives, local associations and NGOs, asking them and contribution to, worldwide to rate our 27 topics according to importance. Materiality matrix sustainable development over the Almost 40% of stakeholders responded. We also invited 20 ST executives, including High coming years. We will review and adjust Prioritized topics members of the Sustainability Council and selected site directors, to rate the topics by this strategy each year as needed, taking their potential impact on our business. I G4-24 I G4-25 I G4-26 I Ethics & Compliance into consideration external and Company developments. Review of the results Identifying sustainability topics Through this materiality exercise, we gained unique insights into our stakeholders’ Customer Relations expectations and identified which sustainability topics were the most important. 14 material to ST I G4-27 I 15 To identify sustainability topics with the most potential to impact our business, Governance Stakeholder Top 3 Priorities Risk Innovation Stakeholder importance employees and the environment, as well • Health and Safety Management as topics that influence the decisions Employees • Ethics of our stakeholders, we evaluated the • Supply Chain Responsibility Sustainable following: industry trends, customers Technology Health & Safety concerns, international standards (Global • Customer Relationship Management Supply Chain Customers • Health and Safety Responsibility Reporting Initiative, Electronics Industry • Supply Chain Responsibility Citizenship Coalition), investor and Environmental • Governance Efficiency analyst questionnaires, social media and Investors & Analysts • Risk and Crisis Management publications from the relevant NGOs, • Ethics semiconductor industry benchmarks • Innovation and ST management inputs. In total, we ST Management • Ethics Labor & Human Rights reviewed 64 sustainability topics relevant • Employee Engagement Local Communities People Development to our sector. Having assessed their Financial Performance & Engagement significance to ST and our stakeholders, we decided to focus on 27 topics that Medium we consider as important for ST and our stakeholders. I G4-25 I Medium Business impact High COMPANY Material aspects and boundaries I G4-18 I G4-19 I G4-20 I G4-21 I Boundaries New Sustainability Strategy ST Sustainability priorities Corresponding GRI G4 material aspect Within ST Outside ST Governance, Ethics & Risk Management Governance Governance All sites and organizations Relations with suppliers Ethics and Compliance Society All sites and organizations People Business Environment & Customers and business partners Operations Risk Management Organizational profile All sites and organizations • Health & Safety • Innovation • Environmental Efficiency • Development & Engagement • Customer Relations • Supply Chain Responsibility Health and Safety Occupational health and safety All sites On-site suppliers and • Labor & Human Rights • Financial Performance • Sustainable Technology sub-contractors Employment Development and Engagement All sites and organizations Training and education Local Communities Human rights assessment Labor and Human Rights Diversity and equal opportunity All sites and organizations Equal remuneration for women and men Local communities How did ST’s engagement on Sustainability evolve in 2014? Innovation No corresponding G4 material aspect Product and manufacturing organizations Customers Our new strategy embeds everything we do in our business and is easier to Product organizations understand and act on for our managers and employees. Customer Relations Product and service labeling Sales and Marketing Customers ST’s success is built on the engagement of our employees who are an integral Central functions part of the communities surrounding our operations. On top of the business Shareholders focus on product leadership (greener products) and overall operational excellence Financial Performance Economic performance All sites and organizations Investors Communities where we operate (environmental performance), we want to strengthen our roots through the development of the local communities and eco-systems in which we operate. Water Environmental Efficiency Emissions Manufacturing sites Local environment 16 According to you, what does Sustainability bring to ST? (GHG, Water, Energy, Waste, Chemicals) Effluents and waste 17 Energy What is your vision? Sustainability brings a genuine competitive advantage. It is not only about indices Supplier human rights assessment Supply Chain Responsibility Purchasing organizations Suppliers and sub-contractors Product and service labeling or compliance with environmental and social legislation. Sustainability means much Philippe Brun more to us. We believe it contributes to the innovation of our leading products and Corporate Vice President Sustainable Technology Product and service labeling Product and manufacturing organizations Customers to our long term economic performance. Human Resources and Sustainable Development In fact there is a multitude of ST products bringing growth and profitability to ST which directly contribute to the overall development of sustainability in society. They Local Communities Local communities All sites Local communities and partners Geneva (Switzerland) include: devices to reduce energy consumption or promote green energy, safety applications in the automotive industry, devices for the telecom industry that enhance new business models in developing countries and health monitoring devices to improve our quality of life. Moreover it gains the trust and engagement of the people who work with or live around ST, while minimizing risks and creating value for all our stakeholders. Being part of the Human Resources organization in ST, our aim is to make sustainability an integral part of our employees’ daily lives (from sustainable product development to daily decisions), helping the company to attract, retain and engage talent. It also makes it natural to embed it in all management practices including performance management, leadership, operational excellence and business development programs. From your experience, what are ST’s strengths in terms of sustainability? With more than 20 years’ experience in sustainability we have reached a certain level of maturity in many areas and are among the industry leaders in environmental and various health and safety practices. Our network of Sustainable Excellence coordinators allows our programs to be adapted to specific business needs and the local context. Our employees are strongly committed, not only through our processes or management systems, but also through their behavior and practices. What are the next challenges? Our next challenge is to take further advantage of our extensive internal experience and leading practices in sustainability, to propose more added value for all users of semiconductors. ST can contribute to face the challenges of the evolving world through product innovation and eventually augment people’s lives through innovation in areas such as the Internet of Things and solutions for health or for managing the planet’s resources. COMPANY Ethics and If you think that our Principles are in multiple languages and from all The relevance, criticality and potential being violated, or if you have a problem ST locations, in a professional and impact of each alleged or suspected applying them, please discuss with your confidential way. The third party breach are thoroughly examined to communicates all reports through the Compliance manager, your site Human Resources determine the appropriate level of hotline to the Chief Audit and Risk manager, or your site manager.” remedial actions. In 2014, we improved Executive, and to the Chairperson of In this context, we aim to foster a our methodology by formalizing the the Audit Committee of the Supervisory management culture that enables Board. assessment process applied to each employees to openly discuss concerns reported concern before starting an • An internal hotline, consisting of relating to adherence to our Principles an email address, can be used by investigation. At ST, we are committed to conducting our business with the highest standards of ethics and integrity, as with their local management without fear employees for other issues or if they In 2014, we continued the improvement outlined in our Company code of conduct. of retaliation. have a suggestion about our Principles. of the misconduct reporting framework Employees who do not want to, or feel All emails sent to this address are which started in 2012. We performed they cannot, speak openly about their received directly by the Chief Audit and extensive internal and external Risk Executive, the Chief Compliance Our Principles responsibility and a sense of responsibility • approval of the updated CEC Charter, issue can use one of our whistle-blowing consultations to ensure the updated towards all our stakeholders are a matter hotlines: Officer and the Corporate Vice framework will be compliant with We believe that how we carry out our • organizational guidelines for Local President Human Resources. They are applicable laws and regulations and of personal integrity for each of us, and Ethics Committees (LECs), • The Company Ombudsman’s hotline, business is as important as what we do. treated in confidence. compliance is mandatory. • review of the ongoing update to the managed by a third party, allows all ST will meet leading practice standards. Our code of conduct sets out the Misconduct allegations are centralized On an annual basis, all managers are misconduct reporting framework employees to submit their allegations The formal deployment of the updated Company’s principles in the area of by the Chief Audit and Risk Executive. required to certify that they have received, and of the quarterly reporting on and complaints regarding accounting, world-wide framework is expected to be business conduct and ethics around internal control and auditing matters. Information is provided at least read, understood and will abide by our investigations of alleged/suspected initiated in 2015. Integrity, People and Excellence. These misconducts, presented by the Chief The contact details necessary to quarterly to the Audit Committee of the Business Conduct and Ethics Policy. Bribery and corruption principles are the top-level reference Audit and Risk Executive. communicate with the Ombudsman Supervisory Board, the Corporate Ethics I G4-56 I G4-DMA I for guiding our behavior and decision(toll-free phone numbers, emails and Committee and the Certifying Officers, Consistent with our commitment to • review of the Company’s ethics and making and apply to all directors, officers postal addresses) are available in ST’s which enables its recipients to follow integrity, we recently reviewed and Corporate Ethics Committee compliance program presented by the Business Conduct and Ethics Policy. and employees of ST without exception. Chief Compliance Officer. up on the progress and conclusion of updated our anti-bribery and corruption Our Corporate Ethics Committee (CEC) The Ombudsman hotline is also open Integrity investigations conducted by the relevant policy and, as a result, we will deploy it was formed in 2007 and currently to external third parties. Local Ethics Committees The hotline operator ensures that functions, depending on the nature of the throughout our organizations in 2015. We conduct our business with the comprises nine senior managers The activities of LECs are complementary employees can raise their concerns allegation. highest ethical standards, honor our nominated by the President and commitments, deliver on our promises, to the CEC’s and contribute to the same Chief Executive Officer. The CEC was are loyal and fair, and stand up for what mission within their respective scope. established to provide support to the Non-compliance/Ethical breaches reporting 18 is right. In the organizational guidelines issued by 19 Company’s management in its efforts (G4-SO5) the CEC in 2014, LECs’ activities include: People to foster a business ethics culture consistent across regions, functions and • regular discussion and assessment 2014 We behave with openness, trust and of procedural frameworks, training organizations. Number of incidents under review as of January 1 st 4* simplicity; we will be ready to share and awareness initiatives related to The CEC’s roles and responsibilities Number of incidents reported or identified during the year 13 our knowledge, encourage everyone’s business ethics, include: Actual fraud cases identified through audit or management review 2 contribution and develop our people • active participation in ST’s ‘open through empowerment, teamwork • discussion and evaluation of ST’s door policy’ by being a local contact Incidents closed by a formal investigation report 6 code of conduct, other procedural point for employees wishing to report and training; each one of us will be Incidents closed after preliminary assessment 6 documents or initiatives related to misconduct, committed and personally involved in the business ethics as well as ethical Incidents still open at year end 3 continuous improvement process. breaches, allegations and related • contributing to the Company’s * Among which 1 case pertaining to ST-Ericsson investigations, reflection on how to approach Excellence ethical dilemmas by providing a local We strive for quality and customer • issuing guidance on ethical dilemmas, perspective on the issues discussed. E-signature of Business Conduct and Ethics Policy % satisfaction, and create value for all our • coordination of the local ethics The first LECs were created on the (G4-SO4) partners; we will be flexible, encourage network. initiative of local management. Their innovation, develop our competencies, In accordance with its mission existence is now being standardized 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 seek responsibility and be accountable and scope, the CEC may issue to ensure consistent roles and 93.90 90.30 93.40 93.48 90.99 for our actions; we will act with discipline, recommendations to the relevant responsibilities and provide adequate base our decisions on facts and focus organization. network coverage across the Company. on the priorities. Business ethics, the In 2014, the CEC met four times and Using the guidelines issued by the respect of human rights, environmental discussed the following topics: CEC, in 2014, an LEC was created in France and the roles, responsibilities and organization of existing LECs were Objectives Status Comments redefined. Partially deployed, new Improve the integration process between allegation reporting and investigation management procedural framework to be Misconduct reporting released in 2015 ST’s misconduct reporting framework Strengthen the Ethics Committee network by formalizing the links and reporting lines between the Corporate Links between the 2 networks is defined in our code of conduct and formalized. Communication to Ethics Committee and regional ethics committees and by disseminated throughout the company: be done in 2015 communicating on this updated framework to ST employees “Every employee plays his or her part in Design and implement a structured approach to assess the risk how well we adhere to our Principles. New of fraud globally COMPANY Enterprise Top-down Top-down risk map update campaign: streamlined process leveraging on Risk Action plans to be elaborated/implemented/ followed-up on (Corporate level Risk Risk Management Owners’ inputs (action plan follow-up) & targeted interviews with Corporate Staff members Owner/ERM Champion coordination) Objectives/top-priority risks Feedback/consolidation To be recognized by our stakeholders as among the best companies for risk management and robust 3 business continuity, by meeting and exceeding customer requirements, local and international legal Prioritization requirements, and international standards. 2 4 Risk scenario Risk map Mitigation action plans/ assessment Control procedures 1 Enterprise Risk Management responsible for: 31000 standard. It applies a holistic Risk • leading the development and approach and is designed to address The purpose of Enterprise Risk identification maintenance of the ERM framework, both top-down and bottom-up Management (ERM) at ST is to • overseeing the execution of perspectives. systematically, consistently and effectively ERM processes, procedures and It is built on a comprehensive risk Bottom-up risk maps Action plans to be elaborated/ identify, evaluate and manage all types infrastructure to ensure that the ERM universe (comprising generic risk areas (ERM Champion coordination) implemented/ followed-up on (Risk Owner of risk across the company, including activity serves as a key enabler for that allow consolidated and comparative coordination) for priority risks highlighted establishing effective risk mitigation achieving the organization’s business analysis across ST) and is articulated in risk maps action plans for identified key and top objectives. Bottom-up* along the activities described in the priority risks. Our ERM process is aligned with the graph. Our Chief Audit and Risk Executive is principles and guidelines of the ISO * ST organizations ERM Governance structure 2014 achievements Business Continuity Management According to the severity of the incident and the capacity of the Company to Supervisory board Top-down: we conducted a review ST has a deeply rooted history of topreact, four levels of events are identified: of our top-down risk assessment with level customer service and satisfaction, • Regular ERM process assurance • Annual ERM review 1. Incident Management – Capability to executive management. The output from and we are fully committed to further 20 reviews (requests for information/ • Regular updates (esp. priority respond to incidents occurring in normal 21 this exercise was a risk map, including secure our business continuity to attain corrective actions) risks/mitigation action plans) business activities either marginally or not top-priority risk areas. Risk owners the highest level of performance. • Requests to investigate specific • Specific analysis addressing impacting the customer. were appointed for each of these risk Our aim is to minimize business risk management topics Audit Committee requests areas in order to develop risk mitigation continuity risks in our operational 2. Business Continuity – Capability to continue to deliver our products at Corporate strategic committee action plans, which will be reviewed by processes and supply chain through acceptable predefined levels following a + chief audit & risk executive + ad hoc members executive management on a periodic implementing a reliable, feasible and disruptive incident. basis. cost-effective Business Continuity 3. Disaster Recovery – Capability Independent audit reviews Corporate risk owners Bottom-up: the bottom-up approach Management program. Corporate ERM support to respond to a severe incident which aims to embed risk identification, To achieve this goal in all organizations, Annual top-down/corporate-level risk map significantly impairs vital infrastructure of evaluation and management activities activities and processes, we: Quarterly follow-up on mitigation action plans an organization or site for a prolonged at the most effective level within each • Take a proactive approach, built on Ad hoc analysis & meetings as required period of time. organization. Following a pilot exercise the principles of ISO 22301, “Business Continuity Management Systems”, 4. Crisis Management – Capability to in 2013, we deployed the bottom-up • Top priorities/risk mitigation • Annual consolidation respond to an extraordinary event of high risk assessment approach to around • Set objectives for continuous objectives • Quarterly reporting severity which dramatically impacts the 20 internal organizations, including improvement which are positive, • ERM implementation objectives (priority risks & action plans) Marketing & Sales, Product Groups, realistic, achievable, visible and Company and/or our stakeholders. • Alerts measurable, Our contractors and suppliers are Manufacturing & Technology, Research & • Allocate cost-effective human, financial encouraged and requested to adopt a Development and Corporate functions. and technological resources to achieve similar business continuity approach in ERM champions/risk owners ERM tool: we deployed an ERM these objectives. order to guarantee ST’s ability to continue tool, which allows us to easily capture Manufacturing & technology Each site and organization is responsible providing products and services to our Marketing & Sales and consolidate data from across R&D operations for assessing the risks, identifying both end customers. Bottom-up risk maps/ the company and provide reports internal and external events which In 2014, we took the decision to mitigation action plans to executive management and the Product groups Corporate functions may be critical for business continuity, formalize our Business Continuity Supervisory Board. and developing and implementing a Management by starting an ISO 22301 Risk reporting: we reported on ERM plan to mitigate identified weaknesses. certification process for our 15 most activities to executive management and The Corporate Business Continuity important sites. We plan to work on a the Supervisory Board. Management coordinates and gap analysis and training in 2015, and harmonizes the various local approaches then proceed to the certification and to risk assessment, prevention and audit phase in 2016. I G4-DMA I recovery. Business • ST is included in 14 sustainability indices, including the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Europe • ST is named a Thomson Reuters Top 100 Global Innovator • ST is certified for ISO 9001 company-wide • 8,700 employees are dedicated to R&D I G4-DMA I Key figures +US$ 553 21% 628 patents of net million net filed in 2014 revenues operating income invested 2014 vs 2013 in R&D BUSINESS Financial What have been the major business breakthroughs in 2014? In 2014 we made important steps forward in our business operations, including a significant financial turnaround, after the transition associated with the exit from Performance ST-Ericsson. We re-positioned the company for the next step in terms of growth and sustainable profitability, by extending and diversifying our customer base and by strengthening our product development in the core areas of our product portfolio. Thanks to the efforts of our outstanding employees worldwide, we started to harvest important results, with 72% of 2014 revenues already delivering both growth and Our commitment to sustainability is a key enabler of long-term business success and improving profitability, namely from microcontrollers, analog and power discrete products. financial performance. Our actions to drive sustainable progress are designed to improve our financial How does it translate in terms of financial performance? performance, decrease risk, and support and improve our reputation among stakeholders as a long-time Despite softer than expected revenue progression, our financial performance was pioneer in our industry. solid throughout 2014, meeting our financial outlook in each quarter. Our operating Carlo Ferro margin before restructuring and impairment improved to 4.0% and 3.2% in the third Chief Financial Officer and fourth quarters of 2014, respectively, from negative in 2013. 2014 performance 354 million and used US$ 156 million of Customer base In addition, we began to generate a positive net income starting from the second cash to repurchase 20 million shares of quarter and a positive free cash flow starting from the third quarter of 2014. In 2014, ST made solid progress on Regarding customer expansion, our our common stock. Our net income had a significant positive swing, moving from a net loss of US$500 key performance and financial metrics. mass market initiatives were successful, In addition, 2014 was a year in which we million to a net income of US$128 million. Despite lower revenues, we achieved with revenues in the distribution channel made significant steps forward due to Our free cash flow increased to positive US$197 million from negative US$179 million. a significant turnaround year-over-year, reaching 31% of total 2014 revenues the talent and product leadership drive of We exited 2014 with liquidity of US$2.35 billion and a net financial position of US$550 million, while distributing US$354 million in with operating income improving by US$ compared to 26% last year. In 2014, our employees as we built dividends. 633 million, net income improving by US$ our ten largest customers 628 million and free cash flow improving a more focused, marketFree cash flow represented around one Which actions have been taken to prepare the company future? by US$ 376 million. driven portfolio of Sense, increased from third of total revenues and Power and Automotive negative US$ 179 none of them exceeded Our solid 2014 financial performance and capital structure have enabled us to re-invest about 27% of our total revenues in ST’s net revenue totaled US$ 7.40 Products, and Embedded million to positive 10% on an individual basis. research & development as well as in capital expenditure: an investment in innovation and future growth. billion in 2014. Net revenues declined 197 Processing Solutions. New Capex totaled US$496 million in 2014, representing 6.7% of revenues and an average of 6.3% of revenues over the last three 8.4% in total compared to the prior year, US$ million We are now in a different, flagship products during years well within our target level. mainly due to the significant reduction of less concentrated, less 2014 included our 32-bit During 2014 we also enhanced our liquidity for our sustainable development with the successful issuance of a US$1 billion legacy ST-Ericsson products. Excluding exposed model compared to 2010 when microcontrollers for general purpose convertible bond. At the same time, we protected our equity shareholders from dilution by completing a 20 million share the former ST-Ericsson products, our the largest customer represented about 24 and automotive applications, MEMS repurchase program. Today, I am pleased to note that our convertible securities are trading at attractive levels in the marketplace. 25 revenues declined by 1.8%, mainly due 14% of total revenues. microphones, touch-screen controllers, So a win-win situation for all. to a decline in sales of commodity image ultra-HD products for set-top box and Looking forward What are the main directions for 2015? sensor products and a faster-thanlow voltage power MOSFETs and IGBTs. anticipated revenues decline of set-top Our main objective in 2015 is to continue While 2014 was a year of important progress, revenues did not grow. So we still have work to do in 2015. On a year-over-year basis, revenues box prior generation products and motion to deliver year-over-year improvements Our objective is to ensure that over time all of our businesses positively contribute and that our innovative portfolio brings higher in 2014 for the Microcontrollers and MEMS prior generation products. The by returning to revenue growth and shareholder value. We are confident this will happen thanks to the many new products that we are introducing, leveraging on the Automotive Groups increased by 10% latter was only partially compensated by continuing to improve our cost structure. know-how of our 8,700 employees devoted to R&D. and 8% respectively, with the Industrial increased revenues in microcontrollers, We also expect our strong presence in the Internet of Things, in mobile and in the car to support our growth in 2015. Our and Power Discrete Group growing as automotive products, industrial and Extra-financial performance innovative products enhance peoples’ lives in many ways: in smart watches and other wearable devices for monitoring fitness well. I G4-DMA I power products, and new generations Each year we receive questionnaires from and health, or in cars to make driving safer, while our world-class ultra-low power technologies contribute to a sustainable planet. of acoustic and environmental MEMS. Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Our 2014 gross margin was 33.7% rating agencies and analysts, requesting of revenues, increasing by 140 basis detailed feedback on our Sustainability ST key figures points compared to the prior year. This strategy and performance, along with (G4-9/G4-EC1) increase was primarily due to improved data to substantiate our answers and Net revenues by location of order shipment in (%)* 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 manufacturing efficiencies and a positive commentary on our performance. (G4-8/G4-9/G4-EC1) These evaluations are an opportunity for Net revenues (US$ m) 10,346 9,735 8,493 8,082 7,404 product mix, but was partially offset by declining selling prices, higher unused Japan-Korea us to assess our performance within a Gross profit (US$ m) 4,015 3,574 2,783 2,614 2,498 capacity charges in digital technology 13.6 EMEA wider context, benchmark ST against Gross profit as a percentage 38.8% 36.7% 32.8% 32.3% 33.7% and an unfavorable currency effect. 26.2 our peers and identify areas for further of sales (%) Operating income improved significantly improvement. It also enables us to Net earnings (US$ m) 830 650 (1,158) (500) 128 to positive US$ 168 million from negative monitor investment trends and identify Earnings per share (diluted) in (US$) 0.92 0.72 (1.31) (0.56) 0.14 US$ 465 million in 2013, mainly driven by new risks and opportunities. Market share versus TAM (%) 3.47% 3.21% 2.87% 2.60% 2.20% lower operating expenses resulting from In 2014, we were included in 14 (Total Available Market) our exit of the ST-Ericsson joint venture sustainability indices, including the Dow and cost savings initiatives. Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Europe, Our free cash flow significantly improved which we re-entered in 2013. In 2014, Operating income and cash flow from negative US$ 179 million in 2013 we increased our global DJSI Europe (G4-EC1) Greater Chinascore by one point and reduced the gap to positive US$ 197 million in 2014. In Americas 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 South Asia for inclusion in the DJSI World to only the course of the year, we have paid 15.2 45 Operating income (US$m) 476 46 (2,081) (465) 168 dividends to shareholders totaling US$ two points. I G4-DMA I Net operating cash flow (US$m) 972 (278) 34 (179) 197 * See table on page 31 More performance indicators are available on pages 30 to 31 BUSINESS Comet-Explorer Satellite Innovation Rosetta a prototype using JEMMA open-source software, and make a value proposition and business model. The competition united innovators and fast-prototyping The Philae space probe’s landing developers in the Smart Home field on the Churyumov-Gerasimenko We aim to contribute to a sustainable world by fostering innovation wherever microelectronics can with companies who can turn their ideas into reality comet in 2014 was a particularly positively impact people’s lives. proud moment for ST: the space • Strategic cooperation with India’s National Innovation Foundation satellite Rosetta and its probe (NIF), supporting technological Philae contain over 10,000 As a hi-tech company innovation is part aggregate the IP Blocks as components innovation. radiation-hardened, high-reliability innovation in remote areas of India of our DNA and essential for our longof a much larger System-on-Chip and As examples of the innovative products ICs designed and manufactured and creating a marketplace for these term success. To nourish our innovation to verify their design on an electrical, launched in 2014, we expanded our inventions. Under the sponsorship by ST. After a six billion kilometer each year we invest a significant logical and functional level STM32 Microcontroller of the Department of Science and journey, started over ten years ago, the percentage of our revenue in research prior to prototyping is an R&D investments family with new highTechnology, Government of India, totaled US$ space satellite Rosetta placed the Philae and development. In 2014 our R&D important factor for success performance and lowerNIF will support complete product probe on the comet to obtain images from its investments totaled US$ 1.52 billion, representing 21% of our net revenue. in our industry. It is also central to the subsequent 1.52 billion power products, we introduced new sensors development, while ST will validate and develop electronic solutions for some surface and analyze its composition. This is the first operation of its kind in the history of space 8,700 employees are currently dedicated ‘productization’ step of the process. such as our MEMS pressure sensor of these innovative ideas. exploration. The valuable information Philae to R&D and product design. Alternatively, inventions may relate to our that combines high accuracy and relayed back to Earth will enable significant In 2014, we launched a wave of new and Front-end or Back-end semiconductor robustness with ultra-small physical progress in understanding how the universe innovative products in the market which manufacturing process. These typically size, we introduced a new version of was formed. ST delivered four device will fuel our growth in 2015. We also aim to produce denser or more complex our Bluetooth Low Energy network types to the Central Parts Procurement strengthened our Intellectual Property integrated circuits, or reduce our processor, and solutions for wireless Agency, including more than 4,000 portfolio by filing a total of 553 patent manufacturing costs or environmental charging and energy harvesting. radiation-hardened logic ICs and applications. For the third consecutive year we were footprint. Our innovations also aim to improve the ST is also fostering innovation in the IoT by working with start-ups, universities Focus more than 6,500 rad-hard transistors. named a Thomson Reuters Top 100 end application through lower energy and small to medium-sized companies Global Innovator. This prestigious award consumption, a reduction in materials with a number of initiatives such as recognizes companies around the world and waste, or higher recycling potential providing office space for start-ups at for their outstanding commitment to at end-of-life. some of our French sites. innovation, the protection of ideas and In addition to our technology and To accelerate innovation within the IoT 26 Alessandro Cremonesi 27 commercialization of inventions. product innovation, we also have we have also developed a wide range Group Vice President design labs which produce innovative of reference designs with partners, General Manager ST Central Labs Our approach to innovation reference designs and boards to support in addition to development boards Geneva (Switzerland) Our approach is strongly market driven our customers in developing new and tools, including the STM32 Open to ensure we provide added value for the applications. I G4-DMA I Development Environment which allows In recent years, the development end customer. Innovation is embedded fast and easy prototyping with ST of technology has accelerated throughout ST; in our basic research, in Internet of Things components. and the interaction of people with our manufacturing, in our product design, Today, the Internet of Things (IoT) technology has become more in our application labs and in our go-tois a main driver of innovation in the Community innovation intense and more intimate. Today’s ST patents filed market strategy. electronics industry. It provides a leading Our commitment to innovation also successful technologies are an 800 739 Our basic and advanced research opportunity for technology to help solve extends beyond our business activity. integral part of our lives, improving typically yields ‘technology bricks’. societal challenges. Each year we organize and sponsor a our quality of life and even our 700 602 598 When combined with other such bricks ST already leads the market with core number of events to boost innovation in longevity. 600 553 One important factor to consider in 516 and implemented in a semiconductor IoT components, including sensors, the community, including: 500 technology, or in software on a connectivity, low-power microcontrollers • The European STM32 competition, understanding which technologies microprocessor core, these may result in and leading-edge energy management where technology fans created will be successful in the future is the 400 new commercial products. and analog solutions. In addition, we innovative applications for the IoT using “over-investment” of the previous 300 More often, however, they result in have developed system-level applications at least one STM32 microcontroller and period. Today, there are already a as many of our other components as 200 blocks of circuits or code that implement such as innovative body-heat powered huge number of connected objects certain functions of a system, known solutions and gesture control devices, possible. The contest was sponsored and we are generating and storing 100 by ST in partnership with ARM, Farnell in the industry as ‘IP Blocks’. Our and are continuing to develop new massive quantities of data. There 0 element14, Würth Elektronik and product development team’s ability to technology and products to drive IoT is so much data that the challenge 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Rubik’s Futuro Cube of the next decade will surely be • The Smart Home Hackathon in to manage, connect and properly Turin, of which ST was sponsor and Objectives Status Comments technology provider. This competition exploit the data to create more Innovation activity 553 new filings. Objective for was launched by the Energy@home intelligent systems and services. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 In 2014, file 540 patents for innovation 2015, file 550 patents association and promoted by I3P, This is one of the challenges that Median age of immature projects (months) 15 15 18 15 15 the Innovative Enterprise Incubator ST technical staff are taking on to Increase efficiency of product development: Reduce average age Objective for 2015, reduce to % of immature projects* younger than 1 year 32 35 28 39 37 of development projects to 15 months 14 months of the Politecnico of Torino. In 54 anticipate the future and help ST be hours, participants were challenged to % of projects* maturing within year 28 33 30 41 25 among the leaders in the next wave Increase efficiency of product development: Increase proportion 37%. Objective for 2015, visualize an ideal Smart Home, outline of projects less than 1 year old to 33% increase proportion to 40% of innovation. * Immature project: product development project, defined in accordance with IFRS criteria, measured in asset value, not yet at Maturity 30 at the end of the year More performance indicators are available on pages 30 to 31 BUSINESS Vodafone rewards Customer ST therefore developed a preemptive approach to this by publishing information on www.st.com. This led to a ST provides secure Relations decrease in information requests during the second semester. microcontroller products for Our Sales organization acts as the advanced SIM (Subscriber interface with customers, relaying the Identity Module) and M2M relevant information. (Machine-to-Machine) modules to Vodafone and We maintain a continuous and open dialog with customers to ensure that their expectations are met in Online support its partner companies across all respects, including quality, service and timely delivery. In September 2014, we launched the multiple geographies. This award new version of our online platform to recognizes ST’s outstanding provide better and faster support to commitment and performance and Meeting stakeholders’ needs is a Customer satisfaction strengths and weaknesses, and defining customers, users or potential users of our contribution to Vodafone’s success, fundamental element of sustainable Customer satisfaction is a pillar of ST’s and monitoring all agreed improvement our products. They can now request through exceptional supply-chain management development. As principle stakeholders, values and business strategy, and actions. We conduct our surveys every technical or commercial information from and customer service. “Vodafone uses a rigorous multiit is vital for our business to consider involves all our employees. We have two years. The results of the survey ST through our website. At the end of tiered process to qualify, optimize, evaluate, and audit our customers’ needs and expectations identified five areas of excellence that conducted in 2013 can be seen in our 2014, 350 support centers, organized by its suppliers, and its recognition of ST for outstanding – whether relating to our product contribute to customer satisfaction: 2013 Sustainability Report page 30. region and product, were handling over delivery performance is a significant achievement,” offering, the quality of our products and Innovation and R&D, Business I G4-PR5 I 650 requests per month. From this, we said Marie-France Florentin, Group VP and services, or the requirements around our Excellence, Supply Chain, Quality and noted that 89% of requests through our General Manager Secure Microcontroller Division, Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Customers and sustainability online support platform were technical, STMicroelectronics. “We are also proud to have Sustainability. and social responsibilities. Our customers show increasing and 88% were coming from online users been among the four finalists for Vodafone’s Proactively managing the relations Customer feedback interest in corporate responsibility and (small mass market companies). Supplier of the Year award, and have a goal with our customers enables us to performance, particularly in EHS, social By listening to our customers and to do even better next time.” We regularly evaluate customer understand, meet or exceed their and ethics. Our customer requirement product users, we acquire knowledge Focus satisfaction through customer meetings, current and future expectations. At ST, process is managed and owned by our of trends, understand their needs and metrics analysis, surveys and ST site customer relations means customer Corporate Product Quality Excellence explore new business opportunities. We audits. Our satisfaction index provides satisfaction, effective support, proactive group. In 2014, we received almost 800 aim to use these information exchanges an accurate measurement of what is communication, knowledge exchange, customer inquiries regarding sustainability (customers’ questions and ST’s replies) important to our customers. This is 28 strong partnerships and full compliance at corporate level, 66% related to our to further develop our FAQ database on 29 done through collecting and analyzing to agreed and legal requirements. We approach towards EHS and 34% related our website. The system also provides internal indicators, such as the number have Standard Operating Procedures to Social Responsibility (SR). statistics and enables us to receive of customer complaints, failure analysis in place at corporate level to manage Our experts in chemicals, the customer feedback after each case is cycle time, the percentage of customer our customer relations, as well as environment, quality, conflict minerals, closed. returns and one-time delivery. Each programs for improving quality, which are social responsibility and ethics analyzed ST account manager is responsible for supported by various organizations. all specific requests. receiving customer feedback, identifying I G4-DMA I As members we are committed to be fully compliant to the Electronics Industry Customer requests on Sustainability Citizenship Coalition (EICC), and to Delivery date meet the increasing volume of inquiries, Conflict Minerals the SR team promotes standardized 100 24% answers to customers, either through 90 providing access to our self-assessment 80 questionnaires (SAQ) and audit reports 70 published on the EICC-ON platform or 60 through the Conflict Minerals Reporting 50 Template (CMRT), developed by the 40 EHS Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI)1. 30 66% As 71% of SR requests relate to conflict 20 Social Responsability minerals, we adopted a proactive 10% 10 approach by sending our regular 0 customers the up-to-date CMRT. At the 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 end of 2014, we focused our efforts on % of deliveries in line with ST commitment % of deliveries in line with customer request Objectives Status Comments collecting data to update our conflict minerals declaration according to the Impacted by high volumes on Just in Time on committed rate superior to 90% one specific product family, CMRT V3.02. For more information, see Quality (Baseline 100 in 2011) working to improve in 2015 page 61. (G4-PR5) Q4 2010 Q4 2011 Q4 2012 Q4 2013 Q4 2014 Continue to focus on this in The EHS team primarily receives inquiries Delinquency on requested date to be at 0.35 week of sales Customer complaints NA 100.0 97.3 87.0 86.1 2015 around product legal compliance and Cycle time to process failures analysis NA 100.0 111.6 112.9 111.6 Reduce customer complaints per million units by 6% by Q4 2014 2015 objective, 6% by Q4 2015 compared with a 2011 baseline compared with a 2011 baseline 1. CFSI: Initiative of the EICC and the Customer Quality returns NA 100.0 46.1 47.7 49.2 GeSI (Global e-Sustainability Initiative) More performance indicators are available on pages 30 to 31 BUSINESS Business Dividends paid (G4-EC1) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Indicators Dividends (US$m) ST sales by market channel in (%)* 212 327 355 346 354 (G4-9/G4-EC1) This section includes indicators and GRI Standard Disclosures. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 OEM 79.1 77.3 77.6 74.4 68.7 Distribution 20.9 22.7 22.4 25.6 31.3 ST’s inclusion in sustainability indices in 2014 * Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEM”) are the end-customers to which we provide direct Index Index marketing application engineering support, while Distribution customers refers to the distributors and representatives that we engage to distribute our products around the world. ECPI Euro Ethical Equity Net revenues by location of order shipment in (%)* DJSI Europe (G4-8/G4-9/G4-EC1) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 EMEA 25.0 23.9 24.7 24.2 26.2 Americas 12.9 13.8 14.7 15.1 15.2 ECPI EMU Ethical Equity Greater China-South Asia 44.1 44.8 41.9 42.1 45.0 Japan-Korea 18.0 17.5 18.7 18.6 13.6 EuroNext Vigeo World 120 * Net revenues by location of order shipment are classified by location of customer invoiced or reclassified by shipment destination in line with customer demand. For example, products ordered by U.S.-based companies to be invoiced to Greater ChinaSouth Asia affiliates are classified as ECPI Global Developed ESG Best Greater China-South Asia revenues. Furthermore, the comparison among the different periods may be affected by shifts in shipment from one location to another, as requested by our customers. in Class Equity 30 Taxes 31 (G4-EC1) EuroNext Vigeo Europe 120 FTSE4GOOD Global index 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Tax expense for the year (US$m) 183 205 79 72 67 FTSE4GOOD Europe index EuroNext Vigeo Eurozone 120 FTSE ECPI Italia SRI benchmark index EuroNext Vigeo Benelux 20 FTSE ECPI Italia SRI Leaders index Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe STOXX® Global ESG Leaders indices People • 20 of our sites, including all our manufacturing sites are OHSAS 18001 certified • 100% of our manufacturing sites and our 3 major design sites are covered by EICC programs • Robust internal Health and Safety audit process • New learning blended approach including e-Learning, peer-to-peer development, mentoring, workshops and webinars. I G4-DMA I Key figures ST recordable case rate +13% 66% decreased by of disabled people Employee 17% employed in ST engagement index 2014 vs 2013 2014 vs 2013 PEOPLE Growing our people Development improvement on 2012. The results also confirmed that Grow your career employees are highly committed and To support our talent and and Engagement proud, at 8% above the norm. We business growth objectives, we continue to observe strong alignment developed a program providing (3% above the norm), great connection international opportunities for our between people and operational goals, talented employees. This aims a strong culture of quality (6% above to strengthen the connection the norm) and excellent team agility. between product groups in We develop people who develop leading products. We aim to cultivate our employees’ competencies, We identified opportunities to improve Europe and sales and marketing foster leading technical expertise, and provide continuous learning and career opportunities. Key to employees’ confidence in the future, and teams in the growing markets of this is a culture where talents are proactively developed, performance management is effective and their connection to our overall strategy. China, Japan, Korea and America. recognition, pride and trust is the norm. The results were analyzed at CEO Positions are open for Application, level at the end of 2014. The launch Field Application, Product Marketing of new processes and action plans and Market Development engineers working in A new framework for training to holistic learning, promoting the • Alignment: based on shared vision, agreed started in January 2015. Our product divisions. This three-year experience full range of development opportunities collaboration and transparency approach is to ensure that each internal allows employees to embrace new professional development and engagement we offer beyond the typical education • Accountability: re-emphasizing entity requiring significant improvement challenges and broaden their skills and In 2014, we worked on aligning our discipline, speed and effectiveness commits to a focused action plan. These horizons. After this period, employees can framework. This ‘blended learning’ development and engagement programs toward customers plans can be organizational (group, either renew their local contract or return to includes a range of initiatives, such with stakeholders’ needs. We also team), geographical (regional, site) or their original location. Gianluca Aureliano as face-to-face training, e-Learning, • Robustness: about prevention, periodically adjust our people strategy simplification and finding sustainable linked to a domain or activity. The next joined this program and is now peer-to-peer development, mentoring, and processes, and enhance our solutions to challenges steps include qualitative feedback, growing his career in Shanghai. workshops and webinars. I G4-DMA I practices. Focus We monitor the effectiveness of these • Engagement: leveraging trust, involving people in improvement actions Aligning learning with programs and assess their impact on coaching and empowerment. and conducting reviews to address stakeholders’ needs stakeholders to shape our strategy. Performance management engagement throughout the year. In 2014, we enhanced our Learning People leadership Based on previous employee surveys Looking forward to 2015 Needs Analysis process to ensure and in line with our new By enhancing our performance We reworked our leadership alignment with customers and business model to increase the Engagement leadership model, we management process, we can now 34 objectives and monitor the effectiveness of our practices. effective impact on our stakeholders and, above index at 66% involved employees and managers in revamping our monitor learning – not only in terms of volume by activity, but also in adherence 35 We made sure that individual performance management to customer and learning needs. Together all, our employees. We also merged development plans are consistent process, in order to improve alignment, with people engagement, this is included a number of our people management with the Company’s global strategy differentiation and engagement. in our 2015 corporate top page2, initiatives, such as lean, speed and agility and budgetary requirements. Needs The new process, in effect since early deployed globally. I G4-DMA I and quality boosters for customers. definitions are driven by the Groups, 2015, will provide managers with Our new people leadership framework while deployment and implementation is more empowerment and give greater is based on our company values and handled locally. transparency for all. It will also reinforce a Employees with a formal individual leverages four pillars: We are completing our transition from culture of continuous qualitative feedback development plan (%) (G4-LA11) and simplify our systems. This includes harmonized annual goal 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Employees survey Engagement rate Objectives Status Comments reviews, effective goal setting in line Exempts 69.4 44.5 26.5 21.7 22.5 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Deployed a new recruitement with strategy, individual performance Recruitment: ensure that each ST organization is 100% aligned process and tool. Quarterly Female 24.5 Overall participation rate (%) 86 86 87 NA 84 with the quarterly workforce plan execution workforce plan monitoring in feedback, and differentiated recognition Male 22.0 Individual Engagement index 0.34 0.33 0.32 place. Objective discontinued and rewards. Non-Exempts and Operators 19.0 17.3 15.5 16.3 Individual Engagement index (%) NA NA 64 NA 66 Internal mobility: Deploy new SOP and monitor internal posting Standard Operating Proccedure Employee engagement Female 19.9 Organization Agility Index (%) NA NA NA NA 58 released, internal posting of all the relevant job requisitions In 2014, after enhancing our monitored. Objective discontinued Male 14.9 Goal Alignment Index (%) NA NA NA NA 68 Increase the percentage of open positions for exempts filled by 25% of jobs filled internally for questionnaire, we conducted a internal candidates to exceed 50% in 2015 exempts new employee survey, monitoring The LEAN program was launched in 2008 by Corporate Vice President Philippe Brun. Engagement index: engagement, alignment and agility. We Continuously increase the engagement level, and keep voluntary It aims to develop principles such as visual management, involve employees in turnover within 10% worldwide (excluding operators) 66% vs 64% in 2012. took this opportunity to introduce a more Turnover 6.7% in 2014. workshops, address daily operational problems, spread the LEAN mindset to focused questionnaire, linked to external Ensure that more than 50% of employees have a development managers and teams, and meet our customers’ expectations. 41% Objective replaced benchmarks and global best practices. plan, linked to their annual performance After six years, with 1,900 people trained and more than 250 workshops, we Participation rate reached 84% and Ensure a worldwide average of 35 hours of learning per have significantly improved our industrial performance in terms of flow, quality and 43.7 hours/employee results showed a favorable engagement employee customer service. Involving people from the field has led to tailored operational index at 66%, which is two percent Following engagement surveys, ensure that each Corporate Not applicable as the survey solutions. The program’s success is also visible in improved social indicators, higher than the norm1 and a 2% Vice President sponsors action plans to address employees' key was postponed to end of 2014. including a reduction of safety-recordable cases and absenteeism, and improved expectations Objective discontinued 1. Corporate Executive Board Company Ludovic Villaregut worldwide electronic industry average LEAN champion ergonomics and engagement, a guarantee for the stability of the initiative. Ensure that all employees have qualitative performance I have witnessed the growth of many employees, especially operators, and their pride 2. ST corporate document issued annually by each Rousset (France) feedbacks, and the majority have a development plan related to New their annual performance organization, containing objectives, enablers and and emotion in being solicited to deploy or improve Company standards. results. More performance indicators are available on pages 41 to 45 PEOPLE Labor an e-learning program for managers important events, such as motherhood. on Business and Human Rights Enhancing the identification and awareness, to be released in 2015. promotion of talented women at earlier I G4-15 I and Human Rights stages of their career will help us prepare Preparing the next generation of the next generation of female leaders. female leaders Disability programs Gender diversity remains a challenge for ST. Through various gender Thanks to our equal opportunity initiatives, we learned that focusing on programs, in 2014 we increased the We ensure that all employees are treated with respect and dignity, and that business practices are number of disabled employees by 13%. Vicky Genz the top of the hierarchy to increase the Supply Chain Corporate aligned with the highest international, social and labor standards for the electronics sector. This includes representation of women in leadership Although there is a need to develop Responsibility Specialist, promotion of diversity and equal opportunities at all levels of our organization. positions does not obtain breakthrough awareness and knowledge in the regions Motorola Solutions results. Since 2012, we have increased where our Back-end activities are women’s representation in management located, and more specifically in Asia, Collaboration with suppliers is a Due diligence at the heart of our A path toward continuous industry average. I G4-DMA I positions by 1%. Going forward, we aim our French and Italian sites have very core tenet of Motorola Solutions’ strategy improvement The manufacturing sites involved in our to increase this trend through a new advanced programs and monitoring in efforts to address labor and human Supporting human rights is at the core Our due diligence approach to protecting audit program have now completed their approach. place and have achieved a good level rights issues in our supply chain. of ST’s values. We are committed human rights is based on a two-step first EICC audit cycle, including third party Although emerging talent is most often of integration. For example, in France We periodically attend supplier to monitoring our performance and process. First, we perform annual audits and audit closures. Reaching this identified within junior job grades, we 4.66% of the total workforce is disabled. audits to understand conditions diligently assessing the risks associated self-assessments of all our major sites, milestone has enabled us to reflect on noted that promotion of women at this In 2014, convinced that education is firsthand. Our focus areas in with working hours, forced labor, regardless of their location. In 2014, 87% the underlying strengths and weaknesses career stage is still slightly lower than a strong lever for integrating disabled China continue to ensure fair of ST’s processes. employees within ST’s wider workforce, 99.9% discrimination, harassment and freedom of our employees were men. To drive a deep and sustainable working hours, fair treatment of of association, within the context of the covered by these risk compliance By interviewing local change in our gender structure, we ST France went a step further and student workers and safe working regions where we operate. assessments. Based with the 60-hour working program managers will focus on providing increased and developed an innovative training program conditions. As demonstrated in and coordinators, to provide disabled employees with the recent ST Shenzhen audit, Since the early 2000s, we have on these results, we week limit in China better opportunities for talented women progressively enhanced our human rights then conduct audits and performing a in entry-level and middle management access to higher education diplomas. the factory takes the conditions due diligence by going beyond legal in the regions where human rights’ risks comprehensive diagnosis, we have positions. We will also address the daily However, to improve further in this seriously and has made meaningful requirements and adopting the most are highest. We share the results with our reinforced our ability to address risks, and challenges these women encounter domain, we need to adapt our strategy to changes to address these issues stringent international standards, such customers to increase transparency. have engaged more local managers in in driving their career while balancing take into account more the local context. and eliminate areas of concern. as the Electronic Industry Citizenship In 2014, we extended our selfassessing and mitigating these risks. We look forward to ongoing 36 Coalition’s (EICC’s) Code of Conduct and assessment campaign to include our We made significant progress in the collaboration that leads to 37 conducting stringent risk assessments three main design sites. Located in India, following areas: EICC Audit program results Major non-conformances continuous improvement in our and audits. I G4-15 I Italy and France, these sites comprise • We achieved 99.9% compliance (G4-HR9) supply chain. In regions where labor rights are well around 10% of our total workforce. We with the 60-hour working week limit 2011 2012 2013 2014 controlled and respected, we strive continued to reduce our global risk level in China. In comparison, the EICC estimates that only 10% of audited Number of audits 2 4 5 4 to promote diversity and exceed through sustainable corrective actions Chinese sites comply with this limit. Working hours 2 4 4 2 legal requirements. Ensuring gender and by encouraging knowledge sharing • We increased our control and auditing Wages and benefits 1 1 1 2 diversity and the integration of disabled between sites. These activities are of the labor agencies we use. More Occupational injury and illness 3 1 1 employees are major goals which we part of our goal to achieve continuous information can be found in Supply continue to focus on. I G4-DMA I improvement within our production sites. Freely chosen employment 1 1 Chain Responsibility, pages 60 to 61 With an average EICC self-assessment Child labor avoidance (Young Workers) 1 1 This progress helped us improve the score of 91.2% for our manufacturing effectiveness of our corrective actions Occupational safety 1 1 sites, ST’s performance is above the and as a result, we achieved 100% Waste water and solid waste 1 compliance in the two closure audits of Emergency preparedness 2 Objectives Status Comments 2014. Hazardous substances 1 1 Extend EICC Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) to three Among the actions identified to improve Supplier responsibility 1 Objective discontinued non-manufacturing sites, in addition to all manufacturing sites our processes, we have already initiated Non-discrimination 1 Ensure 100% of ST Asian and Back-end sites are audited every the following: Machine safeguarding 1 two years versus the EICC Code of Conduct • Revise our internal policies and create Protection of identity 1 Average of 1.8 major NC in implementation guidelines to support Ensure that our audited sites have 0 major non-conformance 2013/2014 cycle, vs 3.5 in Total 7 14 7 9 our sites. (NC) on the labor, and health and safety section 2011/2012 cycle. Objective Average major NC/audit 3.5 3.5 1.4 2.25 replaced • Develop knowledge sharing and communication between sites Policy reviewed and now in Review the Company HR policy and deploy it through ST approval cycle. Objective encountering the same risks. organizations discontinued • Reinforce capability-building programs Disabled employees 14.53% vs 14.02% in 2013. through the launch of a new e-learning (G4-LA12) In each region, increase by 1% the percentage of women from job grades 15 and above Objective discontinued. New platform. Through our work with the 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 program in place association “Entreprises pour les Disabled people employed as % of total Ensure that all sites with a headcount >200 have in place Objective discontinued. Will be Droits de l’Homme”1 in France, ST 1.01 1.05 1.28 1.32 1.49 workforce seniority and disability plans replaced with a new program participated in the development of Budget spent on disability programs (US$k) 2,321 3,567 3,597 1,746 2,127 Ensure that 100% of major and minor non-conformities are New 1. For more information on EDH association, closed during the closure audit visit their website: http://e-dh.org More performance indicators are available on pages 41 to 45 PEOPLE Pre-job briefing Health tool More efforts needed We continue to push the inclusion of safety targets in managers’ incentives, In 2014, ST Crolles (France) and Safety with this figure increasing globally to 53%. introduced a best-practice The severity rate reached 2.6 in 2014, approach to support the site’s which was above the set target of 2.3. culture of safety. When beginning This was due to the increase of on-site a task that involves diagnosis or domestic accidents. The target for 2015 troubleshooting without a checkWe are committed to protecting the health and safety of employees, contractors and visitors by providing remains at 2.3, with the aim to drive list or procedures, employees have a safe working environment, preventing work injuries and illnesses, and providing access to healthcare. further improvements in employees’ to fill in an official ‘pre-job briefing’. behaviour and work conditions. This ensures that work is performed We have improved the tracking and safely, appropriate materials are Management approach Health Prevention analysis of near misses, hazards, and available and hazards are identified and For ten years, ST has been committed We aim to expand and promote Health prevention assessments are unsafe acts and conditions. This is also controlled. It also prevents unsafe practices, to its goal of achieving zero accidents employees’ health and well-being based on voluntary participation. During the case for contractors’ accident rates such as rushing, falling into a routine, being over confident in the workplace, through formal safety through the ST Health Plan program, check-ups, medical staff capture at least (0.54). or failing to talk about precautions with management. programs such as Safety First. Today, 20 while also leveraging local initiatives six indicators, including smoking, blood If a high risk is identified, employees and managers Audits and certifications review the assessment to decide whether hazards of our sites are certified OHSAS 18001, and campaigns. The Plan ensures that pressure, being overweight, obesity, including all manufacturing sites. All employees can benefit from medical exercise, and cholesterol levels. The aim In 2014, we conducted nine EHS audits, have been adequately identified and controlled. The our sites are engaged in reporting and services and advantages, even in is to identify high-risk factors and use this identifying both good processes and process is reviewed when conditions change. improving their safety performance. countries where no legal obligation information to prioritize local prevention areas for improvement. The duration Employees are trained and managers ensure The health of our employees, both prevails. campaigns, such as stopping smoking or of these audits, conducted by two that the tool is used in their organizations. This within and beyond the workplace, is promoting healthy diets and sport. auditors, ranged from one to three days, enables significant reduction of the causes Trend analysis depending on the site’s performance and of industrial accidents. This highly useful, very important to us. We are committed In 2014, around 10,000 employees through our Corporate Environmental, Identifying trends helps to anticipate risks volunteered for data collection during risks (three days for manufacturing sites). proactive and free tool can be easily Health and Safety (EHS) Decalogue to providing voluntary health promotion and enable action. In 2014, the overall number of medical check-ups remained their medical check-up. Our reporting highlights the risk In total, we have 20 OHSAS18001, 16 ISO14001 and 14 EMAS certifications. Focus deployed to other sites. at a reasonable level, above 70% of the These three certifications cover all programs to enhance employees’ wellparameters for each site and enables covered population (all countries except our manufacturing sites, as well as being. comparison between sites. While at 38 USA). This was due to good coverage in Castelletto (Italy) and Grenoble (France). 39 Health and safety are closely linked. We some sites all indicators are green, a few most large sites and was primarily driven others demonstrate risks associated with Our own audit process was audited Recordable cases rate* remain focused on reducing hazards and by legal requirements in the countries, satisfactorily by ST’s corporate audit (G4-LA6) risks, and improving our practices, results smoking, being overweight and taking no especially in Europe. team. It helped us to better formalize the and the associated indicators. When exercise. 0.35 Over the last five years, the volume processes and harmonize practices. we conduct site audits, we now assess Based on such analysis, a Health Plan 0.29 0.29 of screening examinations globally is 0.3 0.27 health and safety together and in 2014, working group will be launched at the Training we adopted this approach for three sites. stable, although the deployment rate end of Q2 2015, to identify potential 0.25 0.21 At 5.4 hours, we exceeded our target Target 2015: 0.20 varies across regions. Bio-monitoring improvements, taking into account 0.2 When addressing health or safety, risk of an average of four hours training per 0.17 and vaccination levels are also country-specific factors and priorities. prevention is crucial for achieving better employee. Two e-learning courses on 0.15 satisfactory. However, preventive medical results, and ST relentlessly pushes this safety management and leadership examinations have decreased in some Safety 0.1 approach wherever possible. I G4-DMA I were deployed to approximately 7,000 regions. managers, and this will continue in 2015. 0.05 Achievements In 2014 we conducted a survey 0 Our global management approach is to addressing training within all ST sites 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 strengthen the culture of safety through Objectives Status Comments and locations. It focused on compliance * Work-related injuries and illnesses per 100 employees per year as defined by OSHA-US regulation. the deployment of training, audits, with company safety training standards, Reduce our Recordable Cases rate to 0.2 or less 0.17 publications, communication and bestsuch as basic safety training, first-aid, fire practice sharing. extinguishers, chemicals, electrical Severity rate 2.6. Increase in the number of Reduce our severity rate to 2.3 or less days lost for on-site domestic Above all, we continue to urge managers (G4-LA6) equipment and EHS e-learnings. The accidents to take ownership of safety matters and results were positive and will help us to 4.50 4.2 Ensure ST employees have an average of four hours of training adopt a proactive attitude, demonstrating Average of 5.4 hours per further improve our risk management. We 4.00 and awareness per year on environment, health and safety (EHS) leadership on the ground through their topics employee. provided feedback to each site. While 3.50 visible involvement. I G4-DMA I 3.1 86% of ST employees were involved in Expand and promote employees’ health and Overall number of medical This approach has delivered results: our 3.00 2.6 2.6 well-being with programs such as “Health Plan”, local initiatives exams increased compared to evacuation drills, this was below the ST 2.50 2.4 recordable case rate decreased by 17% Target 2015: 2.3 and campaigns 2013. Objective discontinued standard of 100% each year. However, to 0.17, while structured root causes 2.00 Objective discontinued but sites we are proud to count more than 6,000 Expand and promote the well-being services offered to analysis with management increased by 1.50 employees at ST sites to facilitate day-to-day life continue to follow their own first aiders, which is a positive indicator of programs 9%. We have also largely improved the ST employees’ safety involvement. 1.00 Reduce the main on-site subcontractors Lost Work Day Cases analysis of our first aid assistance, and 0.50 New safety visits by management more than rate to 0.5 or less 0.00 Update the Company wide standard for medical visits and doubled to over 41,000. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 New preventive measures * Number of days lost per 100 employees per year as defined by OSHA-US regulation. More performance indicators are available on pages 41 to 45 PEOPLE PEOPLE People Looking forward to 2015 The GRI 4 indicators are now in place to record and report accident statistics. Lost Workdays Cases Incidence rate (LWDC rate), Subcontractors (G4-LA6) Indicators 2014 We also now have a baseline from 2014 Lost workdays cases per 100 FTE (Full-time equivalent) employees 0.54 data. Target 2015: 0.5 This section includes indicators and GRI Standard Disclosures. We will continue to focus on proactivity through training and early detection of hazards, unsafe acts and conditions. We Lost Workdays Incidence rate, Subcontractors have a clear goal to reduce accidents Headcount evolution by region Workforce by employment type (% of employees) (G4-LA6) (G4-10) (G4-10) and analyze each recordable case, first-aid incident and main event, and to 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 define and implement adequate action to Lost workdays per 100 FTE (Full-time equivalent) employees 8.5 Americas 1,701 1,176 1,158 967 870 Full time contract 97.85 97.74 97.43 97.28 96.98 Female 202 Female 92.92 prevent recurrences. Target 2015: 7.7 Male 668 Male 99.07 Asia Pacific 22,355 19,757 19,652 18,910 17,699 Part time contract 2.15 2.26 2.57 2.72 3.02 Female 7,129 Female 7.08 Health Plan Medical examinations Male 10,570 Male 0.93 Europe 19,022 18,724 19,346 20,789 20,308 Exam type 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Female 4,932 Medical examinations 69,180 70,480 60,216 43,411 49,310 Screening test 10,958 13,097 8,837 12,438 13,564 Male 15,376 Workforce by employment contract Mediterranean 4,677 4,348 4,349 4,493 4,550 Immunization 3,505 3,019 2,234 2,153 1,721 Female 2,478 (% of employees) Total services provided 83,643 86,596 71,287 58,002 64,595 Male 2,072 (G4-10) Japan 210 207 208 202 204 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Female 51 Regular contract 96.56 97.48 98.21 96.33 95.15 Male 153 Agrate (Italy) is certified «Workplace Health Promotion site” by the European Total 47,755 44,212 44,713 45,361 43,631 Female 95.00 Workplace Health Promotion public-private network, a network built through Female 14,792 Male 95.22 partnerships and collaboration with the regional health system, organizations, trade Male 28,839 Temporary contract 3.44 2.52 1.79 3.67 4.85 40 Female 5.00 41 unions and companies. The accreditation was received in December 2014, with an Male 4.78 award for «Health Promotion Workplace». As project manager I interfaced with all stakeholders and ensure implementation. External hires in manufacturing (%) I was impressed by the massive commitment of employees, who assessed the current conditions and proposed improvements and also by the opportunity to build 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Remuneration (%) Percentage of jobs filled 96 90 95 98 97 Aurelio D’Arpa relationships and share experience on health and well-being with other organizations. externally vs overall jobs filled 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 To maintain the accreditation, which is a continuous improvement process, over the Employees below the ST Environment, Health and Safety minimum salary scale in their 16.6 12.8 13.9 18.5 14.9 Agrate (Italy) next three years the site has to implement six best practices per year linked to health job grade and well-being. We have started with mobility, road safety and personal social wellHires by job type Employees covered by annual (G4-10) 95.2 96.9 98.5 91.8 89.4 being/work-life balance. We also benefit from the best practice European database, individual salary increase which allows companies to share existing practices and learn how to set up new 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 activities. Exempt 3,573 2,563 2,721 1,770 1,578 This ENWHP Certification is a great opportunity for the site to capitalize on what we Female 356 Benefits, bonus & USA (%) already do in terms of health and well-being at work and to create new best practices Male 1,222 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 with the support of all employees. Operators 8,193 5,154 6,833 8,013 7,748 Unvested Stock Awards (USA) Female 2,723 % of eligible (exempt >JG 11) 24 21 22 22 26 Male 5,025 employees receiving unvested Non-exempts 1,884 1,728 1,716 1,586 2,094 stock awards Female 411 Unvested Stock Awards (USA) 3,790 3,390 3,570 3,920 4,620 Number of employees rewarded Male 1,683 Total 13,650 9,445 11,270 11,369 11,420 Female 3,490 Male 7,930 Number of nationalities in the headcount by region* (G4-LA12) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Newcomers induction program (%) Europe 68 74 78 76 74 Americas 29 26 25 25 23 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Newcomers who participated in Mediterranean 18 16 17 17 21 a formal induction session Asia Pacific 36 36 36 36 37 97.23 97.29 97.75 72.00 93.00 (e.g. newcomers seminar) during Japan NA NA 4 5 5 their first year of employment * Expatriates and assignees are counted in host country. PEOPLE ST population recognized through the technical Collective bargaining ladder (%)* (G4-11) 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Worlwide 2.43 2.84 Number of collective agreements 38 33 45 38 39 Number of nationalities in corporate staff Age group split by category (%) 2014 Asia Pacific 1.22 1.17 signed in the year Europe/Mediterranée 3.21 3.80 (G4-LA12) (G4-LA12) % of people covered * The specified path starts from job grade 14 and above which is the reference population. by collective bargaining 66.50% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Under 30 years old 30-50 years old Over 50 years old agreements Different nationalities Exempt 8.63 72.62 18.75 Number of people covered by 24,021 31,962 34,225 32,694 represented in the corporate staff 7 7 6 7 8 Non-Exempt 21.95 67.92 10.14 Internal mobility for exempt positions (%) representatives Operator 37.61 54.27 8.12 % of people covered by 50.08% 72.34% 76.00% 74.93% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 representatives % of jobs advertised internally 40.54 36.75 34.86 33.17 19.23 Gender breakdown by region (%) Promotion ratio female/male by category % of jobs filled internally 22.95 25.88 39.71 24.58 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 and by region (%) 2014 Average weekly working time (hours) in selected Male 74 75 75 75 76 (G4-LA12) countries* Europe Female 26 25 25 25 24 Average training hours Exempts Non-exempts Operators 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Male 79 79 78 78 77 (G4-LA9) Americas Female Male Female Male Female Male ST standard working time 40.00 40.00 40.00 40.00 40.00 Female 21 21 22 22 23 China Americas 14 13 9 6 NA* NA* 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Overtime 5.00 5.03 11.37 5.71 3.68 Male 42 43 44 44 46 Exempts 32.1 31.0 29.0 30.3 22.3 ST standard working time 38.50 35.00 35.00 35.00 35.00 Mediterranean Asia-Pacific 14 15 9 4 6 8 Female 58 57 56 56 54 France Europe 11 12 13 11 16 8 Female 22.9 Overtime 0.31 0.26 0.20 0.04 0.03 Male 55 57 58 58 60 Male 22.1 ST standard working time 40.00 40.00 40.00 40.00 40.00 Asia Pacific Mediterranean 17 14 14 9 12 4 Female 45 43 42 42 40 Italy Operators 91.1 78.0 70.0 70.4 78.6 Overtime 1.15 0.95 0.72 0.15 0.16 Male NA 76 75 76 75 * The company has no manufacturing sites in these regions Female 74.5 ST standard working time 48.00 48.00 48.00 48.00 44.00 Japan Malaysia Female NA 24 25 24 25 Male 83.7 Overtime 10.32 9.39 8.50 8.68 9.26 Women in management Non-exempts 43.3 38.0 36.0 41.7 38.3 Malta ST standard working time 40.00 40.00 40.00 40.00 40.00 Female 44.6 Overtime 6.00 4.50 5.00 5.90 5.41 Career length and voluntary turnover rate (%) (G4-LA12) Male 36.5 ST standard working time 44.00 44.00 44.00 44.00 44.00 (GA-LA1) Morocco 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total* 49.0 50.0 45.9 48.0 46.5 Overtime 2.62 1.46 1.10 1.76 1.70 Women in experienced Female 57.0 North ST standard working time 40.00 40.00 40.00 40.00 40.00 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 management (% JG15 and 13.77 13.77 14.02 14.53 Male 41.0 America Overtime 1.51 0.60 0.85 0.05 0.10 new hires (below 2 yrs) 45.54 52.67 52.08 72.29 74.06 above) ST standard working time 44.00 44.00 44.00 44.00 44.00 employees from 2 to < 5 yrs 18.07 27.83 24.02 22.67 31.75 * Includes training on equipment and outside training Singapore 42 Women in senior management Overtime 5.88 1.53 3.84 3.16 4.69 43 employees from 5 to < 10 yrs 5.31 7.82 8.03 9.57 11.35 9.91 9.56 9.79 10.04 10.68 (% JG17 and above) the ST standard working time 48.00 48.00 48.00 employees from 10 to < 20 yrs 2.02 1.79 1.72 3.87 3.28 employees above 20 yrs 1.06 0.72 0.68 7.21 4.93 Women in executive Schooling programs (%)* Philippines Overtime 6.00 4.34 3.98 management 9.71 9.80 8.78 9.50 9.41 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 * Standard legal working time for non-exempts and operators (% JG19 and above) Exempts 4.39 5.26 1.74 1.83 2.15 Women on the Board (value) 1 2 3 Average turnover rate (%) Operators 1.02 7.96 2.31 2.39 0.83 (GA-LA1) Non-exempts 6.01 7.58 0.95 0.89 1.67 Working time and overtime hours 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Employee Performance assessment (yearly) * % of employees following ST supported external schooling programs vs total number of employees. Employees with regular Average turnover rate 15.16 18.49 15.61 15.93 13.97 (G4-LA11) worktime less than 48 hours per 100 100 96.3 96.0 96.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Formal recognition weeks (%) Average weekly overtime (hours Average turnover rate by gender, % of employees 78 89 93 92 93 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 per employee) 3.14 3.10 3.61 1.68 2.30 by category and by region (%) 2014 Female 93 Overall recognition budget of all 3,305 3,101 2,782 2,321 1,586 Male 93 sites (USk$) (GA-LA1) % of exempts 89 96 98 98 97 Number of people recognized* 25,178 Exempts Non-exempts Operators Female 97 36,697 48,606 33,823 39,629 Fair wages (%) % of accepted suggestions 54.75 65.2 59.56 50.13 60.9 Female Male Female Male Female Male Male 97 which were implemented 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Americas 3.76 5.86 6.97 0 NA NA % of non-exempts 90 91 91 * Can include more than one recognition for one employee over the year. Percentage of employees paid Asia-Pacific 9.21 10.97 19.47 30.16 35.13 71.67 Female 89 up to 105% of the legal or 16.65 12.20 11.95 10.83 11.82 Europe 1.28 1.22 0.50 0.38 0.39 0.58 Male 91 conventional minimum wage* Mediterranean 7.11 7.89 0.47 2.68 2.72 5.62 Unplanned absenteeism (%) * Employees paid above 105% are not part of this scope. (G4-LA6) Career development (%) Average employee age 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Gender split by category (%) 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Unplanned absenteeism 2.67 2.77 2.82 2.93 2.45 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 % by region (G4-LA12) Employees with a promotion in 15.00 15.87 16.37 14.72 10.56 Average employee age (years) 33 36 36 37 38 the year Americas NA Female Male Employees with a job function Asia-Pacific 1.27 32.95 25.02 15.47 19.74 5.50 Exempts 21.28 78.72 change in the year Europe 3.45 Average employee age by category Japan 0.21 Non-exempts 23.15 76.85 Mediterranean 3.47 Operators 57.61 42.39 2012 2013 2014 % by gender Operators 32 33 33 Female 3.28 Non-exempts 36 37 38 Male 2.00 Exempt 40 41 42 PEOPLE Recordable cases rate* by gender and by region Lost Workdays Incidence rate (G4-LA6) (subcontractors) by region (G4-LA6) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Gender 2014 Manufacturing sites subject to human rights SAQ & Audits Female 0.19 Asia Pacific 1.0 (G4-HR9) Male 0.16 Europe & Mediterranean 12.6 Region Americas 0 Manufacturing sites SAQ* Audits % Workfore Asia Pacific 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.10 High Risk Europe & Mediterranean 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.24 Shenzhen China Longgang stopped in 2014** Americas 0.1 0 0 0 0.00 % of Lost Workdays by gender (subcontractors) Malaysia Muar * Work-related injuries and illnesses per 100 employees per year as defined by OSHA-US regulation. (G4-LA6) Philippines Calamba Singapore Ang Mo Kio 2014 Medium Risk Morocco Bouskoura 77% Recordable cases rate breakdown: Female 19% Male 81% Malta Kirkop industrial/domestic Low Risk (G4-LA6) France Rousset Crolles 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Health Plan Medical examinations Tours Recordable cases industrial rate 0.17 0.19 0.17 0.13 0.11 Italy Agrate Exam type 2010* 2011 2012 2013 2014 Recordable cases domestic rate 0.12 0.11 0.10 0.07 0.06 Catania Medical examinations 69,180 70,480 60,216 43,411 49,310 Number of manufacturing sites that have been subject to human Check up with a physician 32,472 35,689 34,604 19,645 22,042 11 6 rights assessments and audits Blood analyses Percentage 100% 100% of high risk and medium Breakdown (%) of recordable cases by type of (including biomonitoring tests**) 17,344 15,954 11,986 10,987 13,150 risk sites Major Design sites SAQ Audits % Workfore event, accident or exposure Chest X rays 9,763 8,881 5,624 5,782 6,380 (G4-LA6) Colorectal cancer immuocult test 523 966 310 277 412 India Greater Noida France Grenoble 10% Electrocardiograms 5,728 5,497 4,682 4,427 5,489 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Italy Castelletto Mammography 1,080 1,094 1,026 760 573 Fall or slip 28 20 31 25 32 Number of major design sites that have been subject to human rights Pap smear tests 1,691 1,586 1,572 1,198 890 3 Struck by or against 37 41 26 40 36 assessments and audits Prostate cancer screening 579 813 412 335 374 Percentage 100% Overexertion 11 9 7 11 5 Screening test 10,958 13,097 8,837 12,438 13,564 * Self Assessment Questionaire Others 5 5 3 8 7 ** Production ramp down in 2014 and full closure in 2015 Immunization 3,505 3,019 2,234 2,153 1,721 Caught in, under or between 6 7 10 5 5 Total services provided 83,643 86,596 71,287 58,002 64,595 44 Contact with chemicals 6 7 13 8 8 45 Bodily reaction from slip or * 2010 results slightly modified in 2011 after adjustments communicated by some sites. Recordable cases rate benchmarks* motion 7 11 10 3 7 ** These tests are dedicated to employees working in manufacturing areas (and especially on some specific maintenance operations). (G4-LA6) 5 Severity rate by gender and by region Injuries/illness cost and savings 5 4.4 4.4 4.3 (G4-LA6) 4 US$m 4 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Gender 4 Female 3.2 Injuries/illness cost 1.66 2.37 2.94 1.83 1.94 Male 2.4 Results without action 8.43 8.89 8.50 9.63 9.22 3 US Manufacturing (Source BLS**) Region Savings* 6.77 6.52 5.56 7.80 7.28 3 ALL US semiconductor (Source BLS**) Asia Pacific 0.8 0.5 0.8 0.9 0.6 * Around 63M$ savings in 11 years SIA*** OHS Europe & Mediterranean 4.9 6.5 7.8 4.1 4.5 2 ST Americas 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 2 1.2 1.2 1.20 Fines and total number of non-monetary 1.1 1 0.9 0.9 0.88 0.86 sanctions in 2014 Lost WorkDays Cases Incidence rate 1 0.29 0.29 0.27 0.21 * Latest data available ** Bureau of Labor Statistics (subcontractors) by region NO FINES (G4-LA6) 0 *** Semiconductor Industry Association 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 benchmark data not available at time of publishing. Asia Pacific 0.19 Europe & Mediterranean 0.73 Americas 0 % of Lost WorkDays Cases by gender (subcontractors) (G4-LA6) 2014 Female 21% Male 79% Environment & Operations • 16 of our sites are ISO 14001 certified • 14 of our sites are EMAS validated • Our 6 Front-end manufacturing sites are ISO 50001 certified • ST aligns its chemical management system with the IECQ QC 080000 HSPM standard I G4-DMA I Key figures 92% 20% 80% of ST’s waste of energy of ST’s Back-end recycled and purchased comes subcontractors re-used from renewable engaged in EICC sources audits Environment & Operations Electric vehicles charging Environmental Efficiency stations Performance review and disclosure The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) In 2013, ST Le Mans (France) GHG Air Emissions is an initiative that provides a global system to measure, disclose and share installed two charging stations information about carbon management. for two and four-wheeled electric ST has participated in this annual vehicles. In 2014, ST Crolles performance review since 2006 and in (France) installed five charging 2014, we obtained a disclosure score stations for electric cars as well as We aim to manage and reduce direct and indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, including of 93/100 and a B-grade. ST is among shelters with facilities to recharge perfluorinated compounds (PFCs), from our manufacturing and other business operations. 11 companies selected out of 53 for electric bikes and scooters. Both inclusion in the Italian Carbon Disclosure initiatives have been well received by Leadership Index. This recognition is a employees. In Le Mans, one employee The volume of emissions continues This was primarily due to delays in GHG Protocol emissions calculation considerable achievement and reflects decided to replace his car with an electric to increase globally, despite efforts to implementing a refurbishment program methodology. This activity also aimed ST’s advanced management of its impact version, while in Crolles, three electric reduce GHG emissions. ST has been in Ang Mo Kio (Singapore) and to the to share best practices and facilitate car drivers now use the charging on climate change. taking into consideration climate change change of production mix improvements, such as stations regularly. In addition, the site ST 2014 CDP score: increasing carpooling, as for more than two decades. While GHG emissions in the semiconductor industry in Catania (Italy). In 2015, ST will continue its efforts 93/100 well as promoting public, bus and/or ‘zero emission’ also acquired two electric cars. In 2015, other sites, including are relatively minor, they have a very high to reduce direct emissions. transportation. Currently, 5% of ST Agrate (Italy), will install global warming potential. To address this Indirect emissions – Scope 2 employees are categorized as using similar charging stations. situation, we have continued to make climate change a principal element of our ST’s initiatives on indirect emissions, identified as Scope 2 of GHG Protocol, ‘zero emission’ transportation. • Goods transportation Focus environmental strategy and initiated new Emissions related to goods are detailed in the Energy section of this programs to manage and reduce our transportation comprise around 40% report1. of our Scope 3 emissions. Product GHG emissions. I G4-DMA I A project dedicated to transportation includes the delivery of Direct emissions roadmap and goods between ST sites, as well as to status transportation emissions customer sites. In 2014, we succeeded Summary of net CO2 emissions (%) In our Sustainability strategy we are in reducing our carbon footprint through PFCs are essential to the semiconductor (G4-EN15/G4-EN16/G4-EN17/G4-EN18) manufacturing process. Ninety percent of committed to reducing our CO2 emissions different initiatives. For example, we Benoît Mollaret 48 in the transportation and logistics of our changed transportation modes to Facilities and Other indirect emissions 49 ST’s direct emissions, identified as Scope Direct emissions products, materials and employees. In reduce air freight, where possible. General Services Director (transportation*) 1 of GHG Protocol, result from the use of Grenoble (France) Scope 1 2014, ST continued to report on three We also optimized the number of Scope 3 PFCs in the manufacturing processes. 41% out of the 15 GHG Protocol Scope 3 departures per week and focused on 8% In 2014, ST issued a new version of loading containers efficiently. In 2000, we launched a mobility categories: employee commuting, goods the environmental, health and safety plan to minimize the environmental transportation and business travel. A • Business travel (rail and air) (EHS) Decalogue. We removed the impact of employee commuting. full revision of the methodology and Business travel represents around target of achieving neutrality for the 12% of ST’s Scope 3 emissions. After Since then, we have continued to factors used to calculate transportation Scope 1 emissions, realizing that the installing a video-conferencing network advocate alternatives to commuting emissions was conducted to improve results achieved so far were below our in 2013 to reduce business travel, we alone by car through our promotion process and data robustness. This expectations. sought to improve the process and of initiatives, including incentives for improved methodology resulted in a quality of data collection in 2014. As Indirect emissions ST is committed to the World public transportation, car-pooling significant increase primarily for employee result of our 2014 activity, we have (purchased electricity) Semiconductor Council’s 2020 targets networks and bike parks. To date, commuting and business travel. succeeded to improve the reliability of Scope 2 on climate change, including its goal to 72% of Grenoble employees have • Employee commuting our emissions reporting for business 51% reduce PFC normalized emissions by joined the mobility plan and I am After a successful pilot scheme travel. * The transportation emissions value is a global estimate of employees and goods transportations. 30% from 2010 to 2020. very satisfied with this result. The across nine sites, we deployed the Compensation and reforestation To reduce our emissions we continue extension of the Grenoble tram new method for calculating employee to implement projects to install PFC commuting, enlarging the perimeter To offset our direct emissions, ST has has certainly helped, as more than CO2 Means of transport (Scope 3) abatement systems and develop greener to 18 sites (12 manufacturing and developed a number of reforestation 100 employees opted for this new manufacturing techniques. six large R&D centers). By capturing programs. Between 2002 and 2003, ST alternative in the month after its Rail Despite ongoing progress in GHG typical employee commuting distances LPG cars 2% planted approximately 9,000 hectares opening. For example, Francois Zero emission and transportation modes, ST was 2% emissions management, our PFC of trees in Australia, Italy, Morocco and Quetin, who switched from private Bus 5% emissions increased overall in 2014. able to calculate an ‘employee Texas. These 9,000 hectares of trees car to tram, found this mode less 21% commuting footprint’ using the official offset about 1,500 kTons of CO2, since stressful and more cost-effective, the launch of the plantation program. without increasing his commuting Diesel cars Objectives Status Comments Having removed our Scope 1 neutrality time. In 2014, we received two 37% Motorcycles Direct emissions (Scope 1): reduce PFCs emissions (tons CO2 per No deployment of new PFCs target, in 2015, we will verify the awards in recognition of these 3% production unit) by 30% in 2020 from 2010 baseline abatment systems relevance of the overall reforestation efforts; a regional award for the interIndirect emissions (Scope 2): decrease CO2 indirect emissions New program and consider the possibility to company mobility plan we developed through our energy management programs compensate our direct emissions through with neighboring enterprises, as well Carbon emission Transportation emissions (Scope 3): reduce CO2 emissions (tons other types of projects. as the regional ‘commute to work CO2 per production unit) from transportation and logistics for our New Gasoline cars 95% products, materials and employees without my car’ award. 34% 1. See pages 52 to 53 More performance indicators are available on pages 62 to 65 Environment & Operations Sustainable water Environmental Efficiency management Looking forward In 2015, we will continue our efforts to improve water efficiency at equivalent In China, a large population, Water production level through water saving programs and water recycling projects. vast urbanization and economic developments make water management a key sustainability Consumption of water (per unit of priority. Shenzhen, like some production): normalized values other large cities in Asia Pacific, We are committed to reducing water use and ensuring high standards of effluent and waste water is under stress and at risk of water 105 treatment. We also identify and manage water-related risks and opportunities, including impacts on local 105 103 102 shortage. In 2014, ST Shenzhen 100 101 was rewarded as one of the city’s communities. 100 “water-saving outstanding enterprises”, 95 due to the local team’s dedication. We Water is becoming a scarce resource due by reuse and recycling, conservation and Quantis, a consulting firm specializing in 90 carried out engineering and management to the increasing demands of population process optimization. In 2014, we slightly sustainability and environmental impact 85 measures for water saving, as well as investments growth and urbanization, as well as reduced our water consumption through assessments, and a partner of CDP throughout the year. Several programs were conducted reduced supplies due to climate change. continuous improvement programs on the water program. The objective of 80 in parallel, such as improving the efficiency of water Moreover, in some countries, pollution undertaken by each manufacturing site. this study was to identify areas where 75 recycling and waste treatment systems, optimizing makes water unusable or expensive to For instance, we mentioned in our 2013 environmental impacts can be mitigated. 70 water-consumption equipment during active and treat. Sustainability report, the water saving In addition, a risk assessment was 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 stand-by modes, and optimizing waste water Semiconductor manufacturing processes project deployed in ST Tours (France). performed to identify and prioritize actions through discharge to different waste water drains. Baseline 100 in 2010 require significant volumes of pure water This project, required to To improve employee awareness of water and the processed waste water can impact the environment. The availability which involves several In 2014, we maintained our 43% manage and mitigate these management, the site also organized water conservation training sessions and visits and quality of water, as well as its related stakeholders, rate of recycled and reused water impacts. to a municipal waste water treatment costs are risks and challenges we need to consider. I G4-DMA I enabled a further 15% reduction in the water used per wafer in 2014, and since The graph on page 51 shows that only 25% of ST’s water demand1 is consumed Focus plant. Our approach to water the beginning in 2011, a total reduction and that nearly two thirds of this amount management of 30%. ST Shenzhen (China) also put in comes from water-stressed areas. These 50 place new programs improving recycling results are calculated applying a life cycle 51 Since 1994, efficient water management and treatment capability in flow and assessment approach, which includes has been a major element of our quality, and received an award in 2014. ST’s supply chain. Freight transportation, sustainable management of resources. In 2014, we maintained our 43% rate of raw materials, paper and cardboard, Monica Bianchi Over the last 20 years, through recycled and reused water. transportation, manufacturing operations, Corporate EHS Group continuous improvement programs, we Treatment of water discharge electricity and natural gas consumption Environment Project Leader have successfully reduced our overall Agrate (Italy) are all included. water footprint by more than 73%. Today, Waste water is treated in dedicated The results of the 2014 carbon and it remains essential for ST to further treatment plants, either located onSince the publication of the first water footprint analysis were presented improve water efficiency and consider site or developed in collaboration with Environmental, Health and Safety Water demand to ST’s environmental representatives how this impacts local communities. We local authorities, to remove polluting during a two-day workshop. Quantis Decalogue in 1995, ST has been 0% 100% have therefore adopted a comprehensive substances such as fluoride, which committed to reducing water use presented a step-by-step methodology water management approach which cannot be treated by municipal plants. and ensuring the right quality of to address the short and long-term includes water use assessments, Once it has obtained a sufficient level effluent discharged by our waste risks of water quality, availability and implementing water conservation and of purity, and any risk of pollution is water treatment plants. In 2014 Water consumption cost. This approach enables each ST waste water treatment programs, and eliminated, it is discharged into the natural we decided to take a step forward 0% 25% manufacturing site to perform their own initiatives to raise employees’ awareness environment. We work closely with local by evaluating the water risk risk assessment in order to identify and Only a small fraction of of water conservation. This is done communities to reduce all risks related to assessment of all our manufacturing reduce the major risks related to water water demand is consumed through investments, the use of new water discharge and pollution. sites. We developed this study management. Consequently, for each of technologies, regular engagement with Water footprint analysis and risk in cooperation with Quantis and our manufacturing sites, we now have our stakeholders and team commitments mitigation involved all our manufacturing 2/3 of water consumed is ID cards that provide key information, from all our sites. I G4-DMA I sites. By cross-checking publicly located in water stress areas In 2014, ST conducted a study to such as the carbon footprint breakdown, Water management performance water-stress assessment2 and whether or available geographic ‘hot-spotting’ measure the carbon and water footprint Raw Electricity Manufacturing not the site is located in a high waterinformation with ST information on Water management performance is driven of our operations in collaboration with materials consumption operations stressed area. water usage, we obtained a map which clearly showed whether or not Objectives Status Comments 1. Water demand is the sum of all volumes of sites were located in water-stressed water withdrawn. This includes whether it is later Recycled and reused total water Continuously improve water efficiency at equivalent production areas. We are now able to prioritize -0.2% water consumption per evaporated, consumed or released again (G4-EN10) level through water saving programs and water recycling unit of production downstream (method: Quantis Water Database. locations to invest in operational projects (cubic meters per production unit) Units: m3). efficiencies and risk-mitigation 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Recycling rate decrease to 42% 2. Water Stress Assessment: indicates to what extent water use deprives other users of water. It is measures in order to prevent Total water used (1,000m ) 3 27,736 29,113 28,315 30,967 30,421 Achieve an overall Company recycling rate of 45% by 2015 (-2% versus 2013). Objective discontinued based on the water demand indicator. Method: potential future issues in this domain. Water recycled and reused rate (%) 37.3 40.5 43.0 43.5 42.8 Pfister et al. 2009. Units: m3-eq. More performance indicators are available on pages 62 to 65 Environment & Operations Energy-saving program Environmental Efficiency Consumption of energy (per unit of production): normalized values (G4-EN3/G4-EN5) in Crolles Around 20% of final wafer Energy 115 110 105 105 113 105 106 costs come from facilities. These are mostly fixed costs with little variability compared 100 to manufacturing activity. The 100 Front-end Energy team is actively We reduce energy consumption and our associated carbon footprint through energy efficiency and 95 working at all manufacturing plants conservation programs, and through purchasing CO2-free and renewable energies. on energy-saving programs. At 90 In addition, we carefully monitor and anticipate developments in the energy market to mitigate business Crolles, electricity consumption is 85 one of the highest cost items. This site, exposure to climate change. 80 composed of two different kinds of plants, was identified as a pilot site for the deployment 75 Semiconductor manufacturing processes performance, with 20% of purchased achieving ISO 50001 certification will of a project dedicated to local wafer cost improvement. are performed in specific conditions of energy coming from renewable sources. still require the introduction of a new 70 This project aimed to reduce cleanroom airflow in order 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 to reduce the energy consumption of the recycling cleanliness, temperature, humidity and This mainly results from our initiatives with energy management system. This pressure, and require a stable production local power suppliers in France and Italy. ISO 50001 certification program is Baseline 100 in 2010 and the cold production units. To achieve this, we environment which is energy-intensive. Despite our efforts and the progress developed in close cooperation with established close collaboration between Facilities and The energy needed to maintain these made, in 2014 our global other local companies and Contamination Services, as well as with equipment cleanroom conditions represents about 30% of the total site’s consumption. We electricity consumption increased by 1.57%. Our 20% organizations, and benefits from public funding. suppliers, and the program was completed in 2014. During the year, a total of 40 energyof energy are committed to reducing our overall energy performance was saving programs were either achieved or in purchased comes Energy-saving plans energy consumption and mitigating impacted by inclusion progress in Crolles, saving from renewable Our Energy teams are 4.7 GWh. our indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) of the ex-Micron R2 Focus sources actively working on energyemissions (scope 2 of GHG protocol). To manufacturing plant inside saving programs. They have achieve this, we are initiating responsible the ST perimeter in Agrate (Italy), the identified facilities equipment optimization energy management across all sites by integration of the Catania (Italy) gas farm, as a key factor for improving energy implementing programs, defining clear as well as production fluctuations. Vanessa Mullet 52 efficiency. In 2014, due to economic 53 targets, spreading best practices and ISO 50001 Energy Champion constraints, we focused on actions ensuring this remains a priority. Crolles (France) All ST Front-end sites have been ISO which did not require large financial Energy sourcing and 50001-certified since 2013. Certification investments. Direct and indirect energy consumption by primary sources (%) management performance (G4-EN4) involves implementing dedicated and Energy-saving programs were As the site Energy Champion, I am ST’s main source of energy is electricity, common tools to collect data from all achieved without impacting equipment in charge of managing the Energy Other fuels with only relatively low quantities of our sites. This gives us better visibility to performance. These included changing team. I believe the team’s strengths 0.20 Green electricity Natural gas purchased fossil fuel and natural gas needed for deploy programs and continually improve the set points of the chillers according are: 7.83 19.74 air heating, abatement devices and our energy efficiency. to seasons, reducing laminator flow, • it is made up of around 20 general facilities. One of our targets is Going forward, we will continue to optimizing lighting with timers and density employees coming from to increase the amount of green energy enhance our energy management efforts. levels, optimizing the free-cooling system different organizations, such as purchased. Therefore, we always In 2014, ST Grand Ouest (Le Mans and (using external air according to weather Facilities, Information Technology, consider renewable energy sources when Rennes, France) began the process to conditions), installing inverters which drive EHS, Human Resources, purchasing energy. Our energy sourcing achieve ISO 50001 certification in 2015. It motors at different speeds, rebalancing Manufacturing, Communication, Photovoltaic and thermal Purchasing and Site Services department takes into account both will benefit from applying our Company’s exhaust distribution and recovering heat solar electricity financial and environmental aspects and environmental responsibility strategy from chillers. • we have discussions with other produced by ST ST sites and external companies 0.10 selects the greenest alternative wherever while establishing a system to save costs The results of energy-saving programs which allow us to benchmark and Electricity possible. In 2014, once again, we made through better energy management. are compiled in the ISO 500011 share best practices purchased from progress in our green energy objectives These sites already monitor their energy framework (a program that received the The diversity of expertise is a fossil fuel sources Electricity purchased and demonstrated our engagement consumption with dedicated programs ST Bronze STAR award in 2013), and valuable asset and contributes to 54.73 from nuclear (CO2 free) in responsible energy sourcing. and the recent building of Le Mans is regular exchanges between sites are led 17.41 our good results. Consequently, we recorded our best particularly energy efficient. However, by the Facilities Technology Committee leader. Objectives Status Comments Through these programs, in 2014 Breakdown of energy sources we succeeded in saving 18 GWh of (G4-EN3-G4-EN4-G4-EN5) Continuously improve energy efficiency at equivalent production +1.57%. Due to integration of electricity and 5 GWh of natural gas. level (kWh per production unit) through process and facilities new plant into the scope in Italy 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 optimization, conservation and building design I G4-DMA I Yearly increase by 10% the quantity of green energy used by the Electricity consumption (TJ) 7,265 7,409 7,347 7,530 7,649 19.74% vs 17.6% in 2013 Company Natural gas consumption (TJ) 616 598 550 657 650 By 2015, ensure that 100% of call for tenders from 200 k$ Others sources (TJ) 0 0 13.57 16.34 16.23 include criteria on energy efficiency and use of CO2 emission1. ISO 50001: standard requirements include Total energy consumption (TJ) 7,880 8,006 7,911 8,204 8,315 free and/or renewable energy regarding facilities and site establishing, implementing, maintaining and services Energy consumption due to electricity % 92.19 92.54 92.87 91.79 91.99 improving an energy management system More performance indicators are available on pages 62 to 65 Environment & Operations Steering Committee Environmental Efficiency a location where it can be treated, in full compliance with the Basel convention. In September 2014, Corporate In 2014, 0.9% of ST’s hazardous waste EHS, Environmental managers Waste was transported from Kirkop (Malta) to and champions from Front-end, France. Back-end and large Research Looking forward and Development sites convened for a meeting which In 2015, we will continue to address established the basis for these challenges and evaluate actions to deployment of ST’s further reduce our waste generation and We continuously reduce, reuse, recycle and manage waste streams from manufacturing sites, including 2014-2020 EHS Decalogue. The improve recycling. hazardous substances, metals, packing, plastics and other non-biodegradable materials. Environmental Steering Committee participants presented their programs and activities, shared experiences Waste management is a key area of Waste electrical and electronic equipment – WEEE and best practices, and visited three concern for each ST site, as improper For a number of years, ST Calamba of Crolles’ (France) major installations activities, from collection to final disposal, (the Philippines) has been (basement, scrubbers and waste could negatively impact human health contributing positively to ST’s waste water treatment). The resulting action and the environment. For the last two recycling and reuse performance. plans focus on achieving energy decades, we have been committed However, proper waste cost savings through little or no to reducing waste generated by our management, particularly of waste investment. operations and to reusing or recycling electrical and electronic equipment materials. We have established an integrated process for the environmental (WEEE), is a greater priority. Indeed, the environmental impact of Focus management of waste; ensuring improper waste management can Adeline Oliva regulatory compliance, monitoring the be far more significant than the Site Environmental Champion quantity of annual waste production, Waste split in tons issue of recycling versus landfill. Tours (France) and collecting and reporting on data. (G4-EN23) ST Calamba therefore decided to extend a WEEE recycling program We uphold strict controls across all beyond the footprint of its operations, due to the prevalence of WEEE in all company activities. The Waste Ladder The Environmental Steering Incinerated Landfill households. In partnership with local stakeholders, such as the Department methodology we developed ensures an Committee meeting was a good 3.98% 3.97% of Environment and Natural Resources, and Industrial Park Locators, ST 54 appropriate end-of-life treatment for each opportunity for participants to meet 55 extended collection of defective or obsolete WEEE at its plant to employees. waste stream, based on its economic and exchange information on shared This delivers the dual benefit of reducing employees’ waste impact on the and ecological impacts. I G4-DMA I practices. Since this meeting, I have environment and enhancing their awareness of materials management; Waste management performance explaining why ST is so cautious about the materials we use to produce contacted my colleagues in Agrate our products and making the terms ‘from cradle to grave’ and ‘Life Cycle (Italy) to discuss their best practices In 2014, we reused and recycled Analysis’ relevant to our teams. and exchange experiences with our 92% of waste generated through our suppliers. It was also interesting to operations. This best-ever score was a have the presence of our Back-end Reuse and recycled collective effort across all sites. Reused ‘municipal’ wastes, have improved waste not only creates a direct reduction in and recycled waste at our sites varies performance and contributed to Agrate’s the waste produced, but also in CO2 colleagues. For example, through 92.05% discussion on chemicals with between 81% and 99%, depending positive waste management trend of the emissions as fewer trucks are required Bouskoura (Morocco) and Kirkop on the local technologies available and last three years. for transportation. (Malta) colleagues, we realized specific waste characteristics. The installation One target of our Waste in tons ST’s Agrate (Italy) site exceeded the target with a recycle rate of 96%, of an ammonium sulfate evaporator In 2014 92% Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) we often have the same technical problems to solve. I look forward to (G4-EN23) thanks to efficient waste management. also contributed to of ST’s waste was being part of this community in the 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Decalogue is to achieve Compared to 2013, general waste the performance recycled and reused a landfill waste rate of future, as it will enable us to be more Total hazardous waste 11,365 10,415 12,624 11,031 10,644 efficient in sharing best practices. Total waste 40,775 38,593 37,511 36,091 34,472 was reduced by 17%, while wafer improvement, enabling 3% or less by 2020. In production increased by 19% following ST to add another manufacturing plant 2014 we made progress in our objective the integration of ex-Micron R2 without increasing waste. In Agrate, and we remain committed to reaching manufacturing plant. Operations, such concentrated ammonia drains are treated this target. In 2015, we will further pursue Finding ways to recycle cured epoxy resin culls on the Maltese Islands is a challenge. as recycling Waste Water Treatment in a way that produces ammonium our efforts to reduce landfill waste. This is due to limited recycling possibilities, combined with environmental restrictions Plant (WWTP) sludge to produce bricks, sulfate as waste. The evaporator enabled on more conventional recycling options, such as using backfilling material in the Hazardous waste management recycling solvents through distillation, us to reduce the amount of ammonium construction of roads. Normally, ST’s Back-end manufacturing sites send spent-resin burning with heat recovery and recycling Almost all processes in semiconductor sulfate waste by a factor of five. This culls to cement manufacturing companies, where they are granulated and mixed manufacturing generate hazardous or with cement powder. However, this is not economically feasible in Malta. Therefore, potentially hazardous wastes, including ST Kirkop found a solution for recycling spent-resin culls with a local waste broker, Objectives Status Comments chemical substances and contaminated who is involved in manufacturing concrete blocks. The spent-resin culls are mixed Remain among the best in class companies with a reuse and plastics. Most hazardous waste is reused 92% in 2014 Denise Ann Buhagiar whole with wet concrete and shaped in blocks with a base of one square meter. The recycle rate at 90% or more and recycled, and the remaining waste is Site Environmental Champion blocks are then used as barriers for construction sites. Occasionally, in-house building 4% in 2014. Remains at a very treated locally by specialist companies. Remain among the best in class companies with landfilled waste Kirkop (Malta) projects also make use of spent-resin culls. A spent-resin bed is laid out and topped rate at 3% or less good level, but slightly increased Where local treatment is not possible, in some Back-end sites with wet concrete – a practice which significantly reduces the cost of concrete. we transport hazardous waste safely to More performance indicators are available on pages 62 to 65 Environment & Operations Refrigerant 22 at Tours Environmental Efficiency (France) However, DEHP is listed in Annex XIV REACH Regulation, with a defined 2015 phase-out date. ST therefore initiated To protect the ozone layer, in 1987, the international Chemicals a company-wide project to check the availability of new materials, identify the community established the Montreal Protocol on impacted sites, groups and products, substances that deplete the ozone layer. In 2000, and to define the risk assessment, European Union (EU) regulations prohibited the use qualification strategy and implementation of certain ozone-depleting substances, including plan. In 2014, the Company focused on hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFC) in refrigerant systems. We are committed to reducing and managing the environmental, health and safety risks of the the sites directly impacted by the REACH While Refrigerant 22 (R22) remains a very common chemicals and materials used in our manufacturing processes. We achieve this through basing their regulation. Although non-European sites refrigerant in air-conditioning and semiconductor selection, handling and substitution on the precautionary principles. are not required to comply with REACH, processing equipment, EU regulations banned its use all assembly sites have completed as a ‘top-up’ maintenance fluid (for virgin fluid) from the new material qualification. By the 2010, and as a recycled fluid from 2015. ST has The semiconductor industry uses a range medical checks to verify employees’ are aligned with ST’s rules of chemicals end of 2014, all sites impacted by the worked for several years to replace this refrigerant. of chemicals, especially in Front-end health is protected. and hazardous substances use. substitution of die attach film successfully In 2009 ST Tours (France) started a program to meet activities, of which some can present Site management retains ultimate We perform detailed checks on all passed the qualification. Through 2015, the R22 regulatory requirements. The site identified health, safety and environmental hazards. responsibility for safety processes, but it suppliers and validate their compliance ST will continue to deplete the existing 51 apparatuses using R22. While determining Since the early ’90s, ST has been is also the end user’s through certification, appropriate replacement gases was a significant 10 stock and switch to the new qualified engaged in the management and control duty to apply SCC regulated substances safety datasheets material. challenge, our efforts paid off and in the end of chemical substances and materials, to recommendations. and written replaced since 2008 Looking forward we used a range of gases and made several protect people and the environment from We conduct regular engagements. equipment modifications according to potential exposure, and to comply with EHS internal audits to ensure that When we identify concerns around a As reported in the fifth EHS Decalogue the refrigerant’s temperature range legal and customer requirements. conditions of use, as defined by the substance’s use, either due to changing and outlined in the 2013 Sustainability and volume. At the end of 2014, SCC according to ST procedures, are regulation, or employee or environmental report, we are aligning our materials Focus Site Chemical Committee alternatives had been installed maintained. I G4-14 I G4-DMA I exposure, we formulate a substitution management with HSPM7 systems One commitment of our EHS Decalogue on 49 apparatuses. Compliance and transparency plan using the following strategy: requirements. We aim to develop an is to ensure that all sites adopt an a) elimination integrated approach for collecting data, approach based on precautionary Across our manufacturing activities and b) substitution analyzing, monitoring and reporting principles when assessing the supply chain, we implement the highest c) engineering controls the hazardous substances used in ST environmental, health and safety (EHS) standards and adopt ISO 140011 and d) signage/warnings and/or product manufacturing. Following the 56 impacts of new processes, chemicals OHSAS 180012 management systems. 57 administrative controls preliminary phase performed in 2014, and materials. In accordance with Through our Material Declaration e) personal protective equipment. we will implement a new system in this commitment, the Site Chemical Process, we report externally on the Where elimination or substitution is 2015. Data will be collected from all our Committee (SCC) evaluates, defines and chemical composition of all our products impossible, we implement strict risk materials suppliers in a new, centralized authorizes the use of chemicals in each and track the presence of all substances management measures, including system, enabling us to disclose details of site, aided by various organizations: according to the IPC 17523 standard. engineering systems, administrative our products’ hazardous content while • An EHS representative coordinates Additionally, we evaluate chemicals using controls and personal protective enhancing traceability from the materials activities and requests installation ST’s EHS-regulated substances lists equipment, to ensure we protect our supplied to the final products. upgrades, where necessary. to identify potential handling issues or employees and the environment. ST will continue to anticipate legislative Gaetano Caputo • Purchasing helps to obtain the changing legal requirements. The EHSQuality and Reliability Furthermore, manufacturing sites have changes, manage and reduce the necessary information from suppliers to regulated substances list contains more Automotive Product Group emergency response teams trained to risks around chemicals use, protect Agrate (Italy) identify chemical hazards. than 2,500 substances. In 2014, more coordinate operations and use firefighting employees’ health and safety, and • Facilities and Engineering help than 5,300 chemicals were used and equipment, breathing apparatus, preserve the environment. In line with the standard automotive determine how to adapt installations to assessed across ST manufacturing sites. chemical protective clothing and spill kits approach, we have assessed the specific chemicals. ST annually reviews and updates the in case of chemical accidents. new DEHP/PVC-free materials • Engineering, Research and EHS-regulated substances list to: ST exposure to Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) to ensure they meet automotive Development, Products Groups and • Comply with standards and regulations Substances substitution and Quality representatives research 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 targets from a workability, quality (REACH4, RoHS5, ELV6), potential, less hazardous alternatives. elimination SVHC 44 71 138 151 161 and reliability perspective. DEHP • Meet customer requirements, is an organic chemical additive for • Site Physicians determine preventative In 2014, ST focused on the replacement ST concern 5 8 18 20 21 • Ensure all suppliers and subcontractors softening PVC film. These tapes are of a substance of very high concern, the ST concern Annex XIV 1 1 1 1 DEHP and the removal of Refrigerant 22. used to support the wafers during Replaced 3 4 5 5 5 Objectives Status Comments I G4-PR3 I back grinding, mounting, sawing Strive towards continuous control, reduction or elimination and die attach processes. Due DEHP substitution program of risks and of substances of concern in our processes and 2 substitution plans completed diligence and rigorous qualification activities for an environmentally friendlier, safer and healthier Tapes are used during Back-end flows – which are standard for working place manufacturing in wafer preparation, 1. ISO 14001 = Environmental Management Systems Requirements automotive applications – have Ensure 100% of key suppliers and subcontractors fully commit during back grinding, mounting, sawing to ST specifications and procedures (through ST Banned and Objective discontinued 2. OHSAS 18001 = Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems Requirements been applied to validate this Exempted Substances specification) and die attach processes. The tape’s 3. IPC = Association Connecting Electronics Industries® transition, even though the Increase in number of base film material contains DEHP Di 4. REACH = Registration Evaluation and Restriction of Chemicals concerned materials are not in Adopt an approach based on precautionary principles when (2-Ethylhexyl phthalate), an organic 5. RoHS = Restriction of Hazardous Substances assessing the EHS impacts of new operational processes, evaluations of chemicals and direct contact with ST devices or materials before entry and in chemical additive for softening PVC film. 6. ELV = End of Life Vehicles chemicals and materials use present in the final packages. 7. HSPM = Hazardous Substance Program Management More performance indicators are available on pages 62 to 65 Environment & Operations Our Schottky diode saves Sustainable energy The STPS3045CG Schottky diode Technology is a 2-STAR “energy-saving” responsible product. Solar energy generation systems include multiple solar panels sources, connected to a junction We identify and promote innovative products that provide environmental and social benefits to society, Nathalie Fleury box, then to an inverter. The for example, through reducing end-application energy consumption, saving resources, protecting Program Management Team junction box protects the panels Digital Products Group the environment or providing solutions to improve the end-user’s quality of life. We also aim to design Grenoble (France) when partly in shade or not delivering products, taking into consideration the environmental impact of their entire life cycle. energy. Yet in operations the junction box I am involved in eco-design, must be transparent and allow the power with a transversal role in project generated to travel to the inverter. The Sustainable Technology Product compliance management system (PMS), used from management, acting as a relay With its low leakage current, STPS3045CG 2015 to manage all new Company for organizations. Eco-design is minimizes power loss in the junction when the program: a global framework Our products are branded ECOPACK ® panels generate electricity and allows shadowed and meet all applicable requirements, projects. now in place, thanks to a simple, What we consider important is confirmed panels to be bypassed, with a low forward such as REACH and RoHS. We develop robust plan: tool, awareness and by our stakeholders. Indeed, the 2014 voltage drop, thus protecting the very sensitive materiality exercise showed eco-design to be in the top five priorities of customers solutions that eliminate RoHS chemical compounds from our manufacturing lines Eco-design is a top-five indicators. Upstream we focused on how to deploy a tool involving photovoltaic cells of the panels during priority for ST customers all functions and actors concerned: reverse-mode operation. The energy saved and investors. The Sustainable and products. Our approach to conflictand investors marketing, design, project in the application is then about 33% Technology program includes product free minerals is detailed in the Supply management, packaging and higher than its direct consumption, a compliance with legislation and agreed Chain Responsibility pages. contribution to the environmental customer requirements regarding the exclusion of certain chemical substances Responsible products and eco-design In 2014, we consolidated the eco-design process. Its integration within PMS starts engineering. This new tool now enables us Focus impact. a new phase, with formal embedding in to introduce eco-design in a from products. By using a systematic During 2014, we started integrating the all new ST product designs since the end systematic and structured way. It is eco-design approach in the conception Sustainable Technology program, with of the year, based on filing a checklist systematic because all new projects of our products we can minimize their its two main pillars – responsible product to track results. We leveraged a core follow a development flow requiring 58 environmental impact throughout their and eco-design – into the product 59 team of Product Group representatives, eco-design consideration, and it is life-cycle. Devising a strategy on both development process. The process has which was indispensable for defining the structured because, at each step responsible products and eco-design been fine-tuned and approved by all our program’s elements. of product design, engineers refer gives ST a real competitive advantage. Product Groups, with the associated In 2015, our focus is to synchronize the to a checklist of possibilities to The program comprises three main pillars specifications released. Responsible program’s training sessions with the improve the environmental impact. linking sustainability to products: products and eco-design elements deployment of PMS in all main Research A team-awareness campaign Responsible products and STAR classification criteria • Product compliance: with have been integrated in the project and Development sites. started at the end of 2014. The (G4 -PR3) legislation and customer process ensures that questions are Number of STAR products in 2014 requirements regarding REACH1 and RoHS2, ECOPACK® and ST31 is secure and safe raised systematically at each step 1 STAR 2 STARS 3 STARS conflict-free minerals. Data security is gaining increasing importance in people’s lives, enabling and for all parameters – examining Incremental Significant New or dramatic Total secure transactions and protection of personal data. Thus, the security of what can be taken into account, improvement to improvement to improvement to • Responsible products: identifying existing offering existing offering existing offering innovative products that provide clear personal information is a subcategory of Social Responsible Products. improved and implemented, such Social Embedded in applications dedicated environmental and social benefits. The ST31 contactless and dual-interface series has been identified by ST as the parameters of package to: physical well-being, safety, personal 12 23 8 43 • Eco-design: integrating a process as a 1-STAR Social Product (Data Security). It offers secure microcontrollers weight, the number of steps, and security, improving quality of life to design products, systematically specifically designed for contactless smartcard applications and is based on manufacturing flows. Energy saving of the ST chip itself or in the 159 129 6 294 taking into consideration products’ the latest ARM SC000 32-bit CPU core, allowing an exceptional code density Data is recorded to compare new application thanks to the ST chip parameters linked to their and high computation power. generation products to the older Environmental Contributes to resources 7 2 4 13 environmental impact. It offers a wide range of memory sizes and cryptographic algorithms ones and evaluate improvements. saving and environmental preservation I G4-DMA I addressing security certifications, and its highly secure architecture makes Opportunities were already created Total 178 154 18 350 it particularly suited for a wide range of applications where security is the from capturing feedback from the main concern (e.g. high-speed contactless secure payment transactions project managers of two important or ID cards and passports). ST31 multi-standard adherence (e.g. MIFARE® new projects driven through PMS. and Calypso) allows the same card to be used for different applications, I am confident that, with the tools retaining security and interoperability. and knowledge in place and the support of management, ecodesign will be a key sustainability Objectives Status Comments initiative, which will bring a Objective discontinued. No competitive advantage. ECOPACK® 3 (no RoHS exemption and Halogen free): 25% of new significant interest from packages implemented in ECOPACK® 3 by the end of 2015 customers 1. REACH = Registration Evaluation and Restriction 90% of new products to apply Sustainable Technology criteria of Chemicals New within our Product Development Process 2. RoHS = Restriction of Hazardous Substances More performance indicators are available on pages 62 to 65 Environment & Operations Towards a conflict-free supply Supply Chain chain subcontractor, which was achieved through strong collaboration between our outsourcing organization and Increasing conflict minerals Responsibility the subcontractor. From preliminary assessment to corrective action regulation has led companies monitoring, the audit resulted in important to implement extensive data measures being taken to increase collection programs in their compliance around working hours and supply chain. ST began against forced labor. The effectiveness collecting this information in 2007 As part of their contract with ST, our suppliers are required to commit to ST and the EICC’s Social of these measures will be assessed and has now engaged 100% of Responsibility standards, including conflict mineral and chemical requirements. next year in a closure audit and we have its smelters in the Conflict-Free To contribute to improve the electronics supply chain, we monitor our suppliers’ performance through invited our subcontractor to share with us Smelters (CFS) Program (either as regular assessments and audits. the principle outcomes. validated smelters or smelters actively In parallel to our supply chain programs, engaged in the process to seek validation, internal audit results emphasized the or “Active”). An evolving challenge into account the impact of its sourcing hazardous substances, and responsible importance of selecting responsible local In 2014, we achieved the following objectives: decisions. I G4-DMA I G4-12 I sourcing of minerals. services, such as labor agencies, when • 100% of our tantalum and gold sources are now validated by Our supply chain, managed at different We have implemented these initiatives recruiting or subcontracting migrant the CFS Program. levels of our organization, is both diverse Building a responsible among our key suppliers and workers. Through careful due diligence, • 64% of tin sources are CFS-validated while the remaining and geographically widespread. In 2005, supply chain subcontractors, who represent 80% of we have made positive progress in 36% are Active, meaning they will be audited by the CFS we started to address the challenge of manufacturing procurement segments. addressing forced labor risks and Program. supply chain responsibility through longOur supply chain programs are strongly They include Front-end and Back-end protecting our employees’ rights. We • 33% of tungsten sources are CFS-validated while the term collaboration between procurement, aligned with our internal programs and subcontractors and suppliers of material, extended our labor agency audit program remaining 77% are also Active. outsourcing and sustainability common industry standards. We believe spare parts and equipment from Singapore to Malaysia, and in 2015, In 2015, we aim to have 100% of our smelters CFSdepartments. the most effective way to Back-end managed at corporate we will replicate this program in China. validated and will continue to provide regular Today, increasing demand from our manage our supply chain subcontractors level. We understand that engaging local communication to our customers. Detailed customers and external stakeholders is to adopt a sector-based engaged in EICC We are also increasingly managers is fundamental to achieving information of our progress is reported further encourages us to enhance approach, which enables audits increased to our objectives and that the best way annually to the US Securities and Exchange Focus resource and best-practice deploying these programs our monitoring of suppliers and subcontractors, and support them in their path towards improvement. sharing. It also allows us to harness the positive 80% in 2014 to local, primarily services suppliers, with a focus on to accomplish this is through local capability-building programs. Commission and published at www.st.com/conflict-free_minerals. 60 specific regional risks, such as dormitory 61 The US Dodd-Frank Act, which requires influence of collective sector pressure and living conditions or forced labor. Management of hazardous device manufacturers to undertake due helps in understanding the geographical context. Conflict minerals and hazardous substances diligence across their supply chain, and Our supply chain programs cover a wide substances programs are deployed In 2015, we will implement the Hazardous the California Transparency Act against Forced Labor are driving companies to range of issues, including the adoption extensively to all relevant suppliers. Substance Program Management Total number of suppliers and subcontractors facility extend their responsibility far beyond their of standards, management of social, (HSPM) system based on data collected SAQs by level of risk 2014 environmental and safety risks through Assessing and auditing from our suppliers. The program will (G4-HR11) own operations. ST has a leading role to play by taking assessment and audits, management of In 2014, we requested our key suppliers integrate substance traceability within Number of SAQ Average and subcontractors to complete a new product information. More details of this score Low risk Medium risk High risk EICC self-assessment questionnaire can be found in Chemicals, pages 56 to Objectives Status Comments Back-end materials suppliers 58 7 0 88.7% (SAQ) through the EICC’s online platform. 57. For 2015: Ensure 80% of key With a successful participation rate, a Front-end materials suppliers 65 4 0 89.5% Ensure 80% of key suppliers (by purchasing volume) are suppliers are involved in the record number of 294 Corporate and Back-end subcontractors 27 4 0 89.8% involved in the EICC compliance program (annually) EICC program, and continuously improve their performance Facilities SAQs were completed, with Equipments suppliers 13 2 0 85.5% Ensure none of the suppliers are classified “high risk” based on 70% of SAQs renewed in 2014. Front-end subcontractors 4 0 0 86.0% Objective discontinued Self-Assessment Questionnaires (SAQs) ST’s overall supply chain EICC SAQ score Continuously reduce the number of non-conformances arising Programs in place. Objective was 89%, indicating a low level of risk from SAQs and audits discontinued and exceeding the target of 85% in the In 2014, with the support of ST, HHGrace started to use the EICC-ON tool and Ensure business ethics: 100% of Global Procurement and three main areas of Labor and Ethics, Outsourcing organization buyers to sign the business ethics Objective discontinued standardized our management systems to align with EICC requirements. To answer Environment, and Health and Safety. letter the needs of the industry’s supply chain, we built our Sustainability strategy based on In 2014, we also made significant Define and deploy systems and processes to provide reliable the following: evidence that our products are conflict-free: progress in engaging our suppliers and • Maintain our strong position in green production, safety, health and employee care maintain the EICC-GeSI Due Diligence Tool update for 100% of subcontractors in audits. We integrated Objective discontinued programs our material suppliers, Front-end and Back-end subcontractors the third-party audits as a positive criteria engage all the smelters identified in our supply chain to join • Internally promote industry best practices to improve our weaknesses such as the in our overall performance evaluation of the EICC-GeSI Conflict-Free Smelter Program management of working hours or structural risk assessment. suppliers. Thanks to the recognition of Create and implement a process to engage local suppliers in Quality and Reliability HHGrace understands enforcement of social responsibility is a long journey. The New these audits, the coverage of our BackSustainability programs including audits Assurance Director, HHGrace EICC-ON approach based on SAQ and the VAP (Validated Audit Program) is a Get 100% of the smelters identified in our supply chain verified end subcontractors engaged in EICC New powerful tool to help us implement systematic management systems and to show us by a 3rd party as Conflict–Free by the end of 2015 audits increased from 35% in 2013 to the electronic industry’s best practices along with challenges. HHGrace will continue Deploy and control ST Hazardous Substance-Free programs to almost 80% in 2014. New aligning with the EICC standards to promote sustainable development throughout the suppliers and subcontractors For the first time, we also participated supply chain together with our valued customers and other stakeholders. in the audit of a major Front-end More performance indicators are available on pages 62 to 65 Environment & Operations Environment & Consumption of natural gas (per unit of production): normalized values 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Environmental burden: net values (G4-EN18/G4-EN21) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Operations Indicators Consumption of natural gas 100 100 101 108 106 Emissions to air Baseline 100 in 2010 Global warming* (MTCE) 413,974 429,187 408,202 402,875 415,960 Ozone depletion (kg R11 Eq) 7 0 0 0 0 VOCs (Tons) 178 192 147 153 221 Total water discharge Atmospheric acidification 36,581 41,525 34,456 42,181 45,610 (Kg SO2 Eq) (G4-EN22) This section includes indicators and GRI Standard Disclosures. Photochemical oxidant creation 25,292 38,125 27,165 29,501 16,946 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Kg ethylene Eq) Water discharge (1000 m ) 3 14,000 13,650 12,444 13,422 13,457 Air emission toxicity** 4,484 3,075 4,337 2,680 2,598 Treated in ST waste water (Kg PH3 Eq) Our environmental data collection • Combustion emissions: World Scope 3: treatment plant (%) 73 74 76 78 79 Emissions to water*** covers our 12 manufacturing sites Resources Institute (2008)-GHG • Emissions due to Goods Treated in external waste water Eutrophication (Kg (P+N)) 396,271 378,339 330,993 326,918 261,468 Protocol Calculation tool for stationary 57 55 54 58 62 representing more than 95% of the transportation, Employee commuting treatment plant* (%) Aquatic oxygen demand combustion v.4) 709,202 667,146 529,623 565,693 452,943 overall environmental impact of the whole and Employee business travels: Mobile (Kg COD****) * Part of this water has already been treated in ST waste water treatment plant, meaning that company. • World Resources Institute (2004) GHG Combustion GHG Protocol tool v.2.5 100% of water discharge is treated whether internally, externally or both of them. Heavy metals to water 9,579 9,796 6,458 6,446 5,710 protocol A Corporate Accounting And (Kg heavy metals) • Supplement to the Corporate Value Reporting Standard Aquatic ecotoxicity (Kg Cu Eq) 5,774 4,032 4,109 4,437 4,795 For CO2 emissions reporting ST uses the Chain (scope 3) accounting and Scope 2: reporting standard Waste under Basel Convention * Includes direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our manufacturing plants and indirect following international methodologies: emissions from energy consumption and transport, reported in Metrics Tons of Carbon • Indirect emissions due to electricity (G4-EN25) Scope 1: Equivalence (MTCE). Does not include GHG emissions from controlled manufacturing sites, consumption: World Resources For all the other environmental indicators 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 subcontractors and foundries. • PFCs emission: 2006 IPCC Guidelines ** Emissions of substances are considered only if they exceed the minimum threshold of 3ppm, Institute (2014). GHG Protocol tool for ST uses the methodologies described Hazardous waste transported for National Greenhouse Gas 0,000 0,000 0,000 1,331 0,872 expressed in phosphine equivalent. For Volatile Organic Compounds, Atmospheric Acidification, stationary combustion. Version 4.5 in internal Company procedures which (as a % of total hazardous waste) Photochemical Oxidant Creation and Air Emission Toxicity the Particulate Matter is not covered. Inventories-Chapter 6 Electronics *** Domestic waste water is included. Industry Emissions are regularly reviewed during third party **** Total Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD). environmental audits (i.e. EMAS, ISO 14001, ISO 50001). Waste split (Tons) (G4-EN23) Deployment of ST substances specification to key 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 supppliers and subcontrators Summary of net CO2 emissions (kTons) Direct and indirect energy consumption by primary Total Waste 40,775 38,593 37,511 36,091 34,472 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (G4-EN15/G4-EN16/G4-EN17/G4-EN18) sources (%) Reuse and recycled 36,113 35,387 34,032 32,975 31,731 Response rate from key 62 100 100 100 100 100 63 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Incinerated 3,522 2,134 1,758 1,352 1,371 partners (%) Direct emissions Scope 1 551 626 561 554 626 Green electricity purchased 5.79 8.56 7.38 17.64 19.74 Landfill 1,140 1,072 1,721 1,764 1,370 Full commitment from key partners to ST substances 91 98.5 99.0 99.0 97.0 Indirect emissions Electricity produced by ST’s 907 903 828 815 778 1.09 1.13 0.00 0.00 0.00 specification (%) (purchased electricity) Scope 2 windfarm Other indirect emissions 126 116 107 108 121 Photovoltaic and thermal solar 0.01 0.09 0.10 0.10 0.10 Consumption of chemicals (per unit of production): (transportation*) Scope 3 electricity produced by ST normalized values Total emissions** 1,584 1,645 1,497 1,477 1,525 Electricity purchased from Incidents in 2014 23.72 23.23 22.13 17.79 17.41 nuclear (CO2 free) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (G4-EN24) * The transportation emissions value is a global estimate of employees’ transportation and transportation of goods. Electricity purchased from fossil Consumption of chemicals 100 103 117 116 113 61.57 59.53 63.27 56.25 54.73 NONE ** Transportation emissions are integrated in the total emissions. fuel sources Baseline 100 in 2010 Natural gas 7.81 7.46 6.96 8.01 7.83 Other fuels 0.00 0.00 0.17 0.20 0.20 CO2 emissions (per unit of production): Elimination of substances of very high concern (SVHC) Fines and non monetary sanctions in 2014 normalized values Singapore (Toa Payoh) (G4-EN15) Environmental investments 2013 2014 730 US$ (S$1000) to Minister Of Manpower for incompatible mix of chemical waste, Total number of action plans* completed since 2008 19 20 incident occured in June 2013 and fine was paid in 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Action plans completed on-time (%) for the elimination and China (Longgang) CO2 emissions 100 108 107 95 95 % of total company investments 0.06 0.50 0.85 0.21 0.73 reduction of hazardous substances including Substances of 100 100 5000 US$ for waste water, incident occured in September 2013 and fine was paid in Very High Concern (SVHC) 2014 Baseline 100 in 2010 * One substance can be subject to several action plans to be eliminated from different ST processes Consumption: absolute values Carbon footprint of ST’s products per mode of (G4-EN3/G4-EN5) transportation (%) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 Electricity (TJ) 7,265 7,409 7,347 7,530 7,649 Air <2000km 11.75 Water (1,000 m3) 17,393 17,314 16,151 17,484 17,386 Air >2000km 86.33 Chemicals (tons) 17,138 17,076 17,792 19,713 19,170 Road 1.92 Natural gas (TJ) 616 598 550 657 650 Ocean 0.00 Consumption of electricity (per unit of production): normalized values (G4-EN3/G4-EN4/G4-EN5) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Consumption of electricity 100 105 114 105 106 Environment & Operations Conflict minerals inquiry results 2014 % of smelters which are % Active smelters which % Active smelters which active in the CFS Program have not provided a % of smelters which have declared sourcing Suppliers’ and subcontractors’ environmental and Phase 2 Assessment: Number of smelters are CFS validated1 but were not CFS validated from L1/L2 countries or declaration regarding as of Decemver 31 2014 country of origin or recycled health and safety performance* EICC Self-assessment questionnaires completed (Active smelters) recycled or scrap sources2 or scraps sources (G4-HR11) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Tantalum 24 100 0 0 0 Number of suppliers/sub-contractors 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Gold 44 100 0 0 0 Suppliers of materials 104 102 94 92 73 Suppliers of materials 76 97 183 209 233 Tin 33 64 36 643 36 Suppliers of equipment 40 40 40 40 40 Suppliers of equipment/ 0 0 13 18 19 Tungsten 18 33 67 674 33 Suppliers of spare-parts 35 38 39 44 43 facilities/IT Total 179 180 173 176 156 Suppliers of spare-parts NA NA NA NA NA 1. Based on EICC CFS program Subcontractors Back-end 62 59 51 59 60 Subcontractors Back-end 20 23 42 49 37 2. Based on information represented by suppliers and subcontractors Subcontractors Front-end 19 22 19 19 17 Subcontractors Front-end 3 4 8 6 5 3. L1/L2 countries declared as Brazil, Bolivia, Poland, China ISO 14001 certified/EMAS validated (%) 4. L1/L2 countries declared as Australia, Bolivia, Canada, Portugal, Russia, Spain, China Suppliers of materials 81 81 76 90 76 Suppliers of equipment 83 80 83 78 55 Suppliers facilities SAQs scoring by EICC Code of Suppliers of spare-parts 54 47 59 61 58 Conduct main sections (%) WEEE Total 76 74 75 89 75 (G4-EN28) 2012 2013 2014 Subcontractors Back-end 97 98 98 98 100 Health and Safety 90.2 90.3 90.7 As a supplier of components to the electronics industry (and Subcontractors Front-end 100 96 100 100 100 OHSAS validated (%) Environment 86.8 90.7 89.8 not manufacturers of electronic equipment), we are not directly Suppliers of materials 44 50 48 51 40 Labor and Ethics 87.9 87.7 87.6 affected by the European Directive 2012/19/ EU Waste of Suppliers of equipment 8 21 18 18 25 Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE). Suppliers of spare-parts 20 16 18 18 26 Total 31 36 34 35 32 Number of suppliers engaged in reporting EHS and Subcontractors Back-end 87 62 67 64 66 social KPI’s Subcontractors Front-end 84 77 77 73 77 2012 2013 2014 * Suppliers and subcontractors change from one year to another. The list is updated regularly which Number of Front End material suppliers 18 34 44 changes the reference perimeter. Number of Back End material suppliers 45 43 26 Number of key FE & BE subcontractors plants 24 27 NA 64 65 Number of suppliers/subcontractors targeted for EICC programs Conflict minerals (G4-HR11) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Number of materials suppliers and Suppliers of materials 104 102 102 92 76 subcontractors involved in the EICC-GeSI Due 171 168 162 139 Suppliers of equipment/ Diligence survey 104 87 87 86 86 facilities/IT Number of suppliers and subcontractors that Suppliers of spare-parts 35 35 35 33 33 are associated with at least one 3TG metal 84 88 105 104 Subcontractors Back-end 32 32 32 59 60 (involved suppliers) Subcontractors Front-end 19 22 22 19 17 % (number) of involved suppliers and 100% 100% 100% 100% subcontractors that have completed the (84) (88) (105) (104) EICC-GeSI Due Diligence survey Phase 1 Introduction: Number of smelters identified in ST’s raw 61 74 75 89 Agreement to comply with EICC (%) materials supply chain Number of smelters identified in ST 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 111 102 98 113 subcontractors’ supply chains Suppliers of materials 89 95 82 97 96 Total number of smelters identified Suppliers of equipment/ 50 99 93 97 97 in ST supply chains (raw materials & 119 facilities/IT subcontractors) Suppliers of spare-parts 71 94 87 94 93 Subcontractors Back-end 98 97 100 100 100 Subcontractors Front-end 95 96 100 100 100 Local Communities • Within the framework of our Community Involvement Charter we let our sites decide which initiatives correspond best to their local, operational and cultural context • ST favors long-term partnerships with associations and local authorities, rather than one-off events • We proactively engage with industry and academic bodies to fulfil our role as a responsible citizen and to ensure our long-term viability in a highly competitive market Key figures 312 8,655 121,166 initiatives employees direct from 30 sites engaged in beneficiaries worldwide volunteering Local Communities A perfect example of local Local leverage ST Foundation The Foundation continues to bridge the digital divide throughout the world – both In France, the association ‘les Communities in countries where ST is present and also in several others, especially Africa. The Restos du Coeur’ provides program started in 2003 and has trained meals to people in need over 270,000 people in 23 countries throughout winter. In Rousset since its inception. (France), employees launched In 2014, the Foundation received a range an annual music concert in 1998 Our intention is to add value to the communities where we operate through local economic of support from ST, including: which has evolved into the local development, industry and academic partnerships, and community involvement initiatives. • PCs and other electronic and IT amateur event that raises the most equipment funds for this association. • time from those employees engaged This initiative leverages all aspects Local communities are essential decide which initiatives correspond best train new users. in the Digital Unify program, who gave of local community impact. Indeed, 30 to ST to their local, operational and cultural The majority of our activities are run in courses or translated course materials employees from all the organizations present context. As per our Charter, our main long-term partnerships with associations (now available in seven languages) at the site rehearse and perform outside working hours. Our culture and values areas of involvement are: and local authorities, rather than one-off • support from ST management and The site provides support by announcing the event through Engaging in a variety of different ways • young generation and education, events. Activities held outside working Corporate External Communications to communication channels, authorizing ticket sales in the canteen with the local communities of our sites • social welfare and charity, hours are either driven by ST produce the Foundation’s first activity and providing a donation. Additionally, the Works Council worldwide is a strong aspect of our • environmental involvement, 108,849 or by employees engaged report to external stakeholders (Comité d’Etablissement) provides the infrastructure, a room for rehearsals and a donation. Rousset town hall provides culture. Whether at corporate, site • economic development, hours given by in a cause, who encourage • support for management of the ST management or employee level, the their colleagues to participate Foundation website. a concert room at no cost with the support of technical • innovation and high ST employees many initiatives we launch or participate through logistical or Please visit the ST Foundation staff and two subcontractors also provide donations. technology, in all year round confirm our commitment communications support from their site. website www.stfoundation.org Employees, their families and local inhabitants are • supporting the ST Foundation. In 2014, our contributions through 312 for more information proud and happy to attend the show and share a to positively impacting the local Our analysis of the 2014 initiatives recorded initiatives worldwide included: great moment while positively impacting the local communities around our sites. confirms that education is our main community. The show has run for 17 years We have been applying the London • cash donations of US$ 908,766 driver. This is reflected in: and is now performed twice – a sign of the Focus Benchmarking Group (LBG) methodology • involvement of more than 30 sites since 2012. This has helped us structure • Our partnerships in education and our in 19 countries initiative’s success. In 2014, it raised intent to highlight our industry, jobs and enough funds to provide 19,000 our reporting and improve the relevance • 8,655 ST employees volunteering activity. Indeed, our main sites regularly meals for the association. 69 68 of our investment. The ST Community their time organize visits for schools, universities Involvement Charter, formalized in 2013 and associations. Our employees • 99,761 hours of company time and rolled out in 2014, enables the give lectures and our managers dedicated to the community. Direct beneficiary groups global deployment of our strategy to all are proactively engaged with local In addition, 4,292 hours were given to Others sites, where the Sustainable Excellence educational authorities or associations. managing these initiatives, while 4,796 9.68% Developing country Children/Teenagers coordinator, in close relation with HR and These activities all promote the variety hours were contributed by employees communities 3.07% site management, drives and reports on of jobs that our industry offers to men outside work hours, either for employee 8.63% most of these initiatives. and women. or company-driven initiatives, benefitting Where possible, we favor activities • The ST Foundation, which helps bridge at least 121,166 individuals. People on low in three main areas: community the digital divide, thanks to its main Over the coming years we will incomes/Unemployed involvement, industry and academic program, Digital Unify. This program 0.88% increasingly focus our efforts on initiatives assists communities in need and helps partnerships, and local economic which simultaneously support several families to keep in contact by setting development. Most initiatives are site up laboratories with recycled Company priorities of our Sustainability strategy. driven, as it is our intent to let our sites PCs, while employees volunteer to We also intend to contribute to local Seniors/Elderly Students economic development through direct people and indirect employment, investments 77.61% 0.13% Objectives Status Comments in local infrastructure and hiring local Support ST Foundation’s activities Cash, PCs, ST employee time suppliers. I G4-DMA I G4-SO2 I Prepare and deploy ST community involvement Charter. Deployed in February 2014 The five days that changed Bouskoura (Morocco) For the mid to long-term: raise young populations By the end of 2014, the ST Foundation had trained more than 98,800 students in employability by providing access to PhD, apprenticeships Numerous partnerships Morocco. To provide students with a safe and comfortable learning environment, ST and internship experience Bouskoura (Morocco) decided to launch a new challenge: to renovate the Digital Unify Strengthen our network of public and industrial affairs training room in the Idriss 1st High School within five working days. activities worldwide; create and observe good sustainability The site convinced its main partners to get involved in this project to renovate and Objective discontinued. practices as well as efficiently manage sustainability-related risks and opportunities improve the woodwork, electricity, floor, wall painting, green spaces, cleaning, furniture, plumbing, air conditioning and safety. Local initiatives and communication 100% aligned with new strategy (main sites) New Franck Maugein The project involved contributions from 16 suppliers, who were fully committed and EHS, Facilities and Plating Manager covered their own costs, and approximately 20 employees who gave their time and All sites to report their local community initiatives in the CSR tracking tool all through the year New Sandrine Abou El Fadel energy to clean, paint and make this challenge a success – including the organization Morocco Purchasing Director of a recognition ceremony! Please visit LBG website www.lbg-online.net for more information More performance indicators are available on pages 72 Local Communities Local A variety of initiatives based on local context Prague (Czech Republic): Employees can participate 2 days per year in activities organized by the site such as doing Initiatives repairs in a home for disabled children or other, freely chosen activities. For example, helping after after floods, working with children or preserving natural protected areas. In 2014, 16 employees gave their time. Burlington – Coppell – Livonia – Santa Clara – Schaumburg – Mississauga (USA and Canada): Over 180 employees actively participated in fundraising runs, walks and golf outings for cancer benefit, harvest food drive and health and wellness. They collected and distributed We often organize activities to increase our employees’ team spirit or engagement and their awareness food, toys, clothing and school supplies for needy children and families. They supported of sustainability issues and programs. We are proud that our employees regularly participate in activities non-profit associations helping children with intellectual and developmental disabilities, and events in their local communities, which our sites support and promote. lymphoma and leukemia and an after school program for ‘latchkey kids’. ST regularly matched Here we have chosen to highlight a few of our many initiatives which have a positive impact on our employees’ donations. employees and the communities around our sites. Tours (France): Throughout 2014 various theme days were held for employees: sustainable development (2d), mobility plan and public transportation (3d), health (3d), waste management (1d), energy management (1d) and a cancer prevention communication campaign. Engagement* Environment Calamba (the Philippines): In April the site launched the first ST Foundation Digital Unify training Bouskoura – Calamba – Crolles – Taipei: The site participated in program in Antipolo City; In May it organized a two-day safety training for 25 employee relatives. Muar – Rousset: Family Day visits for cleaning the Linshanbi beach Munich* (Germany): A course was held for employees on progressive muscle relaxation as employees and their families spread recreation area, organized in part of the stress-prevention program. awareness of our industry, jobs and collaboration with the European working conditions. The visitors are Chamber of Commerce Taiwan, Greater Noida (India): Focus is often placed on underprivileged children and the schools given a tour of production lines and Taipei European School and educating them. Site and employees, in collaboration with the SMILES (Smart Minds facilities and then our products and other companies. Influencing Life and Earth Sustainably) committee, ran welfare activities on site, such as a EHS initiatives are shown and explained on stands and book collection and fund raising to donate benches and desks. 900 students participated in a videos. Games or competitions are organized too. Ang Mo Kio: ST birdwatching guides participate in painting/poster-making competition and tree planting. the conservation of native tree species and increasing Munich: A “Competition Trophy” was created to biodiversity in urban Singapore (return of songbirds and Loyang (Seoul): Employees regularly entertain and cook meals for homeless or elderly people. appreciate the collective team performance of sales and other wildlife). 70 marketing departments. It also enabled transparency Hong Kong: Donations from the sale of Mooncake boxes helped a non-profit organization enhance its social welfare services. 71 regarding the sales growth. 92 employees participated. Shenzhen (China) sales office: The site donated stationery to a primary school in Tibet. Employees gave more than 90 books to help eight schools in Yunnan Province set up libraries. Partnerships in R&D and Education, High-Tech Development Agrate – Ang Mo Kio – Catania – Coppell – Crolles – Grenoble – Marcianese – Prague – Montrouge – Muar – Napoli – Shanghai – Tours: Sites regularly organize conferences for pupils, students and teachers to arouse Kirkop (Malta): The site is a mine of ideas: To raise funds for charity, an employee was sponsored to join the National Cycling technical and scientific vocations and inform on our jobs and industry. Three challenge and a group of employees sponsored to run in a race with the President of Malta. Money was collected to purchase French sites renewed their participation to “Capital Filles”, a national mentoring a van for Maltese missionaries in Peru, and a swing adapted for wheelchair users at an adult day centre. A donation was program aiming to increase the number of girls choosing technical graduate also given to the national Christmas campaign. Employees cleaned up a green area in Zebbug and did voluntary work in an education, this year benefitting close to 100 girls thanks to 100 godmothers. orphanage. We also provide local associations and universities with IC products, related hardware, expertise and even financial aid to support study, research and practical exercises for students. Employees regularly participate in high-tech forums or fairs with presentations, exhibits, demonstrations and labs. All levels of managers and experts actively participate in regional networks, quality workgroups or workshops, for example on IP protection or supporting small and medium sized companies. We also cooperate to define international industry standards. Edinburgh – Netanya: In Scotland, three employees participated in a Science Lab set up in a Lorry that travels round schools. In Israel, two helped with the First Lego League robotics contest for the benefit of 300 children. Rennes: Collaborates with the Maupertuis Institute, which supports industrial firms in integrating new technologies to improve their competitiveness. Calamba: Conducted two training sessions on balloon-making for teachers, providing them with skills on venue decoration, which can also be a personal business opportunity. 51 teachers joined. * Beyond LBG scope Local Communities Local Communities’ Indicators This section includes indicators and GRI Standard Disclosures. Community involvement inputs Community involvement Outcomes (G4-SO1/G4-SO2/G4-EC1) (G4-SO1/G4-SO2/G4-EC1) 2012 2013 2014 2013 2014 Number of community involvement activities 374 385 312 Number of beneficiary organizations 826 1,204 Total contribution (evaluated in mUS$) 8.5 11 6 Number of direct beneficiaries 34,495 121,166 ST Foundation Type of contribution break down (%) (G4-SO1/G4-SO2/G4-EC1) 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Cash donations 31 14 15 Total trainees 30,285 36,444 28,307 42,257 53,127 Staff time volunteering 57 78 75 Total trainees from beginning of 111,647 148,136 176,443 218,729 271,856 In-kind 4 3 5 program Benches donated from fundraising in Greater Noida (India) Management costs 8 5 4 Number of employees engaged in 4,515 9,944 8,655 volunteering Number of hours contributed inside 100,972 177,610 99,761 company time 72 73 Domains of involvement (%) 2012 2013 2014 Young generation and education 79 75 76 Environment 3 2 2 Social welfare and charity 6 6 5 Innovation and high technology 8 8 5 Economic development 3 1 3 ST Foundation 0 5 9 Other 1 3 0 Motivation for contribution (%) 2012 2013 2014 Community investment 87 85 97 Charitable gift 5 10 2 Commercial initiative 8 5 0 Geographical spread of contribution (%) 2012 2013 2014 Local 80 39 16 National 19 31 34 International 1 30 50 Note: We estimate to have captured 85% of our contribution COMPANY Awards People Environment & Operations 9th Gawad Kaligtasan at ST Shenzhen (China) recognized Secretary’s Award Don Emilio Kalusugan (GKK) as water saving outstanding Abello Energy Efficiency Award Each year we receive external recognition for our sustainability practices. enterprise On December 4, ST Here is an overview for 2014. Calamba (the Philippines) Shenzhen, like some other large received this award for its contribution to Business cities in Asia Pacific, is under energy efficiency and stress and at risk conservation goals of the The GKK is a of water shortage. country, and substantial effort to mitigate Top 10 young Italian innovators Thomson Reuters Top 100 Global Vodafone rewards ST biennial award In 2014, ST Shenzhen was rewarded climate change. On May 12 in Bologna, Innovator for Outstanding Delivery given by the as one of the city’s “water saving Department outstanding enterprises”, due to the local two young researchers Performance in 2014 from ST Catania were of Labor and team’s dedication. On December 10, ST Employment voted among the top10 received an Outstanding innovators under the (DOLE) to companies and individuals Delivery Performance with outstanding occupational safety and age of 35 in Italy by Award from Vodafone. health practices, programs, innovations Local Communities Technology Review (the Italian edition of The award recognizes the magazine published by the MITand contributions. ST was recognized as among the ST’s outstanding Massachusetts Institute of Technology). On October 27, in the individual category, world’s most innovative companies commitment and performance to Ignazio Aleo, 28, holds a PhD in Elizabeth Beronio, EHS Manager, in being named a Thomson Reuters Vodafone’s success, through exceptional received silver GKK award. In the Blood donation Support to Bohol (the Philippines) Electronics from the University of Catania. Top 100 Global Innovator for the third supply-chain management and customer institutional category, ST Calamba (the On July, ST Calamba On November 26, ST He presented a project to make wearable consecutive year. This prestigious award service. In addition, ST was shortlisted Philippines) received silver GKK award. (the Philippines) received Calamba received from systems that evolve from sensing to recognizes companies around the world among the four finalists for Vodafone’s an award from the the Philippines Red Cross actuating.The invention will benefit for their outstanding commitment to 2014 Supplier of the year award. medical and physical rehabilitation. European Network for Workplace Philippines Red Cross for a plaque of recognition innovation, the protection of ideas and its 15th year of service. for the invaluable role & Cristina Miccoli, 31, is a member of the the commercialization of inventions. Electron d’Or Health Promotion (ENWHP) 74 unfailing support through 75 ST Technical Staff and holds a degree ST Agrate (Italy) received On June 18, the French its donation to the operations for Bohol and PhD in Material Physics from the Top supplier awards from “ElectroniqueS” magazine European ENWHP, Earthquake, Typhoon Yolanda & other University of Catania. She presented a Coolpad and OPPO «Workplace Health awarded ST an “Electron disaster management operations. project to make gallium-nitrite sensors Promotion Companies d’Or” for the STCOMET (instead of silicon ones) to collect that promote health» 10, a highly innovative data reliably and quickly in a harsh certification. System on Chip (SoC) environment. The European Network for Workplace platform that integrates all the principal Her invention enables data to be Health Promotion is a network of national functions of a smart meter on a single collected inside combustion engines occupational health and safety institutes, chip. STCOMET10 was partly developed where the temperature is too high public health, health promotion and ST received two top supplier awards within the SOGRID project, led by ERDF for silicon and where the sensors are statutory social insurance institutions from smartphone manufacturers Coolpad and ST in cooperation with a consortium exposed to chemical attacks and extreme committed to developing and promoting and OPPO during the customers’ Annual of industrial partners such as Sagemcom, temperatures and pressure. good workplace health practice. Suppliers’ Days, on November 25 and Landis & Gyr, Nexans and laboratories December 9 respectively, in the Shenzhen involved in G3 certification such as Trialog Best Supplier Award 2014 from region. It was the third consecutive year and LELAN. Pioneer Electronics AsiaCentre that ST received this award from Coolpad On July 15, Pioneer in recognition of excellent service, fast Best Technical Support and Best Electronics AsiaCentre response time and outstanding product Individual Xiaomi awards Pte Ltd presented ST quality. ST received two awards with the Best Supplier at Xiaomi’s Supplier Award 2014. This Flextronics award Convention held on came as recognition At Santa Clara (USA), ST received an March 1 in Beijing. for our excellent service in terms of award from Flextronics as preferred Richard Zhu, Sales quality, environment, cost, delivery, partner for design activity. This award Manager of North technology and service. Pioneer chose recognizes the efforts of the ST team China Operations received the “Best between 100 suppliers in the Electrical/ supporting Flextronics globally. Attendance” individual award in Electronics category and rewarded the recognition for his availability and fast best performance for the period from April response to customer inquiries. 2013 to March 2014. ST was awarded the “Best Technical Support” in recognition of our strong engineering support. COMPANY GRI Content I G4-32 I General Standard Disclosures General Standard External Page(s) Index Disclosures Assurance Governance Governance (page 12) I G4-32 I Corporate Governance section at http://investors.st.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=111941&p=irol-IRHome G4-34 No Sustainability Governance section at http://www.st.com/web/en/about_st/sustainability_governance.html Company information at http://www.st.com/web/en/about_st/st_executive_officers.html Ethics and integrity Ethics and Compliance (page 18) General Standard Disclosures G4-56 Our Cultures & Values in Careers section at http://www.st.com/web/en/about_st/careers/our_culture_values.html No General Standard External Principles for Sustainable Excelle in Sustainability section at http://www.st.com/web/en/about_st/st_approach_to_sustainability.html Page(s) Disclosures Assurance Strategy and analysis G4-1 CEO Foreword (pages 10 and 11) No Specific Standard Disclosures Organizational profile DMA and External Page Omissions G4-3 Reader’s Guide (page 2) No Indicators Assurance G4-4 Where you find us (page 6) No Category: Economic G4-5 Reader's Guide (page 2) No Material aspect: Economic performance G4-6 ST at a glance (page 6) No Business (page 23) G4-DMA No G4-7 Governance (page 12) No Financial Performance (pages 24 and 25) Where you find us (page 6) Financial Performance (pages 24 and 25) G4-8 Financial Performance (page 24) No G4-EC1 Business indicators (page 31) No Business indicators (page 31) Local communities indicators (page 72) Financial Performance (pages 24 and 25) Category: Environmental Business indicators (page 31) Material aspect: Energy G4-9 No Pages 26, 50, 62, 82 and 89 of 20F financial report in Annual/Semi Annuals Reports section at Environment & Operations (page 47) http://investors.st.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=111941&p=irol-reportsAnnual G4-DMA No Energy (page 52) G4-10 People indicators (page 41) No Energy (page 53) G4-EN3 No G4-11 People indicators (page 43) No Environment & Operations indicators (page 62) Value Chain (page 8) Energy (page 53) G4-12 No G4-EN4 No Supply Chain Responsibility (page 60) Environment & Operations indicators (page 62) G4-13 Reader’s Guide (page 2) No Energy (page 53) G4-EN5 No Chemicals (page 56) Environment & Operations indicators (page 62) G4-14 Page 8 of the EHS decalogue in Sustainability Strategy section at No Material aspect: Water 76 http://www.st.com/web/en/resource/quality_and_reliability/quality_specification/approval_strategy/ST_EHS_decalogue.pdf Environment & Operations (page 47) 77 G4-DMA No Reader’s Guide (page 2) Water (page 50) G4-15 Governance (page 13) No G4-EN10 Water (page 51) No Labor and Human Rights (pages 36 and 37) Material aspect: Emissions G4-16 Involvement in Industrial and International Organizations in Sustainability section at http://www.st.com/web/en/about_st/involvement.html No Environment & Operations (page 47) Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-DMA No GHG, Air emissions (page 48) page 26 of 20F financial report in Annual/Semi Annuals Reports section at GHG, Air emissions (page 49) G4-17 No G4-EN15 No http://investors.st.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=111941&p=irol-reportsAnnual Environment & Operations indicators (page 62) Reader’s Guide (page 2) GHG, Air emissions (page 49) G4-18 Sustainability Strategy (page 15) No G4-EN16 No Environment & Operations indicators (page 62) Material Aspects and Boundaries (page 17) GHG, Air emissions (page 49) Reader’s Guide (page 2) G4-EN17 No Environment & Operations indicators (page 62) G4-19 Sustainability Strategy (page 15) No GHG, Air emissions (page 49) Material Aspects and Boundaries (page 17) G4-EN18 No Environment & Operations indicators (pages 62 and 63) G4-20 Material Aspects and Boundaries (page 17) No G4-EN21 Environment & Operations indicators (page 63) No G4-21 Material Aspects and Boundaries (page 17) No Material aspect: Effluents and waste G4-22 Reader's Guide (page 2) No Environment & Operations (page 47) Reader’s Guide (page 2) G4-DMA Chemicals (page 56) No G4-23 No Sustainability Strategy (page 15) Waste (page 54) Stakeholder engagement G4-EN22 Environment & Operations indicators (page 63) No Sustainability Strategy (page 14) Waste (page 55) G4-24 No G4-EN23 No Stakeholder Engagement in Sustainability section at http://www.st.com/web/en/about_st/stakeholder_engagement.html Environment & Operations indicators (page 63) G4-25 Sustainability Strategy (page 14) No G4-EN24 Environment & Operations indicators (page 63) No Sustainability Strategy (pages 14 and 15) G4-EN25 Environment & Operations indicators (page 63) No G4-26 No Stakeholder Engagement in Sustainability section at http://www.st.com/web/en/about_st/stakeholder_engagement.html Material aspect: Products and services G4-27 Sustainability Strategy (pages 14 and 15) No G4-DMA Sustainable Technology (page 58) No Report profile G4-EN28 Environment & Operations indicators (page 65) No G4-28 Reader's Guide (page 2) No G4-29 Reader's Guide (page 2) No G4-30 Reader's Guide (page 2) No G4-31 Reader's Guide (page 2) No Reader’s Guide (page 2) G4-32 No GRI Content Index (pages 76, 77 and 78) Reader’s Guide (page 2) G4-33 No Assurance statement (page 81) COMPANY COMPANY Global Compact DMA and Specific Standard Disclosures Page Omissions I G4-32 I External and ISO 26000 Index Indicators Assurance Category: Social Sub-category: Labor Practices and decent work The following table shows the correlation between the STMicroelectronics Sustainability Report and the Material aspect: Employment ten principles of the Global Compact and the ISO 26000 standards. People (page 33) G4-DMA No People Development & Engagement (pages 34 and 35) G4-LA1 People indicators (page 42) No Material aspect: Occupational health and safety People (page 33) G4-DMA No Heath and Safety (page 38) Health and Safety (pages 39 and 40) G4-LA6 No People indicators (pages 43 to 45) Material aspect: Training and education People (page 33) G4-DMA No People Development & Engagement (page 34 and 35) G4-LA9 People indicators (page 43) No People Development & Engagement (page 35) G4-LA11 No People indicators (page 42) Material aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity Global Compact 10 Principles ISO 26000:2010 clauses People (page 33) Company G4-DMA No Labor and Human Rights (page 36) Reader's Guide 6.2; 7.5.3 Labor and Human Rights (page 37) ST at a glance G4-LA12 No People indicators (pages 41 to 43) Where you find us Sub-category: Human Rights Value Chain Material aspect: Assessment Significant events People (page 33) G4-DMA No CEO Foreword 6.2; 7.2 Labor and Human Rights (page 36) Governance 6.2; 7.4.3 78 G4-HR9 Labor and Human Rights (page 37) No 79 People indicators (page 44) Sustainability Strategy 4.5; 5.2; 5.3; 6.2.3; 7.3.2; 7.3.4 Material aspect: Supplier human rights assessment Ethics and Compliance Principle 10 4.4; 6.2; 6.6.3 G4-DMA Supply Chain Responsibility (page 56) No Entreprise Risk Management Supply Chain Responsibility (page 61) Business G4-HR11 No Financial Performance 6.2; 6.8 Environment & Operations indicators (page 64) Sub-category: Society Innovation 6.6.7 Material aspect: Local communities Customer Relations 6.7 G4-DMA Local Communities (page 68) No Business Indicators 6.2; 6.8 G4-SO1 Local Communities indicators (page 72) No People Local Communities (page 68) Development and Engagement Principe 6 6.4.3 G4-SO2 No Local Communities indicators (page 72) Labor and Human Rights Principles 1,2,3,4,5,6 4.8; 6.2; 6.3.3; 6.3.4; 6.3.7; 6.3.10; 6.6.6 Material aspect: Anti-corruption Health and Safety 6.4.6; 6.8.8 G4-DMA Ethics and Compliance (page 18) No People indicators Principles 1,2,3,4,5,6 6.3.10; 6.4; 6.4.3; 6.4.4; 6.4.5; 6.4.7 G4-SO4 Ethics and Compliance (page 19) No Environment & Operations G4-SO5 Ethics and Compliance (page 19) No Environmental Efficiency Principles 7, 8 and 9 6.5.3; 6.5.5 Sub-category: Product Responsibility GHG , Air Emissions Material Aspect: Product and Service labeling Environmental Efficiency Principle 8 6.5.4 Supply Chain Responsibility (page 56) Water G4-DMA Sustainable Technology (page 58) No Environmental Efficiency Principles 7 and 8 6.5.4; 6.5.5 Customer Relations (page 28) Energy Supply Chain Responsibility (page 59) Environmental Efficiency Principle 8 6.5.3 Chemicals (page 56) Waste G4-PR3 No Material declaration in Quality and Reliability section at Environmental Efficiency http://www.st.com/web/en/support/quality/product-environmental-compliance.html Principle 7 6.5.3 Chemicals Customer satisfaction page 30 of 2013 Sustainability report at www.st.com/company-reports Supply Chain Responsibility Principles 2 and 3 4.8; 6.3.3; 6.3.4; 6.6.4; 6.6.6 G4-PR5 No Customer Relations (pages 28 and 29) Sustainable Technology 6.5.3; 6.7.4; 6.7.5 Environment & Operations Indicators Principles 2,3, 7, 8 and 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.5; 6.7.5 Local Communities Local Communities Principle 1 6.8 Local Initiatives 6.8 Local Communities' Indicators Principle 1 6.3.9; 6.5.2; 6.5.3; 6.8 Company Awards 6.2 GRI Content Index 7.6.2 Indicators Index External Assurance Statement 7.6.2 I G433 I Glossary Second phase of manufacturing during which the silicon chip is Back-end IP Intellectual Property mounted in a package Bi-CMOS Bipolar-CMOS IPC Association connecting electronics industries CDP Carbon Disclosure Project ISO International Organization for Standardization CEC Corporate Ethics Committee KPI Key Performance Indicator CEO Chief Executive Officer LBG London Benchmark Group CFS Conflict-Free Smelter LEC Local Ethics Committee CMOS Complementary MOS (Metal Oxide Semiconductor) MEMS Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems CMRT Conflict Minerals Reporting Template MMS Microcontrollers, Memories & Smartcards DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Index MOFSET Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor DNV Det Norske Veritas MTCE Metric Tons of Carbon Equivalent Lead-free labelling for RoHS-compliance ECOPACK® M2M Machine to Machine (the EU Directive on Restriction on Use of Hazardous Substances) EHS Environmental, Health & Safety NGO Non-Governmental Organization EICC Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition NYSE New York Stock Exchange ELV End of Life Vehicles OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development 80 81 EMAS Eco-Management and Audit Scheme OHSAS Occupational Health & Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS 18001) EMEA Europe, Middle East & Africa PFCs Perfluorinated Compounds ENWHP European Network for Workplace Health Promotion PMS Project Management System ERM Enterprise Risk Management R&D Research & Development ESG Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance REACH Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals Fab Semiconductor fabrication plant RoHS Restriction of Hazardous Substances FD-SOI Fully Depleted Silicon-On-Insulator SAQ Self-Assessment Questionnaires First phase of the production cycle involving the manufacturing of Front-end SE Sustainable Excellence circuits on a silicon wafer GeSI Global e-Sustainability Initiative SOP Standard Operating Procedure GHG Greenhouse Gases SRI Socially Responsible Investment GRI Global Reporting Initiative SVHC Substances of Very High Concern HSPM Hazardous Substance Program Management VAP Validated Audit Process IC Integrated Circuit WEEE Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment ICT Information and Communication Technology WWTP Waste Water Treatment Plant IGBT Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistor 20-F Annual report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission IoT Internet of Things 3TG Tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold © STMicroelectronics June 2015 Printed in England All rights reserved The STMicroelectronics corporate logo is a registered trademark of the STMicroelectronics group of companies All other names are the property of their respective owners. All commissioned photography Copyright©STMicroelectronics. Reference: BRSTREPORT2014 For more information on ST products and solutions, visit www.st.com
