Environmental SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION ­VERIFICATION DNV “Det Norske Veritas AS REPORT (DNV) has conducted a limited assurance ­third-party verification of Wallenius Wilhelmsen Logistics is actively working to the direct greenhouse gas decrease the ­environmental impact of our ­activities and (GHG) emissions from WWL Ocean Transporta­reduce the use of energy and ­natural resources per ­transported tion in 2014. During the verificaproduct. We are ­committed to ­complying with all ­environmental 2014 tion, nothing has come ­regulations and, in keeping with our ­frontrunner ambition, we aim to our attention that causes us to believe that to be that vital step ahead of ­existing and ­emerging requirements the GHG ­emissions set out in the WWL Ocean by ­implementing ­innovative solutions. ­Transportation GHG Inventory for 2014 and published in the 2014 WWL Environmental and Social Responsibility Report are not In 2014 the total CO2 emissions of fairly stated.” WWL’s ocean operations fell by -0,2% to 2 041 906 tonnes. This stable CO2 result relative to 2013 reflects the fact that the amount of cargo work carried out over the year was also similar to 2013. WWL’s objective is to reduce our relative CO2 emissions 30% by 2015 compared to 2005. This is an ambitious objective, which is largely dependent on market forces beyond our control that affect optimal loading and operation of the vessel. To date we have been able to reduce CO2 per unit transported by 19,99% since 2005. One year out from our target, with 2010 a recovering market and the arrival Ships in Sulphur Emission of new vessels we can expect an ­Control Areas (SECA) had to improvement compared to this year run on fuel that contained at in 2015. However, under ­ongoing most 1.0 percent sulphur. market conditions our -30% target may be too ambitious. Despite improvements in the 2015 technical and operational ­efficiency The ECA limit of the fleet, in 2014 relative CO2 was reduced to performance ­continued at a 0.1 percent. similar levels as the previous year (+1.40% on 2013) reflecting a 2020 continued weak and fragmented market, resulting in a less that optiLower limits in EU waters mal mix and quantity of cargo. ­outside the SECAs will come into force. For the 11th year in a row, we have maintained our 1.5% global fleet ­average sulphur policy, coming in at 1.49 % in 2014. Cumulative savings in SOx emissions due to our voluntary low sulphur policy have now reached 218 342 tonnes. This represents the amount of sulphur emissions avoided by operating on fuel with lower sulphur levels than required by law. MAKING WAVES The Trident Alliance has been successful in raising awareness in the industry DESIGNING THE HERO CLASS and amongst governments, and efforts Eight new post-Panamax vessels will ­commence to improve enforcement in ports are service for WWL between 2015 and 2017. Founded in 2014. underway. The High Efficiency ROro class design includes 35 members a year later. The EC has introduced mandatory ­environmental solutions such as: Chairman is Roger Strevens. minimum compliance testing requireThe novel Rolls Royce Promas integrated The logo represents the over ments on member states. propeller-rudder assembly, reducing drag. lapping interests of the industry, environment and ­ However, the question of effective and Sophisticated engine management system enahuman health. robust enforcement on the high seas bling high efficiency across a wide load band. More info: tridentalliance.org is only beginning to be appreciated. A wider vessel, 36.5 m, she is inherently ­stable and requires less use of ballast water. Scrubbers clean the exhaust of sulphur oxide to comply with the SECA limit “THE TRIDENT WAS THE GREEK SEA GOD POSEIDON’S WEAPON OF CHOICE” Average relative NOx The Swedish A pilot plant e ­ missions in g/kWh continued on a ­downward trend with a 7.4% company’s innovative today runs off the ORCELLE ­reduction. The positive trend was kite-shaped, undercoast of Wales. driven by the recycling of some older water generator turns tonnage with weaker NOx perforAWARD tidal and ocean curSubstantial mance. The trend will continue in rents into electricity. i­nvestment grants 2015 due to the introduction of the following the Orcelle HERO ­vessels to the fleet. $100,000 Its ability to capAward will allow a a­ warded to Minesto’s ture of low-velocity full-scale installation Deep Green tidal tidal currents makes it to be put into operapower plant. unique in the field. tion by 2016. ILLUSTRATION DAVID KARLSTRÖM
