DANSKE BANK / CR 2014 / X X 1 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Corporate Responsibility 2014 Danske Bank Group 2 DANSKE BANK / CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILIT Y 2014 About us Danske Bank Group is a Nordic universal bank and one of the leading financial enterprises in northern Europe. We are headquartered in Copenhagen and operate in 15 countries, offering a full range of banking services in the international financial markets. Besides our three banking units (Personal Banking, Business Banking and Corporates & Institutions), which all operate under the Danske Bank brand name, we offer services in the fields of life insurance and pensions (Danica Pension), real mortgage finance (Realkredit Danmark), asset management (Danske Capital), real estate (home), and leasing (Nordania). The Group has 18,478 full-time employees and serves about 3.7 million customers, including a significant share of institutional customers. Our vision is to become recognised as the most trusted financial partner to our customers and all other stakeholders. DANSKE BANK / CONTENTS 3 Contents 4 Creating long-term value for all our stakeholders 22 Governance, policies and performance 4 Steady progress 22 Business Integrity Board 5 Listening to our stakeholders 22 International principles and standards 5 Commitment to corporate responsibility 24 Whistleblower system 24 Anti–money laundering measures 6 Customer experience 24 Remuneration 6 Proactive, individualised advice 25 2014 key performance indicators 7 Online and mobile solutions 26 2014 objectives and performance 8 Accessibility for everyone 8 Keeping customers secure 28 About this report 9 Monitoring customer satisfaction 29 Material issues 29 Reporting boundaries and principles 10 Banking practices 29 Supplementary reporting 10 Responsible lending 29 External verification 10 Screening the investment portfolio 11 Balancing financial stability and 30 Assurance statement economic growth 12 Transparency in tax reporting 12 Environmental stewardship 13 Responsible procurement 14 Financial literacy 14 Guiding parents and teachers 14 Educational materials for children 16 Educational materials for young people 18 People and culture 18 Ongoing training and talent development 19 Updated core values 20 Diversity and inclusion 20 Corporate volunteering and donations 21 Redundancies 4 DANSKE BANK / CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILIT Y 2014 Creating long-term value for all our stakeholders As a leading financial institution, we play an important role in the lives of our personal customers, the prosperity of our business customers and the well-being of the societies where we operate. This comes with an equally large responsibility to run a sound business that creates long-term value for all our stakeholders. Danske Bank and its regional precursors have In 2014, we continued to progress towards our strabeen important institutions in the Nordic region for tegic business objectives: being first or second in more than 140 years. We play a vital role in creatour peer group in customer satisfaction in our focus ing growth and prosperity by providing capital for segments and delivering a return on shareholders’ investments, by absorbing risks, by helping customequity above 12.5% by 2018. We still have a way ers achieve their ambitions, and by innovating the to go to reach these goals, but the many initiatives financial infrastructure. Our vision is to be recogwe have launched and the hard work of the entire nised as the most trusted financial adviser. staff are paying off. We have improved our advisory services and banking solutions, brought innovative We are driven by an ambition to create value for all products to market, made processes simpler and our stakeholders: for our customers, whose aspiramore efficient, and invested in our people through tions we serve; for our shareholders, whose support customer-focused training programmes. By enis our foundation; for our employees, whose skills hancing our organisation and performance in this are our greatest assets; and for the communities we way, we can deliver the best possible service and are part of. Only if our stakeholders do well, will we optimise the customer experience. do well. The market wants accessible, secure banking Steady progress solutions, and we are working on several fronts to As an important financial institution, we have a develop new services. One example is MobilePay, big responsibility to run a sound, profitable bank. our free online and mobile banking solution, which We support economic growth through competi­t ive has more than 1.9 million users in Denmark. For products and services and we contribute to finansome customer groups, however, adjusting to new cial stability by delivering strong financial results. technologies takes time, and we take seriously our DANSKE BANK / FOREWORD 5 role in helping these groups with the transition Commitment to corporate responsibility while still offering a variety of touch points, such as In 2014, we improved our governance of corporate branches as well as phone and online services. responsibility matters by establishing the Business Integrity Board. I have the pleasure of chairing Listening to our stakeholders the board, and I see our decision to develop a new In 2014, we strengthened our engagement with corporate responsibility strategy in the first half external stakeholders by means of a clear set of of 2015 as a logical extension of our updated core principles. We pursue a dialogue based on trust and values. The strategy will build on our existing initiatransparency to identify shared objectives, form tives and achievements and will give us additional partnerships of mutual value, and share our knowlsupport in reaching our objectives. edge and expertise. As chairman of the Business Integrity Board, it is Our stakeholders expect us to manage the enviimportant to me that we continue to demonstrate ronmental, social and ethical risks and opportuniour commitment to the ten principles of the UN ties in our value chain by integrating principles of Global Compact, which provides a framework for responsible business in our lending, investment and our responsibility efforts. I am looking forward to sourcing practices. These issues can be sensitive taking our corporate responsibility work further to and complicated, and we are committed to addresscreate long-term value for all our stakeholders. ing dilemmas that may arise. Finally, we continue to share our expertise with society as we have done with financial literacy. We are able to do this because of the talent and experience of our dedicated staff, whose skills we must continue to develop and refine. Thomas F. Borgen Chief Executive Officer 6 DANSKE BANK / CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILIT Y 2014 Customer experience We work constantly to improve the customer experience at Danske Bank. We aim to turn technological advances into banking tools that make life and business easier for our customers. And we want our solutions to be accessible, easy to use, and secure for everyone. In 2014, we continued to focus on In addition, we launched a customers can optimise their strengthening relationships with number of strategic initiatives finances, we launched Danske customers and creating a simpler to make processes simpler and Guide in our mobile and eBankand more efficient bank, and this more efficient and to empower ing solutions in Denmark and led to many initiatives across the our frontline staff. We have also Finland in 2014. The response Group. For example, we strengthconducted customer-focused we have received shows that ened our advisory services with a training programmes. customers value this approach new offering for small businesses in digital channels as well as and redesigned our advisory Proactive, individualised personal advisory services. In services for young customers in advice Norway, a new digital mortgage Denmark. We also enhanced the Many customers rely on us guide helps customers looking customer programme in Denwhen they invest their savings for a new home make decisions mark and introduced a similar and pensions or when they buy that fit their life situation, decibenefit programme for personal a home. It is fundamental to our sions not only about financing customers in Finland. For busirelationship with customers that but also savings and insurance. ness and institutional customers, they can depend on our integrity we introduced a new post-trade and that the advice they receive When advising on tax matters, service and improved our cash is individualised and in their best we are compliant with tax laws. management solutions. interest. Our advisers’ foremost According to the Danish Execresponsibility is always to give utive Order on Good Business We also took a leading role in decustomers the best possible Practice for Financial Instituveloping innovative products and advice. tions, we are required to advise digital solutions that enhance the customers on tax matters related easy banking experience. In order to offer proactive, to the products and services we individualised advice on how offer. In case of complex individProactive investment advice Many customers make investments at home in our eBanking system, and although customers make the final decisions, we believe it is our responsibility to give proactive advice whenever possible. When a large IT company listed on the stock exchange in 2014, many customers placed purchase orders from their home computers. Because of the extraordinary demand for the shares, share prices rocketed in the time it took customers to place the order and confirm it, causing the trade price to rise sharply. Within minutes of placing their orders, 130 customers received a call from Danske Bank advisers notifying them of the change in price and asking whether they still wanted to proceed with the order. DANSKE BANK / CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE 7 ual tax issues, we refer customers to an accountant or lawyer. h es anc s eBan Br d ATM ki n g an Online and mobile solutions Mob We have been developing online ile and mobile banking solutions for dev & t Ma i ce a b il several years, and we offer a vas let riety of options such as eBanking, online meetings with advisers, and tablet and mobile apps. These ser24/7 v ice Virtu r meet inagl vices not only enable customers to o ne se s do their banking around the clock; ph they also let them manage basic banking transactions without asci Pa So al y sistance. m le ed bi ia Mo Our award-winning MobilePay app E-mail and our recently launched contactless card are two examples of the convenience and instant accessibility that digital solutions can afford banking customers. MobilePay, which is available in Banking units and touch points Denmark and Finland, is free – even for non-customers. It enDanske Bank is a Nordic universal bank with strong regional ables users to transfer and receive roots and bridges to the rest of the world. Our three banking money and to pay in physical and units and five other business units serve around 3.7 million online shops simply by using a customers through multiple touch points. Today more than mobile phone number. MobilePay 80% of payments and transactions take place through selfis available for iPhone, Android service channels such as eBanking, Mobile Banking and Tablet and Windows. MobilePay has more Banking. than 1.9 million users in Denmark. In 2014, we added several features Personal Banking serves personal and private banking custo MobilePay, and the app is now tomers by offering self-service products and proactive advice. used for payment by more than The unit offers comprehensive advisory services to customers 2,500 businesses in Denmark. Ten with more complex finances. thousand businesses now have access to the platform, and many Business Banking serves small and medium-sized businesses more are in pipeline. In addition, through a large network of finance centres, branches, contact several non-profit organisations centres and online channels. The unit offers leading solutions used the app for charitable donawithin financing, investing, cash management and risk managetions in 2013 and 2014. ment. The contactless card offers Corporates & Institutions is a leading provider of wholesale PINfree payments up to a certain banking services for the largest institutional and corporate amount at selected shops in Dencustomers in the Nordic region. Products and services include mark. It eases the payment process cash management services; trade finance solutions; custody considerably for both the shop and services; equity, bond, foreign exchange and derivatives prodthe customer. We launched this ucts; corporate finance; and acquisition finance. 8 DANSKE BANK / CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILIT Y 2014 Interactive spending overview Cash card for those who rely on cash Our interactive spending overview enables cusSome customers may be unable to visit branches or ATMs tomers to quickly get a summary of their personal or may depend on others to shop for them. Other customers finances and see a breakdown of the items and cathave difficulty remembering a PIN. To assist these customegories of their monthly spending. In 2014, we added ers, we launched the cash card in 2014. It is a payment card new functions that allow customers to divide grocery that can be used at all ATMs and shops that accept Mastershopping into multiple categories and see a historical Card. It has an easily memorable PIN – 0000 – a maximum spending trend in a category. balance of DKK 5,000, and no overdraft facility. new technology in 2014, and we edge about the public and prigroups with special needs three plan to expand the initiative in vate digital solutions available cash withdrawals per month at 2015 while remaining attentive to them as well as the skills to branches free of charge. to security for customers. use the solutions. Evaluations from 3,000 participants in 2013 Keeping customers secure To make sure that customers can showed that, after attending the In order for digital banking solureach us when it suits them best, meetings, some 80% felt ready to tions to give customers a good we have a 24/7 telephone sertry our digital solutions. experience, they must be secure. vice for personal customers. Our systems and eBanking To ensure physical access for platforms are located in secure Accessibility for everyone people with weak eyesight, we encrypted environments, and We want all our customers to have installed so-called synthetwe scan for vulnerabilities. If we have access to our services and ic speech facilities and numeric detect any activity out of the orproducts and to feel confident keyboards in Braille in many dinary, we respond immediately and secure using them, even if ATMs in Denmark, Sweden and to identify and manage a potenthey have special needs. Since Ireland. In Denmark, we also oftial threat. Because many cyber 2008, we have launched several fer monthly account statements initiatives that are intended to in Braille and home deliveries of make it easier for senior citizens cash once a month to customers and visually impaired customers with certain bank accounts. to use our services. The financial sector also has eBanking For senior citizens, we have a responsibility to ensure that hosted “Step-by-step” trainfinancial services are available 2014 Objective ing sessions since 2013. These at an affordable cost. That is 2014 objective: Raise meetings provide basic knowlwhy we offer selected customer awareness of the simplified eBanking solution and train customers in Denmark in using it. Personal finance for young people Performance We met the objective by hostIn 2014, we established a department especially for young customers ing 67 Step-by-step meetings called Ung Direkte (Youth Direct). All the advisers in the department are across Denmark. The meetings specially selected and trained in personal finance for young people, and were attended by around their expert, first-hand knowledge of issues such as student housing en3,500 customers. ables them to support young customers in all aspects of their finances. Social 9 engineering techniques The financial sector has Easy banking in a new eBanking system seen a rise in the number of In 2014, we launched a simplified version of our eBanking system in incidents in which customDenmark. It has only three basic functions in a simple, user-friendly ers are tricked into discloslayout – account overviews, transfers and bill payments – and users are ing personal banking inforguided by help texts and pictures. The simplified eBanking solution remation to criminals posing ceived award for its remarkably user-friendly design at World Usability as bank employees. TypiDay 2014 held by Interaction Design Denmark. The system is used by customers from the ages of 27 to 101. cally, a customer receives a phone call from a person who claims to be an employee at the customer’s bank. attacks involve attempts to Monitoring customer The caller tells the customer steal information directly from satisfaction that there has been an customers, we tell customers We monitor customer satisfacunauthorised logon attempt how to use the Internet safely. tion closely and frequently. We On our website, we offer advice have not yet reached our overall on the customer’s eBankon all security issues, from target of being ranked number ing account and that a new enabling firewalls and identifyone or two in our focus segments password should be created ing phishing e-mail to the safe in all our markets, but with our at once. The caller tricks use of social media and online results in 2014, we have taken the customer into revealshopping. We also use Facebook steps in the right direction. ing his or her civil registrain our notifications and communications with customers. In summary: Corporates & tion number and password Institutions saw high customer under the guise of verifying Our IT security department satisfaction. Satisfaction among the customer’s identity and works to minimise the risk of Business Banking customers then into confirming the new customers’ being subjected to is steadily improving, and in password by verifying the cyber crime. For example, we four of five markets, we were remainder of the security trace phishing e-mail and work above or on par with our peers. encryption code. After the closely with specialised exterAt Personal Banking, customer nal consultancies to close any satisfaction was below target in customer discloses the phishing sites we identify in orall markets except Sweden. Read logon details, the criminal der to prevent the loss of sensimore about the results in Annual has access to the customtive personal information. Report 2014. er’s accounts and will probably transfer funds abroad. In order to prevent such incidents, we have published a list of advice on secure banking for customers. The advice includes information Your bank at the post office about how and when Danske Bank contacts customers In Denmark, our personal customers can also make basic banking transactions at other locations besides branches and ATMs. They can deposit and what information should and withdraw money at the post office. Some 200 post office branches never be disclosed over the are covered by this agreement with Post Danmark, and it has been a phone or in unencrypted great success for many years. e-mail. 10 DANSKE BANK / CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILIT Y 2014 Banking practices We play a vital role in creating growth and prosperity by providing capital to companies for investments, by absorbing risks for customers, by helping people achieve their ambitions, and by innovating financial infrastructure. Our banking practices also include managing the environmental, social, ethical and governance risks and opportunities in our value chain. Lending money to individuals being used in violation of internaIn 2014, we took several steps to and businesses is a fundamental tionally recognised standards for improve our ability to identify and activity for banks. To an increascorporate responsibility. manage ESE risks. On the basis ing degree, banks are expected of our Responsibility Policy, we to share accountability for Responsible lending incorporated explicit ESE faccustomers’ use of the funds. This For private individuals, we grant tors in the Group’s general Credit level of scrutiny reflects the speloans and other facilities on the Policy. We also initiated a process cial role of banks in society. At basis of a professional credit asto identify and develop credit poliDanske Bank, we make an effort sessment. It is in both the Group’s cies for specific industries whose to prevent credit facilities from and the customer’s interest that activities entail elevated ESE credit facilities are granted only risks. The first industry-specific when the customer understands credit policy that we adopted, for the associated obligations and the arms and defence industry, rerisks. We therefore make an flects our commitment to respectassessment of the customer’s ing international conventions on needs and financial situation to controversial weapons and our Credit guidelines make sure we are able to meet principle not to finance the protheir needs. duction of nuclear weapons. 2014 Objective Develop additional credit For business customers, we Screening the investment guidelines for sensitive not only assess the customer’s portfolio sectors. needs and repayment capability Our approach to responsible but also consider the purpose for investing addresses both risk Performance which the funds will be used and mitigation and business opporWe did not fully meet the assess possible environmental, tunities. We screen our investobjective. We adopted a credit social and ethical (ESE) risks ment portfolio on a regular basis policy specifically for the arms associated with it. This assessbecause we want to assure and defence industry, and we ment is intended to prevent customers that their funds are will continue to develop credit credit facilities from being used not invested in companies that policies for specific industries in violation of internationally violate internationally recogassociated with elevated recognised standards for human nised principles of responsibilESE risk. rights, labour rights, the environity. We believe that responsible ment and anti-corruption. behaviour is a precondition for DANSKE BANK / BANKING PR ACTICES 11 Systemically important financial institutions In accordance with a political agreement to identify and regulate systemically important financial institutions (SIFIs) in Denmark, Danske Bank and six other Danish institutions were designated as SIFIs by the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority with effect from 1 January 2015. long-term value creation in a company, and our markets create an unpredictable environment for Responsibility Policy does not conflict with our businesses and private households alike. At the objective of generating the best possible returns for same time, the prosperity of the societies where we customers. operate depends on economic growth. The screening, which is performed by a specialised For Danske Bank, maintaining a robust, sustainable adviser, identifies companies that do not meet the business is paramount in supporting both financial requirements of the Responsibility Policy. Whenstability and economic growth and thus restoring ever possible, we enter into a constructive dialogue trust in the financial system as a whole. We help and encourage these companies to take appropripreserve financial stability by keeping our capital ate steps to prevent future incidents. If the dialogue base strong, our credit assessment and lending does not lead to a satisfactory solution, we may policies sound, and our risk management effecexclude a company from our investment universe. tive. At the same time, we contribute to economic We publish a list of excluded companies at least growth by providing the capital and other financial once a year. Although exclusion does not guaraninstruments needed to start a new company, expand tee improvements at a company, we believe that it an existing business, or buy a new home. And by promotes higher standards of responsibility in the providing and developing much of the infrastrucmainstream investment universe. ture that makes money transfers both easy and secure, we facilitate the functioning of the financial We endorse the UN-backed Principles for Responsystem. This all builds upon an ongoing dialogue sible Investment, and we are committed to incorpowith relevant stakeholders to balance various rating environmental, social and governance (ESG) considerations in the service of common interests criteria in our investment research and decision– a dialogue guided by our stakeholder engagemaking and to practicing active ownership. In 2014, ment principles of sharing knowledge and expertise we updated our ownership policy and voted at more openly and honestly. annual general meetings than previously. We also started measuring the ESG quality for a wide range For more information on external stakeholder enof products, and the work will continue in 2015. gagement, see pages 22-23, and read more about capital requirements regulations for financial instiBalancing financial stability and tutions in Annual Report 2014. economic growth Financial stability is a prerequisite for the proper functioning of society because unstable financial 12 DANSKE BANK / CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILIT Y 2014 Electricity consumption 2014 Objective Reduce the Group’s electricity consumption by 30% from Transparency in tax reporting 2014 can be found in Annual 2009 to 2014. Danske Bank Group does not Report 2014. wish to participate in business transactions involving tax evaEnvironmental stewardship Performance sion or whose purpose is tax Since 2007, we have been workWe exceeded the reduction evasion. ing systematically to limit the target. We reduced electricity negative impact of our operaconsumption across the Group We comply with the laws that tions on the climate. As part of by 37% from 2009 to 2014. require us to disclose customer our climate strategy, we have information to the national tax set shortand long-term targets authorities in the countries in relevant areas, reduced our where we operate. CO2 emissions and improved energy efficiency by investing in solutions such as rooftop solar We have a duty to shareholdenergy-efficient equipment and cells. Part of the reduction came ers to manage our tax affairs installations and changing our from changes in and optimisation responsibly, and to pay tax in behaviour. In 2014, we exceeded of the Group’s branch network. accordance with the laws of each our long-term Group target of Electricity accounts for 46% country where we operate. reducing electricity consumption of our total CO2 emissions and by more than 30% from the 2009 therefore still represents an imThe EU Commission has adopted level. portant area for improvement. a directive that requires companies to publicly disclose their We achieved this by optimisThe CO2 emissions we cannot tax reporting on a country-bying our energy installations. We eliminate, we offset by investing country basis beginning in 2015. purchased energy-efficient IT in verified carbon credit projects Danske Bank has disclosed such and office equipment, modified that reduce emissions. All our information since 2007. Detailed our ventilation systems, and iminvestments in carbon credit proinformation about taxes paid in plemented other energy-efficient jects are managed by a carbon DANSKE BANK / BANKING PR ACTICES 13 Responsible sourcing 2014 Objective Initiate a review of our current responsible sourcing asset management company and Our supplier policy applies to all model and determine how to are verified according to internapurchases of goods and services improve the processes. tional standards such as the Gold at all business units and subStandard. We currently invest sidiaries in the Group. It contains in projects in India and Turkey. detailed guidelines for fostering Performance Besides reducing CO2 emissions, environmental and social reWe did not fully meet the the projects aim to promote sponsibility in our supply chain, objective. We began the review sustainable development in their and specific requirements for and identified areas for local communities. You can read responsible business conduct improvement, but we have not more about our environmental are set forth in contracts with inyet made decisions on how to stewardship initiatives and perdividual suppliers. If we suspect move forward. The screening of formance on pages 25 and 26, that a supplier is not complysuppliers has been ceased on our website and in our suppleing with the supplier policy and during this process. mentary reporting (see page 29). guidelines, we initiate a dialogue to clarify the circumstances. If Responsible procurement the dialogue does not lead to imAs a financial institution, our provements, we consider ending procurement spending is mostly our business relationship with on maintenance services and ofthe supplier. nationally recognised standards fice supplies. Even so, we believe of corporate responsibility. that responsible procurement In 2014, we reviewed the supcreates value for both us and plier screening process to see We take part in a variety of proour suppliers and also supports how we could make it more efcurement initiatives that promote sustainable development. We ficient and less demanding for responsible business conduct therefore want to purchase only suppliers. The process includes a in our supply chain, for example from suppliers that conduct their risk assessment based on the UN Ecolabelling Denmark and the business responsibly. Global Compact and other interDanish Ethical Trading Initiative. 14 DANSKE BANK / CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILIT Y 2014 Financial literacy We believe that higher financial competency enriches the life of the individual and contributes to healthy economic growth in society. We focus on promoting financial literacy among children and youth through locally based activities in the countries where we operate. Understanding personal finance understanding of the challenges dren about money and finances early on can have a large effect and opportunities related to and helps shape a new generaon an individual’s ability to make financial literacy. tion of financially savvy adults. sound financial decisions later in life, and we know from surveys Guiding parents and teachers To assist schools in teaching that parents expect banks to take Children’s ability to make good financial understanding, we dean active role in educating children financial decisions as adults veloped the Teaching Financial and young people about personal depends largely on their parents’ Literacy website, which is a free, finance. We feel an obligation to attitudes towards money and unbranded, interactive site with help the young people in our sociefinances. A recent survey shows educational materials and ideas ties become financially confident. that 59% of the younger genon how to teach financial literacy eration does not feel adequately in maths class. Since 2007, we have developed prepared to manage their peradvisory services, educational sonal finances when they leave Educational materials materials and online learning school. For that reason, in 2014 for children games for children and young we launched the Introducing We have developed two free, unpeople. We organise events, Money website, where parents branded websites where children establish partnerships and colcan find age-specific information aged five to 15 can gain financial laborate with local authorities about how children and young knowledge through play and exto promote financial knowledge people develop an understanding ercises: Moneyville and Control among the next generation of of money and personal finance. Your Money. banking customers. And we With expert articles and targeted conduct surveys and research on advice, the site supports parents Moneyville is an interactive an ongoing basis to gain a better in the dialogue with their chillearning game that contains DANSKE BANK / FINANCIAL LITER ACY 15 Financial literacy target groups and initiatives Children from ﬁve to 15: The interactive learning websites Moneyville and Control Your Money, where children can gain ﬁnancial knowledge through play and exercises. Young people from 15 to 27: The Dream On game and the Mind Your Money website, which stimulate young people’s interest in and knowledge about personal ﬁnance and help them achieve personal goals. audio guidance and visual aids that enable five to nine year-olds to play and learn basic financial skills with or without adult support, even if they cannot read yet. In Moneyville, the children learn about the value of money, earning and saving, prioritising their spending, and balancing income and expenses. Moneyville Parents: The Introducing Money website, has been an enormous success, with well over which contains educational materials 5.8 million users in the Nordic markets. and ideas on how to talk about money and personal ﬁnance with children and young adults. Moneyville 2014 Objective 200,000 downloads of the Moneyville app across the Group. Performance Teachers: The Teaching Financial Literacy We exceeded the objective. The Moneyville app was downloaded more website, which contains educational mathan 300,000 times. terials and ideas on how to teach ﬁnancial literacy in the classroom. 16 DANSKE BANK / CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILIT Y 2014 Intensive financial course for Danish schools In 2014, in Roskilde, Denmark, Control employee gave them a lot of experience Your Money served as the foundation for with the academic subject,” says Anne a four-week module on personal finance in Sondergaard, a teacher at Peder Seven 13 classes in six schools. The pupils were School. given the challenge of convincing Danske Bank advisers that they could manage the Besides strengthening the students’ unfinances of projects such as decorating derstanding of their own and their famtheir classroom or selling a product. ily’s finances, the course also helped them understand broader economic matters, “Working on finances in a very realistic including their future role in the Danish context was very motivating for the stulabour market. Some 89% of participating dents,” says Lene Hasling, principal at students found the topic relevant, and 78% Peder Seven School. thought they would benefit in the future from what they learned. Another 14 class“The combination of web-based exercises, es in five schools are planning to run the visits to the school and the bank, and espemodule in early 2015. cially the students’ presentations to a bank Control Your Money is an interchildren aged 13-15. Twenty-four developed two websites that help active website with ready-to-use classes at schools throughout young people learn more about training materials that is deDenmark took part in the campersonal finance: Dream On and signed for maths education of 10 paign. Control Your Money gave Mind Your Money. to 15 year-olds in the classroom. them practical experience estiThe children learn about finan­ mating costs, planning a budget Dream On is an online social ces by completing play missions, and accounting for expenditures. game that is intended to stimusuch as arranging and financing late young people’s interest in a trip abroad or moving away Educational materials for and knowledge about personal from home. In 2014, some 682 young people finance. It is based on the princiteachers registered classes for Our surveys show a difference ple that sound personal finances the website, and 5,198 missions between what young people give better opportunities for were completed across our marfrom 15 to 27 think they know planning and reaching one’s kets. Control Your Money was about personal finance and the financial dreams. Players face used for an intensive course on financial skills they can actually challenging questions and dilempersonal finance in Denmark (see demonstrate. But the surveys mas related to their own dreams. box). It was also used by the Danalso reveal that most young They can earn credits and ish Children’s Aid Foundation in people are eager to learn about “karma”, can invite their friends the Youth Protection Campaign money and personal finance. We to play, and can show their point to raise awareness about social used this finding to expand our status and dreams on Facebook. and financial matters among financial literacy programme and Dream On is available in DenDANSKE BANK / FINANCIAL LITER ACY 17 Local engagement 2014 Objective Continue to support the mark, Sweden, Norway, Finland and making the transition from Maths Centre organisation and Lithuania. Since its launch in a student job to a permanent and to involve employees in 2011, the website has had more job. Mind Your Money also has maths events in Sweden. than 14,000 logons, and in 2014, a Facebook page with real-time users played more than 4,500 advisory services and a budget games. app for smartphones. It is availPerformance able in Denmark, Sweden and We met our objective by Mind Your Money offers an Norway, and in 2014 it had more supporting the Maths Centre, educational and entertaining than 7,000 visits. The Facebook and the number of employees experience that helps young peopage in Denmark has more than involved in maths events ple achieve important personal 30,000 followers. continue to rise. Danske Bank goals. They can develop their Sweden extended the financial skills by using tips, You can read more about our sponsorship. tools, calculators, polls, tests financial literacy initiatives and and budget templates, and they perfor­mance on page 27, on our can get advice on matters such website and in our supplemen­ as borrowing, buying property tary reporting (see page 29). Learning maths in a creative way in Northern Ireland For the past six years, Danske Bank NorthIn 2014, the theatre company staged 78 ern Ireland has partnered with a local performances of the award-winning show children’s theatre company, Cahoots NI, on for 6,671 primary school children in 40 an interactive show called “Lights, Camvenues across Northern Ireland. The audiera, Math ’a’ Magic”. The show combines ences were thrilled by extraordinary feats the mystery of magic with the teaching of of mathematical mind reading and illusion maths and financial literacy in a fun, exhilaaccompanied by a visually engaging multirating educational experience. media show. In October, the partnership participated in Maths Week 2014 with “Our innovative partnership with Cahoots four special performances at Belfast’s NI brings the learning of maths to life in largest shopping centre, giving a wider a creative way, and it is a key part of our audience the opportunity to experience the wider community programme,” says Tony show. Wilcox, Managing Director of Personal Banking at Danske Bank Northern Ireland. 18 DANSKE BANK / CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILIT Y 2014 People and culture We see our employees and their skills as our strongest assets, and we want to maintain a diverse workforce. To develop knowledge and expertise in our staff, we offer training programmes based on core values such as integrity, collaboration and agility. The heart of our business is extensive training programme steadily improve both individual the dedication and talent of our focusing on the dialogue with and team performances – to people. We have 18,478 fullcustomers and communicating strive to give customers the time employees in 15 countries, complex credit decisions. All the best possible service experiand we serve around 3.7 million Danish advisers also attended a ence every day. To further this customers, from the smallest course on business ethics that goal, we launched a programme families to the biggest global covered our Code of Conduct, in 2014 that included full-day corporations. anti–money laundering measures workshops for more than 1,000 and other policies. managers in their management We want to make sure that our teams. Another 2,000 managers advisers’ skills always match our Training has been high on the completed e-Learning and other customers’ needs, and we want agenda across the Group. For exdevelopment activities. customers to feel confident that ample, in Business Banking the the financial advice they receive programme includes e-Training; Spotting and cultivating talented from Danske Bank is the best on-the-job training; and “camps” employees across the organisaavailable. That is why we give for leaders, relationship managtion are also important aspects of our advisers regular training and ers, credit officers and specialcompetency development. We have help them to develop new compeists. More than 200 leaders and talent development programmes tencies and optimise their work more than 1,000 employees have for experienced managers of routines. received training in the use of managers, first-line managers tools, processes and behaviour and selected specialist employees. Ongoing training and talent for new ways of working. In Northern Ireland, we launched development a two-year development proOur employees meet with their We also implemented another gramme to identify potential leadmanagers at least three times a extensive training programme ers throughout the organisation. year to discuss measures to deto strengthen all our managers’ Through assignments at various velop new skills, and we have an ability to guide the transformabusiness units, mentoring and online learning centre with regution of the Group into a strong specialised leadership training, larly updated training activities performance culture. We want the programme develops new leadfor employees in all countries. In everyone – by means of clear ers with broad business experi2014, all Personal Banking adgoals, collaboration across the ence. visers in Denmark completed an Group, and regular feedback to DANSKE BANK / PEOPLE AND CULTURE 19 Our core values These are the ﬁve values that guide our decisions and actions. We deliver EXPERTISE Make knowledge relevant We act with INTEGRITY Be responsible We create VALUE Make a difference We progress through AGILITY Embrace change and be responsive We believe in COLLABORATION Engage, listen and act Updated core values ment new performance measOur culture is a key factor in ures to integrate the values in delivering excellent customer employee performance agreeexperience and in Danske ments as well as in leadership Bank’s long-term success. In training curriculum, recruitment 2014, we reviewed and updated and onboarding programmes. our core values. We wanted the values to more clearly reflect Group-wide our ambitions and strategic direction as well as the reality and graduate challenges we face in our work every day. programme In revising the core values, we Training conducted intensive consulta2014 Objective Danske Bank recruits a Complete training on working tions, beginning with the Execusubstantial number of univertive Board. We introduced the environment at units outside sity students and graduates values at the Leaders ConferDenmark for the rest of the across its markets. In 2014, ence for the top managers in relevant managers. this included 99 participants 2014 and afterwards cascaded in the Danske Graduate prothem to some 2,700 managPerformance ers throughout the Group. The We met the objective. We gramme. After completing the managers then hosted dialogue completed leadership training programme, the participants sessions with their teams to on the working environment, are offered a permanent engage all our employees in the with almost 100% of the contract and continue their translation of the values into managers passing the training. careers at Danske Bank. actions. In 2015, we will imple20 DANSKE BANK / CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILIT Y 2014 Training programme for young female immigrants In Sweden, we continued our partnership with the My Life organisation, a social enterprise that aims to increase diversity and integration in the Swedish labour market. Young female immigrants with an academic background participate in a training programme with a per­ sonal mentor in an effort to develop a professional network that will further their careers. Some 25 Danske Bank employees served as mentors, and in 2014 we offered internships to some of the participants. The initiative has received very favourable feedback from both the young women and the mentors, and we expect to offer additional positions in 2015. Diversity and inclusion percentage of female members of philanthropic organisations to We see diversity as a prerequithe Board of Directors elected by establish debt advisory services site for maintaining an appealing the annual general meeting was in the largest cities in Denmark. workplace and a healthy, innova12.5%. You can read more about The service, which helps people tive working environment. We our employees and performance with debt problems manage their strive to support diversity in the on pages 25 and 27, on our webfinances, is staffed by volunteers organisation and equal opportusite and in our supplementary from the banking industry. We nities for all staff without regard reporting (see page 29). support this initiative, which fits to nationality, religion, sexual into our efforts to promote finanorientation or gender. We have Corporate volunteering cial literacy. We have selected already come a long way in deand donations 22 volunteers for the project, veloping a diversified and incluTo us at Danske Bank, being a and they have joined teams with sive workforce. In 2014, women good corporate citizen includes other volunteers such as lawemployees held 36% of mangiving employees opportuniyers, social workers and advisagement positions. The share ties to engage in volunteer work ers from other banks. They are of women in management was as well as making donations to challenged both professionally the same as in 2012, although charities in the countries where and personally as they use their there was substantial progress we operate. The Group and loskills to help a distressed social increasing the share of women in cal branches donated a total of group, and they benefit from a senior management positions. By DKK 4.7 million and contributed gratifying experience. the end of 2014, we met our 2015 18,277 hours of volunteer work targets for the share of women in in 2014. Danske Bank’s Fund is Another example is our supmanagement positions in two of a charitable foundation estabport for the Roskilde Festival in four categories, and we contunue lished to support and encourage Denmark. Danske Bank assumed to pursue these recruiting efworthy community programmes responsibility for the financial forts. – primarily health care organisainfrastructure at the festival in tions and national patient asso2010, and our engagement has In 2013, the Board of Directors ciations. In 2014, the Fund made increased every year. In 2014, adopted a diversity policy for the 50 donations in Denmark with a some 180 employees contribGroup that includes these two total value of DKK 2,095,000. uted their financial skills. All the targets for 2017: 12.5% women volunteer employees who particion the Executive Board and 25% One example is a programme pated received an entry pass to women on the Board of Directors. initiated by the Danish Ministry the festival in exchange for workIn 2014, there were no female Exof Social Affairs and Integration, ing there at least 24 hours. ecutive Board members, and the which has allocated funding for DANSKE BANK / PEOPLE AND CULTURE 21 Redundancies In 2013, we initiated a DKK 1 billion cost-savings programme to strengthen our competitiveness that took full effect in 2014. We have cut our budget for consultants, reduced other external expenses wherever possible, and focused our efforts on initiatives that provide value for our customers. Unfortunately, staff reductions were un­ avoidable. We always strive to implement redundancies first through resignations and natural attrition. Whenever possible, we offer voluntary severance packages with full salary for a period while those affected seek new employment. In Denmark, Norway and Ireland, they can use outplacement services with individual guidance and coaching. 22 DANSKE BANK / CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILIT Y 2014 Governance, policies and performance We conduct business in accordance with the laws and regulations of the countries where we operate. We follow international guidelines and recognised principles for corporate responsibility, and we monitor our performance. In 2014, we strengthened our governance system. In the summer of 2014, we established a new body, • Coordination of corporate responsibility activithe Business Integrity Board, which replaced the ties across the Group and reporting on achieveGroup Responsibility Board. Its mandate is to make ments, including commitments to the UN Global formal recommendations on corporate responsibilCompact and UN Principles for Responsible ity strategies and policies and to ensure that busiInvestment. ness decisions are implemented with a high degree • Raising awareness of corporate responsibility of integrity. The board will meet two to four times a issues and supporting local units with expertise year and more often if needed. The Board of Direcand knowledge of best practices, including suptors is informed about the progress of corporate port for financial literacy programmes. responsibility work at least once a year. International principles and standards Business Integrity Board We conduct business in accordance with the laws CEO Thomas F. Borgen is chairman of the Busiand regulations of the countries where we operate, ness Integrity Board. The board consists of Execand we follow international guidelines and recogutive Board members and the heads of the Group’s nised principles for corporate responsibility, includbusiness units and support functions. In 2014, the ing standards for human rights, labour rights, the board approved the 2014 materiality assessment environment and anti-corruption. (see page 28) and adopted a plan to develop a new corporate responsibility strategy for launch in the Our group policies guide our business conduct, and first half of 2015. corporate responsibility is a key aspect of several of them: Danske Bank Group’s Corporate Responsibility • The Responsibility Policy outlines principles we department acts as secretariat to the Business Inadhere to regarding investing, credit granting, tegrity Board and is responsible for giving the board financial education, inclusion, employees, the advice and recommendations relating to corporate environment, climate and procurement. responsibility aspects of business decisions. • The Stakeholder Policy outlines the principles we follow in relations with stakeholders. The department’s other responsibilities include the • HR policies consist of a number of policies that following: outline the Group’s aims in areas such as diversity, working environment, stress, health and • Trendspotting and external stakeholder engageemployee training. ment on corporate responsibility issues. • The Code of Conduct contains rules and policy 23 statements that help employees in their daily decisionmaking regarding such issues as gifts, conflicts of interest, inside and confidential information, anti-corruption and bribery. The Code of Conduct is accompanied by an e-Learning programme that is a mandatory annual exercise for all employees. The Internal Audit department monitors compliance with the aspects of our reporting related to business ethics, employees and the environment. Principles for stakeholder The Responsibility Policy and engagement and communications Code of Conduct are based on our commitment to the UN Global Our success as a business depends largely on our ability to Compact’s ten principles, the build trust and maintain good relations with our stakeholdOECD Guidelines for Multinaers. We strive to conduct dialogues based on partnerships of tional Businesses, and the UN mutual value and to share knowledge and expertise with our Guiding Principles on Business stakeholders in a candid and open manner. and Human Rights. The Responsibility Policy treats our primary Our stakeholder policy, which applies to the entire Group, is concerns in the area of human intended to ensure that our stakeholders always know what to rights, and the actions we have expect from us and what we expect from them. Three princitaken fall mainly within responples guide the dialogue: sible lending, investing, procurement, financial advice and the Timeliness: The information we provide to stakeholders literacy programmes. Danske must be both timely and adequate so that they have an inBank Group also has an agreeformed basis for their views and decisions. We aim to answer ment with UNI Finance, which is all requests as soon as practically possible. a part of UNI Global Union, the international labour union. The Integrity and responsibility: All stakeholders must be able framework agreement describes to trust the information we provide. We base our communiour commitment to upholding cations on fact and aim to communicate clearly. We want to fundamental labour rights. conduct our business in a responsible way, with attention to the effect we have on society. The Group Responsibility policy In addition to these policies, we describes how we integrate guidelines for ethics and responsihave many other policies related bility in our business. to business integrity, including a supplier policy, an anti–money Accessibility: We welcome dialogue with all stakeholders, laundering policy, a remuneration and we respond actively to constructive proposals for improvepolicy and a conflict-of-interest ment and cooperation. policy. You can read about some of our partnerships in Corporate Responsibility Fact Book 2014. 24 DANSKE BANK / CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILIT Y 2014 Whistleblower system ers without the required identification documents We value the free flow of information, and all emto transfer money. To prevent this from having an ployees are encouraged to report any suspicion or adverse effect on customers’ experience, we imknowledge of breaches of the Group’s policies or proved system support and training on anti–money any other unethical or unlawful behaviour to the laundering risk and documentation requirements head of Compliance. In 2013, we implemented a new for employees. reporting system that enables employees to report such information online anonymously. To ensure Remuneration that critical information is not withheld, we treat all Our remuneration policy reflects the Group’s objecreports and questions received through the whistletives of good corporate governance and enables the blower system as confidentially as possible within Group to attract, develop and retain high-performlegal constraints, and we do not tolerate retribuing and highly motivated employees in a competition against employees. Reports are investigated tive, international market. by Group Compliance, and an ad hoc whistleblower committee makes decisions on the incidents. In Members of the Board of Directors receive a fixed 2014, three cases were reported in the whistlefee only. They are not covered by incentive problower system. All the cases were concluded, and grammes and do not receive performance-based the appropriate actions were implemented. remuneration or pension contributions. The remuneration of the Executive Board members is Anti–money laundering measures determined by the Board of Directors. It consists The Group condemns money laundering and tergenerally of a fixed salary, incentive programmes rorist financing and takes the steps necessary to and pension schemes. Performance-based remucomply with internationally recognised standards neration is limited to 50% of the members’ fixed in these areas, including Know Your Customer proremuneration. Members of the Executive Board also cedures. The Group’s anti–money laundering policy receive a free company car, a free phone and other includes procedures for customer due diligence, benefits. reporting, recordkeeping, internal controls, risk management and communications. Every year, we issue a remuneration report with comprehensive information about the remuneration In 2014, we took new steps to prevent money structures for the Executive Board and the Board of laundering and the financing of terrorism. In all Directors as well as other material risk takers. For three major business units, we installed a blocking more information, see Annual Report 2014 and our system that makes it impossible for new customwebsite. 2014 key performance indicators 25 The table below shows highlights of Danske Bank Group’s key performance indicators. For more financial indicators and details, see Annual Report 2014 and Fact Book Q4 2014, and for more corporate responsibility indicators and details, see supplementary reporting (page 29). 2014 2013 2012 Business operations (DKK millions) † Total income 43,866 39,740 45,662 Operating expenses 22,641 23,794 24,642 Profit before tax 7,835 10,059 8,539 Financial services employer tax and social security costs 1,529 1,526 1,506 VAT 1,184 1,124 950 Tax 3,989 2,944 3,814 Net profit for the year 3,846 7,115 4,725 Return on avg. shareholders’ equity (%)* 2.4 5.0 3.6 Return before goodwill impairment charges on avg. shareholders’ equity (%)* ††† 8.5 5.0 3.6 Customers † Personal Banking: No. of customers, end of period (000s) †† 3,237 3,396 Business Banking: No. of customers, end of period (000s) †† 438 442 Corporates & Institutions: No. of customers, end of period †† 1,599 1,411 Employees Number of full-time employees (FTE), end of year † 18,478 19,122 20,126 Percentage of women in workforce (%) 54 54 56 Percentage of women in management (%) 36 36 36 Employee turnover (%) 9 9 10 Average years of service 15 15 16 Employee satisfaction and motivation (scale 0-100) 76 74 79 Absence due to illness (avg. number of illness days per employee) 6 7.5 8.0 No. of injuries or post-traumatic stress related to robberies 73 67 179 Opportunities for professional and personal development as perceived by the employees (scale of 0-100) 76 75 75 Environment CO2 emissions (tonnes) ** 37,807 39,168 42,795 CO2 emissions per employee (tonnes/FTE) 2.0 2.0 2.1 Energy consumption (electricty and heat) (MWh) *** 121,126 139,373 147,449 Energy consumption per employee (MWh/FTE) 6.7 7.2 7.3 Electricity consumption (MWh) 61,355 69,568 75,946 Heat consumption (MWh) 59,861 69,805 71,503 Road transport (company vehicles and employees' cars) (1,000 km) 16,643 16,712 17,948 Air transport (1,000 km) 52,662 51,219 39,752 Paper consumption (tonnes) 1,726 2,227 2,360 Society Donations to society (DKK millions) **** 4.7 4.8 5.5 Hours of voluntary work 18,277 9,429 9,843 We have reduced the number of key performance indicators in the report to make our reporting more concise. All corporate responsbility indicators reported in 2013 are shown in our supplementary reporting. * Ratios are calculated as if the additional tier 1 capital were classified as a liability. Average shareholders’ equity is calculated as a quarterly average. ** Data cover DK, SE, NO, IRL, NI, FIN and LIT and include estimated figures for the remainder of the Group. *** Data cover DK, SE, NO, IRL, NI, FIN and LIT. **** Donations from 2013 and 2012 have been adjusted because of a calculation error. † Figures on business operations, customers and full-time employees (end of year) are based on data from Annual Report 2014 and Fact Book Q4 2014. †† The method for calculating the number of customers changed after the restructuring of the Group in 2012. For 2013 and 2014, the number of customers covers only customers from Personal Banking, Business Banking and Corporates & Institutions with at least one active banking account. ††† The ratio is adjusted for intangible assets. 26 2014 objectives DANSKE BANK and / CORPOR ATE performance RESPONSIBILIT Y 2014 Last year, in Corporate Responsibility 2013, we announced 27 objectives for 2014. The table below gives an overview of the objectives and our performance. Of the 27 objectives, more than half of them were fully met or exceeded, and we made progress on most. As noted, one of the Employees objectives was cancelled. Awareness of banking tools Accessibility Credit guidelines Responsible sourcing Objective Objective Objective Objective Business and society 2014 Raise awareness of alternaRoll out Step-by-step Develop additional credit Initiate a review of our curtive payment options (using meetings for senior citizens guidelines for sensitive rent responsible sourcing cash management tools) in Northern Ireland. sectors. model and determine how among customers and other to improve the processes. key stakeholders, including the media, in Ireland.* Performance Performance We did not fully meet the obWe did not fully meet the obPerformance jective. We adopted a credit jective. We began the review We met the objective in policy specifically for the and identified areas for imNorthern Ireland through mePerformance arms and defence industry, provement, but we have not dia coverage and by engaging We met the objective by and we will continue to develyet made decisions on how to key stakeholders in Step-byholding 32 Step-by-step op credit policies for specific move forward. The screening step meetings on alternative sessions at 12 branches in industries associated with of suppliers has been ceased payment options. Northern Ireland. elevated ESE risks. during this process. eBanking Objective Raise awareness of the simplified eBanking solution and train customers in Denmark in using it. Performance We met the objective by hosting 67 Step-by-step meetings across Denmark. The meetings were attended by around 3,500 customers. Electricity consumption Waste heat recovery Awareness campaign Paper consumption Objective Objective Objective Objective Environment 2014 Reduce the Group’s elecStart a waste heat recovery Launch internal environ­ Reduce paper consumption tricity consumption by 30% project in Haaga business mental awareness in Lithuania by 5% from the from 2009 to 2014. premises in Finland. campaign in Norway with 2013 level. quarterly updates on the intranet. Performance Performance We did not meet the objecPerformance We exceeded the reduction tive. The waste heat recovery Performance We did not meet the objectarget. We reduced electricproject was cancelled We did not meet the objective. Paper consumption rose ity consumption across the because of a failure to reach tive because the campaign 20%, mainly because of a Group by 37% from 2009 an agreement by the parties was not given priority 65% FTE increase and an to 2014. involved. in 2014. increase in activity. Greenhouse gas emissions Electricity consumption Electricity consumption Energy consumption Objective Objective Objective Objective Achieve 10% reduction Reduce electricity conReduce electricity conAchieve 15% reduction in in greenhouse gas (GHG) sumption in Sweden by sumption per employee energy consumption from emissions from the 2013 10% from the 2012 level (MWh/FTE) in Lithuania by the 2013 level in Ireland. level in Ireland. by 2015. 3% from the 2013 level. Performance Performance We exceeded the reducWe exceeded the reduction Performance tion target. We reduced Performance target. We reduced electricWe exceeded the reduction GHG emissions in Ireland by We are on track to meet the ity consumption per emtarget. We reduced energy 84% from the 2013 level, objective in 2015. We have ployee in Lithuania by 33% consumption in Ireland by mainly by closing the branch reduced electricity consumpfrom the 2013 level, mainly 53% from the 2013 level, network and switching to a tion in Sweden by 7.5% from because of a large increase mainly by closing the branch renewable energy supply. the 2012 level. in number of FTE. network. DANSKE BANK /GOVERNANCE, POLICIES AND PERFORMANCE 27 We evaluate our objectives and performance on an ongoing basis. Our new objectives, both short-term and long-term, await the launch of our new corporate responsibility strategy in the first half of 2015. They will be available on our website. Moneyville Moneyville Local engagement Local engagement Objective Objective Objective Objective Financial Literacy 2014 Roll out Moneyville for iPad Roll out Moneyville for iPad Host seminars on financial Raise public awareness and iPhone in Ireland.* and iPhone in Finland. literacy in Sweden. of financial literacy programmes in Sweden. Performance Performance We met the objective. MoneyWe met the objective. Performance ville for iPad and iPhone was We continued to cultivate We met the objective. We Performance rolled out in Finland, and the our partnerships with organised digital banking proWe met the objective. app was downloaded more stakeholders such as Finans­ grammes and helped teach Moneyville for iPad and than 4,300 times. Late in inspektionen and Bankfören­ senior citizens in Sweden’s iPhone was rolled out in the year, Moneyville was also ingen, and we hosted joint largest retiree organisations; Northern Ireland, and the app rolled out for Android devices, projects on financial literacy afterwards, the programme was downloaded more than and the app was downloaded that have also led to new was rolled out successfully 12,000 times. more than 1,200 times. activities this year. throughout the country. Local engagement Local engagement Moneyville Moneyville Objective Objective Objective Objective Participate in “Just ordinary Continue to support the 45,000 downloads of the 200,000 downloads of the things” project to support Maths Centre organisation Moneyville app in Norway. Moneyville app across the young people in managing and engage employees in Group. their personal finances, maths events in Sweden. launched by the President of the Republic of Finland. Performance We met our objective by supPerformance porting the Maths Centre, We met the objective. Some and the number of employees Performance Performance 23 volunteers from Danske involved in maths events We exceeded the objecWe exceeded the objective. Bank Finland contributed continue to rise. Danske tive. The Moneyville app Across the Group, the Moneytheir time and skills in the Bank Sweden extended the was downloaded more than ville app was downloaded project. sponsorship. 65,000 times in Norway. more than 300,000 times. Diversity Diversity Employee opinion survey Corporate volunteering Objective Objective Objective Objective Employees 2014 Achieve 12.5 % women on Achieve 38% women in Achieve Employee Opinion Achieve 10% staff participathe Executive Board and management positions by Survey scores in line with tion in the Charity Partner 25% women on the Board of 2017. Group Corporates & Instituprogramme and other comDirectors by 2017. tions in Ireland. munity partner programmes, including Inner City Enterprise, in Ireland.* Performance We did not make progress to­ wards this objective in 2014. At end-2014 there were no Performance Performance female Executive Board memWe are on track to meet the We exceeded the objective in bers and 12.5% of members objective in 2017, although Performance Northern Ireland. Over 45% of the Board of Di­rectors the share of women in This objective was terminatof staff participated in over elected by the annual general management positions has ed because the branch net50 fundraising events for meeting were women. not changed since 2012. work in Ireland was closed. the local charity Age NI.** Employee satisfaction Training Objective Objective Raise the score for noise in Complete training on workthe Workplace Assessment ing environment at units to 50 or above. outside Denmark for the rest of the relevant managers. Performance We did not fully meet the Performance objective. For the third conWe met the objective. secutive year, the average We completed leadership score improved, this time to training on working environ* The objective concerns only Northern Ireland because the 64. At 3% of the units, howment, with almost 100% branch network in the Republic of Ireland was closed after ever, the score was below of the managers passing the the objective had been announced. 50, against 4% in 2013. training. ** The Inner City Enterprise programme is not applicable in Northern Ireland. 28 DANSKE BANK / CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILIT Y 2014 About this report We seek to be open and transparent in our reporting, and we wish to address corporate responsibility issues that are important to our stakeholders and to our business. This report also constitutes our Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact for 2014. This report is aimed at stakeholders of Danske requirements of section 135 and subsection 135a Bank Group who take an interest in our perforof the Danish Executive Order on Financial Reports mance and approach to corporate responsibility. for Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, The report is part of Danske Bank Group’s 2014 etc. We believe that the report gives a comprehensupplementary reporting and constitutes our Comsive and balanced overview of the material corpomunication on Progress to the UN Global Compact rate responsibility issues related to our business for 2014. With this communication, we fulfil the activities. Importance to Transparency Customer satisfaction stakeholders Responsible lending Business ethics and anti-corruption Financial stability Remuneration and bonuses Responsible conduct Responsible investment Supporting economic growth IT security and fraud Financial literacy Financial inclusion Responsible tax payment Equal opportunities and anti-discrimination Human and labour rights Infrastructure and accessibility Product complexity Regulation Competency development / employability Sustainable business solutions Active ownership Importance to business Material issues change over time, as does knowledge about them, and new issues may arise. This chart offers a snapshot of the most important corporate responsibility issues identified in 2014. The issues are reviewed and approved by our Business Integrity Board, and the appropriateness of the analytical process of identifying them has been verified by the auditing firm PwC. DANSKE BANK / ABOUT THIS REPORT 29 Material issues Supplementary reporting The issues addressed in this report either repreThis report is supplemented by two reporting items sent a significant risk or opportunity for us in our that give details on our performance and approach business operations or could possibly affect staketo corporate responsibility. Both can be found on holders’ decisions about and opinions of Danske our website: Bank Group. We have identified these issues in our • The Corporate Responsibility Fact Book 2014 periodic materiality assessment. The assessment is contains detailed and segmented data intended based on a rigorous process with an external conto give a transparent view of Danske Bank sultancy to identify the material issues that should Group’s performance in areas such as business, inform our corporate responsibility work. The issociety, environment and employees. sues are analysed on the basis of a comprehensive • The GRI G4 Content Index for 2014, at the “in list of matters that may affect our business or be of accordance – core” level, includes reporting on concern to stakeholders. In 2014, we updated the more than 100 indicators related to corporate assessment and expanded it to include improved responsibility. documentation of the process as well to capture internal and external changes in perceptions and Danske Bank Group’s Statement of Carbon Neutraltrends related to corporate responsibility issues. ity 2014 can also be found on our website. For the sake of consistency, we include a number In accordance with the reporting policies of the UN issues in our report and supplementary reporting Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) organithat were not identified as material in the 2014 assation, the PRI Report on Progress is not publicly sessment. These issues concern governance and disclosed. This is the fourth year we have reported compliance, energy reduction and greenhouse gas to the UN PRI organisation on how we integrate the emissions, responsible procurement, redundancies principles of socially responsible investing in the and corporate volunteering. day-to-day investing processes. Reporting boundaries and principles External verification The reporting covers the entire Danske Bank Group In our ongoing efforts to demonstrate our commitand its business units but not companies under ment to transparency and accountability in our administration because of financial difficulties. Full reporting processes, we engage an external audit information about financial results and risk manfirm to verify our reporting according to the ISAE agement practices can be found in Annual Report 3000 standard. See page 30 for PwC’s Assurance 2014 and Risk Management 2014. Statement and the exact scope of their review. Data in this report have been prepared on the basis of our Corporate Responsibility Reporting Principles 2014. The principles are informed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, including the Financial Services Sector Supplement as well as the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and ISO 14064-1. 30 DANSKE BANK / CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILIT Y 2014 Assurance statement Independent Assurance Report on the Corporate Responsibility 2014 report To the stakeholders of Danske Bank Furthermore, we have performed our work in accordance We have assessed Danske Bank’s Corporate Responsibilwith ISAE 3402 concerning our use of work performed by ity 2014 report (CR 2014) for the purpose of expressing a an internal audit function. conclusion whether: • The materiality assessment process (pages 28-29) that Methodology and scope of work is the basis for the selection of topics and information in Our work has included interviews with key functions in CR 2014 has taken place as described based on actual Danske Bank, inquiries regarding procedures and methods considerations and a documented process; to ensure that CR data and information have been incorpo• CR data on page 25, including energy and paper consumprated in accordance with the accounting principles, and that tion, transportation data and CO2 emissions, have been the process for assessing materiality to select topics and stated in accordance with the criteria mentioned; information to be included in CR 2014 has taken place as • Danske Bank has off-set its consolidated CO2 emissions described. for 2014; • That selected financial data on page 25 in CR 2014 are in We have assessed working papers and performed control accordance with the corresponding financial information activities of Danske Bank’s internal audit function with in Annual Report 2014 audited by EY, which we have not respect to Danske Bank’s energy consumption and CO2 reviewed or otherwise given assurance to. emissions statement, and we have received documentation that these emissions have been off-set by purchase of offOur scope of work does not include CO2 impact per FTE. set certificates. Furthermore, we have examined working papers covering CR data regarding Danske Bank’s carbon Criteria for the preparation of reporting on data neutrality, and conducted random testing of data against The consolidated CR data and information are prepared in supporting documentation. Finally, we have examined that accordance with the accounting principles, which can be selected financial data on page 25 of CR 2014 can be defound at www.danskebank.com/en-uk/CSR/Documents/ rived from the audited Annual Report 2014 of Danske Bank. Danske_Bank_CR_Reporting_Principles_2014.pdf We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient Management’s responsibility and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. The management of Danske Bank is responsible for preparing the consolidated CR data and information, including Conclusion for establishing data collection and registration, internal Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention causcontrol systems with a view to ensuring reliable reporting, ing us not to believe that specifying acceptable reporting criteria and choosing data • The materiality assessment process that is the basis for and information to be collected for the intended users of the the selection of topics and information in CR 2014 has report. taken place as described based on actual considerations and a documented process; Assurance provider’s responsibility • CR data on page 25, including energy and paper consumpOur responsibility is, on the basis of our work, to express tion, transportation data and CO2 emissions, have been an opinion on the reliability of the consolidated CR data and stated in accordance with the criteria mentioned; information in CR 2014. • Danske Bank has off-set its consolidated CO2 emissions for 2014; Applied standards and limitations • The selected financial data on page 25 in CR 2014 are in We have planned and performed our work in accordance accordance with the corresponding financial information with the International Standard of Assurance Engagements in Annual Report 2014 audited by EY. (ISAE) 3000, “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”, to obtain Hellerup, 3 February 2015 limited assurance that the consolidated CR data and inforPricewaterhouseCoopers mation in CR 2014 are free of material misstatements and Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab the data and information have been stated in accordance with the accounting principles. The assurance obtained is limited, as our work compared to that of an engagement with reasonable assurance has been limited to, principally, inquiries, interviews and analytical procedures related to Brian Christiansen Jens Pultz Pedersen registration and communication systems, data and underlyDanish State Authorised M.Sc. (engineering) ing documentation. Public Accountant Danske Bank’s annual reporting also includes these publications, which can be found at www.danskebank.com/ir Annual Report 2014 Risk Management 2014 We welcome any feedback you may have on our corporate responsibility reporting. Please contact Dorte Eckhoff, Head of Corporate Responsibility at Danske Bank: DECK@danskebank.dk 32 DANSKE BANK / CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILIT Y 2014 Danske Bank A/S Holmens Kanal 2-12 DK-1092 København K Tel. +45 33 44 00 00 CVR No. 611262 28-København www.danskebank.com
