p\01 »Communication on Progress ALECTIA 2013 Contents p\03 05 CEO statement 06 Our approach to CSR 08 Key Activities in 2013 11 The 10 principles of the UN Global Compact 1-2 Human Rights, 3-6 Labour, 7-9 Environment, 10 Anticorruption p\04 Axeltorv EjendomsSelskabet Norden is building a new and spectacular building with space for cafés, shops and offices. ALECTIA is acting as engineering consultant for detailed design, mechanical and electrical services, indoor climate and energy performance. The building is designed to meet future requirements for energy performance. Lundbeck – energy savings Since 2010, Lundbeck has been cooperating with ALECTIA’s specialists in pharmaceutical technology and energy optimization. Ever since, the company has achieved its goal of reducing its global energy consumption by 10% each year. ALECTIA has carried out energy screenings and implemented several energy projects at Lundbeck’s Danish sites in Valby and Lumsås, which have led to large energy savings. CEO statement ALECTIA is among the leading engineering and Over the next years we will strive to create p\05 consultancy companies in Denmark, with clients greater transparency in the goals we set out for and projects around the world. Taking our vision our responsibility as well as in the results we – Masterminding Sustainable Progress – as our achieve based on the principles of human and starting point, we strive to deliver innovative and employee rights, the climate and anti-corruption. sustainable solutions that generate progress and long-term results for our customers. We joined the UN Global Compact in 2009 and have since been working on making social responsibility an integrated part of our Jesper Mailind consultancy and work. Our approach to CSR CEO, ALECTIA is based on a fundamental respect for the internationally acknowledged principles defined by the UN Global Compact. »We joined the UN Global Compact in 2009 and have since been working on making social responsibility an integrated part of our consultancy and work. Our approach to CSR p\06 The sustainable development of society is one A number of ALECTIA employees contribute of the cornerstones of our work in ALECTIA. to sharing their knowledge of sustainability by We wish to contribute to the development of our assuming positions as teachers, instructors and clients’ businesses and the society we are a part examiners at technical schools and universities, of by developing and delivering the best and most by giving lectures at Danish and international holistic and sustainable methods and solutions. conferences and by publishing technical literature We express this ambition in our vision statement: and articles in trade journals. Additionally, we Masterminding Sustainable Progress. contribute to the development of norms and By advising on nature, energy, water, sustainability certification systems in the building environment, indoor climate and occupational industry. health and safety we have a unique possibility for As a company, we wish to take affecting the sustainable development of society. responsibility for our actions. We work with Together with our clients we develop sustainable climate and energy management in structured solutions that are implemented through crossways and collect data of our own energy disciplinary cooperation between ALECTIA’s four consumption, which is documented in our business divisions. climate accounts following the standards of “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG) Initiative”. Additionally, we work continuously on »By advising on strengthening our work-life balance and wellnature, energy, water, being of our employees. In the future, we will work on adapting environment, indoor our CSR work to the UN Guiding Principles climate and occupational on Business and Human Rights, just as we will develop politics and management processes that health and safety we have follow to the international standards. a unique possibility for affecting the sustainable development of society. Omkostningseffektivitet p\07 Lav Høj 0 Meter 1.200 Groundwater mapping ALECTIA have been awarded a number of new contracts as part of the Danish Nature Agency’s nationwide groundwater mapping project. We help the Danish Nature Agency’s nature management units in e.g. Ribe, West Jutland, Storstrøm and Roskilde by determining where the groundwater reservoirs are vulnerable to pollution from the earth’s surface as well as to naturally occurring substances. Wellhead protection areas (BNBO) Wellhead protection areas (BNBO) have also been a particular area of investment in 2013. We have helped a number of municipalities apply for BNBO funds and define the efforts needed to protect our groundwater. As a part of our consultancy services we carry out financial calculations of the cost of these protection efforts. This gives our customers a strong foundation from which to budget necessary activities. Key activities in 2013 p\08 THE ALECTIA NEW WAY OF MEASURING FOUNDATION CLIENT SATISFACTION Being a knowledge company, maintaining In 2013, our annual customer satisfaction analysis close links to research environments is an was replaced by focused customer satisfaction important part of our strategy and corporate surveys, which are conducted on a regular social responsibility. ALECTIA is owned by basis for individual projects. We are very happy the ALECTIA Foundation which has initiated with the new way of measuring our customer ALECTIA’s business research programme, through satisfaction, as it gives us frequent and current which an average of four PhD students are input for improving our projects. The surveys always connected to ALECTIA A/S. In 2013 we provide valuable starting points for dialogue with supported four PhD projects: our clients and help us to reconcile expectations and identify the development and investment ·· Integration of Health & Safety Knowledge in areas which are most important to the individual Design Processes client. ·· Optimised Hospital Design The results of the customer satisfaction ·· Stability of Thin-shell Structures in Metal surveys for 2013 show improvement compared ·· Digital modelling of the Ideal Plastic to 2012, and we maintained our general goal of Loadbearing Capacity of Concrete Slab achieving an average customer satisfaction rate Structures above 4 on a 5-point scale. The industrial PhD projects are all designed to bring the newest knowledge into our consultancy and contribute to strengthening our business and competitiveness. The knowledge generated from these projects is used in our work, meaning that our investments in the PhD projects generate value for the students, ALECTIA, our customers and society. We have a longstanding tradition of employing our industrial PhD students after the completion of their projects, and we currently have over 25 fully-qualified employees with a PhD. RETHINK THE WATER SUPPLY p\09 WATER OF TOMORROW Globally, the food and drink industries use more The biggest development project for drinking than 60 km³ of water annually, and the anticipated water in Danish history became a reality when investments in water and wastewater technology the Danish Ministry of the Environment allocated is expected to increase from USD 3.3 billion in DKK 13 million to support the “The Water 2011 to USD 6 billion in 2020. Hence it is more Supply of Tomorrow” project in 2013. The important than ever to increase water efficiency project will safeguard Danish drinking water for in the industry, both in Denmark and abroad. We the future and create international awareness of have joined the “Rethink Water” project, which Danish water technologies. ALECTIA is a central is working to raise awareness among the global stakeholder in the project and will participate food and drinks industry of the water expertise at in developing a tool for handling an intelligent Danish consultancy companies. renovation strategy for the water supply system, among other things. »Globally, the food and drink industries use more than 60 km³ of water annually, and the anticipated investments in water and wastewater technology is expected to increase from USD 3.3 billion in 2011 to USD 6 billion in 2020. p\10 Documented drinking water safety We help utility companies maintain the safety levels needed for supplying high-quality drinking water. We solve these assignments through a close interdisciplinary cooperation between our water experts and process consultants to ensure that our customers receive wellimplemented, efficient and live systems for ensuring documented drinking water safety. Esbjerg New Water Supply A new water supply in Esbjerg will set the future standards for sustainable water supplies. Special attention is given to securing the supply and drinking water safety as well as occupational health and safety for the employees. The 10 principles of the UN Global Compact p\11 The UN Global Compact’s 10 principles – a set of principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption – enjoy universal consensus. At ALECTIA, we want to embrace, support and enact these principles. Human rights p\12 FOCUS ON THE WELL-BEING OF OUR EMPLOYEES 1-2 ALECTIA is Denmark’s leading advisor on occupational health and safety – a position which makes demands on our internal efforts in this area. We give special attention to creating a sensible work-life balance as well as to the — PRINCIPLE 1 — well-being, productivity and commitment of our BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT employees. THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY In 2013 our annual employee satisfaction PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS; AND survey followed up on the internal analysis carried out in 2012 under the headline “Well— PRINCIPLE 2 — being, Energy and Productivity”. In the employee MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT satisfaction survey for 2013 we followed up on IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES. the focus areas which had been identified in 2012, and we have prepared the ground for the management to follow up by using our Well-being Compass. »We give special attention to creating a sensible work-life balance as well as to the well-being, productivity and commitment of our employees. PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT LAUNCH OF THE HEALTH & SAFETY p\13 AND LEADERSHIP TRAINING BAROMETER At ALECTIA, we use Performance Management as In 2013, ALECTIA presented The Health & a leadership tool to operationalise our strategies, Safety Barometer which will become an annual values and financial targets. nationwide survey that follows trends in the In 2013, we have continued our work with Danish labour market and the development of Performance Management to ensure a close link the most important resources available to Danish between ALECTIA’s overall strategy and the businesses: the employees. personal goals of individual employees. Our With the Health & Safety Barometer, we approach to Performance Management allows us want to contribute to public debate and create to prioritize the efforts and goals for all employees awareness of national health and safety issues – and focus on the development of our managers and hence help improve the occupational health and employees. and safety conditions of Danish workplaces To improve our managers’ ability to utilise in both the private and public sectors. We use the Performance Management system, we will the results of the survey to strengthen our own focus on their abilities to execute so that general consulting services related to leadership, health plans become more suitable to the individual and safety. Futhermore, we use the results to employees as well as more user-friendly. One disseminate significant points and tendencies of the ways we will achieve this is through – such as the fact that stress is one of the three managerial training focusing on the manager’s role biggest working environment challenges in in their day-to-day leadership in 2014. Denmark in 2013 – through Danish news media, blogs and our TankOp! conferences. HEALTH AND SAFETY ALECTIA’s Occupational Health & Safety division ON THE PUBLIC AGENDA is certified to OHSAS 18001 for occupational health and safety. To put occupational health and safety on the public agenda and give our clients and partners inspiration for improving their work environments and ensuring that they live up to current rules and regulations, we continued our TankOp! conferences with topics on leadership, health and safety in 2013. Since we launched the TankOp! initiative in 2012, we have seen an overwhelming interest in the conferences. The first seminars in 2014 focus on indoor climate, sedentary work and the middle management’s responsibility for the working environment. Labour rights p\14 DIVERSITY In accordance with the recommendations 3-6 on diversity in the supervisory board and management as well as the rules in the Danish Companies Act, ALECTIA has prepared goals and policies for ensuring diversity in the supervisory board and management, including gender — PRINCIPLE 3 — distribution. BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF The proportion of women in management THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING; positions at the end of 2013: — PRINCIPLE 4 — ·· Supervisory board members elected by the THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND Annual General Meeting: 25% COMPULSORY LABOUR; ·· Senior Management: 29 % ·· All managers: 20 % — PRINCIPLE 5 — THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR; AND A number of activities are planned for 2014 concerning recruitment and talent development — PRINCIPLE 6 — which are expected to increase the number of THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT women in management team within the next three OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION. years. ALECTIA has a zero tolerance policy in relation to discrimination and harassment. NEW STRUCTURE FOR THE SAFETY ORGANIZATION A central part of ALECTIA’s strategy is to be an attractive workplace in which our employees thrive and develop. In order to ensure that work on ensuring the safety at the workplace is prioritised at all ALECTIA locations, we have launched a new structure for ALECTIA’s safety organization in 2013. The new safety organization was launched to enhance both the working environment and the cooperation between ALECTIA’s senior management and our employees. Environment IT p\15 All ALECTIA workplaces are equipped with 7-9 personal video conference equipment, just as many of our meeting rooms are equipped with video conference equipment. This reduces unnecessary travel time, which benefits our employees’ private lives while minimizing our — PRINCIPLE 7 — greenhouse gas emissions. BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY In 2013 we have carried out a structural APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES; analysis of our IT equipment, and we are still identifying possibilities for optimizing and — PRINCIPLE 8 — consolidating our structure, for instance through UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER more cloud-based solutions and reduced server ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY; AND operation. — PRINCIPLE 9 — ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES. ENERGY MANAGEMENT We work on climate and energy management in a structured manner. We gather data and analyze the consumption of electricity, heat and water in the buildings where we have our offices, and our climate accounts are prepared in accordance with the standards of “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG) Initiative”. One of the largest solar cell facilities in northern Europe is installed on the roof of our Virum offices, providing power corresponding to 24% of the combined electricity consumption for the offices. Environment (continued) p\16 % change 2012 to Greenhouse Gas Emissions (tCOe) 2011 2012 2013 2013 Transport Diesel car (average) 117,5 84,1 97,4 15,9% Petrol car (average) 424,2 258,3 257,5 -0,3% Scope 1 emissions 541,7 342,4 354,9 3,7% District heating Denmark mix 323,4 260,2 245,6 -5,6% Electricity Denmark 125% 565,3 382,1 369,2 -3,4% Scope 2 emissions 797,7 642,3 614,8 -4,3% Other travel Bus regional/national Train (Nordic) Waste Waste, incinerated 4,5 Materials & products Water, ground (UK) 0,9 1,3 1,3 0,8% Scope 3 emissions 5,5 1,3 1,3 0,8% Total emissions (tCO2e) 1344,8 985,9 971,1 -1,5% Percentage change 26,7% 1,5% 1800 Total emissions (tCO2e) 1600 1400 1344,8 1200 1000 985,9 971,1 800 600 400 200 0 2011 2012 2013 % change p\17 2012 to Key Performance Indicators 2011 2012 2013 2013 Greenhouse gas emissions per full-time employee / tCO2e/FTE 1,9 1,3 1,3 -1,5% Energy consumption per full-time employee / MWh/FTE 8,5 7,0 6,8 -2,5% Greenhouse gas emissions 2,0 per full-time employee (tCO2e/FTE) 1,9 1,5 1,0 1,3 1,3 0,5 0 2011 2012 2013 9 Energy consumption 8 8,5 per full-time employee / MWh/FTE 7 6 7,0 6,8 5 4 3 2 1 0 2011 2012 2013 Anti-corruption p\18 BUSINESS INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT 10 At ALECTIA we take anti-corruption very seriously, and we have formulated a policy based on Danish legislation concerning the nature, receipt and payment of bribes. The policy outlines the precautions we want our employees to take — PRINCIPLE 10 — in distinguishing between acceptable gifts in BUSINESSES SHOULD WORK AGAINST connection with occasions such as anniversaries, CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, retirements, etc. on the one hand and bribes on INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY. the other. When in doubt, employees are urged to consult with their immediate superior to avoid involvement in issues relating to corruption, money laundering, etc. In the future, we will work intently with Responsible Supply Chain Management to make sure that we uphold our commitment both to our vision of being a sustainable company and to integrating a strong CSR management throughout our business enterprise, including in our activities with customers and suppliers. In 2014, we will sharpen our policy and guiding tools as a consequence of our increasing international engagement to make sure that we continue to uphold important anti-corruption principles. »In 2014, we will sharpen our policy and guiding tools as a consequence of our increasing international engagement to make sure that we continue to uphold important anti-corruption principles. p\19 New refrigeration system for the Copenhagen Meatpacking District In 2013, we have helped several industrial businesses to achieve a more sustainable production by identifying and implementing energy-saving solutions and initiatives. For instance, we were assigned the reconstruction of the central cooling facility in the Copenhagen Meatpacking District to ensure the tenants a more reliable and environmentally friendly cooling system. Climate adaptation and protection against floods Part of our work is to find solutions to help nature and civilization co-exist. For instance, we have carried out a number of draft projects on climate adaptation for Aabenraa Municipality to protect the city of Aabenraa from floods. In connection with a flood in one of Danfoss’ production areas, we have similarly helped identify the risk of future floods. p\21 ALECTIA A/S Teknikerbyen 34 2830 Virum +45 88 191 000 linkedin.com/company/alectia info@alectia.com alectia.com
