To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Event Ready reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Ed Mahoney President Event Ready P.O. Box 1328 Roseville, CA 95678 1-800-558-5155 www.eventready.com Annual Communication on Progress Human Rights: Event Ready continues to stands solid in its stance for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our goal for 2015 and 2016 is to continued support of this declaration and to ask our clients to adhere to the same criteria. Implementation: As part of Event Ready's monthly meetings is any discussion around violations of human rights and how we can help prevent this worldwide. Measurement of outcomes: Event Ready has scheduled quarterly management meetings to monitor and discuss any violations we see. Labour: Event Ready is against forced labour and adheres to the goal of the ILO Core Conventions policy. Implementation: Event Ready has monthly company meeting to air out any issues revolving labour issues. Measurement of outcomes: We continue our quarterly management meeting to monitor any labor issues. Environment: Event Ready is a service company and its goal is to use or advise clients to use green products such as environmental safe badges and material. We provide a software that eliminates paper programs at conventions. As part of our compact we pledge to continue to champion this in 2016. Implementation: Event Ready is a service company and its goal is to use or advise clients to use green products such as environmental safe badges and material. We provide a software that eliminates paper programs at conventions. As part of our compact we pledge to continue to champion this in 2016. Measurement of outcomes: Event Ready has scheduled quarterly management meetings to discuss ways in which we can promote green issues. Anti-Corruption: Event Ready is 100% against corruption at any level anywhere and adheres to the UN Convention Against Corruption policy. Implementation: Event Ready trains and continuously trains its employees against corruption and best practices policies. Measurement of outcomes: Event Ready has scheduled quarterly management meetings to discuss corruption and to implement any documentation needed if we see it. P.O. Box 1328 Roseville, CA 95678 1-800-558-5155 www.eventready.com
