SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 MAKING A DIFFERENCE TO OUR WORLD THROUGH GLASS TECHNOLOGY WELCOME TO OUR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 We are an innovative, forward-thinking glass technology company built on a foundation of many years of expertise. Our global team is committed to developing and manufacturing products that meet the needs of current customers, and open up new markets through continuous research, development and innovation. We are committed to sustainable development. Working safely and ethically, we supply high-quality glass products that make an important contribution to improving living standards, to people’s safety and wellbeing and to energy conservation and generation. Glass manufacture is energy-intensive, but our products make a major contribution to energy conservation during their life cycle. Read more online: http://www.nsg.com/ Cover picture Blue Point in Warsaw, Poland features Pilkington Insulight™ Sun Photo: Wojciech Kryński. ABOUT THIS REPORT CONTENTS DURING 2014, WE MADE FURTHER PROGRESS IN ABOUT US About us EMBEDDING THE PRINCIPLES OF SUSTAINABLE President and CEO’s message 02 DEVELOPMENT WITHIN OUR COMPANY. Our global operations 03 AS MEMBERS OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT, WE CONSIDER Chief Operating Officer’s message 2015 Sustainability targets Safety 04 05 Day ITS 10 PRINCIPLES TO BE A NATURAL EXTENSION OF OUR CODE OF CONDUCT, WHICH DEFINES OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY. THE BENEFITS OF OUR MAJOR RESTRUCTURING AND 17th October EFFICIENCY PROGRAMS ARE REFLECTED IN OUR REDUCED MANAGEMENT 2013 Management CO2 EMISSIONS AND RESOURCE CONSUMPTION. Our approach to sustainability  06 THE GROUP’S PROGRESS TOWARDS OUR SUSTAINABILITY Corporate governance 10 TARGETS IS COVERED IN THIS REPORT AND ON OUR WEBSITE. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, CHARTS AND TABLES COVERING OUR PERFORMANCE ARE SHOWN IN THE SUSTAINABILITY SECTION OF OUR WEBSITE, WWW.NSG.COM/SUSTAINABILITY. OUR BUSINESS Our Business Business overview 12 Architectural14 Automotive16 Technical Glass 18 ENVIRONMENT Environment Environmental policies and management20 Energy usage 22 Minimizing environmental impact 24 OUR STAKEHOLDERS Our Stakeholders Employees 26 Health and safety 28 Customers 30 Suppliers 32 Communities 34 Shareholders 36 BASIS OF REPORTING Basis of Reporting GRI index 38 Further information  40 Approach to reporting IBC NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 01 PRESIDENT AND CEO’S MESSAGE THE NSG GROUP IS COMMITTED TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT. OUR STRATEGY AND POLICIES RESPOND TO THE CHALLENGES WE ALL FACE IN MANAGING THE WORLD’S LIMITED RESOURCES. We deliver products and services of unique value that contribute to improving living standards, people’s safety, wellbeing and to the generation and conservation of energy. We aim to achieve our sustainability objectives by balancing the needs of all our stakeholders, managing the environmental impact of our activities, developing our people and encouraging innovation in processes and products. Working in harmony with the communities in which we operate, we encourage our customers, contractors and suppliers to do the same. Our policies underline the contribution our products can make to addressing climate change. We are constantly improving our own energy efficiency and resource management. Our 2014 greenhouse gas emissions reduced by 7% to 4.2 million tonnes by improving capacity utilization and energy efficiency in our operations. We aim to make a positive environmental contribution to the value chains in which we operate, while benefiting from the growing international demand for our products that help improve energy efficiency. Glass has an important contribution to make in helping to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We collaborate with stakeholders in the framing of policies and regulations to help improve energy efficiency through the use of glass. As members of the UN Global Compact we support the advancement of its 10 principles. We consider these to be a natural extension of our Code of Conduct, which defines our commitment to social and environmental responsibility. We will continue to embed the principles of sustainability within the NSG Group. Keiji Yoshikawa Representative Executive Officer President and CEO 02 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 OUR GLOBAL OPERATIONS THE NSG GROUP IS ONE OF THE WORLD’S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF GLASS AND GLAZING PRODUCTS About us FOR THE ARCHITECTURAL, AUTOMOTIVE AND TECHNICAL GLASS SECTORS. WITH AROUND 27,000 PERMANENT EMPLOYEES WE HAVE PRINCIPAL OPERATIONS IN 28 COUNTRIES AND SALES IN OVER 130. Management Consolidated Revenue By region By business Europe 40% Architectural Europe 16% Japan 26% Architectural Japan 12% Architectural North America 4% North America 16% Architectural Rest of World 8% Rest of World 18% 23% Our Business Automotive Europe Automotive Japan 8% Automotive North America 12% Automotive Rest of World 7% Technical Glass 10% Environment ARCHITECTURAL – supplies glass for buildings and solar energy applications AUTOMOTIVE – supplying all major vehicle manufacturers and the after markets TECHNICAL GLASS – market leader in glass for specialized applications Sweden Our Stakeholders Netherlands Finland Russia UK Norway Canada Denmark Poland France Romania Basis of Reporting Spain USA Hungary Japan China Belgium Czech Republic Germany Austria India Mexico Italy Vietnam Malaysia Brazil Argentina Chile NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 03 CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER’S MESSAGE THE GROWTH SECTOR WITHIN THE GLASS AND GLAZING MARKETS IS FOR MORE VALUE-ADDED (VA) PRODUCTS AND SERVICES CONTAINING GREATER COMPLEXITY AND FUNCTIONALITY THAT SUPPORT SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY. The Group already has a wide range of VA products, not only in our Technical Glass business unit but also in our Architectural and Automotive units. Operational performance will focus on our shift to selling a greater proportion of VA products and services, fully utilizing our existing capacity and consolidating our reputation for manufacturing excellence. This is leading to significant and lasting contributions to energy conservation and generation in the world we live in. Our strategic vision, as a VA Glass Company, is focused on developing new and innovative products in all of our business lines. The Group is also working closely with our customers in a range of global industries to deliver products and services that support their sustainability objectives. We are focused on making consistent and meaningful contributions to sustainable development through our products and services. Good management of our people, our resources, our communities and our environment makes good business sense. Architectural Automotive Technical Glass VA products and services Glass for photovoltaics Solar control technology Battery technology Vacuum glazing HUD and camera systems Engine timing belts Insulation & solar control Lightweight glazing Anti-corrosion coatings Fire protection glass Aftermarket Glass Replacement LED print heads Clemens Miller Chief Operating Officer 04 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 2015 SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS Targets Current position and commentary About us Economic As at March 2014, the Group’s operating profit margin (before amortization We aim to achieve a sustainable operating arising on the acquisition of Pilkington) was 3.7 percent. Our medium term plan profit margin in excess of 10 percent. sets an FY18 operating profit margin target of 8 percent. Energy The eight key products selected are as follows: Report specific direct energy usage Architectural for eight key products, across all three • Clear float glass business lines, and demonstrate • Online CVD coated Solar TEC glass for the thin film PV market Management improvement by 2015. • Offline coated Low-e glass for the construction market Work in this area is the subject of a number Automotive of R&D programs in all three business lines. • Solar green absorbing glass side glazing • IR reflective glass laminated windshield • Galaxsee privacy glass rear sidelight Technical Glass • NSG Glasscord® used in engine timing belts • NSG Selfoc Lens Array for use in office machinery Data for the selected products is available in the Sustainability section of www.nsg.com. Our Business Product development The eight key products selected are as follows: Report energy payback/life cycle Architectural analysis for eight key products, across all • A thin film PV module three business lines, and demonstrate • A double-glazed unit containing our offline coated low-e product improvement by 2015. • A double-glazed unit containing our offline coated solar control product Good progress made with a number of Automotive R&D programs ongoing. A forward look at • Car windshield Environment future/modified products and their impact • Car sidelight on improved CO2 payback has been initiated. • Car roof light Technical Glass • NSG Glasscord® for use in engine timing belts • NSG Selfoc Lens Array for use in office machinery Data for the selected products is available in the Sustainability section of www.nsg.com. Health and safety The SIR at the end of FY2014 was 0.39 which represents a 72 percent improvement. Our Stakeholders Significant Injury Rate 80 percent reduction from 2007 base of 1.38 to 0.30 (10 SI per Our FY2015 target is a further 20 percent reduction on FY2014 to provide a safer place month, compared to baseline of 50). of work for our employees. Supply chain We are using a number of processes to continue to communicate our SCoC to our The NSG Supplier Code of Conduct supply base. We request our suppliers to acknowledge their understanding of and (SCoC) is to be communicated to all of our agreement to our SCoC. Good progress is being made with acceptance of the SCoC and suppliers and a process implemented to we have now completed over 200 SCoC evaluations. obtain acceptance. We aim to evaluate Basis of Reporting over 300 suppliers against our SCoC by end of 2015. Recycling and waste Our waste to landfill figure for 2014 was 21 kt. This is a 54 percent reduction Reduce the waste we send to landfill by on our baseline. 50 percent, from a 2007 base (i.e. from approximately 46 kt to 23 kt by 2015). Further waste reduction activities are ongoing to reduce the quantity of waste generated and to increase our recycling rate. People In 2014 91 percent of shop floor FT employees have had a 1-1 review or attended a All employees to have a training and briefing on site/dept training plan, where the L & D process has been implemented. development review annually, with a target The Group target has therefore been achieved. compliance level of 90 percent by 2015. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 05 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY GLASS HAS A MAJOR PART TO PLAY IN SOCIETY’S EFFORTS TO REDUCE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AND TO MITIGATE THE EFFECTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE. WE AIM TO BE THE GLOBAL LEADER IN INNOVATIVE HIGH-PERFORMANCE GLASS AND GLAZING SOLUTIONS, CONTRIBUTING TO ENERGY CONSERVATION AND GENERATION, WORKING SAFELY AND ETHICALLY. Our major restructuring has now been completed and we have achieved a significant improvement in resource efficiency. We maintain our commitment to the core principles embodied in our sustainability policies. The NSG Group’s new vision to become a value-added glass company will lead to the development of new products and services that add value to society. We strive to develop innovative products and processes that give increased benefits to our customers and reduce environmental impact throughout the product lifecycle. Our efficiency programs are continuing to deliver reductions in energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and waste production. We train and develop our people while respecting their human rights and keeping them safe from workplace injuries or occupational illness. We encourage our contractors and supply chain to take similar steps through the ongoing evaluation of our key suppliers’ sustainability practices. Shiro Kobayashi Director of Sustainability 06 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 Our sustainability agenda is integral to decreasing our costs and increasing our market opportunities. Over the past year, we have Our Code of Conduct reflects our values and principles, continued our efforts in areas such as energy reduction and waste particularly the emphasis on safety, taking personal recycling; both of which can have a significant and swift impact ownership for actions and communicating with on the business performance of the Group. Glass markets are openness and involvement. About us extremely competitive around the world and it is imperative that we can meet the ever-increasing demands of customers. The overriding basis of the Code is that we will carry out these We work with communities and governments in the areas we activities in a safe, professional, legal and ethical manner and operate to ensure compliance and forward-looking thinking. in a way that demonstrates corporate social responsibility and We do this directly and through our membership of trade promotes sustainability. Wherever possible, the Code defines a associations, standards bodies and other organizations. We also fair and common sense approach to doing business, with some work to influence legislation, particularly in the areas of energy elements dictated by strict legal requirements. conservation and emission regulation. Glass making is an energy-intensive process. Significant energy Our Group policies and procedures… Management is consumed in obtaining and melting the raw materials for …detail the procedures everyone in the Group must follow to the manufacture of glass. Despite this necessary resource achieve sound governance, tight controls, risk management and consumption, this energy can be quickly saved when many of our adherence to legal, ethical and sustainable principles. products are in use. Our products make a tremendously positive contribution to climate change efforts and to the quality of living and working environments. Our leadership team remains actively committed to our environmental and safety programs. In 2014, we launched the NSG Group Environmental and Safety Awards and repeated Our Business the successful annual NSG Group Safety Day to reinforce this commitment. We have communicated our Supplier Code of Conduct to our suppliers and have conducted evaluations to verify the declarations we have received. Our products require raw materials and energy that must be extracted from the earth. Therefore we take seriously our responsibility to protect the natural habitats of the affected regions. Our vision… Environment …defines our determination to make a positive contribution to sustainability, through our expertise in glass technology. Our stakeholders We aim to be judged as best in class by: Making a difference to our world through Our customers glass technology. To be their preferred supplier for glass products and related services. Our mission… Our employees Our Stakeholders …describes how we will achieve our business objective, To be their preferred place to work. contributing to energy conservation and generation by producing and supplying innovative products in a sustainable manner. Our shareholders To be their preferred long-term investment. To be the global leader in innovative high-performance glass and glazing solutions, contributing to energy conservation and Our suppliers generation, working safely and ethically. To build strong mutually beneficial relationships based Our values… on trust, co-operation, innovation and sustainability. …define the behaviors we value and intend to follow in all our Our communities Basis of Reporting dealings with our stakeholders. To be a good neighbor, wherever we operate. Our Code of Conduct… …sets out the standards we expect of everyone working in the NSG Group. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 07 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED Our management approach In addition to our business investments, helping to sustain local operations, we also invest in the communities in which we Environmental operate. We take our environmental responsibilities extremely seriously. We aim to help through direct cash donations to charities and All our operations are required to meet all legislative standards other projects or through in-kind resources — to improve the as a minimum, and where local requirements are not considered health of the community or tackle specific social issues. We also sufficient to address an issue, our own corporate standards are encourage our people to play a part in developing our community applied. We conduct regular environmental audits designed to relationships. This can take the form of matching contributions achieve continuous improvement, and to maintain and raise raised by employees or allowing individuals time to make personal standards. contributions of time and effort in local projects. The most senior Our Group Environmental Policy defines our approach on position with responsibility for society aspects is the Group environmental matters. In particular, it outlines our management Director of Sustainability. of both current activity and the legacy of past and inherited liability. It reinforces our commitment to using good scientific Human rights principles to try to predict and assess our impacts on the Our Code of Conduct defines our expectations for all employees. environment. It reflects our values and principles, particularly the emphasis on safety, taking personal ownership for actions and communicating We acknowledge that our activities will inevitably affect the local with openness and involvement. The overriding basis of the Code and global environment but we have taken steps to minimize any is that we will carry out these activities in a safe, professional, adverse effects and have put in place systems to try to ensure that legal and ethical manner and in a way that demonstrates we manage such impacts in a controlled manner. Principal among corporate social responsibility. the tools we use is our environmental management system, which is certified to ISO 14001 for the vast majority of our glass The Code acknowledges internationally proclaimed human rights manufacturing and automotive manufacturing sites. and these are also reflected in our overall employment policies and standards, providing our employees with reassurance on how they will be treated. Our equal opportunity and diversity policy 70% aims to prohibit discrimination based on race, color, creed, religion, age, gender, sexual orientation, national origin, disability, union membership, political affiliation or any other status protected by We now have 81 ISO14001 certified sites around the law. This policy operates in all employment-related decisions. The world, representing 70 percent of our business by most senior executive with responsibility for human rights aspects turnover. is the Chief Human Resources Officer. Labor practice We are committed to reporting on our performance, both good Our management philosophy values people as ‘the most important and bad. Environmental data is collected under the broad headings asset of our company’. of energy, emissions to air, water usage, recycling and waste. The data collected is based primarily on the core environmental Our HR strategy aims to ensure we have the right performance indicator set of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). people where they are needed and that we maximise In addition to the collection of environmental emissions and our talent management around the world. resource usage data, the Airsweb™ system also incorporates an incident reporting system. The most senior executive with responsibility for environmental aspects is the Group Director of Safety and quality underpin everything we do, with the principle Sustainability. of ‘open communication’ central to our employment policies. Our human resources strategy aims to ensure we have the right Society people where they are needed and that we maximize our talent We believe we have a responsibility to be a good steward of management around the world. the environment and a responsible corporate citizen in the communities in which we operate. We monitor carefully the impact of our operations on the local communities in which we operate. We work hard to minimize potentially negative effects, such as pollution, noise and traffic. We operate programs that assess and manage the impacts of our operations on communities, in entry, operational and exit stages. 08 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 We operate as an integrated international Group, with a Product responsibility multinational management and 80 percent of our employees We are committed to the safety of our products and to ensuring working outside Japan. We reflect diversity in our workforce and they can be effectively handled, fitted and used by our customers. believe that the range of nationalities, skills, qualifications and Our product risk-review procedures are designed to identify risks experience available in our many operations are a positive benefit and to provide advice to users on safe handling. We communicate About us to our business. Our management style is to put the best person in these risks through safety data sheets, labels and Glazing and each job, regardless of nationality or region. Handling Guidelines. To attract, motivate, develop and retain high-performing Every R&D project developing new products and processes is employees, our approach on rewards and retention includes required to have an Environmental Impact Assessment completed market-based competitive pay and market-based competitive early on to highlight any positive or potentially negative benefit offerings for eligible fulland part-time employees. implications, so that the project can be managed accordingly. We have identified specific challenges in attracting and retaining We aim for a cradle-to-cradle life cycle management approach, talent, particularly in emerging markets, and we are already incorporating environmental health and protection into every step putting in place policies to address these. We work to create a of the life cycle of our products. Management culture that allows employees the opportunity to work without Our formal project management processes include thorough fear of intimidation, reprisal or harassment. We have systems in intellectual property searches, so that our customers can be very place to permit employees to raise any concerns in a confidential confident that the new products and processes we develop can be and timely manner. The most senior executive with responsibility used freely without fear of infringing third-party patents. for labor aspects is the Chief Human Resources Officer. The most senior executives accountable for product responsibility We value the health and safety of all our employees above all are the heads of the strategic business units. other considerations and aim to ensure that we provide a working environment that allows our people to reach their full potential. Our safety programs emphasize the importance of appropriate Our Business safe behavior and of individuals taking personal responsibility. We NSG achieves EcoVadis silver CSR rating regard all injuries at work as unnecessary and avoidable. No matter EcoVadis operates an independent, external platform how minor, each one must be reported and investigated. allowing companies to assess and benchmark their environmental and social performance on a global basis. Details of our progress on safety performance are shown in the Health and safety section of this Report. The process assesses company policies, implemented procedures and published reports with regards to 2014 NSG Safety & Environmental Awards environmental, labor practices & human rights, fair The NSG Safety and Environmental Awards aim to business practices and sustainable procurement increase awareness and reward individuals or teams for issues. The assessment is conducted by CSR experts of Environment outstanding EHS project initiatives Many of the best ideas EcoVadis on the basis of company answers to a survey for environmental, health and safety initiatives come which is dynamically adapted to country, sector and from employees. These include ways of reducing health size, using scorecards covering 150 industry categories and safety risks, minimizing pollution, saving energy and and 21 CSR criteria. The rating is based on supporting reducing, recycling or reusing waste, water or raw materials. documentation, public and stakeholder (NGOs, trade Judging was undertaken by a panel of senior managers and unions, press) information. EHS experts. NSG Group used this assessment tool to gain Details of the 2014 winning projects can be seen on pages a picture of the Group’s CSR performance 22 and 29. and understand areas for improvement. Our Stakeholders We were rated as Silver regarding our approach to CSR management. Basis of Reporting NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 09 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IS A KEY ELEMENT IN THE SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES OF THE NSG GROUP. WE ARE COMMITTED TO EFFECTIVE AND TRANSPARENT ENGAGEMENT WITH ALL OUR STAKEHOLDERS. We believe that good corporate governance contributes to sustainable development by enhancing the performance of companies and increasing their access to outside sources of capital. We aim to maintain high levels of accountability and transparency, disclosing business goals and guidelines that clearly demonstrate a responsible management approach to all our stakeholders. Our governance structure Adoption of IFRS The NSG Group is governed by its Board of Directors, which is We adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) appointed by resolution at the General Meeting of Shareholders. for our consolidated financial statements with effect from 1 April The Board comprises the Chairman of the NSG Group, four directors 2011. Enabling the whole Group to use the same accounting concurrently serving as executive officers and four independent language has clear benefits for the Company’s internal decisionexternal directors. In the fiscal year 2014, the Board of Directors met making processes and further enhances our corporate governance ten times. structure. Beginning with the financial year to 31 March 2012, the Group’s results are now reported in IFRS. This has increased the The Board of Directors oversees the Group’s economic, social and amount of financial information we publish, prompting our decision environmental performance and compliance with internal and to divide the content of our annual reporting between the Annual internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles. Report and an Annual Financial Statements document; both can be Company with Committees downloaded in English from our website. The adoption of the ‘Company with Committees’ model has Risk management brought the NSG Group into line with a number of leading Japanese The scope of our operations introduces potential risks to our corporations and with best practice. It has introduced additional business activities, requiring effective risk management. These safeguards for shareholders, increased transparency and enhanced include the effects of changes in debt market prices, foreign corporate governance, with the role of the independent external currency exchange rates, credit risks, energy prices, liquidity interest directors strengthened. rates and business disruption. Our enterprise risk management There are three Board committees (Nomination, Audit and process enables the impact and likelihood of key risks to be Compensation) and four independent external directors. assessed in a standard format. The information is used to assess the cumulative risk exposure of the Group and promote effective global The Nomination Committee decides the details of the agenda risk responses, thus strengthening our overall risk management items to be submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders structure. concerning the appointment and removal of directors. Chaired by an independent external director, Seiichi Asaka, the Committee Ethics and compliance consists of six members, including four independent external Our Code of Conduct sets out the values on which the NSG Group directors. has been built and on which the Group and its member companies The Audit Committee, chaired by an independent external director, must depend for future success. Sumitaka Fujita, comprises four independent external directors. NSG is committed to compliance with all relevant laws, including It conducts audits of the execution of duties by directors and anti-corruption laws in its Code of Conduct. It defines the conduct executive officers and ensures that adequate risk management expected of the Group and its employees across all areas of our processes are followed. It also decides the details of agenda items business and applies to relationships with stakeholders. to be submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders concerning the appointment and removal of independent auditors. Alan Graham is Group Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer. His responsibilities include the development, implementation and The Compensation Committee makes decisions on compensation of maintenance of an integrated internal ethics and compliance individual directors and executive officers. The Committee is chaired management and control system as well as the creation and by an independent external director, Hiroshi Komiya, and comprises review of relevant Group policies and procedures. Central Ethics six members, including four independent external directors. and Compliance regularly reports to the Audit and Management Committees. 10 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 Open Management System General Meeting of Shareholders Decisions on proposals on Election/Dismissal of directors Election/Dismissal Election/Dismissal of directors About us Decisions on proposals on Election/Dismissal of Independent Auditors Independent Auditors Audit Report Supervisory Function Recommendations concerning Board of Directors Supervision Executive Officers/ Corporate Officers Evaluation Audit Election/Dismissal of Committee Members Decisions on compensation Co-operation Nomination Committee Compensation Committee Audit Committee Management Election/ DIsmissal of Audit Co-operation Report Executive Report Decisions on Supervision Officers/ compensation Corporate Officers Management Committee Report Risk Internal Management Report Sustainability Representative Executive Officers Committee Audit Dept. Committee Executive Officer Our Business Internal Audit Co-operation Executive Function Corporate Officers Compliance Officer As at 30 June 2014 NSG Group conducts a continuous risk-based assessment to Global compliance culture assessment determine which employees face risks related to Bribery, Corruption In line with best practice, we conducted a compliance culture risk and Competition laws. Over 65 percent of NSG Group’s nonassessment with 1,232 employees in 23 countries focusing on two Environment shop floor workforce is required to complete annual compliance major compliance programs — Bribery/Corruption and Competition training, via a third-party vendor, covering Bribery/Corruption Law. and Competition Law through the Group’s Ethics and Compliance Education Center. All are required to be familiar with the Compliance Results of the Governance, Culture and Leadership Assessment program policies, manuals and procedures. Key Compliance have been analyzed in a report issued to NSG senior management. Contacts have been identified in each SBU and Group Function The need for increased management communication on the and are responsible for ensuring that the Key Roles in their area expectations of ethical behavior and meeting compliance of responsibility are kept informed of program updates and are requirements was highlighted as an area of opportunity. meeting the program requirements. 92% Our Stakeholders Central Ethics and Compliance has partnered with Group Internal Audit to include both ABAC and Competition Law minimum controls in any site audit. Relationships with lobbyists are covered by the Group’s ABAC program as it relates to third parties. Public policy development and lobbying information is found in the Group’s Code of employees understand the Group’s stand of Conduct and on the nsg.com website. on compliance with the laws. 80% Our ‘Reporting of Concerns’ policy and procedures allow employees to voice any corporate governance issues through an external vendor using a reporting line and web portal with anonymity where Basis of Reporting legally allowed. Posters have been distributed at all locations. of employees would address colleagues A process has been formalized on the action taken to escalate concerns through the proper channels. Since the 2012 acting in a way in which management implementation, there have been 63 reports of concerns via the would disapprove. Reporting of Concerns system and of that, 18 reports were made 88% in our fiscal year 2014. Each was reviewed and investigated when appropriate. The necessary measures were taken to address all confirmed cases of non-compliance. of employees understand how to apply compliance program requirements to their day to day role. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 11 BUSINESS OVERVIEW Architectural A leader in float glass technology and coatings WE OPERATE IN THREE BUSINESS 40% SECTORS: ARCHITECTURAL, SUPPLYING GLASS FOR THE WORLD’S BUILDINGS AND FOR SOLAR ENERGY APPLICATIONS; Contribution to Group sales* AUTOMOTIVE, PRODUCING GLASS AND GLAZING SYSTEMS FOR Sales by region VEHICLES WORLDWIDE; AND Financial Year 2014 TECHNICAL GLASS, OPERATING IN Europe 38% THE DISPLAY, OPTICAL ELECTRONICS Japan 31% AND GLASS FIBER SECTORS. North America 10% Rest of World 21% 8,800 employees in 21 countries Main products •• Thermal insulation glass •• Fire protection glazing •• Solar control glass •• Glass for solar energy •• Noise control glazing •• Safety and security glazing Proportion of Group CO2 emissions 62% *All figures for financial year ending 31st March 2014 12 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 Automotive Technical glass Supplying all major vehicle manufacturers and the after markets World leader in thin display glass and optical devices for electronics 50% Contribution to Group sales* 10% Contribution to Group sales* About us Sales by region Sales by sector Financial Year 2014 Financial Year 2014 Management Europe 46% Thin glass for displays 27% Japan 17% Glass cord and fine glass products 38% North America 24% Copier/printer lenses 28% Rest of World 13% Other 7% Our Business 15,100 employees in 16 countries 2,000 employees in 5 countries Main products Main products •• Solar control glass •• Displays and touch panels •• Glazing systems •• Copier/printer lenses •• Laminated glass •• Glass cord •• Toughened glass •• Battery separators •• Security glazing •• Anti-corrosion coatings Environment •• Lightweight glazing •• Fine crystal Proportion of Group CO2 emissions 33% Proportion of Group CO2 emissions 5% Our Stakeholders Basis of Reporting NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 13 ARCHITECTURAL OUR PRODUCTS ARE AT THE HEART OF MODERN ARCHITECTURE, ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION. THEY PLAY A BENEFICIAL ROLE IN ADDRESSING SOME OF THE MAJOR ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES OF BUILDINGS. Sustainability and energy efficiency in buildings On average, buildings account for almost 50 percent of the energy consumed in developed economies. The correct choice of glass can help to reduce the capital outlay, running costs and associated carbon emissions of buildings. Our products play a vital role in addressing global building energy efficiency challenges and reducing CO2 emissions. They also offer advanced functionality and create safer buildings for communities including increasing natural lighting, energy generation, fire protection, noise attenuation, safety and security, privacy, decoration and self-cleaning properties. A study undertaken by TNO for Glass for Europe concluded that up to 170 million tonnes of CO2 could be saved annually by 2020 if all Europe’s buildings were fitted with solar control or low-e insulating glass units. Thermal insulation and solar control The use of glass allows a bright and comfortable environment to be maintained inside a building. Advances in glass and coating technology have made windows an essential contributor to energy conservation and comfort by managing a building’s light and heat transfer. In cold climates, low-emissivity (low-e) coated glasses like Pilkington Energy Advantage™ reflect heat back into the building and reduce heat loss through the window, while allowing high levels of valuable free passive solar energy to heat buildings without significant loss in natural light. In hot climates, the reliance on air conditioning is mitigated through the use of advanced solar control coated glass that transmits the majority of the sun’s visible light into buildings, while reflecting up to 75 percent of the solar heat and reducing glare. To maximize energy efficiency all year round, products like Pilkington Solar-E™ or Pilkington Eclipse Advantage™ offer the best energy efficiency by providing both low-e and solar control benefits. Pictured: Hosssa Office in Gdynia, Poland Photo Credit: Wojciech Kryński Pilkington Eclipse ™ Arctic Blue 14 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 Vacuum glazing A vacuum glazing unit offers excellent thermal and acoustic performance using an insulation gap of only About us 0.2mm. Pilkington Spacia™ was the world’s first commercially available vacuum glazing, offering the thermal performance of conventional double glazing in the same thickness as single glazing. Pilkington Spacia™ Cool achieves a U-value of 0.9W/m2K and has lower embodied energy than standard IGUs due to not requiring noble gas insulators. Sales are developing worldwide, particularly for use in historic buildings, in which the original frames can be retained so Management conserving the asthetics of the architecture. Pictured: Redhouse Old Town Hall , Grade II listed building, UK Fire protection glass Our Business Buildings that are vulnerable to fire are fundamentally unsustainable. Fire damage can affect lives and communities, through destruction of jobs and public assets. Combining critical fire safety requirements such as thermal insulation and integrity with transparency and the ability to bring light into buildings presents significant technical challenges. Environment Products like Pilkington Pyrostop® and Pilkington Pyrodur® are used in a variety of building, marine and rail transport applications around the world. These offer a proprietary clear intumescent interlayer technology that not only protects against flames and smoke but also against the heat from a fire. Pictured: Demonstration of NSG fire protection technologies Our Stakeholders Glass for photovoltaics During its life cycle, a solar panel can generate over 15 times the energy used in its manufacture. NSG’s glass is an integral part of modules produced by leading companies in the solar energy industry. Basis of Reporting As a technology leader in glass coatings and low-iron compositions, our products are helping our customers to manufacture increasingly efficient modules. Our anti-reflective coatings help maximize solar energy transmittance and NSG TEC™, a Transparent Conductive Oxide (TCO), is part of the system that generates an electrical current. The new façade at ALM Brand proudly boasts the first Pilkington Planar™ panels to incorporate Building Integrated PhotoVoltaics (BIPV). The 84 point-fixed BIPV panels, which cover just 10 per cent of the new façade, are expected to generate 41.5kW of electricity, or 5% of the overall building energy needs. Pictured: ALM Brand building incorporating BIPV panels Pilkington Eclipse AdvantageTM, Pilkington OptifloatTM, Pilkington OptiwhiteTM NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 15 AUTOMOTIVE AS A WORLD LEADER IN VEHICLE GLAZING, WE AIM TO PROVIDE OPPORTUNITIES FOR VEHICLE MANUFACTURERS TO ADDRESS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES, SUCH AS CO2 REDUCTION, SOLAR CONTROL, VEHICLE WEIGHT, AERODYNAMICS AND RECYCLING. The global automotive industry is increasingly addressing the sustainability agenda with CO2 reduction a major focus. The shift to high efficiency combustion engines, electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids requires advanced glazing solutions for solar energy control and weight reduction. As a world leader in automotive glazing, we are meeting these challenges by developing value-added technologies to produce high-performance solar control glazings. Our aim is to provide further opportunities for vehicle manufacturers to meet their sustainability challenges. We aim to reduce energy used during the manufacture of products and to increase their contribution to sustainability during their lifetime. We are working with established vehicle manufacturers and new entrants who are developing new vehicles that are greener by design. Glass in vehicles offers more properties than simple transparency, so when designing vehicles for reduced mass in the components, consideration needs to be given to acoustics, stiffness, sealing, camera safety systems and solar control. We have supplied glass used in automotive photovoltaic roof systems that can actively supply power to the vehicle, helping reduce reliance on conventional energy sources. Lightweight glazing The NSG Group is focused on the introduction of lightweight glass and glazing technology. The importance of environmentally friendly vehicles is growing as consumers are demanding ever more energy-efficient models. Lighter weight designs are an essential part of reducing vehicle CO2 emissions and improving their energy efficiency. Our in-house developments for glass-shaping technology make it possible for vehicle manufacturers to reduce the mass of glass components by up to 25 percent. The NSG Group is supplying Citroën with the first 2.85mm backlight for its new C4 Cactus, the glass is processed using the Group’s advanced press bending technology. Working with Toyota, NSG recently showcased an extremely lightweight 2.0mm/1.0mm windshield prototype at the 43rd Tokyo Motor Show that meets industry quality standards. Pictured: Citroën C4 Cactus and Toyota i-Road 16 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 Solar control glazing Our vehicle-glazing products provide advanced solar control properties by absorbing or reflecting infra-red About us energy from the sun. Approximately 30 percent of the heat loading on a car’s interior comes through the windshield. Control of heat energy entering vehicles directly impacts air-conditioning usage leading to additional energy consumption and CO2 output. Pilkington’s EZ-KOOL® line of products filters up to 99% of UV rays and are recommended by The Skin Cancer Foundation as an effective UV protectant. Recommended as an effective UV protectant Management Aftermarket glass replacement Our Business A vehicle’s windshield is an essential piece of safety equipment that we take for granted until it is damaged. Chipped or cracked windshields reduce visibility and can lead to loss of structural integrity over time. The NSG Group’s Automotive Glass Replacement (AGR) services provide an extensive range of OEM quality replacement glazings to auto glass replacement professionals throughout the world ensuring consumer glazings can be replaced quickly and to the same standard as the original. Environment Our Stakeholders HUD and camera systems Enhanced vehicle connectivity uses the glazing as a key component in camera safety systems and HeadUp Displays (HUD). Vehicle connectivity aims to improve safety and comfort through Basis of Reporting technologies that connect the occupant to the vehicle and the vehicle to other devices or to external vehicles and traffic infrastructure. NSG are market leaders in Head-Up Display (HUD) windshields, allowing important information to be displayed in the driver’s line of sight whilst our antenna design technologies support the development of the next generation of communication systems. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 17 TECHNICAL GLASS OUR TECHNICAL GLASS PRODUCTS CONTRIBUTING TO ENERGY CONSERVATION AND SUSTAINABILITY INCLUDE GLASS FOR DISPLAYS, LED PRINT HEADS FOR OFFICE EQUIPMENT, BATTERY SEPARATOR TECHNOLOGY FOR ELECTRIC AND HYBRID VEHICLES, AND GLASS FIBER FOR TIMING BELTS AND PAINTS. The NSG Group is a world leader in the development of advanced glass products in a variety of fields. Glass as a high-tech material offers many opportunities, being light, strong, fire retardant, non-conductive and resistant to chemicals. Our patented products are used in transmission belts to improve fuel consumption, low power LED printers and coatings to protect the longevity of our buildings and equipment. Our expertise in the manufacture of ultra-thin float glass is allowing the development of the next generation of touch-screen devices. Glass cord engine timing belts The Group’s advanced glass cord technology is enabling the automotive industry to develop the next generation of energy-efficient vehicles. The technology is primarily used in engine timing belts and independent testing has highlighted improved fuel efficiency leading to 1.45 g/km lower CO2 emissions compared to timing chain systems. The technology is also used in vehicles with advanced Electric Power Assisted Steering (EPAS) systems which when compared to hydraulic systems also reduce fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. NGF’s HTS (High Tensile Strength) glass cords significantly improve belt flexibility and stretch resistance. This advanced technology has been successfully incorporated into innovative ‘Belt in Oil’ systems that further improve engine refinement. The system delivers the quietness and more efficient running of a belt but with the durability of a conventional timing chain. Furthermore, the belt is Pictured: Belt in oil shown as part of “Beat the Chain” campaign capable of remaining in service for the life of the engine. Anti-corrosion coatings Glass Flake products are used in protective coatings, polymer reinforcement, heat resistance, cosmetic and decorative applications. Microglas® Glasflake™ is used in anti-corrosion coatings to produce a virtually impenetrable layer to water and chemicals, extending the life of the protective coatings to 25 years. The technology is used to protect buildings and structures such as bridges, offshore wind farms and platforms that need to operate for many years under exceptionally harsh conditions. The soaring spire of the world’s tallest building, the Burj Khalifa in Dubai, is protected by a glass flake reinforced polyester coating supplied by NGF customer Jotun. Pictured: Burj Khalifa – Dubai Photo credit: Hans Schwarzkopf 18 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 Display and touch panels We are a world-leading supplier of ultra-thin glass for small LCD applications, helping to reduce power About us consumption in the display market. Our Ultra Fine Flat Glass (UFF) is produced in thicknesses as low as 0.3 to 1.1mm. These products are increasingly being used in the growing touch-panel market, particularly in mobile phones, tablets, computers and now expanding into use in vehicles. This technology helps reduce the need for additional peripheral equipment, allowing people to have a more natural interface with technology. Management Our Business LED print heads NSG, with the printer and scanner manufacturer Fuji Xerox, are jointly developing a new generation of Light Emitting Diode (LED) print heads to reduce power consumption in office equipment. Using our proprietary SELFOC® Lens Array (SLA®) technology, the new print head provides an image quality equal to or surpassing Environment more conventional laser scanning units but with the added advantages of miniaturization, low power consumption and lownoise operation. This allows optical systems to be designed more compactly and manufactured at low cost. Our Stakeholders Photo credit: Courtesy of Fuji Xerox Battery technology NSG is leading development of advanced glass products for use in battery separators. Basis of Reporting The Idling Stop and Start (ISS) system installed on modern cars to cut fuel consumption when idling uses Absorbed Glass Mat (AGM) separators to greatly increase the efficiency of the batteries. Our R&D is focused on continuing to improve the capacity, stability, power and safety margins of customers’ products. Our Super Glass Paper (SGP) technology with a 30μm thickness and >85% porosity is supporting the development of the next generation of lithium ion batteries and fuel cells. Pictured: Super Glass paper NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 19 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT WE TAKE OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES EXTREMELY SERIOUSLY. WE REQUIRE ALL OPERATIONS TO MEET LOCAL LEGAL STANDARDS BUT APPLY OUR OWN CORPORATE STANDARDS WHERE THESE ARE STRICTER THAN THE LAW. Our Group Environmental Policy defines our approach on environmental matters. In particular, it outlines our management of both current activity and the legacy of past and inherited liability. It reinforces our commitment to using good scientific principles to try to predict and assess our impacts on the environment, both positive and negative. Our Environmental Policy In addition to the collection of environmental emissions and resource usage data, the Airsweb™ system also incorporates an Given the nature of our business, we acknowledge that our incident reporting system. This allows the timely reporting and activities will inevitably have an environmental impact, but we recording of incident data, both safety and environmental, as well have taken steps to minimize the adverse nature of any impact as provision for tracking the progress or remedial actions and and have put in place systems to try to ensure that we manage communication of learning points. such impacts in a controlled manner. The use of many of our products will lead to positive environmental impacts. Principal among the tools we use is our environmental We are in a strong position to help mitigate the effects management system, which is certified to ISO 14001 for the of climate change by producing products that conserve vast majority of our glass manufacturing and automotive energy in buildings and vehicles. manufacturing sites. We are committed to reporting on our performance, both good and bad. Environmental performance is monitored and reported for Monitoring performance manufacturing operations that are under the direct control of NSG Supplementing the routine monitoring of our business, we also Group. We continue to work with regulatory authorities worldwide maintain a number of central registers used to guide our strategic on issues relating to historical industrial activity on and around development and maintain a high level of corporate governance Group premises. in the sustainability field. For example, a register of all furnaces, their associated permits, relevant legislation and abatement Data collection capabilities is maintained and used to support the assessment of Environmental and safety performance data is collected across any proposed changes in operation or design. the Group using an online electronic data reporting system known as Airsweb™. This database is multilingual and accessed over To ensure a consistent and innovative approach, we operate a the corporate intranet, by sites under NSG operational control, number of multidisciplinary design panels whose task is to ensure allowing monthly updating of relevant information. full assessment and review of proposed changes. Our stage gate process ensures that an appropriate level of information Environmental data is collected under the broad headings of and resource is applied to an issue at set points within the energy, emissions to air, water usage, recycling and waste. The development of a project or proposal. This ensures the most data collected is based primarily on the core environmental efficient use of our resources and encourages innovation. performance indicator set of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). For glass-manufacturing plants we have defined our strategic approach to abatement in order to ensure that across the world we hold fast to our principles, even in parts of the world where legislative controls are less well developed. 20 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 About us Certification Our Italian glass-melting and automotive-processing We aim to certify our manufacturing facilities to the internationally Management sites have recently been recognized ISO 14001 environmental standard and now have 81 certified sites around the world, representing 70 percent of our CERTIFICATE certified to the ISO 50001 energy management business by turnover. The Certification Body of TÜV SÜD Management Service GmbH system standard. certifies that Our Automotive business was one of the first in the automotive industry to achieve a corporate certificate for environmental Pilkington Automotive management. A single ISO 14001 certificate from TÜV SÜD San Salvo plants Via Trignina 41 66050 San Salvo (Ch) Management Service GmbH covers central functions and the vast Italy majority of our Automotive plants worldwide. has established and applies an Energy Management System for Production of float glass. Our Business Manufacturing of toughened and laminated glass products NSG’s San Salvo plant in Italy achieved ISO 50001 certification of for the automotive industry. its Energy Management System for glass melting and automotive An audit was performed, Report No. 70067620. Proof has been furnished that the requirements according to glass processing in October 2014. This is in addition to our already ISO 50001:2011 certified German glass-melting and processing sites. are fulfilled. The certificate is valid in conjunction with the main-certificate from 2014-11-11 until 2017-11-10. Certificate Registration No. 12 340 21918/02 TMS Product Compliance Management Munich, 2014-11-12 Environment Environmental Product Declarations Environmental Product Declarations have been An Environmental Product Declaration, EPD®, is a verified and completed for NSG fireregistered document that communicates transparent and resistant glazing. comparable information about the life-cycle environmental impact of products. In May 2014 the German Institute of Building and Environment (IBU) awarded EPDs for Pilkington Pyrostop® and Pilkington Pyrodur® fire-resistant glass, according to ISO 14025 and EN 15804. The Ecoprofile results allow architects and planners to Our Stakeholders access reliable environmental information and complete detailed sustainability assessments of buildings. Pilkington Germany AG now has the authorization to mark both fire resistant product lines with the IBU logo in monolithic format or insulating glass. The declarations are IBU listed and can be ordered upon request. Basis of Reporting NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 21 ENERGY USAGE WE WORK CONTINUOUSLY TO MINIMIZE ENERGY INPUT INTO ALL OUR PROCESSES, SO THAT THE USAGE OF GLASS CONTRIBUTES NET BENEFIT TO SUSTAINABILITY. Our energy usage For both environmental and financial reasons, we use natural gas as the fuel of choice for glass melting. In 2013, we reduced consumption by 10 percent compared to 2012. The quantity of heavy fuel oil is gradually being substituted by natural gas and is more often used as a back up. In 2013, we reduced heavy fuel oil consumption by 7 percent compared to 2012. Diesel oil and liquid petroleum gas are used as back-up fuels and to power small engines, furnaces and boilers. In 2013, our consumption of diesel oil was 15.6 million liters (down 23 percent on 2012) and that of liquid propane was 11,400 tonnes (no change on 2012). During 2013, we consumed 8.1 PJ (2.3 TWh) of delivered electricity. The total energy used by the NSG Group in 2013 was 48.59 PJ (13.50 TWh). This represents an 8 percent reduction on 2012 data. NSG Group energy usage 2014 NSG Environmental Award winner 2012 2013 The winner of the NSG Group Environmental Award 2014 is a team from Maizuru in Japan. 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 The winning ‘Steam Management Project’ for fuel and CO2 0 reduction is an excellent example of a complex project that leads to a significant fuel, cost and CO2 reduction. Natural Gas TJ The optimization of the fuel-fired boilers, the increased output of the float plant’s waste-heat boilers and the minimized consumption of steam resulted in a 60 percent reduction of fuel consumption and a Heavy fuel oil TJ two percent CO2 reduction. The judging panel was impressed by the strong commitment of the Diesel/gas oil TJ local utility & maintenance team that was essential for a successful delivery of the project. Overall, the judges concluded that the project conveyed the true spirit of the Environmental Award and was a very worthy winner. LPG TJ In total the judging panel received 45 applications for the Award. All projects addressed key environmental issues, such as energy, hazardous materials, packaging and waste. The selection criteria Electricity TJ included reduction in environmental impact, wide employee involvement and transferability. The judging panel felt that all of the winning projects have an ability to take the Company beyond 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 country environmental law requirements, leading to a better overall performance. 0 Natural Gas Mm2 Heavy fuel oil MI Diesel/gas oil x10 MI Liquid propane x10 kt Total electricity/10 GWh Pictured: Operator uses thermal camera to assess effectiveness of steam pipe insulation 22 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 Initiatives to reduce energy usage UK supplier partnership Management systems A partnership between Investment in energy management systems includes the Pilkington United Kingdom achievement of ISO 50001 certification across all operations in Limited and an energy About us Germany and recently Italy, with installation of sub-metering solutions provider is hardware and software. A high level of transparency in energy supporting several energy consumption enables a sophisticated energy-planning process management project across with improvement activities, target setting and frequent reviews. UK production sites. The partnership involves a Employee awareness collaborative approach to technical energy-management We have continued our efforts with an ongoing program of work financing solutions. across all sites to increase energy awareness. This program Collaboration on a series of in-depth energy audits and involves a number of teams within the manufacturing organization investigations across UK manufacturing sites identified with the objective of delivering significant improvements in the Management multiple energy-efficiency projects and significant energy energy efficiency of our operations and includes the development reduction has already been achieved with a new intelligent of a Group-wide database of energy-saving projects. warehouse lighting system and specification of new energyOperational energy efficiency projects efficient variable-speed drives. Led by Manufacturing Excellence and assisted by other Group central functions, NSG sites have identified 95 zero-investment energy-optimization opportunities, resulting in annual CO2 savings of 68 kt. Major projects include furnace and annealing lehr energy Our Business optimization. Savings for each site have been monitored and result in total savings of 59kt CO2, 54GWh electricity and 200GWh fossil fuel in 12 months. Installation of waste heat recovery processes resulted in reductions of electricity and natural gas consumption and saves 4kt CO2 /year. 3kt CO2 /year have been saved due to the installation of electricity sub-metering equipment and energy-efficient lighting at multiple Environment sites. Investment in plastic boxes to collect glass from downstream processing sites for re-melting on our furnaces has saved 3kt CO2. Renewable on-site energy generation Innovation in cullet recycling and alternative fuels Our Watson Street plant has recently invested in plastic boxes to The use of a waste derived biofuel oil instead of heavy fuel oil in travel on floatliners with customer glass deliveries. The returned a glass-melting furnace has cut CO2 emissions by 8kt per year.Our customer cullet is diverted from landfill and when re-melted, Rossford technical center in North America produces about reduces energy consumption and raw material decomposition: Our Stakeholders 7 percent of its own electricity with on-site photovoltaic saving 3,000 tonnes CO2 emissions per year. generation. We have installed photovoltaic panels on the roof of our German Weiherhammer plant. Partnership with suppliers We continue to partner with key suppliers to develop projects to reduce energy consumption in our manufacturing sites. Close collaboration with leaders in specific technologies is enabling us to implement optimum solutions to specific energy management challenges. Collaborative projects have also been implemented to Basis of Reporting address compressor inefficiency, to make better use of waste heat generated in our glass-making processes and to reduce peaks in electricity demand. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 23 MINIMIZING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT GLASS MANUFACTURE IS AN ENERGY INTENSIVE PROCESS, INVOLVING THE MELTING OF RAW MATERIALS AT HIGH TEMPERATURES. PRINCIPAL PROCESS EMISSIONS ARE TO AIR DUE TO THE COMBUSTION OF FUEL AND DECOMPOSITION OF CARBONATE RAW MATERIALS. Emissions to air Monitoring and reducing carbon emissions Our environmental impact analysis of the float glass and In 2013, the NSG Group was responsible for the direct and indirect automotive glazing production processes reveals that the emission of 4.2 million tonnes of CO2. This represents a 7 percent significant emissions are carbon dioxide, oxides of nitrogen and decrease on 2012. Our direct emissions were 3.2 million tonnes sulphur and, to a far more limited extent, particulate matter. (a 9 percent decrease on 2012). Direct emissions occur from our furnaces and from fuel used in bending and toughening furnaces These arise from fuel combustion and decomposition of carbonate in Automotive and Architectural Glass. In Europe, externally raw materials. The fuels we use all contain sulphur compounds verified, direct 2013 CO2 emissions from the Emission Trading as contaminants. Natural gas, our preferred fuel, contains less Scheme were reduced by 21 percent compared to 2012 due to sulphur than oil. Heavy fuel oil contains the highest levels of energy efficiency projects and site closures. sulphur of all our fuels, especially that readily available in Japan. Our furnaces in Japan are therefore fitted with efficient emission In the operation of our float plants, heavy oil to natural gas gas-cleaning equipment. The combustion of such fuels can conversion has helped to reduce carbon emissions by around 50 produce a mixture of sulphur oxides (SOx). percent over the past 40 years and a combination of design and operational innovations has made further progress. Most sulphate arising from soda lime glass manufacture is released as sodium sulphate, which is of low toxicity. Nitrogen compounds released arise from the combustion air in which the NSG Group glass-melting fuel is burnt. At the high temperatures used in glass-making, the carbon emissions nitrogen in combustion air is oxidized to a mixture of nitrogen oxides (NOx). 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Total CO2 emissions 2012 (million tonnes) 2013 Direct CO2 emissions 2012 (million tonnes) 2013 Europe North America South America Japan China and South East Asia Recycled glass cullet to improve efficiency and reduce emissions Glass for recycling is a valuable resource. Wherever quality allows, we recycle any glass off-cuts or cullet within our own glassmelting lines. Glass from our downstream operations and from our customers represents a potentially useful resource to us. We gain a double benefit from the use of such cullet. Its use to make glass reduces the requirement for raw materials and avoids disposing of what would otherwise be a waste material and closes the recycling loop. Ten percent cullet use saves 3 percent furnace energy and leads to reductions in CO2 emissions. In 2013, we sent 407,000 tonnes of glass for recycling and bought in 125,000 tonnes to supplement cullet from our own internal recycling. 11,000 tonnes of glass could not be successfully recycled so was sent for disposal. One of our sites has recently manufactured glass using 100 percent cullet. Cullet return projects are ongoing to try to minimize the need for virgin raw materials. 24 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 Waste Water management The glass manufacturing process itself produces very little waste In glass-making, water is used for cooling, but most of our plants material. All trimmed glass is recycled back into the melting operate with closed loop systems and so only require top up. Water process and waste is limited to maintenance waste, occasional offis also used for washing glass in plants but there the need is for specification raw material that cannot be blended and packaging very high purity, so water is treated and then reused. We seek to About us waste. minimize our water consumption by working with suppliers to recycle water and to install advanced water treatment facilities. In a win-win situation, Pilkington San Salvo has managed to This not only reduces the consumption of water itself but also the reduce raw material requirements whilst also saving on waste chemicals used in the treatment of the water. disposal costs. Technical experts at the NSG Technical Centre have helped the Italian furnace operators to develop a method Across the Group water consumption can vary considerably of recycling selenium-containing dust collected by the pollution according to process and product demands as well as water abatement equipment. Previously, this was disposed of in landfill quality. Approximately 2 m3 are required to manufacture one tonne but now it can be used in the furnace to reduce the use of virgin of float glass and approximately 90 liters are required to process raw materials. each square meter of automotive product. We used a total of 18.9 Management million cubic meters of water in 2013. This was a decrease of 6 Technologists from the Online Coating research group at NSG’s percent on 2012 data. European Technical Centre have developed a method to optimize the production and reuse of products formed by the waste gas Timber treatment plant of the online coating process at Greengate. The In Europe, much of our glass is transported on steel stillages optimization has reduced the consumption of raw materials without packaging, utilizing specialist ‘Floatliner’ vehicles. We and improved plant operating conditions while simultaneously use a significant quantity of wooden packaging in our operations. increasing the saleability of the byproduct. The optimization Although much of the timber we use comes from sustainable project maintained a focus on chimney emission regulations, forestry, we cannot yet guarantee this worldwide and this remains ensuring the safe discharge of neutralised gasses which adhere an area for improvement. We also work with our suppliers to Our Business to environmental limits. The NSG group operates similar coating design reusable wooden packaging. facilities in Europe, Asia and North America where these benefits will be extended. If glass is produced that cannot be remelted on-site, it is sent, Principal emissions from where practicable, for external recycling. We use the waste NSG Group during 2013 hierarchy to guide our disposal options, and landfill is the least favored option. We disposed of 34,000 tonnes of non-glass 12,000 waste (an 8 percent reduction on 2012), of which 1,803 tonnes 11,000 of hazardous (59 percent increase on previous year) and 19,200 Environment tonnes of non-hazardous waste (10 percent reduction) were sent 10,000 to landfill. We generated 5,335 tonnes of hazardous waste in 2012 (an 18 percent reduction on 2012). 9,000 In Automotive, all supplied materials are registered in the global 8,000 IMDS (International Material Data System) to ensure we have complete visibility of material content to identify hazardous 7,000 materials and opportunities for recycling. This data is shared openly with our automotive customers, to support their own 6,000 recycling efforts. Glass typically constitutes around 3 percent of 5,000 Our Stakeholders the composition of an average car. We are actively involved in the elimination of harmful materials in glass, ink, solder and other 4,000 2013 components in automotive glass products. 3,000 PVB is used to manufacture laminated glass. PVB trims from the 2012 2,000 edges of the laminated glass are returned to PVB suppliers to be recycled in their manufacturing processes. In 2013, around 1,000 2011 2,000 tonnes of PVB trim was returned to our suppliers or other recyclers to be reused. 0 Total mass of CO2 for Total mass of CO2 from Glass for recycling Products for recycling Non-hazardous waste Hazardous waste Air pollutants SOx/10 tonnes NOx/10 tonnes Basis of Reporting fuel excluding electricity /10 tonnes /1,000 tonnes /tonnes site excluding electricity /10 tonnes /100 tonnes /1,000 tonnes Total mass of CO2 for /1,000 tonnes site /1,000 tonnes NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 25 EMPLOYEES OUR MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY VALUES PEOPLE AS ‘THE MOST IMPORTANT ASSET OF OUR COMPANY’. SAFETY, QUALITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY UNDERPIN EVERYTHING WE DO, WITH THE PRINCIPLE OF OPEN COMMUNICATION BEING CENTRAL TO OUR EMPLOYMENT POLICIES. NSG Code of Conduct Talent management Our Code of Conduct reflects our values and principles and It is through the competence and effort of our people throughout defines for all employees what is expected of them. It particularly the world that the NSG Group achieves its success. emphasises safety, respecting human rights, taking personal We are committed to maximizing the talent in our organization to ownership for actions and communicating with openness and create flexible, skilled and motivated people who are focused on involvement. the achievement of our business objectives. Our high-potential The overriding basis of the Code is that we will carry out our employees are our future senior managers and executives who business activities in a safe, professional, legal and ethical manner will formulate our future strategy and business plans and we and in a way that demonstrates corporate social responsibility need to ensure that we support them with appropriate learning and sustainability. Wherever possible, the Code defines a fair and and development initiatives in leadership and management. common sense approach to doing business, with some elements Throughout 2013 we continued to focus on the implementation dictated by strict legal requirements. and alignment of our Talent Management Processes to ensure that our talent is engaged, identified and developed, set The Code acknowledges internationally proclaimed human rights challenging and stretching performance management objectives, and these are also reflected in our overall employment policies and appears on relevant succession plans and we have managed standards and provide our employees with reassurance on how career and development plans in place for them. they will be treated. Our equal opportunity and diversity policy aims to prohibit discrimination based on race, color, creed, religion Talent management life cycle and beliefs, age, gender, sexual orientation, national origin, disability, union membership, political affiliation, or any other status protected by law. This policy operates in all employment related decisions. The most senior executive with responsibility for human rights aspects is the Chief Human Resources Officer. Career management Employee engagement to develop, track performance Attract, engage and progress and evaluate & retain We operate comprehensive communication and briefing systems talent over time to ensure sufficient within all our businesses, which includes effective mechanisms supply of talent at for two-way communication. Everyone receives regular updates all levels on Group and local business objectives, targets, results and best practice at central and business unit level, including monthly briefings from the SBU heads. The Group’s employee magazine Succession MADO is produced three times a year and is available to employees management in their native language. In addition to the international edition of to ensure people are ready Identify MADO, the countries with major operations also receive a regional to take on key roles when & develop they are needed. Identify the MADO. We operate formal mechanisms to brief and consult unions critical positions and gaps to identify and develop talent at all levels of the and employee representatives on group operations and future organisation and accelerate plans, as appropriate to local circumstances and requirements. their readiness to achieve their potential Performance NSG Group’s 2014 employee survey was globally rolled out in Management September 2014 and achieved a 90% response rate. The survey to create the alignment and focus upholds the value we place on open communication and giving needed for strategy execution all employees an opportunity to provide feedback on their experience of working for the Group. It is a real opportunity for employees to voice their concerns and influence NSG Group policies. The management team at each level of the organization will develop action plans to improve highlighted areas that people have identified as priorities to improve their satisfaction and motivation at work. Further details will be provided in next year’s Sustainability Report. 26 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 NSG management development programs NSG Group female manager distribution Executive Development 2 (ED2) program (As at 31 March 2014) This program aims to give managers an insight into the leadership changes and capabilities required to make the transition from an Asia 3.4% About us operational management role to a senior strategic management role. We partner with the leading international business school, Europe 19.5% INSEAD, to deliver the program and ensure that delegates receive North America 18.0% the latest thinking and research on strategy development and global leadership. South America 6.1% In November 2013, 24 delegates from around the world attended the Part 1 program in Cranage, UK. A key part of the NSG Group 12.0% program is applying the academic learning to real NSG business challenges and ED2 incorporates project work to embed learning. NSG Group employee distribution graph Management Delegates work in groups as consultants to research and present recommendations on real business and strategic challenges (As at 31 March 2014) currently faced by NSG. This gives them the opportunity to both try out program learning and find out in some depth about other SBUs’ or Functions’ operations outside of their own career Europe 43% experience. Four teams each chose a business challenge to North America 16% work on as an Action Learning Project (ALP). In May 2014 the delegates met up again for ED 2 Part II at the Group’s Head Office Asia 31% in Tokyo, where they delivered the results of their work to senior executives. South America 10% Our Business Joint SBU commercial leadership program This is a unique program for the NSG Group’s Sales and Commercial management teams which was piloted in the AGR SBU in 2013. In FY2014: Following on from this success the plan is to run these as Joint SBU •• 6  .2% of employees left the company by voluntary program in every region throughout 2014. resignation The program combines leading-edge commercial and business •• Each NSG employee received 2.6 training days acumen skills together with leadership development and is •• The non-authorised absence sickness rate was 2.7% specifically designed to focus on customer requirements in Environment fast-changing markets. The key objective is to equip commercial We have around 27,000 people working in 28 countries and managers with the tools and skills to enable them to foresee and speaking over 25 languages. react quickly to fast-changing market demands and then achieving maximum value for the business through applying effective commercial strategies. Tailored to reflect the key drivers and challenges facing our SBUs in each region, the program has been designed by external consultants who deliver the program in close cooperation with senior commercial managers to ensure the program is relevant to Our Stakeholders our business, customers and market conditions. “Many customers already respect the quality of our products and value the expertise of our commercial team, but we need to ensure that we always turn these strengths into a strong case for the customer to buy from us,” explained Tim Ferwerda, Regional Director AGR Europe. “Understanding our customers’ position and proposing solutions that work for them is critical to making this happen.” Delegates working on an innovation challenge during the Japanese Basis of Reporting As part of the week’s program delegates are set business projects Commercial Leadership Program. that reflect the challenges that each SBU is facing in the region and they work in teams to apply the training to developing solutions. Each team then presents project proposals back to a senior management audience, who then decide whether to approve the projects for future investment and development. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 27 HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR SAFETY PROGRAMS EMPHASIZE THE IMPORTANCE OF INDIVIDUALS TAKING PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY AND OF APPROPRIATE SAFE BEHAVIOR, WITH MANAGERS TAKING THE LEAD THROUGH THEIR COMMITMENT TO OUR KEY SAFETY LEADERSHIP BEHAVIORS. Safety performance Significant injury rate (SIR) Over the past year, we had 131 significant injuries (60 of them resulting in time lost from work). The SIR for FY2014 of 0.39 2.0 represents a 19 percent improvement in safety performance compared to FY2013 on a like-for-like basis, excluding a subsidiary disposed in FY2014 1.5 With our continued focus on the following high risk activities the NSG Group has not experienced a fatal injury in calendar years 2013 and 2014. •• Vehicle and pedestrian safety 1.0 •• Machinery safety: guarding, frequent access and isolation •• Contractor control, including permits •• Materials handling: moving glass, load security, grabs, trolleys and pallets 0.5 •• Driving Safety organization and strategy 0 The NSG Group Sustainability Director, reports to the Chief Operating Officer. A safety update is provided each month and there is a more detailed safety review every six months with the FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 senior operations team comprising the heads of the four SBUs and the heads of the Group functions. These reviews were held in Datarevised revised due Data due to to disposal disposal of subsidiary of subsidiary in FY2014. in FY2014. Germany in March 2014 and Poland in September 2014. Moving safety to the next level The safety strategy remains the same, with a focus on improving the effectiveness of our safety tools and programs. To help us to move safety to the next level the following initiatives have taken place: •• I ndependent audits of our safety tools to drive a more consistent approach, develop our safety skills and to improve our shared learning. These audits were cross regions and cross sites within a region for maximum impact. •• Further improve our level of proactive employee involvement as a means of continuing to change our safety culture. •• Further develop our first-line supervisors to improve our overall level of safety leadership. Weiherhammer (Germany) ‘Listen to me!’ project. A safety project of the Weiherhammer plant won the silver medal at the 2014 Safety Award from the Accident Insurance Association in Germany. This project addresses isues of noise in the workplace and elsewhere. The award panel especially praised the creative ideas of this project delivered by apprentices. The team made an induction video and stage performance during the NSG Group Safety Day to increase the overall awareness of risks relating to noise. AKIRA fotographie www.akirafotografie.de 28 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 NSG Safety Day The NSG Safety Day took place on 16 October 2014 and continued to be a successful global event. All sites organised health-related activities and employees were given the opportunity to improve their first aid, fire fighting and emergency response skills. About us Senior managers attended sites to demonstrate their personal commitment and the opportunity was taken to celebrate safety success. Management Chmielow plant in Poland wins an H&S award for a pedestrian safety project. NSG’s newest automotive OE plant in Chmielow, Poland has received a top H&S award for its work on employee safety. As part of the Group’s safety program, the plant’s pedestrian safety project has been recognised by the Polish H&S Organization. It was CEO Keiji Yoshikawa visits Shelbyville plant, North America on Safety Day. awarded a commendation in the technological and organizational solutions category in the Workplace Environment Improvement Our Business Competition. 2014 NSG Safety Award winner A joint team from Cebrace and Caçapava plants in Brazil has won the 2014 NSG Safety Award. The ‘Safer stacking of pallets with a camera system’ project features a system of spotlights, cameras and displays mounted on forklift trucks for stacking loaded glass pallets. The system gives the driver clearer visibility to see if pallets are in the Environment correct position, minimizing the risk of tilting pallets. There were three aspects of the project that especially impressed the judging panel – the project addressed a major risk activity, reliability and feasibility of retrofitting the system to existing forklift trucks, as well as developing, testing and proving the system with contributions from employees who actually use the equipment. In total the judging panel received 183 applications. They were encouraged to see how major safety challenges had been San Salvo employees accept national Italian Safety Award for Primo plant. met. The judges focused on significant risk reduction, wider Our Stakeholders employee involvement, transferability and the innovativeness Primo Plant has been awarded an important Italian safety of the overall project. recognition. The competition was established by the National Industry Association, National H&S Insurance Company and an accreditation body, ACCREDIA. 150 Italian companies participated and were audited on safety improvements. Winners demonstrated improved safety activity and investment KPIs over 3 years. Basis of Reporting NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 29 CUSTOMERS HIGH QUALITY AND SERVICE STANDARDS ARE KEY FEATURES IN BUILDING RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR INDUSTRY CUSTOMERS AND END-CONSUMERS. WE ARE COMMITTED TO THE SAFE USE OF OUR PRODUCTS, ENSURING THEY CAN BE EFFECTIVELY HANDLED, FITTED AND USED BY OUR CUSTOMERS. We aim to be the most efficient, most reliable, most responsive Highest quality and most sustainable supplier of choice of our customers. Our Quality is a key feature in building successful relationships with objective is to produce a wide range of effective, innovative and our industry customers and end customers. It is also a key factor in sustainable products in all our business and our R&D effort is sustainability, because high quality can reduce waste throughout focused on product and process development to support this the supply chain, while improving production efficiencies. Quality objective. encompasses design, development, manufacture, delivery, Most efficient means having the lowest delivered unit cost of assembly and price of glass, as well as customer support. In the what we supply and using the minimum resources and energy to NSG Group, the achievement of high quality is supported by the produce and process them. use of rigorous quality management systems and standards. Most reliable means that, having committed to a customer order, In the Architectural Glass business, the Group has ISO 9000:2000 we deliver what they ordered, with the promised quality, when quality management certification in Europe, Japan, North America they expect it, in full, on time, every time, without quality issues or and South America. paperwork mistakes. Our European Architectural Glass business has been a leading Most responsive means that when our customers contact us player in the development of new glass product standards for by whatever method, they get an answer immediately. In other the European building industry. These standards have provided a words, they know where they stand with us. route for glass manufacturers to meet the European Construction Products Directive and apply to virtually all NSG Group products To be the most sustainable supplier means ensuring that we set used in buildings. high standards and adhere to them throughout the supply chain, from our own suppliers, through manufacturing, transport and Malaysian Sheet Glass were awarded Toyota’s 2014 UMWT – delivery. We aim to achieve an economic performance that ensures SPLD Service Parts Supplier Performance Award in recognition the long-term viability of the Company. of outstanding performance in Quality Assurance and on-time delivery. Product responsibility We aim to provide customers with products and services that offer social, environmental and safety benefits. Our training and support helps our customers to identify and mitigate risks or to raise market awareness of sustainability issues. We are committed to the safety of our products and to ensuring they can be effectively handled, fitted and used by our customers. This includes the safe handling of sheet glass or the correct fitment of windshields in vehicles to maintain quality and strength. Based on the success of ekoglass in Argentina, the NSG Group launched the same initiative in Brazil to raise awareness of the benefits in using insulated glazing. It aims to make a step change in the energy and acoustic efficiency of the glazing products supplied to consumers and to make important improvements to the manufacturing base. 30 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 Product innovation NGF EUROPE Limited has been honoured with a Queen’s Award The NSG Group is a global leader in manufacturing excellence and for Enterprise in the 2014 Innovation Category in recognition innovation, notably in the areas of glass melting, glass forming by of the design and manufacture of small filament diameter the float process, online coating and complex shaping technology, glass cords which are changing the way automotive engineers especially for automotive windshields and backlights. The Group design vehicles. About us invested ¥7,880 million in R&D in FY2014. When coated in rubber latex in a novel chemical-dipping The Group owns or controls approximately 4,000 patents and process these glass cords are uniquely oil resistant and so patent applications, predominantly in the fields of float glass capable of reinforcing timing belts which run in oil. This production and processing and automotive glazing and also in application significantly reduces noise and carbon dioxide the information technology field, and has access under license to emissions and increases the fuel economy of automobile patents held by third parties. engines. The award recognises the achievements The Group has also been active in selective licensing of its patents of the R&D team and the and technology, in the areas of online coating, encapsulation (of company’s commitment automotive glazing) and rain sensors for automotive glazing. to technical development, Management manufacturing excellence and its successful Pilkington UK Ltd has won the Glass and Glazing Industry G14 commercialization. Commercial Project of the Year Award for the Stonehenge Visitor Centre. The idea behind the glass pavilion was to connect the interior of the building with the striking landscape that surrounds it on all sides. The architect wanted the interior to be both visible from Our Business outside to entice people in while, more importantly, allowing those inside a view out that was as bright and naturally coloured as possible. The glazing we provided gives the appearance of an almost free-standing, delicate wall of glass, while in fact the system has a great deal of structural strength . NGF EUROPE receive the prestigious Queen’s Award for Enterprise in The use of Pilkington glazing allows the maximum amount the Innovation category from the Queen’s representative. of energy and light to enter the building and help to heat the space, while at the same time minimising the amount of heat Environment loss.. The result is that the sweeping views and light filled pavilion enjoyed by those inside the centre do not come NSG Group’s vacuum double-glazing glass, SPACIA 21® clear at the expense of energy-efficiency. thermal shield unit, has won an energy conservation prize awarded by Japan’s Energy Conservation Center. The glass was awarded the Chairman’s Prize in the Product category & Business Model category Energy Conservation Grand Prize. This award recognizes outstanding developments in energy-saving product performance and the promotion of energy-saving Our Stakeholders awareness. Basis of Reporting Stonehenge Visitor Centre – a world heritage site SPACIA 21® wins energy conservation grand prize. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 31 SUPPLIERS WE PURCHASE MATERIALS, GOODS AND SERVICES FROM OVER 20,000 SUPPLIERS WORLDWIDE. OUR SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT AND RELATED EVALUATIONS HELP ENSURE THAT OUR SUPPLIERS UNDERSTAND AND COMPLY WITH OUR STANDARDS. As part of our Sustainable Procurement Program, we operate a The standards we expect Supplier Code of Conduct. It outlines behaviors, processes and We expect our suppliers to achieve and maintain high standards procedures — in short, the standards we expect from our suppliers. throughout the supply chain, but particularly with regards to the Engagement with suppliers may be via appropriate account following: managers and the Procurement function has the responsibility to ensure that suitable engagement arrangements are in place and Ethical behavior — Our suppliers must accept personal communicated. responsibility for behaving professionally, ethically and with integrity and fairness. Our manufacturing processes use materials, products and services procured from around 20,000 local, regional and global suppliers. Social behavior — human considerations in the Our suppliers are therefore crucial to the achievement of our workplace — All our suppliers must conform to the relevant sustainability objectives. To manufacture and supply superior International Labor Organization Labor Standards as a minimum quality glass products to our customers, we aim to build strong requirement. relationships with suppliers that are based on a framework of Environmental behavior — Our suppliers must recognize trust, co-operation and sustainability. the crucial importance of their role in reducing environmental impact. They must play their part in creating a prosperous and Our Supplier Code of Conduct sustainable future by continually seeking to achieve best practice The wide range of issues addressed in the Code reflect the many in environmental protection. and diverse activities in which our suppliers are involved. Wherever Evaluation — Key elements of the Code now form part of our possible, the Code defines a fair and common-sense approach to supplier audits. We have a supplier development team of 15 doing business, while incorporating all relevant legal requirements. engineers, covering all regions. This team is responsible for The content of the Code also takes into account our values and improving performance where necessary against these standards. principles, particularly the emphasis on safety, taking personal ownership for our actions and communicating with openness and involvement. It is the responsibility of all of our suppliers to We expect our suppliers to uphold our standards in follow the principles of this Code to ensure compliance with our dealing with their own suppliers, contractors and subrequirements. contractors and to be able to provide evidence of this Supplier sustainability evaluation if requested. Between 2011 and December 2015 we plan to evaluate over 300 suppliers against our Supplier Code of Conduct. In order to meet Impact on the environment this challenge and to carry out additional due diligence on our suppliers of high environmental impact, NSG has engaged in the In 2010, we began to identify suppliers that have a particularly services of an external service provider. high impact on the environment. Our aim is to ensure that our suppliers minimize their negative impacts and work positively on environmental initiatives. The scope includes wooden packaging, batch materials, waste-management contractors and chemicals. We expect that suppliers in these categories have a recognized environmental certification such as ISO 14001 or equivalent. 32 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 About us Management In the case of wooden packaging we look for a recognized chain of custody in regard to the wood supply. Conflict minerals Currently, over 60% in these categories fully meet our NSG Group supports the goals and objectives of the Doddrequirements. Those who do not will undergo further evaluation Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act’s and development. Any suppliers unwilling to accept this may be Section 1502, which aims to prevent the use of conflict phased out. minerals that directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or an Working with suppliers to save energy adjoining country as defined in the Act. Our procurement activities and projects demonstrate our Identifying suppliers who provide materials that could Our Business commitment to sustainability. Good practice is shared through potentially include these minerals is now a very important part Global Procurement Category teams and spread throughout the of our procedures and due diligence is being completed via an Group. We leverage our Global Procurement function to achieve online questionnaire. this spread of good practice effectively and efficiently. We are working with key suppliers to develop projects to reduce energy consumption in our manufacturing sites. Close collaboration with leaders in specific technologies is enabling us to implement optimum solutions to specific energy management challenges. For example, in our sites in Italy and the UK, new efficient lighting systems have been installed in place of old outdated lamps, Environment leading to a halving of electricity consumption and a significant reduction in ongoing maintenance. Collaborative projects have also been implemented to address compressor inefficiency, to make better use of waste heat generated in our glass-making processes and to reduce peaks in electricity demand. Communication and co-operation In line with our Sustainability Policy, we communicate with and work constructively with our suppliers and governments, Our Stakeholders regulatory agencies, the scientific community and other relevant stakeholders, to develop and encourage business and community practices that make progress towards the common aim of sustainable development. Basis of Reporting NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 33 COMMUNITIES THE LOCAL COMMUNITIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD IN WHICH THE NSG GROUP OPERATES ARE THE FOUNDATION OF OUR BUSINESS AND THE LIVES OF EMPLOYEES. WITHOUT A RELATIONSHIP OF MUTUAL BENEFIT WITH THESE COMMUNITIES, THE GROUP AS A WHOLE COULD NOT SUSTAIN ITS OPERATION. We have around 27,000 permanent employees, with principal Local community action initiatives operations in 29 countries throughout Europe, Japan, North and South America, China and South and South East Asia. We do this North America Automotive inspires young engineers in over 500 separate facilities worldwide — some large and some small. Each has an impact on the community in which it is based, by providing employment, investment and other benefits, but also having an impact on the environment. The effects of necessary investments on our communities are generally beneficial, bringing additional employment and economic benefits. For every investment we make, an impact assessment is conducted to ensure we understand and manage the likely effects on the community, the environment and the local economy. As a responsible and often prominent member of the communities in which we operate, we believe it is important to be involved actively by leveraging our core business and management resources to help to address local issues. Aims and objectives Our Shelbyville plant helped to encourage local youngsters into We want our operations to function in healthy, thriving engineering careers during Engineering Day at the local High School. communities and to be seen as a good neighbor to those communities. Engineering and HR employees helped to assess final-year We know that if we want to operate effectively and to be able to students’ science projects and demonstrated the beneficial use of expand or change when the time is right, we need the goodwill automotive glazing products to younger students. that comes from being an active supporter of the community. There is a problem with a shortage of students going into science In addition to our business investments, helping to sustain and engineering and this event is part of an ongoing strategy local operations, we also invest in the communities in which launched a year ago by the city and county authorities, partnered we operate. We aim to help – through direct cash donations to with businesses and local colleges, to encourage youngsters into charities and other projects or through in-kind resources — to engineering careers. improve the health of the community or tackle specific social issues. We operate programs that assess and manage the impacts of our operations on communities, including entering, operating and exiting. We also involve our staff in providing a lead in developing our relationships with the communities in which we operate. This can take the form of matching contributions raised by staff or allowing staff time to make personal contributions of time and effort in local projects. In FY2014, we made contributions worth around ¥64 million to our local communities. Our grants helped the arts, medicine, welfare, job creation and urban renewal. 34 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 Volunteering in Japanese community activities Employees participate in supporting disadvantaged children. About us Management Japanese employees volunteer in an annual cleaning initiative Tarui plant employees organize plastic bottle cap collection to provide in Aikawa Mizube Park in Tarui-cho. support for disadvantaged children around the world. Site familiarization with VASA’s local community Open Doors initiative for local communities Our Business Environment Creative activities were organized for 4-11 year old children of VASA´s employees in Argentina. The main objective is to familiarize the children Our San Salvo plant runs an ‘Open Doors’ initiative and with the place where their parents work. organizes three family visits per year. Sponsoring educational awards Organizing community road safety initiatives Our Stakeholders Basis of Reporting NSG sponsored the Sustainable School Award at the St Helens Reporter As a part of Safety Day activities we liaised with the police and organized a Education Awards 2014. This category recognizes schools that have ‘Staying Visible’ educational campaign for two kindergartens located near developed environmental awareness and sustainable development our plants in Sandomierz and Chmielów, Poland. Police talked about road education across all the curriculum areas and the life of the school. safety and how to behave when approached by a stranger. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 35 SHAREHOLDERS WE AIM TO KEEP OUR SHAREHOLDERS INFORMED THROUGH A FOCUSED INTERNATIONAL INVESTOR RELATIONS PROGRAM. THIS ENCOMPASSES REGULAR COMMUNICATIONS THROUGHOUT THE FINANCIAL YEAR, THROUGH MEETINGS, PUBLICATIONS, PLANT VISITS AND OUR WEBSITES. In communicating with our shareholders, investors, the financial community regulatory authorities and the media, our aim is to report in a transparent, timely and accurate manner. Our overriding objective is to provide as much information as Through this shift in focus, to become more of a ‘VA Glass possible to help our shareholders and potential shareholders Company’ the Group aims to become a more profitable and understand our strategy and performance, to enable them to take financially stronger business, with a lighter asset base, while investment decisions. reducing the cyclical nature of the business at the same time. Annual and Interim reports are produced in both Japanese and Medium-term plan English and widely distributed to stakeholders who may have The period through to FY2018 is critical to the establishment of the an interest in our performance. These documents are also made Group as a ‘VA Glass Company’ the priority being to enhance our available on our websites. financial and operational performance while we shift to selling more The CEO makes regular reports to the Board on investor relations value-added products as described in our new long-term vision. and on specific discussions with major shareholders. The Operational performance will focus on our shift to selling a greater Board receives copies of all research published on the Group. proportion of value-added products, fully utilizing our existing Shareholders have an opportunity at the General Meeting of capacity and consolidating our reputation for manufacturing Shareholders to ask questions of the Chairman and the Board. excellence. Our Investor Relations (IR) Policy reflects our aims to be open and We are executing our strategy through a market-facing regionally fair and to comply with corporate ethics. The NSG Group is listed organized business, based on three business areas: Architectural, on the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) and we disclose information Automotive and Technical Glass. A good balance between regional in line with the TSE ‘Rules on Timely Disclosure of Corporate and global organizational structures will drive efficiency and allow Information by Issuers of Listed Securities’. us to react quickly to market developments. In parallel, we are strengthening our market-driven culture, creating a passion for Where information does not fall under the category of timely revenue growth, to fully utilize our assets. disclosure rules, our policy is to communicate it swiftly and fairly, once it has been determined that the disclosure of such We are aiming to lower the break-even point of our business by information is beneficial to investors. reducing overheads, improving manufacturing efficiency and controlling our input cost through best-in-class procurement Communicating our strategy and shared services. We aim to ensure that we spend our limited Our profit improvement programs are well advanced and since resources wisely and generate capacity at much lower capital costs. our initial announcement in February 2012 we have introduced We believe that ‘people are our most important asset’ and that additional measures and accelerated restructuring activities. effective use of our people is the main driver to surmount the We are looking carefully at all aspects of our current asset base. current challenges we face. We are determined that we will not We have been quick to take action to adjust our capacity to lose sight of our core values and principles, with safety and quality demand, through temporary and permanent closures of plants. remaining top priorities. We aim to be a sustainable company, believing that good management of our people, our resources, Long-term strategic vision our communities and our environment also makes good business In May 2014, we announced that our new strategic vision is to sense. transform the Group into a ‘VA Glass Company’. ‘VA’ comes from ‘value-added’ and our aim is to: •• Consolidate our trusted reputation as a glass specialist •• Work closely with our customers in a range of global industries to deliver unique value through our products and services •• Transform our float glass business, moving from a traditional business model towards one increasingly focused on VA 36 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 About us Management Communicating our performance Distribution of NSG Group shareholders We report our results on a quarterly basis. We hold year-end (as at 30 September 2014) financial results briefings for securities analysts and investors in Japan, with further communications in the intervening quarters. The CEO, COO and CFO personally present and discuss financial Financial institutions 20.9% results, charting our progress against our strategy and the future Securities companies 5.6% outlook for the Group. Supplementing this, the CFO and IR team give background briefings to analysts and investors following the Other corporate entities 4.6% release of financial results. From time to time we arrange plant Our Business visits to enable analysts to see our operations at first hand. Foreign companies/individuals 25.7% Over the past years, we have increased our focus on non-financial aspects of our performance relating to sustainability. This Other Sustainability Report is an important channel for communicating individual investors 43.1% our progress. It is made available to shareholders in both English and Japanese versions, with additional data available on our Treasury stock 0.1% website. Shareholder composition Environment The acquisition of Pilkington plc in 2006 transformed NSG from a regional Japanese glass company to an international group headquartered in Tokyo. Following the acquisition, the proportion of non-resident foreign corporations and foreign individuals owning NSG Group shares rose, but has since dropped back, with a higher proportion of individual shareholders now based in Japan. Nevertheless, as an international group based in Japan, we have expanded our global IR effort to meet the requirements of shareholders and potential investors around the world. Most of our publications are produced in both Japanese and English. Our Stakeholders Details can be found on page 45 of this Report and on our website. We organize ‘road shows’ for analysts, investors and potential Keiji Yoshikawa at a press conference. investors outside Japan, when appropriate Basis of Reporting NSG Group Executive Officers present at an analysts meeting. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 37 GRI INDEX AS A GLOBAL BUSINESS, WE HAVE CHOSEN TO ASSESS OUR PERFORMANCE AGAINST THE GRI (GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE). THE GRI AIMS TO PROMOTE COMMON CONVENTIONS AND TO ENABLE COMPARABILITY – SUCH AS CURRENTLY EXIST IN FINANCIAL REPORTING – IN CORPORATE REPORTING ON ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL, AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE. We believe the GRI approach is GRI Indicator Criteria Where to find this information consistent with our aim to make 1 Strategy and analysis steady incremental progress 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the on improving our sustainability organization and its strategy. SR Page 2 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Pages 8-9, 15 performance and its criteria 2 Organization profile & Web are a good match with our own 2.1 Name of organization. Page 40 sustainability objectives. 2.2 Primary brands, products and services. Pages 12-13 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint We have self-declared our reporting to be Application Level B ventures. Page 3 & AR (Self-declared). We intend to be able to report further progress 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Page 40 in our 2014 Sustainability Report, to be published in early 2015. 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and We report our financial, social and environmental performance via names of countries. Page 3 three main channels: 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. AR 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors •• NSG Group Annual Report (AR) served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). Pages 3 •• NSG Group Sustainability Report (SR) 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. AR •• NSG corporate website, www.nsg.com (Web) 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. AR 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Page 28-31 3 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period. Page 42 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. IBC 3.3 Reporting cycle. IBC 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Page 40 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: determining materiality; prioritizing topics within the report; and identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. IBC 3.6 Boundary of the report. IBC 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. IBC 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. AR 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such restatement. Not applicable 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. IBC 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Identify the page numbers or web links where the following can be found. Pages 38-39 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Self declared at assurance for the report. GRI Application Level B. No external assurance was pursued for this reporting period. 4 Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. Pages 10-11 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. Page 10 38 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 GRI Where to find GRI Where to find Indicator Criteria this information Indicator Criteria this information 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary Board structure, state EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonthe number of members of the highest governance body that monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental are independent and/or non-executive members. State how laws and regulations. Web the organization defines ‘independent’ and ‘non-executive’. Pages 10-11 Product responsibility About us 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Disclosure on management approach. Page 9 recommendations or direction to the highest governance Customer health and safety body. Pages 10-11 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the board, products and services are assessed for improvement, and senior managers and executives and the organization’s percentage of significant products and services categories performance. Web subject to such procedures. Web 4.6 Processes in place for the Board to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Pages 10-11 Product and service labeling 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the PR3 Type of product and service information required by members of the Board for guiding the organization’s strategy procedures, and percentage of significant products and on economic, environmental, and social topics. Web services subject to such information requirements. Web Management 4.8 Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and Customer satisfaction principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of performance and the status of their implementation. Pages 7-9 surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Web 4.9 Board procedures for overseeing the organization’s Marketing communications identification and management of economic, environmental, PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary and social performance, including relevant risks and codes related to marketing communications, including opportunities, and adherence or compliance with advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Web internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and Pages 10-11 Labor practices and decent work principles. & Web Disclosure on management approach. Page 8 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board’s own performance. Web Employment 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach Our Business or principle is addressed by the organization. Web LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. Page 27 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, organization subscribes or endorses. Pages 1-2 gender, and region. Page 27 4.13 Memberships in associations or advocacy organizations. Page 7 Labor/Management relations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Pages 7, 26-37 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with agreements. Web whom to engage. Page 7 LA5 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Web of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Pages 26-37 Occupational health and safety 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Pages 27-28 Environment stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. & Web responded to those key topics and concerns, including Training and education. through its reporting. Pages 26 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee Economic category. Page 27 Disclosure on management approach. AR LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that Economic performance support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Pages 26-27 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and donations and other community investments, retained career development reviews. Pages 5 earnings, and payments to capital providers and Human rights governments. AR Our Stakeholders Disclosure on management approach. Page 8 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment the organization’s activities due to climate change. Page 7 agreements that include human rights clauses or that have Environment undergone human rights screening. Web Disclosure on management approach. Page 8 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have Materials undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. Page 32 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Pages 22 & Society Web Disclosure on management approach. Page 8 EN2 Percentage of materials that are recycled input materials. Pages 24 & Community Web SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Page 22 practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations Basis of Reporting EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Page 22 on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. Pages 34-35 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Public policy improvements. Pages 22-23 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy Water development and lobbying. Page 11 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Page 25 Anti-competitive behavior Emissions, effluents and waste SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Page 24 anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. AR EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gases by weight. Page 24 Compliance EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Web SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and regulations. AR weight. Pages 24-25 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Page 25 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Web EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Pages 14-19 Compliance NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 39 FURTHER INFORMATION WE PRODUCE A REGULAR FLOW OF PUBLICATIONS INTENDED TO PROVIDE CURRENT AND POTENTIAL INVESTORS WITH AS MUCH INFORMATION AS POSSIBLE ABOUT THE GROUP, THE INDUSTRIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE AND THE ORGANIZATION, STRATEGY, TARGETS AND PROGRESS OF THE GROUP. Publications Company information The range of these publications is shown below. (as at 31 March 2014) Annual Report Company name: Nippon Sheet Glass Co., Ltd. In order to obtain a full understanding of the Unified global brand: NSG Group performance of the Group, this document Head office: 5-27, Mita 3-Chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-6321 should be consulted. Japan Established: 22 November 1918 Paid-in capital: ¥116,449 million Total assets: ¥925,175 million To Our Shareholders Net sales: ¥606,095 million (consolidated) Published twice a year, in June and December, designed to keep shareholders informed of Employees: 27,079 progress against our strategy. Editions in both NSG Group companies: 233 English and Japanese. Web: www.nsg.com Websites The Way we do Business NSG Group corporate website Produced for Group employees in all of the (English) languages in which the Group operates, summarizing the main points of the Group’s Code www.nsg.com of Conduct. NSG Group corporate website (Japanese) www.nsg.co.jp Commercial website (Architectural and Automotive) www.pilkington.com Sustainability contact www.nsg.com/en/contact-us 40 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 APPROACH TO REPORTING About us Management This Report forms part of our non-financial performance communications and reflects Group, regional and site-level reporting. Unless otherwise stated, the Report covers those businesses over which the NSG Group has management control. Data relating to the environmental performance of Group operations covers 31 float and five rolled-glass sites. Joint venture sites where we do not have operational control are excluded. All Architectural, Automotive and Technical Glass downstream processing are also included in the reporting. Safety statistics shown cover our ‘workforce’ (employees and permanent Our Business contractors). Our environmental and social performance is of interest to our stakeholders and important to our business success and we have been reporting on these matters since 2002, in successive environmental, social activity or CSR reports. We published our first Sustainability Report in 2009, when we decided to widen our reporting to cover all aspects of sustainability. In June 2009, we published our Group Sustainability Environment Policy, setting our sustainability agenda, and in December 2009 established a Group Sustainability Committee to direct, coordinate and monitor our efforts to improve our approach to sustainability. In 2010, the Board agreed specific sustainability targets for the Group. These are shown on page 5 of this Report, along with an account of our progress towards them. In 2012, Shiro Kobayashi was appointed as the Group’s director of sustainability. Shiro chairs the Sustainability Committee, which is leading our efforts to ensure that the principles of sustainable Our Stakeholders development are embedded in all of the Group’s activities. We will report further on our progress in our 2015 Sustainability Report, which will be published in early 2016. This Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, which provide a globally recognized framework for reporting on an organization’s economic, social and environmental performance and responsiveness. We have self-declared our performance at Application Level B. Basis of Reporting To keep the size of the printed report to a minimum, we have included additional information, charts and tables covering our performance in the Sustainability section of our website. The printed report can also be downloaded from our website at www.nsg.com/sustainability. For detailed GRI and UNGC index, please visit www.nsg.com/ sustainability. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2014 IBC This report is printed on Revive uncoated, a 100% recycled paper made from post-consumer collected waste. Revive uncoated is manufactured to the certified environmental management system ISO 14001. Published by NSG Group Designed by Jones and Palmer
