ENABLING POSITIVE FUTURES UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 OLD MUTUAL IS AN INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENT, SAVINGS, INSURANCE AND BANKING GROUP Introduction Statement of support from Julian Roberts, Group Chief Executive 1 Group at a glance 2 Our approach to responsible business 4 Our progress Human rights 6 Labour 7 Environment 8 Anti-corruption 9 Looking forward Looking forward 10 Useful links 10 Find out more about Old Mutual Corporate website Contact and feedback www.oldmutual.com If you would like to find out more information, have any questions, or would like to provide Annual Report any additional feedback on this www.oldmutual.com/reportingcentre Communication on Progress please email Responsible Business Report our Responsible Business Team at www.oldmutual.com/reportingcentre responsiblebusiness@omg.co.uk Cover picture Carolyne Chelegat, businesswoman, Kenya Follow us on www.twitter.com/oldmutual www.facebook.com/oldmutual www.youtube.com/oldmutual STATEMENT OF SUPPORT JULIAN ROBERTS, GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OF OLD MUTUAL Key progress in 2014 ■■ Established our two key focus areas for responsible business – financial wellbeing and responsible investment ■■ Expanded our On The Money financial education programme, launching in Zimbabwe, Malawi and Swaziland, reaching 15m through workshops and radio programmes to date ■■ Invested R11.98bn in renewable energy projects across Africa through Old Mutual Investment Group to date ■■ Improved our position in the CDP Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index for FTSE 350 financial services companies – from fifth to fourth We remain committed to working towards our goal of becoming a recognised leader in “Old Mutual’s purpose in society Old Mutual aims to embed responsible responsible business. We welcome the support business into all we do, recognising that it is in of key partners, including the Global is to help our customers to thrive, our core operations and day-to-day decisions Compact, who are similarly committed to through enabling them to achieve that we evidence our responsible approach to ‘enabling positive futures’, since the challenges their lifetime financial goals, business and build trust with our customers. of building a regenerative and inclusive whilst investing their funds in ways We recognise we cannot achieve our aim economy demand concerted and united that will help secure a positive action by all stakeholders. alone, so are establishing partnerships with future for them, their families, key organisations which can help us to Our 2014 Communication on Progress their communities and the world formulate our approach and deliver action in provides an overview of our developments at large.” our key markets. These partnerships against the ten Global Compact principles supplement our existing valuable relationships over the last year. For more detailed with organisations such as the United Nations information, please visit our website and other Key material issues Global Compact, helping us to ensure we can Old Mutual publications that detail our identified by our partnership face our current and future commitments with progress and plans, including our 2014 with the Cambridge Institute confidence, learning from fellow members Responsible Business Report. for Sustainability Leadership and sharing our own progress. Julian Roberts ■■ Financial wellbeing including This year, we began a partnership with the Group Chief Executive access to financial services Cambridge Institute for Sustainability ■■ Responsible investment Leadership, to help us identify where and how ■■ Operating as a collaborative we can make the most material impact. We business with a long-term view. have selected two areas where we wish to raise our game significantly: enabling the financial wellbeing of our customers; and responsible investment. Our focus on these two areas complements our existing five pillar approach to responsible business, established following extensive stakeholder engagement in 2010 and reviewed in 2013. It emphasises that our customers are at the heart of our business, and will help us to continue building on the strong foundation of ethical values and good governance that is so critical to the custodianship of people’s money. 1 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2014 GROUP AT A GLANCE Our Group operates in over 30 countries. Group Highlights Position ■■ Strong operating performance in all operations Leading investment, savings, insurance and banking group. ■■ Successful product innovation and roll-out in South Africa and the UK Financial highlights 2014 +/-%1 ■■ IPO of OM Asset Management on the New York Stock Exchange, AOP (pre-tax and NCI) £1,605m – providing financial flexibility to grow (+16% in constant currency) ■■ Significant capital commitments in Africa and in the UK: FUM £319.4bn +9% —— Ecobank Transnational Inc – 20% ownership for £305 million, providing banking access across 36 African countries www.oldmutual.com —— Old Mutual Finance – acquired further 25% stake for £63 million, a major distribution channel for the mass foundation market —— Quilter Cheviot, a UK discretionary investment manager for up to £585 million. Group AOP by geography (post-tax and NCI) 20% 9% 2% 2014 +/-%1 South Africa 628 (4%) UK, Europe & cross-border 195 3% 5% United States 94 16% Africa (excluding South 48 (14%) 64% Africa) Other markets 21 11% Customer numbers AOP by business unit (pre-tax and NCI) Employees by business unit 17.5m £1,605m 61,583 Old Mutual Emerging Markets 55% Old Mutual Emerging Markets 38% Old Mutual Emerging Markets 42% Nedbank 40% Nedbank 48% Nedbank 50% Old Mutual Wealth 5% Old Mutual Wealth 14% Old Mutual Wealth 5% Institutional Asset Management3 Institutional Asset Management 8% Institutional Asset Management 2% Interest and central costs (8)% Other 1% 2 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2014 We operate under the following four business divisions. Old Mutual Emerging Markets Nedbank We provide We provide Innovative long-term savings, protection, investment and A wide range of wholesale and retail banking services and a growing lending solutions. insurance, asset management and wealth offering. Position Position No.1 in total life sales in South Africa 2014 South African Bank of the Year (The Banker, a member of the FT Company) Financial highlights 2014 +/-%2 AOP £617m +23% Financial highlights 2014 +/-%2 FUM £50.3bn +8% AOP £770m +14% FUM £12.6bn +11% Highlights ■■ Grew the South African Wealth offering significantly, adding new Highlights products and services. ■■ Invested in Africa through acquisition of stake in Banco Único in ■■ Acquired majority share in Old Mutual Finance to accelerate Mozambique and the exercise of right to subscribe for 20% distribution in core Mass Foundation market. shareholding in Ecobank Transnational Inc, further strengthening our strategic alliance in Africa. ■■ Launch of 2-IN-ONE, a new savings product allowing clients to save for their long term goals while providing flexible access to funds. ■■ Announced creation of an integrated corporate and investment bank to enable better client service and unlock additional revenue growth. ■■ Winner of the Deloitte Best Company to Work for Survey in 2014 (large company category). ■■ Our early action to reduce our home and personal loan portfolios has resulted in significantly improved impairments in 2014. www.oldmutual.co.za ■■ We have advanced R1.2 billlion to affordable housing developments across South Africa and R113 million to enterprise development. www.nedbank.co.za Old Mutual Wealth Institutional Asset Management We provide We provide Integrated wealth management products, services and advice, A diverse range of investment strategies and products, operating combining asset management as well as saving and investment as OM Asset Management in the United States, and delivered via solutions to affluent and high net worth clients in the UK, Europe and a multi-boutique model to institutional investors around the world. selected international markets. Position Position Leading Institutional Asset Manager 2014 Global Group of the Year – Old Mutual Global Investors Financial highlights 2014 +/-%2 (Investment Week Fund Manager of the Year) AOP £131m +24% Financial highlights4 2014 +/-%1 FUM £174.0bn +5% AOP £199m +11% FUM £82.5bn +12% Highlights ■■ Successful partial IPO of Old Mutual Asset Management in the Highlights United States. ■■ Accelerated strategy to build the UK’s leading vertically-integrated ■■ Strong sales into non-US equity and alternatives during the year, retail investment business through the acquisition of Intrinsic, the UK’s improving asset mix and margin. largest distribution network, and Quilter Cheviot, a strong discretionary investment management business. ■■ The Global Distribution initiative generated $6 billion of assets (funded in 2014). Global Distribution is an important channel to ■■ Strengthened Old Mutual Global Investors through the hire of UK equity, Asian equity, pan-European small company and fixed income generate future positive cash flows. absolute return asset management capabilities. www.omam.com ■■ Completed sale of non-core European businesses in Poland, Austria, Germany, Liechtenstein, France and Luxembourg. www.oldmutualwealth.co.uk 1 Reported currency movement against prior year 2 Local currency movement against prior year 3 Institutional clients 4 Old Mutual Wealth financial highlights exclude European businesses sold during 2014 3 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2014 OUR APPROACH TO RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS We are committed to becoming a recognised leader The inclusion of responsible business in our Group strategy underlines in responsible business our ambition in this space to make a significant difference in each of our markets, focusing our efforts in the areas where we can have most We recognise that we have a responsibility and opportunity to give impact: enabling financial wellbeing and responsible investment. customers easier access to appropriate financial services products that deliver real value, financial security and peace of mind. As a This approach explicitly commits us to operating responsibly, while responsible business with a view to the long-term, we focus on areas examining the impacts of our business as an integral part of our where we can make a material impact and create meaningful change. decision-making. In this way, we deliver better service to our customers, support the Our five pillar framework, established in 2010 and reviewed in 2013, communities in which we operate, and play an important role in remains the basis for our approach to becoming a responsible business helping to create a regenerative economic cycle. and provides the framework for our two focus areas going forward: financial wellbeing and responsible investment. Our Big Strategic Priorities Our governance Underlying our Responsible Business programme is a strong In Africa governance structure supporting us in achieving our goals. Our Group 1 Build a financial services champion In Southern Africa, through continued organic growth and collaboration in broad financial Customer Director and Responsible Business Lead, Gail Klintworth, chairs our Responsible Business Committee which, following its membership refresh last year, contains representatives from business units and each of the five pillars of responsible business at both Group services markets and business unit level. In the Rest of Africa, by creating leadership Established in 2010, the Committee shares best practice from external positions in wholesale and retail financial organisations and individuals and from each of our business units, as services through inorganic and organic well as monitoring our progress across our five pillar framework. The expansion and by building value in delivering Old Mutual plc Board receives an annual report on responsible financial services via key long-term partnerships business activities, with ad hoc matters raised in between formal reports. Going forward, our Board Risk Committee will receive In the UK quarterly reports on our Responsible Business programme. 2 Build the leading retail investment business By vertically integrating advice, platforms, Our role Our commitment to be a leader in responsible business stems from our purpose in society, which is to help our customers thrive by enabling them to achieve their lifetime financial goals, while investing their funds wealth solutions and asset management and in ways that will help secure a positive future for them, their families, offering these best-in-class wealth solutions in their communities and the world at large. our markets beyond the UK Our future We recognise we cannot achieve our ambitious aim alone, and In the US welcome the support of key partners. We already have partnerships 3 Grow our multi-boutique institutional asset management business Through organic growth, inorganic opportunities with many institutions on the ground in our business units, such as our Black Economic Empowerment Trust partners. In addition, in 2014, our work with the Cambridge Institute of Sustainability Leadership has already led to the establishment of our two key focus areas, and we and expanding distribution look forward to sharing more information on how we are planning to become leaders in these areas during 2015. We already have partnerships with many institutions on the ground in our business units, Across our markets such as our Black Economic Empowerment Trust partners, such as 4 Become recognised as the financial services leader in responsible business By increasing our impact in enabling financial WIPHOLD, our long-term partnership with WWF SA through Nedbank and Old Mutual South Africa’s partnership with the South African Savings Institute. wellbeing and responsible investment Across the Group, we remain committed to working towards our goal of becoming a recognised leader in responsible business, empowering our employees to make a real difference to the lives of our current and For more information on the Group’s Strategy see Our vision, future customers. strategy and values on pages 13-21 in our Annual Report. 4 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2014 Our approach to being a responsible business is threefold Ensuring good governance by 1 ■■ Always treating customers fairly ■■ Adhering to strong ethical values and by leveraging the power of diversity ■■ Ensuring strong capital and risk management capabilities. Making a positive difference to society through our five pillar framework 2 Our Responsible Our Our Environmental customers investment employees communities management Putting the customer Systematic Building a culture Providing Helping to monitor, first in everything incorporation of excellence which sustainable, tailored manage and we do, aiming to be of material our employees are and meaningful reduce our direct our customers’ most environmental, proud to be part of. support to the and indirect trusted partner. social and communities in environmental governance criteria which we operate. impacts. in our investment and ownership decision. Increasing our impact through a focus on Enabling the financial wellbeing Promoting responsible investment in each 3 of our customers of our markets We define financial wellbeing as: We define responsible investment as: Being and feeling financially secure, able to provide A cross-cutting approach to investment that integrates for yourself and your family, now and in the future. the consideration of material environmental, social and governance factors into investment and At Old Mutual we focus on enabling financial wellbeing ownership practices, creating green growth through improving access to financial services, investment vehicles. providing products suitable for our customers’ needs, and financial education. 5 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2014 OUR PROGRESS 1. Human rights UN Global Compact Principle 1 UN Global Compact Principle 2 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in internationally proclaimed human rights. human rights abuses. Old Mutual’s position Our Group Operating Model and Group Code of Conduct are central As an international business, Old Mutual is fully committed to raising to ensuring responsible business practices are understood and embedded awareness of human rights, labour standards, and their impact, and ensuring across the Group and in each of our business units. they continue to be respected in all our activities and across all locations in which we operate. The Group Code of Conduct contains explicit statements that address the two principles relating to human rights in the Global Compact. Our employees We have a public statement on our approach to human rights, which confirm their compliance to the Code through an annual disclosure. details our principles and the governance structure we have in place across the Group. In addition, in our Responsible Business Policy, which is part of our Group Operating Model, we specifically reference human rights and the Process responsibilities all our employees have towards others. Across the Group and throughout our various operations, we have a range of channels for reporting any suspected breach of, or concern regarding, At Group level we have policies that actively encourage engagement with our human rights. These include our Human Resources, Responsible Business and communities, including our suppliers. To supplement these, at local level there Risk functions in each business unit, who report such incidences to the Audit is flexibility to focus on the issues that are most material to that business. and Risk Committees that are in place across the Group. For the past two years, our Annual Report has included a specific statement In each area of the business, owners of all Old Mutual Group policies, regarding our position on human rights. with support from business unit representatives, are tasked to review implementation and compliance. Through their role, they escalate relevant instances of non-compliance with the Group Governance function. 2014 highlights on progress During 2014 we: Enhancing governance around Responsible Business Responsible Business is now represented at Old Mutual plc Executive ■■ Invested R1.5 billion in renewable energy projects across Africa through Committee Level and Executive Director level of Old Mutual Emerging our IDEAS Managed Fund, with our total investment in this area now Markets’ Board through the appointment of Gail Klintworth as our new R11.98bn as at end 2014 Group Customer Director and Responsible Business Lead, highlighting the ■■ Screened 22 new Equator Principles-relevant deals through Nedbank, importance we are placing on the topic of responsible business. Gail chairs agreeing four drawn-down deals worth a total of US$319 million our Responsible Business Committee, which meets quarterly to discuss issues ■■ Submitted our first annual report to the United Nations-supported and progress surrounding responsible business. Principles for Responsible Investment, covering our progress on embedding the Principles across the Group Our progress regarding governance this year included: ■■ Emphasised our desire to be an active shareholder by voting at the AGMs ■■ Our Responsible Business Policy was updated to include a section on of 363 companies through Old Mutual Investment Group. responsible procurement, as well as a risk appetite statement Providing sustainable, tailored support for local communities ■■ We completed a human rights risk assessment across the Group, crafting a Our responsibility to support the local communities in the markets in which detailed statement of Old Mutual’s approach to human rights that will be we operate forms part of our commitment to the promotion of human rights. made publically available in 2015 Our focus on financial wellbeing helps to create economically viable ■■ Going forward, our Board Risk Committee will receive quarterly reports on communities and helps enhance people’s livelihoods and dignity. In 2014 our Responsible Business programme. we invested £17.1 million in the communities in which we operate, reflecting our aim to enable positive futures. Continuing focus on responsible investment Highlights include: Following our work with the Cambridge Institute of Sustainability Leadership, ■■ The Old Mutual Education Trust has invested R71 million since 2005 we have identified responsible investment as one of the two key focus areas and produced 195 graduates with scarce skills in various disciplines where we can make a material impact. We believe responsible investment ■■ Over 11,000 employees and customers participated in Nedbank’s will help us better understand long-term investment risk, support innovation volunteerism programmes in 2014 around new product development and strengthen trust with existing and new customers. Being a responsible investor ties closely with supporting and ■■ Old Mutual Wealth launched Your Horizon, in collaboration with Young respecting the protection of human rights. Enterprise, aimed at young people keen to set up their own business ■■ In OM Asset Management, 75% of employees at our head office have taken part in our match funding scheme. For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 10. 6 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2014 OUR PROGRESS 2. Labour UN Global Compact Principle 3 UN Global Compact Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. labour. UN Global Compact Principle 4 UN Global Compact Principle 6 Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in and compulsory labour. respect of employment and occupation. Old Mutual’s position Process Across the Group, we continue to uphold the principle of the freedom of At a Group level, we have a Human Resource Risk Management Policy in association as well as the effective recognition of the right to collective place that relates to the management of labour standards regarding all our bargaining, where permitted by local law. employees. This policy, applicable to all business units, covers a range of areas, including employee relations and employment, diversity, recruitment, Old Mutual does not, under any circumstances, tolerate forced labour or remuneration, performance management and employee welfare. child labour. On an annual basis, CEOs from all our business units are required to sign We remain committed to increasing diversity throughout the Group structure a Letter of Representation to attest both they and their employees have and have a number of targets in place to promote this. With over 61,000 complied with the Policy over the previous year and provide detail on if and employees, we recognise the different backgrounds, perspectives and where any issues have arisen. Regular internal audit checks support this experiences of our employees are one of our largest assets. Our range of process, covering this and other Group policies. policies at both a Group and business unit level ensure no employee receives less favourable treatment based on any factor unrelated to the requirements Reflecting our desire to ensure our suppliers reflect the values we recognise of their position. In southern Africa, we further address our commitment to as important in relation to labour standards, we have strengthened our address employment equality through our approach to B-BBEE (Broad-Based Responsible Business Policy to include a section on responsible procurement. Black Economic Empowerment), where two of our main customer-facing We contact our key suppliers regularly and provide ongoing training to our business, Old Mutual South Africa and Nedbank, are Level 2. employees to ensure all people responsible for procurement are aware of the relevant requirements and our expectations. 2014 highlights on progress ■■ Our wellbeing programmes across the Group focus not only on Learning from our employees to develop our culture professional support, but also physical and mental wellbeing Embedding the Group values and ensuring a healthy working culture are critical for our business. We have a number of programmes in place across Improving our diversity the Group, for sharing learnings from our different business units. ■■ We continue to make progress in ensuring our employees reflect the diversity of our customers. We have maintained our focus on the number ■■ We currently have a number of employees on assignment in different parts of women within the business and developing the proportion in of our business to support our growth strategy, reflecting our talent strategy leadership positions. to ensure we have the right people in the right roles at the right time ■■ Old Mutual plc was recognised as the most improved FTSE 100 board ■■ Over 1,600 delegates attended our various Academies that form part of for gender diversity, with 38.5% female representation. the Nedbank Corporate University, which encourages attendees to achieve the highest possible performance in their current roles, in turn delivering ■■ Our Women’s Network capabilities have been extended across the greater contributions to the wider business Group and are now available to over 90% of our employees. ■■ Over 73% of employees from Old Mutual Wealth attended our ‘Becoming Old Mutual Wealth’ conferences to take part in conversations focused on External recognition the personal impact of our rebrand from Skandia to Old Mutual Wealth Our achievements have been recognised by a number of external organisations, such as: Encouraging mutually beneficial working conditions We monitor our working conditions and constantly seek to improve our ■■ In the CRF Institute Top Employer Survey, we were named as a ‘Top offering to employees across the Group: Employer in Africa (Kenya, Namibia and Zimbabwe)’, and Mutual & Federal was listed as a ‘Top Employer in South Africa’, both for the third ■■ Our fourth annual Culture Survey had the highest response rate yet, consecutive year helping us to learn what our employees value and how we can improve ■■ Old Mutual South Africa and Nedbank maintained their Broad-Based their working experience Black Economic Empowerment Level 2 ratings. For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 10. 7 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2014 OUR PROGRESS 3. Environment UN Global Compact Principle 7 UN Global Compact Principle 9 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion environmental challenges. of environmentally friendly technologies. UN Global Compact Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Old Mutual’s position Our Responsible Business Policy has a specific section on responsible Across the Group, we have a responsibility to ensure we are as environmental management, one of the five pillars that make up our environmentally efficient as possible. This covers both our employee-occupied framework and approach to responsible business. Within this strategy we set properties and our property portfolio. We encourage our employees to ourselves the target of reducing Old Mutual’s direct carbon emissions by 20% be environmentally conscious both at work and home. Through our large by 2020 from a 2010 baseline in our property portfolio and employeepresence in South Africa, with its ongoing energy supply constraints, occupied properties. We have a number of environment task forces within our we continue to look for innovative ways of contributing positively to the business units who work to implement our strategy and act as a central point in environment and ensuring our business approach reflects best helping to deliver this target. environmental practices. One of the greatest environmental risks to our business is through the The nature of our business, covering investment, savings, insurance and investments we hold and the policies we underwrite across the Group. We banking, gives us a unique position to make the conscious decision to invest in continue to work towards calculating our total carbon exposure through our sustainable technologies and promote products that allow our customers to investments, and have been working towards our target of applying our have greater environmental responsibility. Responsible Investment Standard to all our investment capabilities (US: 50%). We have a growing number of socially responsible investment and ethical Process funds available for our customers to invest in specific environmental projects: Our approach to responsible environmental management lies with efficient however, our group-wide aim remains to mainstream environmental, social facilities and property management, aligned with employee engagement. We and governance criteria into all our investment making decisions. monitor, manage and reduce our negative impacts as far as possible – from energy usage, water consumption and waste in our buildings to how we travel to our meetings. We welcome employee suggestions and feedback on how we can reduce our reliance on scarce resources. 2014 highlights on progress Advocating greater environmental responsibility Managing our direct environmental footprint We emphasise environmental responsibility through investment of our own Our targets for carbon emission reduction across the Group help us focus and our customers’ funds. on reducing our negative environmental impacts. ■■ We have invested in the largest wind farm in sub-Saharan Africa, near ■■ Old Mutual appeared in the CDP Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index Jeffreys Bay in the Eastern Cape, which generates enough electricity for for FTSE 350 financial services companies for the sixth consecutive year, 100,000 homes ranking fourth ■■ Old Mutual Emerging Markets sponsored the development of the South ■■ Against our 2010 base year, our total direct carbon emissions have Africa Green Property Index decreased in both our property portfolio and employee-occupied properties ■■ Nedbank have invested more than R8.6 billion since 2009 in affordable■■ We began transferring responsibility for our non-financial data, including housing developments, creating more than 40,000 quality, affordable that used to calculate our carbon emissions, to our Group Financial houses across southern Africa Reporting function, ensuring the same rigorous checks are applied to all data across the Group For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 10. 8 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2014 OUR PROGRESS 4. Anti-corruption UN Global Compact Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Old Mutual’s position understand and will comply to it. In addition, we have a group-wide The values of Old Mutual Group are completely against bribery and corrupt anti-bribery and corruption policy in place, which business unit CEOs are business practices. We believe these create unfair markets, destroy public trust required to attest their compliance to annually. and limit sustainable economic development. We are fully committed to responsible and legal business conduct across all the countries in which We have good working relationships with regulators, law enforcement we operate. agencies and trade associations, creating networks where we share good practice both inside and outside the Group. Process Our Business Protection team oversees the implementation of our policies regarding financial crime prevention. The team reports to the Group Our Code of Conduct supports the Group’s anti-bribery stance and our Executive, Board Risk and Group Audit Committees on a regular basis, position with regard to employee conflict of interest. The Code supplements with major issues escalated as they arise and less serious issues reported our policies in this area and aims to ensure the overarching message is fully and analysed on a quarterly basis. understood and embedded, in line with the Group values. All business units have an anti-bribery risk assessment in place that is kept up to date. Employees across the Group are required to attest on an annual basis that they have read their local business unit anti-bribery policy and that they 2014 highlights on progress ■■ Old Mutual plc representatives contributed to the development of the Using our networks to work against corruption International Anti-Bribery Management Standard ISO 37001; both via Across the Group, we have a number of robust systems in place to assistance with drafting as part of the UK Committee and also during tackle corruption in all its forms. Our working culture and active employee plenary sessions and other discussions engagement on this topic help us create positive, proactive networks to ■■ Nedbank repeated a week-long business-wide anti-corruption campaign work against corruption. built around International Anti-Corruption Day on 9 December, with Old Mutual looking to run a similar initiative across the Group in 2015. Throughout 2014, we continued our progress in this area: ■■ Old Mutual became a member of the World Economic Forum (WEF) Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) as the first international insurer to participate. WEF PACI is the leading business-driven global anti-corruption initiative and provides a unique space for Old Mutual to further develop its efforts to combat corruption For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 10. 9 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2014 LOOKING FORWARD Old Mutual is committed to advancing the Global Our five pillar framework of responsible business provides Compact’s principles and wider United Nations goals the basis for our approach to being a responsible business. Each pillar has targets to support our overarching aim of throughout our business. leading in financial wellbeing and responsible investment. Following our initial work with the Cambridge Institute In 2015, we will announce our targets in these two focus areas. for Sustainability Leadership in 2014 where we identified Responsible business continues to be at the heart of our the areas we can make the most material impact strategy, with our aim to become the recognised leader enabling financial wellbeing and responsible investment in this area in financial services. we will continue our partnership to further embed responsible business across the Group. We define financial wellbeing as being and feeling financially secure, able to provide for yourself and your family, now and in the future. At Old Mutual we focus on enabling financial wellbeing through improving access to financial services and financial education. We define responsible investment as a cross-cutting approach to investment that integrates the consideration of material environmental, social and governance factors into investment and ownership practices. Useful links Old Mutual Group Values Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa – http://www.oldmutual.com/about/ourValues.jsp Guidelines on Responsible Investment http://www.oldmutual.co.za/documents/omigsa/ Old Mutual Group Code of Conduct OMIGSAResponsibleInvestmentGuidelines.pdf http://www.oldmutual.com/vpage.jsp?vpage_id=2726 Old Mutual South Africa transformation Old Mutual Group Responsible Business Report 2014 http://www.oldmutual.co.za/about-us/transformation.aspx http://reports2014.oldmutual.com/responsible-business-report/ Old Mutual Group and Nedbank CDP reports Nedbank Integrated Report 2014 https://www.cdp.net/ http://www.nedbankgroup.co.za/financial/Nedbank_ar2014/ Old Mutual Group approach to Responsible Business Nedbank United Nations Global Compact http://www.oldmutual.com/rb Communications on Progress http://www.unglobalcompact.org/COPs/detail/77721 10 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2014 Old Mutual plc Registered in England and Wales No. 3591559 and as an external company in each of South Africa (No. 1999/004855/10), Malawi (No. 5282), Namibia (No. F/3591559) and Zimbabwe (No. E1/99) Registered Office: 5th Floor Millennium Bridge House 2 Lambeth Hill London EC4V 4GG www.oldmutual.com
