DiGi’s Sustainability Report 2014 (For the digi.com.my/sustainability website)  Vision, Mission and Values  CEO’s Message  Our Approach to Sustainability – Governance, Stakeholder Engagement & Material Issues  Sustainability Strategy  Sustainability Focus areas  Empowerment through Connectivity  Quality and Affordable Communications  Industry Development  Community Development  Ethical and Responsible Business Practices  Corporate Governance  Supply Chain Sustainability  Consumer Interests  Passionate Employees  Challenging and Supportive Work Environment  Most Attractive Development, at all levels  Competitive and Performance-based Rewards  Climate Change and Environment  Driving Energy Efficiency  Addressing Environmental Sustainability  Performance Data  Key performance indicators 2012-2014  Progress versus targets  Accolades  About this report  Scope – boundaries of reporting, reporting period, reporting process, new approaches, audience and accessibility  GRI  UNGC  Glossary  Assurance Statement VISION, MISSION AND VALUES ∙ APPROACH ∙ STRATEGY ∙ FOCUS AREAS ∙ PERFORMANCE ∙ ACCOLADES ∙ ABOUT THIS REPORT CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT VISION, MISSION CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE ACCOLADES ABOUT THIS AND VALUES REPORT Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Engagement Empowerment Ethical and Glossary Through Material Responsible Connectivity Assurance Issues Business Statement Passionate Ethical and Employees Responsible Business Climate Change and Passionate Environment Employees Climate Change and Environment Progress vs Targets Feedback | Copyright ©2015 Digi. All Rights Reserved. VISION, MISSION AND VALUES ∙ APPROACH ∙ STRATEGY ∙ FOCUS AREAS ∙ PERFORMANCE ∙ ACCOLADES ∙ ABOUT THIS REPORT Message by CEO Welcome to Digi’s Sustainability Report 2014. We believe in growing our business in a sustainable manner by empowering societies through extending the benefits of mobile communications and internet to all Malaysians, ensuring high standards of governance across our value chain, promoting ethical and responsible business practices, and in managing our environmental impact. Internet empowering societies In delivering our ambition to enable Internet For All, we also aim to inspire positive and safe usage, local content development and online entrepreneurship through various empowerment initiatives. In our fifth edition of Challenge For Change (CFC5), we brought together over 200 young developers to transform crowd sourced ideas into mobile applications, with the winning team given the opportunity to advance their development through exposure to customer base and in programmes by our strategic partners. The Digi’s WWWoW Internet For All Awards continued to promote a thriving online ecosystem by recognizing individuals, groups of individuals and businesses that drive positive impact towards their respective communities by leveraging on the power of the internet. During the year, we further solidified efforts towards nurturing a safer internet ecosystem through our CyberSAFE in Schools programme, an initiative in partnership with CyberSecurity Malaysia. This year alone we reached out to 38,098* school children and empowered 130 ICT teachers with online safety skills, in addition to helping educate children living in urban poor centers. Together with our programme partners, we’ve also published one of the largest nationwide studies on online behaviour of children from insights gained from the responses of over 14,000 school children. Setting high standards of ethics and governance Our philosophy on sustainable business practices is expressed through a set of comprehensive policies and processes, monitored across key business functions, and periodically reported to senior management and our Board of Directors. We also regularly review our approach to ensure that relevant sustainability challenges are addressed across our value chain. Core to our sustainability governance is the commitment to uphold and respect human rights. As signatories to the United Nations Global Compact, these values are deeply embedded in the Telenor Way, our Code of Conduct, and Supply Chain Principles. It guides our daily operations and expectations of our business partners. In all our interactions with stakeholders, we expect employees to uphold the highest level of ethical and responsible business conduct. We introduced a ‘No Gift Policy’ and an Integrity Due Diligence process to further strengthen this commitment. In addition, as data becomes more intrinsic in our daily lives, we have taken proactive measures to ensure our systems and processes are robust to safe guard the privacy of our 11.7 million customers. This year, we significantly strengthened the governance of health and safety to drive responsible business in our supply chain. We adopted a zero tolerance policy to address suppliers that contravene health and safety standards, with a stronger focus on high risk sites. Managing our impact to the environment For the year in review, we continued to see the effects of our investment in energy efficiency initiatives from our network modernisation. Energy consumption for our network remains 1.6% lower than in 2012, despite significant growth in customer base and service coverage. We have also improved our energy intensity per RM revenue. Acknowledgements Digi is a business built on people. Without the commitment of our 2,138 employees, we will not be able to drive our business and power our sustainability journey. The energy and passion of the employees stem from our constant engagement, and focus in attracting and retaining the most talented employees, and providing a rich and rewarding career opportunity for them. Our partners have also been instrumental in helping us drive our sustainability agenda. Over the years, we continued to grow our network of partners and would like to take this opportunity to thank them for their support. Finally I’m very pleased to report that Digi was included in the Channel NewsAsia Sustainability Ranking and the FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia Index. We will continue to look at ways to improve our disclosure to meet stakeholder’s expectations. The key performance indicators in this year’s Sustainability Report has obtained an independent assurance from Ernst & Young. I trust you will find this Sustainability Report informative and provides a fair and balanced view of our position and performance on key issues. Albern Murty Chief Executive Officer VISION, MISSION CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE ACCOLADES ABOUT THIS AND VALUES REPORT Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Engagement Empowerment Ethical and Glossary Through Material Responsible Connectivity Assurance Issues Business Statement Passionate Ethical and Employees Responsible Business Climate Change and Passionate Environment Employees Climate Change and Environment Progress vs Targets Feedback | Copyright ©2015 Digi. All Rights Reserved. VISION, MISSION AND VALUES ∙ APPROACH ∙ STRATEGY ∙ FOCUS AREAS ∙ PERFORMANCE ∙ ACCOLADES ∙ ABOUT THIS REPORT Vision Our vision is to be the No.1 mobile internet provider for the mass market. We desire to be the source of inspiring internet content that is infectious and engaging. Mission We deliver Internet For All as part of our commitment to building a connected Malaysia ­ enabling access to mobile internet services and applications by offering customers the right combination of devices and value pricing, supported by an efficient operation that brings best usage experience. Values Keep Promises We take ownership for delivering on our goals and responsibilities, and pride ourselves on driving quality into everything we do. Make It Easy We aim for simplicity in the way we work, and in offering products and services that are easy to understand and easy to use. Be Respectful We are open­minded and professional in our conduct, and appreciate differences in cultures, opinions, and outlook. Be Inspiring We bring passion, energy, and creativity into everything we do, and make every effort to constantly drive change and continuous improvement. VISION, MISSION CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE ACCOLADES ABOUT THIS AND VALUES REPORT Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Engagement Empowerment Ethical and Glossary Through Material Responsible Connectivity Assurance Issues Business Statement Passionate Ethical and Employees Responsible Business Climate Change and Passionate Environment Employees Climate Change and Environment Progress vs Targets Progress vs Targets Feedback | Copyright ©2015 Digi. All Rights Reserved. VISION, MISSION AND VALUES ∙ APPROACH ∙ STRATEGY ∙ FOCUS AREAS ∙ PERFORMANCE ∙ ACCOLADES ∙ ABOUT THIS REPORT Digi's approach on Sustainability is to leverage our core competencies to enable positive changes in society and our business environment. 2014 Highlights RM7 billion revenue We are committed to driving responsible and sustainable business RM38.6 billion market practices throughout our organisation. This is achieved by ensuring high capitalisation standards of governance across our entire operations, promoting 11.4 million customers responsible business practices, managing environmental impact, and 2,138 employees extending the benefits of mobile communications to all Malaysians. 86% 3G and 32% LTE Our philosophy on sustainable business practices is expressed through population coverage a body of comprehensive policies and processes, monitored across key business functions, and periodically reported to the senior management and Board of Directors. Our Sustainability approach is aligned to Telenor Group’s Corporate Responsibility Strategy, Bursa Malaysia’s CSR Framework, and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Principles. We continue to regularly review this approach to ensure that relevant sustainability challenges are addressed across our value chain. GOVERNANCE STAKEHOLDER MATERIAL ENGAGEMENT ISSUES VISION, MISSION CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE ACCOLADES ABOUT THIS AND VALUES REPORT Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Engagement Empowerment Ethical and Glossary Through Material Responsible Connectivity Assurance Issues Business Statement Passionate Ethical and Employees Responsible Business Climate Change and Passionate Environment Employees Climate Change and Environment Progress vs Targets Feedback | Copyright ©2015 Digi. All Rights Reserved. VISION, MISSION AND VALUES ∙ APPROACH ∙ STRATEGY ∙ FOCUS AREAS ∙ PERFORMANCE ∙ ACCOLADES ∙ ABOUT THIS REPORT Our sustainability governance and performance is tracked on an ongoing basis, and is reported and discussed both with Digi senior management and Board of Directors, and at Telenor Group. We have a set of non­financial Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) that are monitored and reported on a quarterly basis to the Digi Board of Directors encompassing Climate Change, People Management, Health and Safety, and Supply Chain Risks. These KPIs are also monitored and reported to Telenor Group Sustainability on a quarterly and annual basis to ensure our performance is in line with the Group. Guidance on the management of sustainability issues is provided in a comprehensive set of policies which are part of a broader Digi Governance Programme. These policies address Anti­Corruption, Legal, Privacy, Supply Chain Sustainability and other issues. Governance of Sustainable Business Practices GOVERNANCE STAKEHOLDER MATERIAL ENGAGEMENT ISSUES VISION, MISSION CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE ACCOLADES ABOUT THIS AND VALUES REPORT Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Engagement Empowerment Ethical and Glossary Through Material Responsible Connectivity Assurance Issues Business Statement Passionate Ethical and Employees Responsible Business Climate Change and Passionate Environment Employees Climate Change and Environment Progress vs Targets Feedback | Copyright ©2015 Digi. All Rights Reserved. VISION, MISSION AND VALUES ∙ APPROACH ∙ STRATEGY ∙ FOCUS AREAS ∙ PERFORMANCE ∙ ACCOLADES ∙ ABOUT THIS REPORT As a responsible business, we invest in understanding and responding to expectations of stakeholders. A wide range of engagement platforms are used to engage based on the nature of our relationships and the issues discussed. Our stakeholders are government agencies, institutions and individuals who have an interest in the sustainability of our business.Their importance to us is prioritised and validated with relevant key personnel and functional representatives, including Digi's Board of Directors. The following table provides a list of our key stakeholder groups, the various engagement platforms and some key issues which are raised. Stakeholders Engagement Platforms Issues How we manage Regular reports and Affordability of internet We completed our network Policy makers information sharing Quality of calls modernisation and introduced innovative packages to drive Participation in Supporting national government programmes digital innovation Internet For All and initiatives agenda Public­private partnership initiatives We conducted quarterly network Customers Digi retail outlets Network coverage and drive tests, developed Customer Service service quality proprietary application for channels (online Bill shock due to employees to actively report customer service, 24­ inadvertent hour helpline) subscriptions of network performance, and established a new regional setup Social media e.g. services to manage network quality, and Facebook and Twitter Barred accounts with handle customer complaints at a Consumer Forum Credit Reporting cluster level Malaysia Agency CTOS Employee Best on People Council Career planning and Our on­going robust employee Digi Telecommunications development engagement programme across Sdn Bhd Employee Union Fair and transparent the region has seen a 4% (DGEU) rewards increase in engagement scores. Annual Employee Active engagement Engagement Survey process across the We signed the first collective Internal communications region by Digi agreement with DGEU CEO's emails to Management employees Resolved over 55 issues raised Quarterly Employee through the Best on People Townhall meetings Council. Leadership forums with all Extended Middle Managers We conducted regular media Investors and Local and overseas non­ Corporate strategy engagements to provide updates Stock Analysts deal roadshows and financial on business performance and Corporate presentations performance Analyst briefings Corporate governance strategy, products and services updates, and address issues of and compliance customer concerns. We conducted information We conducted information Business Product presentations Health and safety in sharing and training with partners Annual Self­Assessment supply chain Questionnaires Mitigating non­ business partners and increased compliance audits to ensure they Site inspections and compliance in supply meet our supplier standards. audits chain Training for suppliers Anti­corruption and Terminated two sub­contractors business integrity for failure to adhere to safety standards Suspended one supplier for a year for non­compliance with Code of Conduct Media interviews Corporate strategy We conducted regular briefings Media and media engagements to Media events Financial performance provide updates on business Formal and informal Products and Services performance and strategy, briefings Customer related products and services updates Media familiarisation visits issues and address issues of customer concerns. Our Digi CyberSAFE in Schools Community and Engagement with Leveraging mobile awareness programmes NGOs business and industry technology on meeting forums local social needs and empowered over 38,098 children and 4,237 teachers and parents Engagement with issues relevant NGOs Concerns of safe Challenge for Change Season 5 Community development internet use by developed 56 full­fledged programmes children Malaysianised mobile apps from 2,500 crowdsourced ideas GOVERNANCE STAKEHOLDER MATERIAL ENGAGEMENT ISSUES VISION, MISSION CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE ACCOLADES ABOUT THIS AND VALUES REPORT Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Engagement Empowerment Ethical and Glossary Through Material Responsible Connectivity Assurance Issues Business Statement Passionate Ethical and Employees Responsible Business Climate Change and Passionate Environment Employees Climate Change and Environment Progress vs Targets Feedback | Copyright ©2015 Digi. All Rights Reserved. VISION, MISSION AND VALUES ∙ APPROACH ∙ STRATEGY ∙ FOCUS AREAS ∙ PERFORMANCE ∙ ACCOLADES ∙ ABOUT THIS REPORT Stakeholder feedback is reviewed and addressed by relevant functional personnel. Issues that are strategically important to our business are subsequently integrated into our corporate strategy, and form the basis for our Sustainability focus areas and related initiatives. Our materiality assessment is conducted based on a methodology developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This methodology is also closely linked to the AA1000 Accountability Principles (2008) developed by AccountAbility. The process of identifying our most pressing material sustainability issues has been structured into three main stages, namely I. Identification (Interviews with internal and external stakeholders), II. Prioritisation (Evaluate the importance of sustainability issues) and III. Validation (Ensure a common understanding of material issues). Our material issues are aligned with materiality of Telenor Group. Issues identified at Group level is assessed and prioritised according to our operational context, corporate strategy and stakeholder expectation. In 2014, our materiality matrix was further refined and focused on prioritising material issues and issues that have emerged over the course of business. Emerging material issues Data Security and Privacy Personal information and data of our subscribers are protected and not abused. Alignment and compliance with values of Telenor Way and increased focus following a case of Ethics and anti­corruption* attempted bribery by a supplier. Increased focus on health and safety compliance in our supply chain. Sustainable supply chain* *Increased importance in materiality matrix GOVERNANCE STAKEHOLDER MATERIAL ENGAGEMENT ISSUES VISION, MISSION CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE ACCOLADES ABOUT THIS AND VALUES REPORT Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Engagement Empowerment Ethical and Glossary Through Material Responsible Connectivity Assurance Issues Business Statement Passionate Ethical and Employees Responsible Business Climate Change and Passionate Environment Employees Climate Change and Environment Progress vs Targets Feedback | Copyright ©2015 Digi. All Rights Reserved. VISION, MISSION AND VALUES ∙ APPROACH ∙ STRATEGY ∙ FOCUS AREAS ∙ PERFORMANCE ∙ ACCOLADES ∙ ABOUT THIS REPORT Our Sustainability strategy addresses issues that are of high importance to our stakeholders, and key to our long­ term growth and success. Empowerment Through Connectivity We strive to harness our core competencies as one of Malaysia's leading telecommunications providers to deliver Internet For All. Ethical and Responsible Business We uphold high corporate governance standards and ethics across our value chain. We are guided by our governance framework, the Telenor Way, which encapsulates our Corporate Values, Code of Conduct, and policies and procedures that govern professional conduct. Passionate Employees We are steadfast in nurturing and investing in talent by creating a challenging and supportive work culture and environment, attractive development opportunities at all levels, and offering competitive, performance­based rewards for all employees. Climate Change and Environment We are committed to driving energy efficiency initiatives in our communications network and facilities, while addressing broader environmental issues across our business operations to minimise our impacts. VISION, MISSION CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE ACCOLADES ABOUT THIS AND VALUES REPORT Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Engagement Empowerment Ethical and Glossary Through Material Responsible Connectivity Assurance Issues Business Statement Passionate Ethical and Employees Responsible Business Climate Change and Passionate Environment Employees Climate Change and Environment Progress vs Targets Feedback | Copyright ©2015 Digi. All Rights Reserved. VISION, MISSION AND VALUES ∙ APPROACH ∙ STRATEGY ∙ FOCUS AREAS ∙ PERFORMANCE ∙ ACCOLADES ∙ ABOUT THIS REPORT Approach We are committed to bringing Internet For All Malaysians. Through innovative partnerships, we offer the most affordable internet access, enable online creativity, stimulate development of local talent and digital content and remain committed to empower safe internet use. Christian Thrane ­ Digi's Chief Marketing Officer, shares our approach to Empowerment Through Connectivity. Quality and Affordable Communications In line with our Internet For All mission, we are building a strong data network, and enabling access to mobile internet services by offering customers the right combination of devices, value pricing, and the best usage experience of mobile internet. Watch a video by Adam, a Digi customer who is an active advocate of the empowering effect of the internet. Strengthening our Telecommunications Infrastructure Building our Tomorrow Network In 2014 Digi invested RM904 million in capex to strengthen its infrastructure capabilities. This has allowed us to expand our 2G and 3G coverage to reach 95% and 86% population coverage respectively. We increased our fibre network to more than 4,700km, and rolled out our LTE network to nine markets centres in Klang Valley, Penang, Kampar, Johor Bahru, Kuching, Kuantan, Tawau, Labuan and Miri. Our LTE coverage covers 32% of populated areas, with an ambition to reach 50% coverage footprint by end 2015. Network Sharing Network sharing is a growing industry initiative among telco operators to bring the benefits of mobile communication to more people. Through an industry agreed methodology, the common sharing unit (CSU) was developed to monitor the extent of sharing between companies. This significantly enhances our ability to deliver affordable, high­quality internet services to more Malaysians. Through decommissioning of common sites, it also allows for greener telecommunication with less base stations and generators needed to power our networks. Together with Celcom, we have signed a long term collaborative deal with Telekom Malaysia (TM) to secure faster access to fibre infrastructure, for future network capacity demands. This formed an important part of the ongoing network collaboration between Digi and Celcom to roll out more than 10,000 km of fibre nationwide, and provided a good platform to capitalise on built and shared infrastructure synergies, optimise costs, and avoid infrastructure duplications. Importantly, this will significantly enhance our ability to deliver affordable and high­quality internet connectivity to more Malaysians in the coming years. Having shared tower infrastructure, the initiative has extended to other common infrastructure such as cabins, E1 transmission capacity, fibre, generators sets, and cost sharing of electrification of rural sites. Future sharing initiatives may include security measures taken to patrol high potential vandalism sites or fibre routes, and rooftop sites. Universal Service Provision Last year, we launched the first Kampung Internet For All (Kg IFA) in Kg Gong Chengal, Kemaman, Terengganu. Digi’s Kg IFA brings high­speed internet access to local communities in rural areas, and enables connectivity via WiFi and mobile internet, anywhere and anytime, as long as they are within the vicinity of the village. We plan to progressively rollout Kg IFA for communities nationwide in 2015. We continue to support the government­led initiatives to extend mobile and broadband services to underserved communities. In 2014, Digi established an additional ten 1Malaysia Internet Centres (PI1M). We currently support 34 PI1Ms across Malaysia, with plans to bring the benefits of PI1Ms to another 30 rural and 40 urban poor communities in 2015 We contiune to explore initiatives that would enable each of our centres Digi’s Kg. IFA brings high­speed internet connectivity to to be self­sustaining. We have begun pilot project in six PI1Ms to include rural villages with the aim of catalysing social economic retail touch points, support Digital entrepreneurship training for SMEs development for local underserved communities in and online education opportunities for young adults. Malaysia. Initiative Outcome Telephony conversion Converted 2,500 fixed to mobile lines. Wireless Village Provided wireless broadband access to 340 villages. Upgraded 2G to 3G Provided collective wireless broadband access to communities within the vicinity of sites 311 upgraded sites. 1Malaysia Internet Established 34 centres to date. An additional 30 rural and 40 urban poor centres to be Centers (PI1MS) commissioned progressively in 2015. Provided collective wireless broadband access to more than 100 identified common WiFi 1Malaysia public areas and tourist hotspots Digi­managed 1Malaysia Internet Centers 1 Kg. Pandan, Kuantan, Pahang 18 Kg. Tg. Genting, Johor 2 Kg. Ubai, Kuantan, Pahang 19 Felda Lepar Hilir, Pahang 3 Pasir Gajah, Kemaman, Terengganu 20 Kg. Seri Damai, Pahang 4 Taman Semarak Binjai, Kemaman, Terengganu 21 Bukit Kuang, Terengganu 5 Kg. Umbai, Jasin, Melaka 22 Kg. Geliga, Terengganu 6 Kg. Sg Rambai, Jasin, Melaka 23 Kg. Belimbing, Kelantan 7 Kg. Teriang Besar, Mersing, Johor 24 Kg. Chawas, Kelantan 8 Felda Tenggaroh 3, Mersing, Johor 25 Kg Duyong Melaka 9 Lundu, Sarawak 26 Kelebang Besar Melaka 10 Kuala Berang, Hulu Terengganu 27 Kg Parit Salleh Ros Batu Pahat Johor 11 Kg. Bukit Diman, Ajil, Hulu Terengganu 28 Sg. Nibong Batu Pahat Johor 12 Felda Kemahang 3 Tanah Merah Kelantan 29 Kg Banggol Setiu Terengganu 13 Kampung Gual Ipoh Kusial Tanah Merah Kelantan 30 Kg Fikri Setiu Terengganu 14 Sematan Sarawak 31 Kg Padang Tok La Pasir Mas Kelantan 15 Kg. Masjid Baru, Melaka 32 Tendong Pasir Mas Kelantan 16 Bandar Baru Merlimau, Melaka 33 Sg Petai Pasir Putih Kelantan 17 Felda Nitar 2, Johor 34 Balai Tok Janggut Pasir Putih Kelantan Industry Development We recognise the immense positive role the internet plays in enabling society, and our responsibility to support development and drive innovation in the local telecommunications industry. By launching affordable products and widening access opportunities, especially in the rural areas, we support the national agenda of building a digital Malaysia. Policy Development We are a founding member of the following industry forums governed by the Communications and Multimedia Act 1998 (CMA). These forums encourage and facilitate self­regulation of the industry. Malaysian Technical Standards Forum Berhad ­ initiates and facilitates the development of technical codes, standards, and guidelines on operations, safety and interoperability. Malaysian Access Forum Berhad ­ oversees the Access Code (a voluntary code, which serves as a guide for members of the industry) and makes recommendations to the Malaysia Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC) on services and facilities to be included in or removed from the Access List. Consumer Forum Malaysia ­ aims to protect the rights of consumers within the multimedia and communications industry. Through our active participation, we contribute towards raising the overall standard of the Malaysian industry, as well as advocating the development of consumer and business­friendly policies. In 2014, the telecommunications industry forums addressed several key issues that were of interest to Regulators, the industry and consumers. These included spectrum management, mobile termination rates, accounting separation and Radio Frequency emissions. We also seconded several senior Digi employees to the Performance Management and Delivery Unit (PEMANDU), a unit in the Prime Minister's Office, to support national transformation initiatives. Product Innovations With the completion and migration to the new, next generation billing system, we are able to faster rollout highly customisable, innovative products and service offerings to the market. With just over 56% of our customers online, we recognise the potential to bring more customers to enjoy inspiring content on the internet. First to launch a plan with YouTube globally, giving customers an option to access YouTube content for only RM0.50 per day. No. 1 in market in distribution of smartphones with data plans. First in Malaysia to provide continued unlimited Opera Mini access after exceeding internet quota to continue basic access. Two new Best for Internet offerings, weekly prepaid mobile internet add­ons for as low as RM3. Introduced the new all­in­one Digi Prepaid XL 28 and 38 packages, offering customers big value for a complete combo of internet services. Launched SK2 and Pakej Mampu Milik smartphone bundles targeted at increasing Internet for All in rural areas. Bundles with Free Digi Easy Prepaid and 1­year free internet (250MB/mth) and 1GB of Prepaid Broadband for RM25 respectively. First to offer Xiaomi Mi3 smartphones with Digi SmartPlan. Launched MobiFi, a new portable wireless router that allows up to 10 WiFi enabled devices to simultaneously connect to the internet. First in Malaysia to launch a dedicated app for Ring Back Tones. First in Malaysia to launch streaming service (Play) & MP3 downloads (Pluz) to distribute local content. Capability Development Digi Challenge For Change programme In its 5th season Digi Challenge for Change (Digi CFC) focused on discovering and developing innovative Malaysia centric mobile applications. More than 2,500 ideas were crowdsourced during the ideation phase across the social categories of Connected Citizens, Health and Wellness, Learning and Edutainment, Discovering Culture, and a special Digizen’s choice category. Winning ideas from each of these categories were selected and used by over 200 mobile developers to develop 56 full­fledged mobile apps. As part of the programme, the winning team had the opportunity to gain international exposure by representing Malaysia at the Digital Winners Conference Summit in Oslo, hosted by Telenor Digital. The conference presented thought leadership and networking opportunities with 300 top global executives and entrepreneurs in media, technology and communications sectors. Digi provided go­to­market support for the four winning apps by making them available on our app store, promoting them to our customers at retail outlets and social media platform. Our established partnerships with the Economic Transformation Programme (ETP), the National Digital Economy Initiative (Digital Malaysia), Google Malaysia and Microsoft Malaysia, 1Malaysia for Youth (iM4U) and the Malaysian Administrative Modernisation and Management Planning Unit (MAMPU) also supported and promoted the apps through their channels. “I believe the internet brings positive changes to Malaysians particularly in connecting relevant content, convenience and economic opportunities to Malaysians of all walks of life. Programmes like Challenge for Change help promote local content development, which is a key component in this value chain. I am pleased to see Digi taking an active role in driving internet usage through mobile apps and nurturing an inclusive app ecosystem that encourages innovation.” YBhg Datuk Che Azemi Haron Deputy Secretary­General of the Communications and Multimedia Ministry, on behalf of Minister YB Dato’ Sri Ahmad Shabery Cheek. At Google we celebrate proposals and ideas that address a problem, suggest a radical solution that could work, and use some form of breakthrough technology to make it happen. In the same shared spirit, we're grateful to Digi for involving us in an initiative that pools Malaysian ideas and gives it room to flex and develop, which also lets us to get closer to our local users and developers. Sajith Sivanandan Country Manager, Google Malaysia Evolution of Digi Challenge For Change Focused on crowd­sourcing ideas for mobile Invited Malaysians and local app developers to applications that can bring Malaysians together. ideate and build innovative community­centric mobile apps that bring Malaysians together for Winning ideas to be developed into mobile positive change. applications by Malaysian mobile app developers. Strengthened the Challenge by refining into four categories: Learning & Edutainment, Health & Winning apps to be marketed to our customers Wellness, Discovering Culture, and a new Opened to all Malaysians. category called Connected Citizens for mobile app ideas that facilitate the delivery of public services. Created focused development session for the Ideation phase, #IDEAJAM, an ‘idea hackathon’ that served as checkpoint for participants to refine their ideas with input and insights from industry experts and partners. Over 200 mobile developers created 56 full­ fledged mobile apps. Announced winners of the fifth edition of Digi Challenge for Change for creating mobile apps that improve Malaysian lives. Winning mobile apps were promoted across Digi’s mobile internet customer base, and various customer touch points. Telenor Youth Summit The Telenor Youth Summit captures the transformative power of mobile and digital communication. It aims to tap the minds of youth and learn how to best continue driving positive change in society through the use of mobile internet. Digi ran a challenge to select two youths to represent Malaysia at the Telenor Youth Summit in Oslo. Christine Cheah and Yong Wei Shian won with their respective ideas to connect cancer patients to virtually support each other, and channeling unconsumed and near­ expiry food from restaurants, bakeries, hoteliers and wholesalers to local soup kitchens. Interaction at the Summit with youths from 12 other Telenor business units provided learning and collaborative opportunities to extend the impact of their mobile internet initiatives. They were enlightened by global leaders and technical experts, and inspired by attending events leading up to the Nobel Peace Prize. Digi will continue to support these inspired ideas through relevant market and stakeholder engagement opportunities. Community Development Our efforts in community development focus on creating a safer internet for children, Click here to and supporting nation­building initiatives in communities which are relevant to our download our free guidelines to business. Over the years, we have developed and strengthened strategic partnerships Safe Internet to leverage on our capabilities to deliver mobile internet to all Malaysians. Safe Internet for Children 2013 In 2013, we deepened our efforts on raising awareness and creating safe online experiences with students through Digi’s CyberSAFE in Schools Programme. The focus this year was on developing trusted ambassadors who are able to influence students’ appreciation of cyber safety, and we trained 459 ICT and digital library teachers and education ministry staff from over 450 schools nationwide. Polling views of 15,256* students in these schools, Digi also published a comprehensive nationwide survey detailing students’ level of awareness on online safety. For its efforts, Digi was awarded the Best Outreach Provider of the Year award for the second consecutive year in the Malaysia Cyber Security Awards 2013. “I am proud to be an ambassador for Digi’s CyberSAFE in Schools program and commend their continued investment in our students in partnership with our teachers and education programs. I particularly commend their dedication to remaining relevant to the online issues that face our students in the internet age.” Yusnizam Mohd Teacher & CyberSAFE Ambassador of the Year 2013 Sekolah Menegah Kebangsaan Ahmad Pekan Through the Digi CyberSAFE workshops, I have heightened my awareness of the risks and how to take steps to safeguard myself and also my family on the Internet. Prior to this, I was unaware that some of these cyber crimes take place so close to home. I have also learnt new skills that I can apply as I continue to enrich my knowledge on the internet. Thanks to Digi, I can now continue to develop my creative thinking and pursue my personal growth in a safe and secure way, Lievyia Amrita Secondary School Student from Penang. 2014 In 2014, we enhanced and expanded our safe internet advocacy efforts to empower Malaysian children with digital resiliency skills and foster responsible digital citizenship. Our Digi CyberSAFE™ in Schools awareness workshops reached 38,098* secondary students and 4,237 teachers and parents. We also trained over 130 ICT teachers as ambassadors on cyber safety awareness. We piloted outreach to urban poor communities by organising CyberSAFE™ workshops for children living in People’s Housing Programme or Program Perumahan Rakyat (PPR). Digi’s CyberSAFE™ in Schools is a strategic partnership with the Education Ministry, MCMC, CyberSecurity Malaysia, Childline Malaysia, and Protect and Save the Children. We published a National Survey 2014: CyberSAFE™ in Schools report, the largest national survey of online behavioural patterns and cyber risks of 14,000 Malaysian schoolchildren. Themed Safety Net: Capacity Building Among Malaysian Schoolchildren on Staying Safe Online, the survey used inferential statistics to unearth deeper insights, and provided national level recommendations for improving capacity building in digital citizenship and ensuring a positive online experience for schoolchildren. We widened the reach of our advocacy efforts with increased online engagement. We launched an online safety education portal, to provide children with a fun and interactive cyber safety learning experience. The portal provides games and tips on how children can remain safe online. Our latest series of public service announcements (PSA) feature the three most common online risks faced by children – cyber­bullying, cyber­grooming and cyber­stalking. These PSAs are also made accessible across Digi’s social media channels. We deepened our partnership engagements with UNICEF Malaysia, Childline Malaysia and the Association of Registered Childcare Providers Malaysia (ARCPM) by launching two campaigns, the ‘My Promise to Children’ and ‘Stop It Now! #ENDviolence Against Children’. These campaigns promoted greater awareness on the rights of children, and on protecting and halting violence against children, particularly on the internet. Bringing Malaysians Together Tapping on the positive potential of the internet, we continue to create inspiring, positive, enriching content to connect Malaysians. We celebrated with customers their love for Malaysia and recognised local content producers at the third edition of the Digi WWWoW Internet For All Awards. In times of national tragedy, we used our capacity to connect and lend support to affected family and friends #WELOVEMY In conjunction with our Customer First Day on 25 What's Your Internet Story? With the support of Google Sept 2014, Digi invited customers to celebrate all things beautiful Malaysia, Digi launched the ‘What’s Your Internet Story?’ about Malaysia by sharing everything they love about our beloved campaign. The campaign reached out to uncover inspiring ‘tanah air’; from Malaysian icons and meaningful moments to stories of Malaysians who, being connected to mobile internet anything from the past and present that make up the love for our and using Google products and tools, have enriched their lives home country. and those of others. WWWOW Internet For All Awards Malaysia’s first and only Support to those affected by MH370 & MH17 tragedy internet accolade recognises the achievements of ordinary avid Digi offered free calls to Malaysia Airlines hotline for family and internet users. The third edition of Digi WWWOW Internet for All friends of passengers on board MH370 and MH17. Awards celebrated netizens who created inspiring local content that gave others more reason to use and subsequently benefit from the internet. East Coast Flood Relief Effort Digi organised a collection drive to assist victims of the worst floods to affect the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia. A 20 tonne (40 feet long) trailer was packed with donated items from Digizens and the public and sent to a Digi collection point in Kelantan for distribution. PERFORMANCE DATA PROGRESS VS TARGETS VISION, MISSION CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE ACCOLADES ABOUT THIS AND VALUES REPORT Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Engagement Empowerment Ethical and Glossary Through Material Responsible Connectivity Assurance Issues Business Statement Passionate Ethical and Employees Responsible Business Climate Change and Passionate Environment Employees Climate Change and Environment Progress vs Targets Feedback | Copyright ©2015 Digi. All Rights Reserved. VISION, MISSION AND VALUES ∙ APPROACH ∙ STRATEGY ∙ FOCUS AREAS ∙ PERFORMANCE ∙ ACCOLADES ∙ ABOUT THIS REPORT Approach Digi relentlessly upholds a high standard of corporate governance and ethics, aligned to the Telenor Way that defines our aspirations and sets the standard for how we do business. This governance framework outlines our corporate values, codes of conduct, governing policies and procedures. These values and expectations also extend to business partners across our extensive supply chain. Albern Murty ­ Digi's Chief Executive Officer, shares our approach to Ethical and Responsible Business. Corporate Governance Long­term stakeholder interest is best served by ensuring that effective risk and governance processes are in place. We are guided by our governance framework, the Telenor Way, which encapsulates our corporate values, Code of Conduct, Supplier Conduct Principles and various policies and procedures governing professional conduct across our value chain. DIGI'S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE JOURNEY Launched and enforced Digi Governance Sourcing Department became a member of Programme with formalised requirements on Telenor Group’s Global Sourcing Organisation sustainable business practices. (GSO) to align to Group’s new sourcing and manual. Integrated Digi values into performance management. Established a new, comprehensive set of compliance principles, frameworks and initiatives Awareness and training programmes on updated in addition to the existing information security Digi Way of Work. management programme. Digi’s Privacy Statement is made available to customers via Digi’s website and Online Customer Service site, and physical copies upon request. Introduced the Personal Information Notice and Data Protection Clause to protect existing, new and potential Digi employees. Reviewed and aligned the Digi Code of Conduct Instituted a No Gift Policy and an integrity due diligence Conducted human rights due diligence Our Initiatives Digi Way of Work Digi Values We have worked towards a stronger integration of Digi values into all relevant processes. This includes translating values into behavioral goals as a basis for one­on­one performance and development dialogues. Employee performance evaluation is based on achieving business goals, as well as demonstrating Digi values in day­to­day conduct at work. These values were emphasised and discussed at several internal leadership forums to ensure that managers lead by example. Code of Conduct Digi's Code of Conduct provides guiding principles on professional conduct for employees. The Code emphasises the importance of compliance, and provides greater clarity on the consequences of misconduct and infringements. All new employees undergo half day training on the Code of Conduct and are required to formally acknowledge that they have read and understood the Code. In 2014, we revised our Code of Conduct to better align with the changes in other Digi policies and to reflect the current business environment. The refresh provided additional guidance for Digizens to avoid conflict of interests, emphasised security of assets against cyber­crimes, and enhanced anti­corruption on measures through adoption of a ‘No Gift Policy’. A series of awareness briefings and training on handling of compliance incidents were conducted for all managers. Digi Governance Programme The Digi Governance Programme ensures that policies and internal controls are streamlined, as well as strengthened to comply with emerging laws and regulations that are critical to long­term business performance. This involved reviewing and updating all policies addressing a wide range of topics covering Finance and Control, Asset Management, Operational Excellence and Sustainable Business Practices. Updated policies that relate to Sustainable Business Practices and other relevant topics are as follows: Corporate Responsibility ­ addresses human rights and labour rights, climate and environment, safe services and user experiences, emergency relief contributions, non­financial performance, internal and external reporting, and stakeholder dialogues. Supply Chain Sustainability ­ describes our overall Supply Chain Sustainability framework as well as risk assessments relating to the Supplier Conduct Principles (SCP), implementation of the SCP using the Agreement on Business Conduct (ABC) and exception handling, as well as monitoring and follow­up. Health Safety Security and Environment ­ addresses the working environment, occupational health and safety, business continuity management, crisis management, information security, physical security and fraud relating to telecommunications services. Anti­Corruption ­ addresses integrity, bribery, gifts and business courtesies, facilitation payments, integrity due diligence on business partners, lobbyists and risk assessments. Whistleblowing Policy ­ sets out principles and requirements for reporting misconduct. Privacy ­ addresses the processing and protection of personal data, as well as detection and reporting of non­conformities. People ­ covers the way, leadership, recruitment, on­boarding, employee engagement survey, development and performance process, workforce planning, labour standards, employment terms, working environment and the administration of employee data. Legal ­ covers legal risk assessment, information freeze or legal hold, reporting of legal exposure, claims and disputes, and compliance with competition laws. Ethic and compliance The Head of Ethics and Compliance reports to the Head of Legal and Compliance and directly to the Board twice a year. We provide multiple avenues to report non­compliance against our Code of Conduct. Non­reporting of non­compliance also constitutes a breach of our code. We implemented an Integrity Due Diligence (IDD) process to ensure that business partners share our commitment to anti ­ corruption practices. The IDD ensures that prior to signing of an agreement, a systematic collection and analysis of information to assess the risk of being associated with prospective business partner is conducted. In 2014, three cases of non­compliance with our Code of Conduct were reported to the Ethics and Compliance Unit. One case involved an employee of a vendor. The employee resigned and the vendor was instructed to conduct an external audit on its anti­ corruption programme. The vendor was suspended from existing and new business in Digi for one year and the case was reported to the Malaysian Anti­Corruption Commission. Two other allegations could not be substantiated with sufficient evidence to proceed. Human rights due diligence As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we adhere to the principles to respect human rights in our business operations and within our sphere of influence. These principles are embedded in our Code of Conduct, Supply Chain Principles and core policies. In late 2014, we deepened our commitment by conducting a human rights due diligence assessment aligned to the United Nations Guiding Principles of Business and Human Rights. The Principles is the global standard to prevent, respect, and remedy human rights risks linked to business activities. We conducted internal interviews, reviewed policies and existing processes to map and identify potential areas for improvement to mitigate any risk of complicity. Supply Chain Sustainability We recognise the immense impact on the lives of thousands of employees working directly and indirectly in our supply chain. The Supplier Conduct Principles (SCP) Framework commits suppliers to adhere to the ILO Core Labour Standards of freedom of association and rights to collective bargaining, the elimination of discrimination, bonded and child labour. The SCP is reflected in the Agreement of Business Conduct (ABC) which is signed by all suppliers must agree and sign the before commencing work with us. Compliance to the ABC is reported quarterly to the Board of Directors and Telenor Group Supply Chain. Supply Chain Sustainability Journey Formalised Supply Chain Sustainability Actively monitor operations for any environmental framework as part of the Supply Chain impact and business association risks and ensuring Sustainability Policy. that sourcing procedures to include: Requirements for sustainable sourcing, Compliant to the Agreement of Responsible Business Conduct (ABC) or Supplier Conduct Principles (SCP) frameworks with all business associates. Implemented zero tolerance policy on health and safety Doubled the number of inspections, focusing on contractors working in high risk areas Terminated two sub­contractors for non­ compliance with our health and safety policy Our Initiatives Health and safety in supply chain Each day our employees and workers of contractors climb towers, stand on roof tops, and lay fibre along busy roads. Sites are assessed for potential hazards and personal protective equipment needed before work is allowed to commence. In 2014, we conducted 12 training sessions with our contractors to promote a safety culture. Our expectation is for all our contractors to be compliant with our standards, and we target for zero non­compliance. Each year, suppliers complete a self­assessment questionnaires (SAQ) from which risks are analysed and identified. We work with suppliers to address and reduce these risks as soon as possible. In ensuring compliance with the ABC, we conduct random and planned audits of high risk suppliers. In 2014, we conducted 421 site inspections, of which 92% were unannounced. Zero tolerance to unsafe working conditions Digi strengthened governance of health and safety of workers in our supply chain, especially those working on base stations, roof tops, and close to roads. A Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) Governance Committee comprising the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Human Resource Officer was established to review policies, procedures and receive updates on safety compliance. The HSSE and Supply Chain team meets fortnightly to discuss progress of inspections and corrective actions taken on non­ compliance. Remediation of major noncompliance was shortened from a month to two weeks. Health and safety is now a standing agenda item at weekly project meetings with contractors. We instituted a zero tolerance policy towards unsafe work practices at our sites. An ‘Immediate Stop Work Order’ is issued across all contractors’ sites if workers are found working without safety helmets, safety harnesses, or a Working at Height Certification. Contractors are only allowed to resume operations once the required training and mitigation measures have been implemented. We engaged extensively with the senior management of our contractors and doubled the number of site inspection to demonstrate our commitments. Despite potential of delaying our network rollout, two sub­contractors were terminated for violating our safety standards. In 2015, we will double the number of inspectors to support our continued efforts to drive a change in the safety culture. Inspectors will be based in our regions to allow for more inspections and faster response times. We target to conduct 800 inspections, of which 90% will be unannounced. We target to conduct 2,000 training hours to workers of contractors to drive change in safety culture. Health and safety will be included as a criterion for all requests for proposals to ensure we partner suppliers aligned to our safety values. We will also begin engaging with industry peers to take a joint position on health and safety to promote a cultural change in the industry. Customer Interest We respect and recognise the rights of our customers to enjoy a satisfactory level of service that we offer in our packages. We provide avenues to address to their complaints and concerns when we do not meet their expectations. We ensure that personal information and customer data are kept confidential. Our Initiatives Regulatory standards The Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC) established under the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission Act (1998) and the Communications and Multimedia Act (1998), is the industry regulator. Among its regulatory framework, the Commission ensures consumers enjoy a choice of service providers, satisfactory levels of services at affordable prices, and facilitates industry collaboration. The Communications and Multimedia Consumer Forum Malaysia (CFM) is an industry wide initiative involving all mobile operators and consumer associations to protect the rights of consumers. The CFM has developed the General Consumer Code (GCC) and the Internet Access Code which serves as the standards for the provision of telecommunication services. All complaints raised to the CFM are logged and responded to within 15 working days. Issues of call quality, bill shock from subscription of services, and registration of subscribers with unpaid bills with the national credit rating agency are the most common issues raised by consumers to the CFM. Customer Satisfaction In 2014, we conducted a review of our customer’s journey, and identified what matters most to customers. We established a Customer Governance Forum, comprising senior management from cross function, to provide a seamless and efficient avenue to address customer issues. We established a regional base set up for our customer base teams to provide faster and efficient response. Every interaction at our retail outlets and customer call centre is rated by customers. Real time tracking and a closed feedback loop ensures issues are resolved quickly. In 2014, Digi was rated No.1 in Net Promoter Score (NPS) among mobile operators in Malaysia for three of the four quarters, ending a streak of seven consecutive quarters. The NPS is an organisation­wide strategy to further entrench the importance of customer centricity. Conducted by a third party, the NPS rates Digi in comparison with the other service providers. Privacy The confidentiality of the personal information of our 11 million customers is handled with strict standards, in order to prevent any unauthorised access or any use that is beyond what we have agreed with the customer. Our networks and value­added services are ISO27000 Certified for Information Security compliant. The Personal Data Protection Act (PDPA) 2010 has increased the need for more stringent measures to protect the privileges of privacy and data of our customers, employees and business partners. Digi’s Personal Information Notice and Data Protection Clause protects existing, new and potential DiGi employees. It requires individuals to consent and acknowledge the ways in which we will use, keep, process, and share their personal data in accordance to the Act. In 2014, a third party independent assessment was conducted to strengthen our privacy systems and processes. A series of risks were identified and its likelihood and consequences ranked. We have developed mitigation measures to be implemented through 2015 to further improve our processes. Addressing Radio Frequency Emissions Our commitment to deliver safe services to our customers has been incorporated into the Corporate Responsibility Policy which sets out requirements for the installation of transmission equipment to adhere to stringent guidelines of the International Commission on Non­Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) standards. Radio Frequency (RF) tests conducted in 2014 show that emission levels are well within permissible limits of these standards. While there is inconclusive evidence about health risks posed by RF emissions arising from mobile phones and transmission equipments, there remains a perception that these emissions could be damaging to health. Public concerns on the issue have on some occasions led local communities to demand for telecommunication structures to be dismantled. Such actions adversely impact the coverage and quality of service, and pose a key challenge to the industry as a whole. We also continue to monitor concerns and views relating to RF, and where needed our internal RF Response Team investigates and takes necessary measures. Digi was a founding member and an active participant of an industry­led initiative to raise and address consumer awareness on this issue PERFORMANCE DATA PROGRESS VS TARGETS VISION, MISSION CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE ACCOLADES ABOUT THIS AND VALUES REPORT Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Engagement Empowerment Ethical and Glossary Through Material Responsible Connectivity Assurance Issues Business Statement Passionate Ethical and Employees Responsible Business Climate Change and Passionate Environment Employees Climate Change and Environment Progress vs Targets Feedback | Copyright ©2015 Digi. All Rights Reserved. VISION, MISSION AND VALUES ∙ APPROACH ∙ STRATEGY ∙ FOCUS AREAS ∙ PERFORMANCE ∙ ACCOLADES ∙ ABOUT THIS REPORT Approach We continue to be steadfast in cultivating passionate and engaged employees, harnessing the diversity of over 2,138 Digizens across six regions. We remain committed to foster a culture that nurtures and invests in the welfare of strong talent by creating a challenging and supportive work culture and environment, attractive development opportunities at all levels, and competitive and performance­ based rewards for all Digizens. Passionate Employees Highlights Launched Best on People Council. Refreshed organisational structure and senior management line­up. Launched Competency Framework. Improvements on competency framework. Launched Flexible Benefits Plan. Implemented targeted training platforms for all Introduced new informal channels of employees, managers and leaders. employee engagement. Launched workday, an integrated HR information Launched in­house gym for employees. system. Launched refresh of the Telenor Way Improved employee engagement scores by 4% Signed the first collective bargaining agreement with Digi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd Employees Union (DGEU) Engaging and Supportive Work Environment We believe having the most engaged employees is key to our continuous and sustained PROVIDING EQUAL growth. Through adopting an open culture, we cultivate an environment that encompasses OPPORTUNITIES FOR ALL our values, by keeping our promises, respecting all stakeholders, making it easy, and being inspiring. Click here to listen to a BFM podcast featuring Syadakal and Cheryl, two of Digi's employees who joined five years ago under our Open Mind Open Hearts Programme, a programme that aimed to providing employment opportunities to Persons With Disabilities. Our Initiatives Strengthening Employee Engagement We continued to invest strategically in the engagement and well­being of our employees. We actively engage Digizens through multiple platforms where we listen, encourage open dialogues, and proactively seek feedback. The success of these engagements is reflected in a 4% rise in Digi’s annual employee engagement survey. We launched the refocused Telenor Way building upon our strong, cohesive corporate culture to drive continuous growth for Digi. This redefined Telenor Way clearly outlines our aspirations and standards for business conduct for all employees, and introduced a new set of ‘Leadership attitudes’ or ‘e4’ to guide our management team. The e4 defines the mindset expected of our leaders ­ to explore, engage, empower and execute ­ in steering the company forward. A series of workshops was conducted for leaders to understand and internalise this new set of behaviours. We also conducted an employee welfare related policy roadshow to gain feedback from Digizens on matters most pertinent to them. This resulted in more comprehensive employee benefits and performance incentives. Follow­up engagements were conducted to close the feedback loop. Best on People Council For the third continuous year, the Best on People Council (BOPC) provided another regular sounding board between the management and Digizens in the spirit of building an engaging and supportive work environment. In 2014, the 17 member council addressed 55 issues with Digi management relating to employee benefits, development and rewards, workplace facilities, and employee welfare were addressed. These issues were addressed to in close alignment with feedback received via the policy roadshow. Members of the Best On People Council with Digi Management Team First Collective Agreement Digi respects and supports the right to organise and the right to collective bargaining, within national laws and regulations. Aligned to this, we signed our first collective agreement with the newly formed in­house union, Digi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd Employees Union (DGEU) in December. The collective agreement recognises DGEU as the sole bargaining body for all eligible employees, covering all permanent employees of Digi apart from those with executive, managerial, confidential, and security functions in Peninsular Malaysia. The agreement regulates the harmonious relations between Digi and DGEU, and covers a wide range of employment terms and conditions for eligible employees. The first collect ve agreement was signed at the company’s headquarters by then Digi CEO Lars Norling and DGEU President Ismail bin Jonid, and witnessed by Director­General of the Department of Industrial Relations Fong Khei Por Townhall : Quarterly gathering with Digi management Annual Company Event : To strengthen camaraderie amongst employees to achieve our mission of bringing Internet For All Promoting Health, Safety and Wellness Healthy and safety of our employees are important for the long­term sustainability of company performance. Health and safety is reported to the Board of Directors quarterly and reviewed annually by the Digi management team. Our regional offices, retail outlets and main switching centres are certified OHSAS 18001 compliant and undergo annual management internal systems audits. Each regional operation has a health and safety committee, comprising equally of management and employee representatives. We continue to drive safety awareness and capacity building of our employees to be exemplary in the industry. All employees are inducted into the Digi health and safety culture through video learning as part of their onboarding. We conducted training for regional champions and two supply chain business assurance inspectors. We developed customised training for our field force team and retail stores. We ensure that our employees’ certifications for working at height with the Construction Industrial Development Board and first aid are up to date. Ensuring fast and correct response in times of emergencies can save the lives of our employees. The Central Emergency Response Team was trained in fire and evacuation by the local fire department. We conducted two random and one announced fire drill to ensure employees act accordingly in times of emergency. A crisis simulation exercise was held for Digi management team to ensure fast response to business critical emergencies such as network outages and data migration to the new system. We support wellness pursuits of our employees. An in­house fitness centre at D’House allows access to fitness facilities and fitness activities such as weekly aerobics classes and friendly games between divisions are regularly organised. Fresh fruits are distributed to employees three times a week. Employees can also opt to monetise their employee benefits to pay for gym membership. Digi’s commitment to Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) sets high standards on governance for safety compliance across our supply chain, with regular review of policies and procedures by a governance committee comprising our senior management team. D'Gym : One of the initiatives to encourage employees to maintain a healthy lifestyle. The gym is open daily from 6.30a.m. to 9.00p.m. Customer Centricity Digi has a strong track record in fostering a customer­focused culture and way of work across our entire value chain. This year, we continued to nurture this customer­centric mindset by enabling numerous customer engagement platforms for Digizens across all levels. Our senior management team leads by example with quarterly regional tours to engage employees and strengthen relationships with dealers. Digizens are immersed in this culture by attending a two day attachment at a Digi Store as part of their onboarding process, listening to and answering customer calls at our contact centre, and participating in quarterly network drive tests to develop a strong understanding of our customers’ needs. Digizens’ participation in our annual Customer First Day to appreciate customers demonstrates and deepens our commitment to a culture of placing customers first. Digi Management Team engaging with customers on their Over 1,200 Digizens mobilised across the Klang Valley for Digi’s experience on the Digi modernised brand new network. annual Customer First Day to engage and appreciate loyal customers. Quarterly network drive test by Digizens to test quality of our network. Attractive Career Development Opportunities We advocate continuous learning for all our employees to constantly stretch their limits and challenge status quo. We support their development journey, by putting in place a platform where employees are constantly engaged and informed of opportunities available within Digi and as well as at Telenor Group. Our Initiatives Telenor Development and Performance The Telenor Development & Performance (TDP) process facilitates a career conversation between all employees and their immediate supervisor. The process identifies and captures an employee’s aspiration and development requirements. In 2014, 69% of employees completed their annual TDP, and we are monitoring to ensure the managers support the remaining employees to complete their TDP. We look to develop our future leaders from within the organisation. The TDP feeds into our annual talent review exercise ensure we have full visibility of our talent. This ensures high performing talent are identified and provided with the right opportunities for building exposure, knowledge and experience in the relevant areas. In 2014, four of our talented employees had the opportunity to undertake short and long­term mobility assignments to Telenor offices around the globe. Valuing Diversity We recognise the value that diversity brings to Digi. We welcome the variety of skills, experiences and backgrounds that nurtures our collaborative workplace culture. Our anti­discrimination policy aims to create a fair and flexible working environment, which promotes personal and professional growth. Our facilities are disabled friendly to allow easy access for Digizens who are disabled. We have a range of policies and facilities that support women in the workplace, especially those returning from maternity. A diversity scorecard on gender, ethnicity and age composition is reported to the Board annually to ensure diversity across our operations. Competitive and Performance­Based Rewards We continue to offer competitive compensation that is benchmarked against the best perfoming companies in Malaysia, and a rewards framework that is closely linked to employees' performance. Our Initiatives Flexible Benefits Our flexible benefit plans empowers employees to choose benefits that best suit their needs and lifestyles. The design and development of the plan is base on industry best practices and employee feedback. The flexible benefit plan consists of core and optional benefits. Core benefits provide basic protection and are designed to meet statutory requirements. Optional benefits allow employees to choose from a range of optional benefits covering healthcare for parents, post­graduate education, childcare, purchase of communications devices, and internet access fees, among others. PERFORMANCE DATA PROGRESS VS TARGETS VISION, MISSION CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE ACCOLADES ABOUT THIS AND VALUES REPORT Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Engagement Empowerment Ethical and Glossary Through Material Responsible Connectivity Assurance Issues Business Statement Passionate Ethical and Employees Responsible Business Climate Change and Passionate Environment Employees Climate Change and Environment Progress vs Targets Feedback | Copyright ©2015 Digi. All Rights Reserved. VISION, MISSION AND VALUES ∙ APPROACH ∙ STRATEGY ∙ FOCUS AREAS ∙ PERFORMANCE ∙ ACCOLADES ∙ ABOUT THIS REPORT Approach We are committed to driving energy efficiency initiatives in our communications network and facilities, while addressing broader issues across our business operations to minimise our environmental impact. Our environmental programme is governed by a robust internationally recognised management and reporting system which meets international standards. Albern Murty ­ Digi's Chief Executive Officer, shares our approach to Climate Change and Environment. Climate Change and Environmental Highlights Climate and environmental requirements Digi converted 23 off­grid sites to grid power, formalised in the new Corporate Responsibility and downsized generators for another 23 sites policy. to reduce dependency on diesel­fuel. Secured full Green Building Index Certification for Additional number of off­grid sites have been TOC. converted into hybrid­solar sites capitalising the use of renewable energy. Launched formal project to manage obsolete electrical and electronic equipment. Decommissioned over 100 sites due to from the infrastructure sharing initiative with Celcom and Supported NGO CETDEM's study on Low Carbon contributed to the reduction in energy usage Sustainable Development Options for Malaysia. within Digi’s network. Optimised 41 generators and installed seven hybrid­solar sites Awarded Top Performer “Excellence Award” at the inaugural MyCarbon Disclosure Project Awards Above our energy intensity target of 34.8 MWh per RM revenue Driving Energy Efficiency We have mapped, estimated and tracked energy used from grid and generators for our network, buildings, flights, fleet and rental vehicles. This has given us a deeper understanding of where our most significant emissions are produced and more accurately identify target initiatives to reduce emissions while driving business goals. In 2014, we consumed 247.1 GWh in our operations, a year­on­year increase of 2.3%. Our energy intensity continued to improve year­on­year to 35.1 MWh per RM revenue, although we exceeded our target of 34.8 MWh per RM revenue. This was due to the ongoing rollout of our 2G, 3G and LTE network Our Initiatives Network Energy Efficiency Over the past three years, our focus has been to improve the energy efficiency of our network which represents over 90% of total energy consumption. In 2014, our network consumption of grid power for our network increased by 1.1% year on year compared to 2013. Despite customer growth of 8.5%, expansion of 3G coverage by 18%, and the ongoing LTE rollout, network energy consumption more from the grid in 2014 was 1.6% lower compared to 2012. We attribute this to our network modernisation exercise, and expect to see improvements in energy intensity. Generators to power base stations off the national power grid accounts for 3% of our base stations. Last year we optimised an additional 41 generators to reduce diesel consumption. We have seen a 7.9% increase in diesel consumption due to increased roll out of portable generators to reach customers living in underserved areas, and post east coast flood recovery of more than 200 base stations. We also, we installed an additional seven hybrid solar powered sites and increased our solar energy use by 16.3% year on year. Our 74 solar powered sites accounts for 0.56GWh or less than 1% of our energy used for the network. We will continue to explore potential sites to install and migrate to solar as the technology advance and investment costs decreases. Building Energy Efficiency The energy efficiency initiatives of our building operations have seen a stablisation in our energy consumption. Despite an increase in head count and longer operational hours during the three­month billing system migration exercise, energy use for buildings increased 0.1% year on year. We have rolled out energy efficiency improvements to our regional operations, and replaced over 700 light fittings with lower wattage bulbs. In 2015, we will begin refurbishment of our headquarters D’House, where majority of our employees are based. Targeted to meet LEED Commercial Interior Gold Certification, we estimate the refurbishment to help us achieve a reduction of 35% in energy and 20% in water use. The certification will require us to recycle 95% of wastes generated during the refurbishment, use 30% recycled building material, 30% material produced in the region, and low volatile organic compound products to reduce risk of sick building syndrome. Case Study Digi's Technical Operations Center was the first data center in Malaysia to achieve the provisional Gold Level Certification from the Green Building Index. The design, construction and operations of this data center incorporate a wide range of energy and environmentally­friendly features. Green features: Energy efficiency (target Power Usage Efficiency < 1.6) Renewable Energy ­ solar cells of 35.2KWp for internal usage Water efficiency ­ rain water harvesting capacity with bio­swale tank Eco­friendly elements ­ eco­friendly carpeting, low volatile organic compound (VOC) wall paint, low emissions coated window panels, 'Green' fire suppression system (inert gas used with zero ozone depleting potential) Energy efficiency initiatives We will continue to explore opportunities to improve energy delivery across our operations through investing in innovative energy saving solutions and develop strategic partnerships in pursuit of Internet For All. Since 2011, we have initiated a multi pronged strategy to improve energy efficiency across our network and facilities operations. Mapping energy use: We mapped and analysed power consumption to differentiate and estimate energy used for our facilities and network. This provided us with a baseline to develop targeted strategy on how to increase energy efficiency. Cooling solutions: Since 2011, we have progressively installed hybrid free cooling boxes as default in 944 of our base stations. Hot air generated from equipment in the cabin is extracted by a powerful ventilation system. Air conditioning comes into operation only when cabin temperature reaches a settable threshold. Malaysia’s first Green Data Centre: In 2012, we invested in the nation’s first Green Data Centre. Certified Gold by the Green Building Index, the Technical Operations Centre and Mobile Switching Centres have all adopted cold aisle containment systems. Smart metering: In 2012, we installed smart metering to provide more accurate insights into energy consumption patterns across the network to improve energy management. Network and infrastructure sharing: In 2013, Digi and Celcom signed a network sharing agreement to share sites and 10,000 km of fibre. Up to end 2014, Digi decommissioned 139 sites and jointly laid over 4,000 km of cables. The sharing of network and infrastructure now extends to three other operators. This cooperation reduces the number of sites and emissions, while expanding our coverage. Network modernization: In 2014, Digi completed its network modernisation programme. This involved upgrading of our network equipment that would support business goal of Internet For All, with more energy efficiency equipment. Carbon emissions In 2014, our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions increased 6.8% to 134,257.4* tonnes CO2e. The higher percentage increase compared to GWh consumption is partially attributed to a 6.2% increase in Malaysia’s grid electricity emission factor issued by the International Energy Agency. Our largest GHG emissions are from Scope 2, purchased electricity from grid, which accounts for 83.6*% of total emissions. Scope 1 emission, from our assets, accounts for 15.4% of total emissions. Scope 1 emissions for network has been increasing the past three years due to higher rollout of portable base stations to reach underserved customers. In 2014, our Scope 1 emission increased 7.8% as we rolled out more portable sites to hasten recovery of over 200 sites during the east coast floods. We missed our timelines to convert additional off­grid sites to grid power. Our Scope 3 emission, indirect emissions, accounts for less than 1*% of total emission. We track all air travel and mileage of rented vehicles. We have seen a 14.5% and 12% reduction respectively in line with lower employee headcount. In 2015, we will expand our Scope 3 accountability by gaining an understanding of GHG emissions in our logistics supply chain. We continue to explore and invest in green technology that supports our business goals and leverage on network infrastructure sharing to reduce GHG emissions. Though we increased solar power generation by 16.3% in 2014, our 74 hybrid solar powered base stations account for less than 1% of network energy consumption. Addressing Environmental Sustainability We take a proactive approach to manage environmental risks and impacts across our operations. We comply with ISO14001 international environmental management systems across our operations, meet local standards for managing obsolete electrical and electronic equipment, and advocate a greener future in partnership with our key stakeholders. Our commitment to environmental sustainability extends to our supply chain as part of the Agreement of Business Conduct. We encourage our suppliers to undertake precautionary approach, promote greater environmental responsibility, and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our Initiatives Adherence to Environmental Standards and Carbon Reporting Digi was awarded the Top Performer “Excellence Award” at the inaugural MyCarbon Disclosure Project Awards in recognition for its transparency in carbon disclosure. Organised by MYCarbon, the National Corporate Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Reporting Programme aims to encourage corporate Malaysia to review, account and report GHGs emissions adapted from the GHG Protocol. Digi has reported its GHG emissions for over a decade using the GHG Protocol. In 2011, Digi was ranked No.1 in Malaysia, and in 2013 as a Climate Disclosure Leader in Asia by Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Since 2013, Digi’s carbon disclosure to the CDP has been reported as part Telenor Group’s submission. Managing Obsolete Electrical and Electronic Equipment Electronic waste represents a substantial portion of obsolete electrical and electronic equipment from our network. Since 2012, a formal process to facilitate the disposal of obsolete network equipment, in accordance to environmental and safety standards were implemented. The process ensures that all obsolete equipment is properly dismantled, stored for re­use as spare parts, refurbished and sold, or scrapped according to environmental and safety requirements. In 2014, our e­waste collection doubled to 3.3 tonnes with the completion of the network modernisation programme. We recycled over 94% of obsolete equipment and raised RM6 million in the process. We are aware of obsolete equipment that is still in the field that needs to be accounted for. We continue to communicate with our field force team to ensure that all obsolete equipment is collected and disposed in a safe and proper manner. Advocacy and Awareness Addressing climate change and environmental awareness requires a multi­party approach. We continue to work and support industry and non­governmental organisation partners to pilot projects and raise awareness. Digi chairs the sub­working group promoting green ICT in the Malaysian Technical Standards Forum Berhad, an industry initiative by the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (SKMM). The sub­working group encourages collaboration between industry partners to promote awareness, pilot new solutions, conduct proof of concept, and develop industry standards. In 2014, we sponsored 200 of our customers to be part of the global ‘Earth Hour’ movement in partnership with WWF Malaysia. We will continue to explore innovative mobile connectivity solutions that can help to raise greater environmental awareness and initiatives with partners. PERFORMANCE DATA PROGRESS VS TARGETS VISION, MISSION CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE ACCOLADES ABOUT THIS AND VALUES REPORT Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Engagement Empowerment Ethical and Glossary Through Material Responsible Connectivity Assurance Issues Business Statement Passionate Ethical and Employees Responsible Business Climate Change and Passionate Environment Employees Climate Change and Environment Progress vs Targets Feedback | Copyright ©2015 Digi. All Rights Reserved. VISION, MISSION AND VALUES ∙ APPROACH ∙ STRATEGY ∙ FOCUS AREAS ∙ PERFORMANCE ∙ ACCOLADES ∙ ABOUT THIS REPORT Empowerment Through Connectivity *Ernst & Young reviewed and verified this data. VISION, MISSION CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE ACCOLADES ABOUT THIS AND VALUES REPORT Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Engagement Empowerment Ethical and Glossary Through Material Responsible Connectivity Assurance Issues Business Statement Passionate Ethical and Employees Responsible Business Climate Change and Passionate Environment Employees Climate Change and Environment Progress vs Targets Feedback | Copyright ©2015 Digi. All Rights Reserved. VISION, MISSION AND VALUES ∙ APPROACH ∙ STRATEGY ∙ FOCUS AREAS ∙ PERFORMANCE ∙ ACCOLADES ∙ ABOUT THIS REPORT Ethical and Responsible Business *Ernst & Young reviewed and verified this data. Notes: 1. 2012-2014 data reflects training given to new hires only, as part of the induction programme. 2. Refers to employees who have read, understood and agreed to the terms of our Code of Conduct. 3. Refers to new employees who have read, understood and argeed to the terms of our Code of Conduct. Compliance with laws and regulations Malaysian Communications and Multimedia concerning the provision of use of products Commission issued compounds of RM510,000 for and services breaching the Mandatory Standards for Quality of Service and RM460,000 for breaching Guidelines on Regulations of End­Users of Prepaid Public Cellular Services. Compliance with laws and regulations MSC Kuching was audited by Department of concerning health and safety Occupational Safety and Health on 18th December 2014. There were 3 notices of improvements which were action on and closed by authorities. Compliance with environmental laws and There were no incidents of non­compliance regulations Anti­competitive behaviour There were no incidents of non­compliance. The Competition Act 2010 is not applicable to Digi as the communication and multimedia industry is governed by competition regulations under the Communications and Multimedia Act 1998. *Ernst & Young reviewed and verified this data. Note: 1. The Supply Chain SCP Risk indicator (SCSR) gives an indication about the SCP risk level in the supply chain, based on a supplier Self Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) made at the end of every year. The SCSR is reduced during the subsequent year, based on verification of concrete risk elimination at suppliers' side. VISION, MISSION CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE ACCOLADES ABOUT THIS AND VALUES REPORT Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Engagement Empowerment Ethical and Glossary Through Material Responsible Connectivity Assurance Issues Business Statement Passionate Ethical and Employees Responsible Business Climate Change and Passionate Environment Employees Climate Change and Environment Progress vs Targets Feedback | Copyright ©2015 Digi. All Rights Reserved. VISION, MISSION AND VALUES ∙ APPROACH ∙ STRATEGY ∙ FOCUS AREAS ∙ PERFORMANCE ∙ ACCOLADES ∙ ABOUT THIS REPORT Passinoate Employees Notes: 1. 5 consecutive days of leave is granted to male employees following the birth of a new child. 2. Extended maternity leave of up to 4 months is offered to female employees following the birth of a new child. The first 2 months are on full salary, and the optional 3rd and 4th months are on half salary. new child. The first 2 months are on full salary, and the optional 3rd and 4th months are on half salary. Note: 1. Include expiry of fixed-term contracts, dismissal, retrenchment, mutual separation, abscondment, retirement, resignation and frustration of contract. Note: 1. Measures employees' perception of managers living up to Digi's Leadership Expectations encompassing 'Passion for Business', 'Empower People', 'Excellent Execution', 'Change and Continuous Improvement', and 'Integrity and Accountability'. 2. Measures perception that action has been taken based on feedback from the last survey, and a belief that positive change will happen as a result from this year's survey Note: 1. The definition of Management includes women in senior management team, and all Heads of Departments, Units or Sub-Sections. Notes: 1. Malaysian Chinese. 2. Malaysian Indian. *Ernst & Young reviewed and verified this data. Notes: 1. Calculation of working hours , excludes in-house contractors. Note: 1. Health and Safety Committee was expanded to include regional representatives in 2012, reflected in the higher number of members and meetings. *Ernst & Young reviewed and verified this data. 1. Parameter changed to 'Employees with documented goal settings'. VISION, MISSION CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE ACCOLADES ABOUT THIS AND VALUES REPORT Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Engagement Empowerment Ethical and Glossary Through Material Responsible Connectivity Assurance Issues Business Statement Passionate Ethical and Employees Responsible Business Climate Change and Passionate Environment Employees Climate Change and Environment Progress vs Targets Feedback | Copyright ©2015 Digi. All Rights Reserved. VISION, MISSION AND VALUES ∙ APPROACH ∙ STRATEGY ∙ FOCUS AREAS ∙ PERFORMANCE ∙ ACCOLADES ∙ ABOUT THIS REPORT Climate Change and Environment *Ernst & Young reviewed and verified this data. Notes: 1. Parameter reported based on Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol). Scope 1 represents emissions arising from fuel and gas consumed by Digi, Scope 2 is electricity consumed from the grid by Digi and Scope 3 represent emissions from travel and transportation. 2. Fuel consumption (diesel) is estimated based on rated capacity of generators at 75% load. 3. The calculation of CO2 emissions has been updated based on the latest energy to CO2 conversion the International Energy Agency guidelines. 4. Tonnes CO2 / billion RM revenue *Ernst & Young reviewed and verified this data. Notes: 1. Increased due to the roll-out of new 3G sites to off-grid. 2. Increased due to the on-going network expansion activities causing higher consumption in two parallel networks, which will continue to operate until the migration is completed and the previous network is fully decommissioned. 3. Parameter reports total energy consumption per revenue unit. Notes: 1. Increased due to the higher number of retail centres and round-the-clock operations at Digi's Technical Operations Center and the facility that houses employees and partners working on the network modernisation initiative. 2. Increase in the number of retail centres. 3. The number of buildings include only office buildings and exclude network buildings. Note: 1. E-waste, a subset of Digi's obsolete electrical and electronic equipment is defined according to Malaysian regulations for Scheduled Waste. It refers to components such as accumulators, mercury-switches, glass from biphenyl-capacitors, or parts contaminated with cadmium, mercury lead, nickel, chromium, copper, lithium, silver, manganese or polychlorinated biphenyl. 2. Increased due to network modernisation projects. The collected equipment to be resold, re-use or recycle. Note: 1. The disposal method for municipal waste is through waste segregation for full or partial recovery by third party vendor. 2. Scheduled waste is stored in our scheduled waste storage facilities and disposed in accordance to the Environmental Quality (Scheduled Waste) regulations. VISION, MISSION CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE ACCOLADES ABOUT THIS AND VALUES REPORT Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Engagement Empowerment Ethical and Glossary Through Material Responsible Connectivity Assurance Issues Business Statement Passionate Ethical and Employees Responsible Business Climate Change and Passionate Environment Employees Climate Change and Environment Progress vs Targets Feedback | Copyright ©2015 Digi. All Rights Reserved. VISION, MISSION AND VALUES ∙ APPROACH ∙ STRATEGY ∙ FOCUS AREAS ∙ PERFORMANCE ∙ ACCOLADES ∙ ABOUT THIS REPORT Empowerment Through Connectivity 2014 target objectives, Status as at 2015 Focus Areas and Targets and initiatives end 2014 Launched a range of products and services at affordable Offer products and services that promote affordable and price points to deliver Internet For All positive use of the internet Completed network modernisation programme Rollout of LTE to reach 50% of population coverage Expanded our 3G network to 86% of polulation Increase sharing of sites to increase coverage coverage. Rolled out LTE to 32% of population coverage Completed an additional 10 PI1M centres in rural areas. Extend PI1Ms to 30 rural and 40 urban poor communities Pilot project retail touch points, support digital entrepreneurship training for SMEs and online education opportunities for young adults in six PI1Ms Digi Challenge for Change 5 crowdsourced more than Launch of Empower Society 2,500 ideas 200 mobile app developers developed 56 full­fledged mobile apps Conducted nationwide survey of 14,000 school children Develop a child friendly internet package on their online behaviour Develop and partner with Childline to provide free calls Conducted Digi CyberSAFE™ in Schools programme to to their helpline over 38,098 students Partner with UNICEF, Ministry of Education, Cybersecurity Empowered 130 ICT teachers as CyberSAFE and Childline to promote and engage children on cyber ambassadors safety Adapt existing Digi CyberSAFE™ in Schools programme to address research findings Ethical and Responsible Business 2014 target objectives, Status as at 2015 Focus Areas and Targets and initiatives end 2014 Adoption of three additional policies from Telenor Group Strengthen internal awareness and compliance to Updated 10 policies as part of the annual review policies and manuals on privacy, information Refresh Code of Conduct to better align with the new management and security Telenor Way of work. Addressed conflict of interest, property and assets and no gift policies Quarterly network drive tests Continue to embed customer centricity in key customer Annual Customer First Day touch points Proprietary application for employees to feedback on Enhance customer centric culture among employees network quality Conducted 421 supplier audits Target to conduct 800 supplier audits. Terminated two third tier sub­contractors due to non­ Conduct 2,000 health and safety training hours compliance Achieve 100% closure of risk identified in self­ assessment questionnaire Conducted a third party assessment of systems and Continue to enhance management of compliance to risk processes relating to customer privacy and data assessment and customer privacy and data protection protection Passionate employees 2014 target objectives, Status as at 2015 Focus Areas and Targets and initiatives end 2014 BOPC resolved 55 issues addressed with management Streamline and strengthen issues and resolution team process of BOPC Increased frequency of fruit distribution to three times a Promote healthier lifestyle through awareness and week training programmes for employees Achieved zero Lost Time Injury Frequency Target zero Lost Time Injury Frequency Delayed in refresh of Digi workspace. To commence in To commence refresh of Digi workspace 2nd quarter 2nd quarter 2015 2015 Climate Change and Environment 2014 target objectives, Status as at 2015 Focus Areas and Targets and initiatives end 2014 Increased network GWh consumption by 1.1% year­on­ Improve energy intensity per RM revenue year but remain 1.5% lower than network consumption in 2012 Achieved lower energy intensity per RM revenue but missed target of 34.8MWh per RM revenue Installed an additional seven hybrid solar diesel sites Increase percentage of alternative energy used in Delayed in additional conversion of off­grid sites to grid operations power Delayed in improving air conditioning efficiency Attain LEED Commercial Interior Gold Certification of D’House VISION, MISSION CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE ACCOLADES ABOUT THIS AND VALUES REPORT Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Engagement Empowerment Ethical and Glossary Through Material Responsible Connectivity Assurance Issues Business Statement Passionate Ethical and Employees Responsible Business Climate Change and Passionate Environment Employees Climate Change and Environment Progress vs Targets Feedback | Copyright ©2015 Digi. All Rights Reserved. VISION, MISSION AND VALUES ∙ APPROACH ∙ STRATEGY ∙ FOCUS AREAS ∙ PERFORMANCE ∙ ACCOLADES ∙ ABOUT THIS REPORT Our sustainability efforts have been recognised through various awards and ratings. The following are awards and ratings received in the last three years. THE EDGE BILLION RINGGIT CLUB 2014 Most Profitable Company (for companies with a market capitalisation on of above RM10 billion) Most Profitable Company, Trading and Services Category 2013 Company of the Year Best Performing Stock (for companies with a market capitalisation of over RM10 billion) Most Profitable Company, Trading and Services Category 2012 No.2 Best CSR Initiatives Category FTSE4GOOD Bursa Malaysia Index 2014 2014 Constituent company in the index ACCA Malaysia Sustainability Reporting Awards 2010 by the Association of Certified Chartered Accountants 2014 Finalist, Stand Alone Category for Best Sustainability Report 2013 Finalist, Stand Alone Category for Best Sustainability Report CHANNEL NEWSASIA SUSTAINABILITY RANKING 2014 by Channel NewsAsia in partnership with CSR Asia and Sustainalytics 2014 Top 100 Companies in Asia MYCarbon Awards by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment in partnership with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Malaysia 2014 Excellence Award, Top Performer for National Corporate Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Reporting Asia's Best Companies by Finance Asia 2013 No. 1, Best Managed Company Category No. 1, Best Corporate Responsibility Category No. 1, Most Committed to a Strong Dividend Policy Category No. 2, Best Corporate Governance Category No. 2, Best Investor Relations Category 2012 No. 5 Best Managed Company Category 2012 No. 5 Best Managed Company Category No. 5 Best Corporate Governance Category No. 6 Best Corporate Social Responsibility Category Carbon Disclosure Project 2013 No.1 in Malaysia No. 1, Year­on­Year Disclosure Score Change for South East Asia Malaysia Cyber Security Awards by Cybersecurity Malaysia 2013 Information Security Outreach Provider of the Year 2012 Information Security Outreach Provider of the Year CyberSAFE Ambassador for the Year VISION, MISSION CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE ACCOLADES ABOUT THIS AND VALUES REPORT Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Engagement Empowerment Ethical and Glossary Through Material Responsible Connectivity Assurance Issues Business Statement Passionate Ethical and Employees Responsible Business Climate Change and Passionate Environment Employees Climate Change and Environment Progress vs Targets Feedback | Copyright ©2015 Digi. All Rights Reserved. VISION, MISSION AND VALUES ∙ APPROACH ∙ STRATEGY ∙ FOCUS AREAS ∙ PERFORMANCE ∙ ACCOLADES ∙ ABOUT THIS REPORT This is our sixth Sustainability Report and the fifth Communication on Progress (COP) since becoming a signatory to the UN Global Compact in September 2008. Our last Sustainability Report was published on May 14th, 2014. Scope This sustainability report covers the entire operations of Digi Communications Berhad for 1 Jan – 31 Dec 2014. We have published an annual sustainability report since 2010. Since 2011, we have obtained Limited Assurance on our Sustainability Reports. We have chosen to use the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines as the basis of reporting and have adopted the GRI 4.0 for this report. The report brings together our sustainability initiatives, including current and future directions. It is intended to be useful to all our stakeholders – our customers, employees, shareholders, communities as well as being a communication tool to various interested parties about our approach to the social, environmental and economic aspects of our business. Reporting period This is an annual report which covers the period from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014 (Fiscal Year 2014). Unless otherwise stated, all data is as at 31 December 2014. We are committed to continuing our reporting journey, and expect to publish a sustainability report biennially. Our report content has been prepared in accordance with GRI 4.0 core guidelines. We referred to the principles for defining report content when planning our report. For selected performance indicators that have been historically tracked, we have included data from the past three years. Reporting Principles Our Sustainability Report is developed in accordance with the Digi Standard Operating Policy and Procedures on Sustainability Reporting. The policy and procedures aim to provide guidance on the scope and boundaries of reporting, roles and responsibilities, internal control processes, and definitions for all reported parameters. They are consistent with the Telenor Group Non­Financial Reporting Procedures and other established reporting standards such as the Global Reporting Initiative 4.0 Guidelines, Greenhouse Gas Emissions Protocol, Carbon Disclosure Project and the UN Global Compact. Following is an illustration of the reporting process that was undertaken for this year's report. * Content Providers are employees responsible for providing data for various parameters. They are accountable for the accuracy, completeness and timeliness of data provided. Completeness: Aspects and Boundaries We have identified 12 aspects to be disclosed in this report. These aspects were identified as issues linked to the materiality matrix and our commitment to the UNGC. Issues relating to these aspects are addressed through our various engagement with our stakeholders. Material issues Material Aspect Boundary Key stakeholders Compliance Extends to our external Employees Corporate Governance partners Compliance Internal and external Employees Service reliability and quality Customers Consumer Forum MCMC Anti­corruption Internal and with our external Employees Ethics and anti­corruption suppliers and parties Suppliers Partners Supplier Environmental This engagement covers our Contractors Supply chain Assessment relationship with our Suppliers Supplier Assessment for contractors and suppliers. Vendors Labour Practices Occupational Health and Safety Internal Employees Employees Training and Education Diversity and Equal Opportunity Non­discrimination Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Energy Emissions Internal Telenor Energy efficiency Carbon Disclosure Project Environmental NGOs Customer privacy Internal Employees Data security and Privacy Local communities External CyberSAFE in Schools Digital responsibility Local communities Internal and External Internet For All Enabling services Challenge For Change Strategic partners Regulatory agencies and ministries Audience and Accessibility This report is made available on our corporate website (www.digi.com.my/sustainability), for all key stakeholders and members of the public. A printable version of the full report is also available on the same website. Feedback Please direct your enquiries or feedback to: Quah Yean Nie ­ Head of Communications and Sustainability Email: cr@digi.com.my Tel: 03 57211800 Address : Lot 10, Jalan Delima 1/1, Subang Hi­Tech Industrial Park 40000 Shah Alam, Selangor Malaysia. VISION, MISSION CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE ACCOLADES ABOUT THIS AND VALUES REPORT Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Engagement Empowerment Ethical and Glossary Through Material Responsible Connectivity Assurance Issues Business Statement Passionate Ethical and Employees Responsible Business Climate Change and Passionate Environment Employees Climate Change and Environment Progress vs Targets Feedback | Copyright ©2015 Digi. All Rights Reserved. VISION, MISSION AND VALUES ∙ APPROACH ∙ STRATEGY ∙ FOCUS AREAS ∙ PERFORMANCE ∙ ACCOLADES ∙ ABOUT THIS REPORT We have benchmarked our Sustainability reporting against the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability reporting guidelines. Index of Conformance with the GRI 4.0 Guidelines – “in accordance” – Core Strategy and Analysis Organisational Profile Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Stakeholder Engagement Report Profile Governance, Commitments and Engagements Ethics and Integrity Performance Indicators Economic Performance Indicators Environmental Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Human Rights Performance Indicators Society Performance Indicators Product Responsibility Indicators The table below provides links to relevant information which has been published in this report, as well as other printed or electronic publications by Digi. 1. Strategy and Analysis Indicator Compliance Cross Reference or Direct Answer G4 ­ 1 Statement from the most senior decision Annual report: Chairman and CEO's Statement (Page 8­11) maker of the organisation about the relevance CEO's Message of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy. 2. Organisational Profile Indicator Compliance Cross Reference or Direct Answer G4 ­ 3 Name of reporting organisation. About this report : Scope G4 ­ 4 Primary brands, products and services. Annual report: Management Discussion and Analysis (Page 12­16) Digi Website G4 ­ 5 Location of organisation's headquarters. Annual report: Notes to the Financial Statements (Page 86) About this Report G4 ­ 6 Countries of operation. Digi only operates in Malaysia. About this Report G4 ­ 7 Nature of ownership and legal form. Annual report: Notes to the Financial Statements (Page 86) G4 ­ 8 Markets served (including geographic Annual report: Management Discussion and Analysis (Page 10­17) breakdown, sectors served and types of About this Report customers/beneficiaries). Digi offers a wide range of voice, data and internet products in the form of pre­paid, post paid, business solutions, international and financial services. G4 ­ 9 Scale of the reporting organisation (including Annual report: Statements of Comprehensive Income (Page 78), employees, assets, sales and products). Statements of Financial Position (Page 79) Annual report: Management Discussion and Analysis (Page 10­17) 2014 Highlights Passionate Employees: Performance Indicators G4 ­ 10 Organisation’s workforce Passionate Employees: Performance Indicators G4 ­ 11 Total employees covered by collective Passionate Employees bargaining agreements G4 ­ 12 Organisation’s supply chain Ethical and responsible business G4 ­ 13 Significant changes during the reporting period Annual report: Chairman's Statement (Page 8) regarding size, structure or ownership. Annual report: Statement of Changes in Equity (Page 81­82) G4 ­ 14 Explanation of whether and how the Climate Change and Environment precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation. G4 ­ 15 Externally developed economic, environmental, CEO's Message and social charters, principles or other About this Report : Reporting Principles initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. G4 ­ 16 Members in associations and/or Digi as part of the Telenor Group is an active participant in GSMA, national/international advocacy organisations the global association for mobile operators. Digi is also a signatory to the UN Global Compact. Locally, Digi actively participates in telecommunications industry forums, government bodies, Business Council for Corporate Social Responsibility Malaysia and EU Malaysia Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Empowerment Through Connectivity: Industry Development CEO's Message 3. Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4 ­ 17 Entities included in the organisation’s Annual report: Corporate Structure consolidated financial statements or equivalent (Page 1) documents G4 ­ 18 Process for defining report content (including Materiality materiality, prioritising topics and identifying stakeholders) G4 ­ 19 Material Aspects identified in the process for Materiality defining report content G4 ­ 20 Aspect Boundary within the organization About this Report G4 ­ 21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization About this Report G4 ­ 22 Explanation of the effect of any re­statements Passionate Employees: Performance Indicators: Employees Leaving of information provided in earlier reports, and Digi the reasons for such re­statement. G4 ­ 23 Significant changes from previous reporting This is the first time we are reporting using GRI G4 – “in periods in the scope, boundary or accordance” Core measurement methods applied in the report. 4. Stakeholder Engagement G4 ­ 24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Our Approach to Sustainability : Stakeholder Engagement organisation. G4 ­ 25 Basis for identification and selection of Our Approach to Sustainability : Stakeholder Engagement stakeholders with whom to engage. G4 ­ 26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, Our Approach to Sustainability : Stakeholder Engagement including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. G4 ­ 27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Our Approach to Sustainability : Stakeholder Engagement through stakeholder engagement, and how the Our Approach to Sustainability : Material Issues organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 5. Report Profile Indicator Compliance Cross Reference or Direct Answer Report Profile G4 ­ 28 Reporting period for information provided. About this Report: Reporting Period G4 ­ 29 Date of most recent previous report. About this Report: Reporting Period G4 ­ 30 Reporting cycle. About this Report: Reporting Period G4 ­ 31 Contact point for questions regarding the About this Report:Feedback report or its contents. G4 ­ 32 Table identifying the location of the Standard This page disclosures in the report. G4 ­ 33 Policy and current practice with regard to Assurance Statement seeking external assurance for the report. 6. Governance G4 ­ 34 Organisation’s governance structure Annual Report : Governance (Pg 32) Governance 7. Ethics and Intergrity G4 ­ 56 Organisation’s values, principles, standards Vision and Mission and norms of behaviours Ethical and Responsible Business 8. Economic Management Approach Digicontributes directly to the Malaysian economy through license fees, taxes, contribution to Universal Service Provision, job creation and support to local business partners. Indirectly, our core offering of mobile internet and telephony are key enablers for socio economic development. Annual Report CEO's Message Our Approach to Sustainability Empowerment Through Connectivity Indicator Compliance Cross Reference or Direct Answer Economic Performance G4 ­ EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Annual report: Group Financial Summary (Page 18) including revenues, operating costs, employee Annual report: Statements of Comprehensive Income (Page 79) compensation, donations and other community Empowerment Through Connectivity : Performance Indicators investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. G4 ­ EC2 Financial implications and other risks and CEO's Message opportunities for the organisation's activities due Climate Change and Environment to climate change. Telenor Group’s Carbon Reporting G4 ­ EC3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit Annual report: Notes to the Financial Statements plan obligations. Note 2(n) Significant Accounting Policies: Employee Benefits (Page 93­96) Note 7 Profit Before Tax (Page 105) Note 23 Defined Benefit Plan (Page 128) G4 ­ EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Annual report: Statements of Cash Flows (Page 84) government. Market Presence G4 ­ EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage Digi's standard entry level wage is more than 150% of the compared to local minimum wage at significant gazetted minimum wage. locations of operation. G4 ­ EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the All available positions including senior management are opened to local community at significant locations of Digi employees and external local candidates to select the best fit operation. for the position. For selected positions with specialised skills, the search is extended to the Telenor Group of companies. For selected positions with specialised skills, the search is extended to the Telenor Group of companies. Passionate Employees: Performance Indicators: Ethnic Diversity Indirect Economic Impact G4 ­ EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure Empowerment Through Connectivity investments and services provided G4 ­ EC8 Understanding and describing significant indirect Empowerment Through Connectivity economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Economic Performance G4 ­ EC9 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Empowerment Through Connectivity : Performance Indicators: locally­based suppliers at significant locations of Local Suppliers by Percentage operation. 9. Environmental Performance Management Approach Our Approach to Sustainability Climate and Environment Indicator Compliance Cross Reference or Direct Answer Materials G4 ­ EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Digi is not involved in manufacturing. G4 ­ EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Digi is not involved in manufacturing. input materials. Energy G4 ­ EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation. Climate Change and Environment : Driving Energy Efficiency Climate Change and Environment : Performance Indicators: Energy Use G4 ­ EN4 Energy consumption within the organisation. Climate Change and Environment : Driving Energy Efficiency Climate Change and Environment : Performance Indicators: Energy Use G4 ­ EN5 Energy intensity Climate Change and Environment : Driving Energy Efficiency Climate Change and Environment : Performance Indicators: Energy Use G4 ­ EN6 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Climate Change and Environment : Driving Energy Efficiency improvements. Climate Change and Environment : Performance Indicators: Energy Use G4 ­ EN7 Initiatives to provide energy­efficient or N/A Digi's main product or service is our communications services and renewable energy based products and services, we focus on driving energy efficiency in our network. and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Water G4 ­ EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Climate Change and Environment: Performance Indicators: Water Consumption G4 ­ EN9 Water sources significantly affected by Digi's activities, products and services do not consume nor depend withdrawal of water. on large amounts of water. G4 ­ EN10 Percentage and total water volume of water Digi's activities, products and services do not consume nor depend recycled and reused. on large amounts of water. Biodiversity G4 ­ EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, N/A There are no significant adverse effects on biodiversity resulting managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and from Digi's activities, products and services. areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. G4 ­ EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, N/A There are no significant adverse effects on biodiversity resulting products, and services on biodiversity in from Digi's activities, products and services. protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. G4 ­ EN13 Habitats protected or restored. N/A There are no significant adverse effects on biodiversity resulting from Digi's activities, products and services. G4 ­ EN14 Number of IUCN Red List species and national N/A There are no significant adverse effects on biodiversity resulting conservation list species with habitats in areas from Digi's activities, products and services. affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions G4 ­ EN15 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Climate Change and Environment: Performance Indicators: CO2 (Scope 1). Emissions G4 ­ EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Climate Change and Environment: Performance Indicators: CO2 (Scope 2) Emissions G4 ­ EN17 Others indirect greenhouse gas emissions Climate Change and Environment: Performance Indicators: CO2 (Scope 3). Emissions G4 ­ EN18 Greenhouse gas emission intensity Climate Change and Environment: Performance Indicators: CO2 Emissions G4 ­ EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Climate Change and Environment: Performance Indicators: CO2 Emissions G4 ­ EN20 Emissions of ozone­depleting substances (ODS) Not reported G4 ­ EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by Not reported type and weight. Effluent and Waste G4 ­ EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Digi's activities, products and services do not discharge large amounts of water. Office buildings are Digi's main source of wastewater, which is treated according to local discharge conditions and legal requirements. G4 ­ EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Climate and Environment: Performance Indicators: Municipal Waste method. G4 ­ EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. There were no spills in 2014. G4 ­ EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or N/A Digi disposes all scheduled waste in accordance with Malaysian treated waste deemed hazardous under the Scheduled Waste regulations. terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. G4 ­ EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity Digi's activities, products and services do not discharge large value of water bodies and related habitats amounts of water. significantly affected by the reporting organisation's discharges of water and runoff. Products and Services G4 ­ EN27 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Climate Change and Environment products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. G4 ­ EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Compliance G4 ­ EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total There were no cases of non­compliance in 2014. number of non­monetary sanctions for non­ compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport G4 ­ EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting Transportation generates less than 3% of Digi's total CO2 products and other goods and materials used emissions and is therefore does not have a significant impact. for the organisation's operations, and Climate and Environment: Performance Indicators transporting members of the workforce. Overall G4 ­ EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and Environmental protection is taken into consideration in overall investments by type. capital expenditure decisions. Suppliers environmental assessment G4 ­ EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Digi evaluates current and prospective suppliers to identify risks of using environmental criteria violations of Supplier Conduct Principles, which include clauses on precautionary approach. Ethical and Responsible Business : Supply Chain Sustainability Supplier Conduct Principles G4 ­ EN33 Significant actual and potential negative There were none reported in 2014 environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Environmental grievance mechanisms G4 ­ EN34 Number of grievances about environmental There were none filed in 2014 impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 10. Social Performance Labour Practices and Decent Work Management Approach Our Approach to Sustainability Passionate Employees Supply Chain Sustainability Indicator Compliance Cross Reference and Direct Answer Indicator Compliance Cross Reference and Direct Answer Employment G4 ­ LA1 Total number and rate of employee hires and Passionate Employees: Performance Indicators: Employees turnover by age group, gender, and region. Leaving Digi G4 ­ LA2 Benefits provided to full­time employees that are Digi hires temporary employees from third party agencies and they not provided to temporary or part­time are not entitled to any benefits given to Digi's full­time employees. employees, by significant locations of operation Passionate Employees: Competitive and Performance­Based Rewards G4 ­ LA3 Return to work and retention rates after Passionate Employees: Performance Indicators:Employees on parental leave, by gender Parental Leave G4 ­ LA4 Total number and rate of employee hires and Passionate Employees: Performance Indicators: Employees turnover by age group, gender, and region. Leaving Digi Labour/Management Relations G4 ­ LA4 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant Digi gives 1 month notice to inform all employees of operational operational changes, including whether it is changes that result in loss of employment. For employees falling specified in collective agreements. within the scope of the Employment Act, notice is as provided in sections 12 (2) (a), (b) and (c), and section 12 (3) of the Employment Act 1955. Occupational Health and Safety G4 ­ LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in Passionate Employees: Performance Indicators: Health and Safety formal joint management­worker health and Comittee safety committees that help monitor and advice on occupational health and safety programmes. G4 ­ LA6 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, There were no work­related fatalities in 2014. and absenteeism, and number of work­related Passionate Employees : Performance Indicators: Health and Safety fatalities by region. Key Performance Indicators G4 ­ LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of Digi organises education, training, counseling, prevention and risk­ diseases related to their occupation control programmes for employees, whenever there is an outbreak of serious diseases. Passionate Employees: Engaging and Supportive Work Environment Ethical and Responsible Business : Supply Chain Sustainability G4 ­ LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal Health and safety aspects apply to all employees regardless of agreements with trade unions. whether they are union members Training and Education G4 ­ LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee Due to changes in organisation structure, training hours were not by employee category. fully captured in this year’s report. An online tracking and reporting system will be implemented in 2015 G4 ­ LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong Passionate Employees : Most Attractive Career Development learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. G4 ­ LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular Passionate Employees : Performance Indicators: Employees performance and career development reviews. Development Plan Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4 ­ LA12 Composition of governance bodies and Annual report: Directors Profiles (Page 32­35) breakdown of employees per category according Passionate Employees: Performance Indicators: Diversity and to gender, age group, minority group Inclusion membership, and other indicators of diversity. Equal remuneration for women and men G4 ­ LA13 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by Digi practices equal opportunity to all in salary and remunerations. employee category. Digi Code of Conduct Supplier assessment for labour practices GA ­ LA 14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Digi evaluates current and prospective suppliers to identify risks of using labour practices criteria violations of Supplier Conduct Principles, which include clauses on freedom of association and collective bargaining. Ethical and Responsible Business : Supply Chain Sustainability Supplier Conduct Principles GA ­ LA 15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts Digi evaluates current and prospective suppliers to identify risks of for labour practices in the supply chain and violations of Supplier Conduct Principles, which include clauses on actions taken freedom of association and collective bargaining. Ethical and Responsible Business : Supply Chain Sustainability Supplier Conduct Principles Labour practices grievance mechanisms GA ­ LA 16 Number of grievances about labour practices There were none filed in 2014 filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 11. Human Rights Management Approach Our Approach to Sustainability Ethical and Responsible Business : Corporate Governance Ethical and Responsible Business : Supply Chain Sustainability Digi Code of Conduct Indicator Compliance Cross Reference or Direct Answer Investment and Procurement Practices G4 ­ HR1 Percentage and total number of significant All significant investment agreements are subject to the terms of investment agreements that include human our Supplier Conduct Principles which include internationally rights clauses or that have undergone human proclaimed human rights standards such as the UN Declaration rights screening. and conventions on human rights. Ethical and Responsible Business : Supply Chain Sustainability Ethical and Responsible Business : Performance Indicators: Supply Chain Sustainability Supplier Conduct Principles G4 ­ HR2 Total hours of employee training on policies and Ethical and Responsible Business: Performance Indicators: procedures concerning aspects of human rights Corporate Governance that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non­discrimination G4 ­ HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and There have been no incidents of discrimination in 2014. Digi is actions taken. opposed to discriminatory practices, and is committed to do its utmost to promote equality in all employment practices. This is stated in Digi's code of conduct. Digi Code of Conduct Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4 ­ HR4 Operations and significant suppliers identified in Digi evaluates current and prospective suppliers to identify risks of which the right to exercise freedom of violations of Supplier Conduct Principles, which include clauses on association and collective bargaining may be at freedom of association and collective bargaining. significant risk, and actions taken to support Ethical and Responsible Business : Supply Chain Sustainability these rights. Supplier Conduct Principles Child Labour G4 ­ HR5 Operations identified as having significant risk Digi evaluates current and prospective suppliers to identify risks of for incidents of forced and compulsory labour, violations of Supplier Conduct Principles, which include clauses on and measures taken to contribute to the child labour. elimination of forced and compulsory labour. Ethical and Responsible Business : Supply Chain Sustainability Supplier Conduct Principles Forced and Compulsory Labour G4 ­ HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk Digi evaluates current and prospective suppliers to identify risks of for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and violations of Supplier Conduct Principles, which include clauses on measures to contribute to the elimination of forced and compulsory labour. forced or compulsory labour. Ethical and Responsible Business : Supply Chain Sustainability Supplier Conduct Principles Security Practices G4 ­ HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the All security personnel have been trained in basic health, safety and organisation's policies or procedures concerning security, as part of the requirements in the Supplier Conduct aspects of human rights that are relevant to Principles. operations. Supplier Conduct Principles Indigenous Rights G4 ­ HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving There have been no violations in 2014. rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Assessment G4 ­ HR9 Percentage and total number of operations that Digi assesses its operations for risks of violations to our code of have been subject to human rights reviews conduct and Supplier Conduct Principles, which include clauses on and/or impact assessments. internationally proclaimed human rights such as the UN Declaration and conventions on human rights. Ethical and Responsible Business : Corporate Governance Ethical and Responsible Business : Supply Chain Sustainability Ethical and Responsible Business : Performance Indicators Digi Code of Conduct Supplier Conduct Principles Supplier human rights assesment G4 ­ HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Digi evaluates current and prospective suppliers to identify risks of using human rights criteria violations of Supplier Conduct Principles, which include clauses on respecting human rights. Ethical and Responsible Business : Supply Chain SustainabilitySupplier Conduct Principles G4 ­ HR11 Significant suppliers and contractors that have Ethical and Responsible Business : Supply Chain Sustainability undergone screening on human rights and Business Assurance actions taken. Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4 ­ HR12 Number of grievances related to human rights There have been no filed grievances in 2014. filed, addressed and resolved through formal Digi Code of Conduct grievance mechanisms. 12. Society Management Approach Our Approach to Sustainability Empowerment Through Connectivity Ethical and Responsible Business Digi Code of Conduct Indicator Compliance Cross Reference or Direct Answer Local Community G4 ­ S01 Percentage of operations with implemented local Digi assesses its operational impact on community, and carries out community engagement, impact assessments, relevant development and engagement programmes to address and development programmes. such impacts. Empowerment Through Connectivity: Community Development Ethical and Responsible Business : Consumer Centricity G4 ­ S02 Operations with significant potential or actual Ethical and Responsible Business negative impacts on local communities. Ethical and Responsible Business : Consumer Centricity Empowerment Through Connectivity : Safer Internet for Children Anti Corruption G4 ­ S03 Percentage and total number of business units Digi's Code of Conduct and Anti­Corruption Policy apply strict analysed for risks related to corruption. requirements across our operations. G4 ­ S04 Percentage of employees trained in Ethical and Responsible Business : Performance Indicators: organisation's anti­corruption policies and Corporate Governance procedures. G4 ­ S05 Actions taken in response to incidents of Ethical and Responsible Business corruption. Public Policy G4 ­ S06 Total value of financial and in­kind contributions Digi does not give support to political parties, either in the form of to political parties, politicians, and related direct financial support or paid time. This is stated in Digi's Code of institutions by country. Conduct. Ethical and Responsible Business : Corporate Governance Digi Code of Conduct Anti­Competitive Behaviour G4 ­ S07 Total number of legal actions for anti­competitive There were no legal actions in 2014. behaviour, anti­trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance G4 ­ S08 Monetary value of significant fines and total Performance Indicators : Ethical and Responsible Business number of non­monetary sanctions for non­ compliance with laws and regulations. Supplier assessment for impacts on society G4 ­ S09 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Digi evaluates current and prospective suppliers to identify risks of using criteria for impacts on society violations of Supplier Conduct Principles, which include clauses on respecting human rights. Ethical and Responsible Business : Supply Chain SustainabilitySupplier Conduct Principles G4 ­ S010 Significant actual and potential negative impacts Ethical and Responsible Business : Supply Chain Sustainability on society in the supply chain and actions taken Business Assurance Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society G4 ­ S011 Number of grievances about impacts on society There were no cases of filed in 2014 filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 13. Product Responsibility Management Approach Our Approach to Sustainability Ethical and Responsible Business Empowerment Through Connectivity : Safer Internet for Children Indicator Compliance Cross Reference or Direct Answer G4 ­ PR1 Percentage of significant product and service All key products and services are subject to health and safety categories for which health and safety impacts assessments which cover design, use/delivery and disposal, and are assessed for improvement are required to be compliant with local safety standards. Digi is committed to taking an active role in delivering safer products and services. Ethical and Responsible Business : Addressing RF Emissions Empowerment Through Connectivity : Safer Internet for Children G4 ­ PR2 Total number of incidents of non­compliance with There were no incidents of non­compliance in 2014. regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and Service Labeling G4 ­ PR3 Type of product and service information required Empowerment Through Connectivity : Safer Internet for Children by procedures and percentage of significant Ethical and Responsible Business : Customer Centricity products and services subject to such information requirements. G4 ­ PR4 Total number of incidents of non­compliance with There were no incidents of non­compliance in 2014. regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. G4 ­ PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, Ethical and Responsible Business : Customer Satisfaction including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Marketing Communications G4 ­ PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products We do not sell banned or disputed products G4 ­ PR7 Total number of incidents of non­compliance with There was no incident of non­compliance in 2014 regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer Privacy G4 ­ PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints There were no complaints in 2014 regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance G4 ­ PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non­ Ethical and Responsible Business: Performance Indicators: compliance with laws and regulations concerning Compliance to Laws, Regulations and Codes the provision and use of products and services. VISION, MISSION CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE ACCOLADES ABOUT THIS AND VALUES REPORT Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Engagement Empowerment Ethical and Glossary Through Material Responsible Connectivity Assurance Issues Business Statement Passionate Ethical and Employees Responsible Business Climate Change and Passionate Environment Employees Climate Change and Environment Progress vs Targets Feedback | Copyright ©2015 Digi. All Rights Reserved. VISION, MISSION AND VALUES ∙ APPROACH ∙ STRATEGY ∙ FOCUS AREAS ∙ PERFORMANCE ∙ ACCOLADES ∙ ABOUT THIS REPORT This report serves as our fifth communication on progress by Digi.com Berhad. The list below provides links to this website and other publications by Digi, which explain our approach and performance on issues relevant to the Principles of the Global Compact. Principle 1: Support and Respect the Protection of Internationally Proclaimed Human Rights Corporate Governance Consumer Interests Supply Chain Sustainability Passionate Employee Safer Internet for Children Principle 2: No Complicity in Human Rights Abuses Corporate Governance Supply Chain Sustainability Principle 3: Uphold Freedom of Association and the Right to Collective Bargaining Digi Way of Work Engaging and Supportive Work Environment Principle 4: Elimination of all forms Forced and Compulsory Labour Corporate Governance Supply Chain Sustainability Principle 5: Abolition of Child Labour Corporate Governance Supply Chain Sustainability Principle 6: Eliminate Discrimination in respect of Employment and Occupation Corporate Governance Competitive and Performance Based Rewards Principle 7: Support a Precautionary Approach to Environmental Challenges Digi Way of Work Climate Change and Environment Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to Promote Greater Environmental Responsibility Digi Way of Work Climate Change and Environment Principle 9: Encourage the Development and Diffusion of Environmentally Friendly Technologies Digi Way of Work Climate Change and Environment Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Corporate Governance Supply Chain Sustainability VISION, MISSION CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE ACCOLADES ABOUT THIS AND VALUES REPORT Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Engagement Empowerment Ethical and Glossary Through Material Responsible Connectivity Assurance Issues Business Statement Passionate Ethical and Employees Responsible Business Climate Change and Passionate Environment Employees Climate Change and Environment Progress vs Targets Feedback | Copyright ©2015 Digi. All Rights Reserved. VISION, MISSION AND VALUES ∙ APPROACH ∙ STRATEGY ∙ FOCUS AREAS ∙ PERFORMANCE ∙ ACCOLADES ∙ ABOUT THIS REPORT 2G services Voice and data services being provided using our GSM network (operating in 900MHz and 1800MHz bands). 3G services Voice and data services being provided using our WCDMA network (operating in 2100MHz band). Voice and data services using the next generation of mobile broadband technologies including Long Term 4G services Evolution (LTE) and operating in 2600MHz band. The price charged by a telecommunication service provider for connection to its network in order for the Access Pricing other provider to complete the service for its end­user customers. Deconsolidation of financial statements for wholesale and retail services as if they were separate businesses. Accounting It is designed to reduce information asymmetry, enhance transparency and complement the existing Separation regulatory instruments to address and prevent anti­competitive behaviour in the telecommunications industry. A network that has greater bandwidth than another standard or usual signal or device, with ability to Broadband transmit signals of up to 128 Kbps. Pusat Internet 1Malaysia (formerly A project under the Universal Service Provision programme to provide collective internet access in known as Community underserved areas. Broadband Centre) Initiative to share the use of towers, fibre optic facilities and also network capacity between two or more Infrastructure Sharing telecommunication companies. The provisions of collective broadband access and individual broadband access service for targeted Wireless Village communities living in the underserved areas. Mobile Virtual A mobile service provider that does not own key network assets such as spectrum and telecommunications Network Operator structures but leases them from other mobile network operators. (MVNO) Radio Frequency A frequency of electromagnetic radiation in the range at which radio signals are transmitted. Emission Spectrum A range of electromagnetic frequencies required for telecommunication systems to operate. A programme to support the development and usage of communication services in underserved areas and Universal Service communities. Operators are mandated to contribute to the USP fund which is managed by the Malaysian Provision (USP) Communications and Multimedia Commission, and are reimbursed for building telecommunications infrastructure in underserved areas. As defined by SKMM, any area: Where the penetration rate for broadband subscribers in Malaysia is below the national broadband penetration rate or where broadband access services are not sufficient. penetration rate or where broadband access services are not sufficient. Underserved areas Where the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) subscribers penetration rate is 20% below the national PSTN penetration or where PSTN services are not sufficiently available. With a population density of 80 persons per square kilometer or less, and where public cellular services are not sufficiently available. VISION, MISSION CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE ACCOLADES ABOUT THIS AND VALUES REPORT Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Engagement Empowerment Ethical and Glossary Through Material Responsible Connectivity Assurance Issues Business Statement Passionate Ethical and Employees Responsible Business Climate Change and Passionate Environment Employees Climate Change and Environment Progress vs Targets Feedback | Copyright ©2015 Digi. All Rights Reserved. VISION, MISSION AND VALUES ∙ APPROACH ∙ STRATEGY ∙ FOCUS AREAS ∙ PERFORMANCE ∙ ACCOLADES ∙ ABOUT THIS REPORT Assurance Statement by Ernst & Young Independent Limited Assurance Statement To The Management Of Digi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd We have performed limited assurance procedures in relation to Digi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd’s Sustainability Report 2014 (‘the Report’) as detailed in the ‘Subject Matter’ below. The Management’s responsibility The Sustainability Report 2014 has been prepared by the Management of Digi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd, which is responsible for the collection and presentation of the information it contains and for maintaining adequate records and internal controls that are designed to support the sustainability reporting process. There are currently no legally prescribed requirements relating to the preparation, publication and verification of sustainability reports. The auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility in performing our limited assurance activities is to the Management of Digi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd only and in accordance with the terms of reference agreed with them. We do not accept or assume any responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person or organization. Any reliance any such third party may place on the Report is entirely at their own risk. Our review was limited to the information on the select subject matters set out within the Sustainability Section of the Annual Report 2014 and our responsibility does not include: Any work in respect of sustainability information published elsewhere on Digi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd’s website; Sustainability information prior to 01 January 2014 and after 31 December 2014; and Review of Management’s forward looking statements such as targets and intentions; Our multi­disciplinary team has the required competencies and experience to conduct this assurance engagement. Reporting criteria As a basis for the assurance engagement, the Subject Matter for assurance was verified for adherence to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G4) principle of accuracy and non­financial reporting guidelines applicable to the Telenor Group. We consider this reporting criterion to be relevant and appropriate to review the Report. Assurance standard used and level of assurance Our limited assurance engagement has been planned and performed in accordance with the ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagement Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. This standard requires that we comply with the ethical requirements, and plan and perform the assurance engagement under consideration of materiality to express our conclusion with limited assurance. We have also considered the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G4 reporting guidelines in conducting our limited assurance procedures. A limited assurance engagement consists of making enquiries and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. Our procedures were designed to provide a limited level of assurance and as such do not provide all the evidence that would be required to provide a reasonable level of assurance. The procedures performed depend on the assurance practitioner’s judgement including the risk of material misstatement of the specific activity data, whether due to fraud or error. While we considered the effectiveness of Management’s internal controls when determining the nature and extent of our procedures, our review was not designed to provide assurance on internal controls. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. the nature and extent of our procedures, our review was not designed to provide assurance on internal controls. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. Subject Matter The Subject Matter for our limited assurance engagement is: Statements and claims related to the following indicators for 2014 in relevance to Digi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd’s focus areas presented in the Report: Empowerment through Connectivity: Number of students attending the Digi CyberSAFE Program; Ethical and Responsible business: Number of new employees signing off “Code of Conduct” policy; Suppliers signing the Agreement of Business Conduct Best on people: Lost time due to injury; number of employees with documented development plan; and Climate Change & Environment: Direct and indirect energy consumption, direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (limited to business travel and mileage claims). What we did to form our conclusions The procedures performed aim to verify the plausibility of information. We designed our procedures in order to state whether anything has come to our attention to suggest that the Subject Matter detailed above has not been reported in accordance with the reporting criteria cited earlier. In order to form our conclusions we undertook the steps below: 1. Interviewed Digi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd’s executives including the Head of Communications and Corporate Sustainability who also holds responsibility for the sustainability reporting process, to understand the current status of their sustainable development agenda and activities; 2. Undertook visits to Digi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd’s offices; 3. Reviewed Digi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd’s’ processes for data collection, aggregation, analysis and quality control; 4. Reviewed selected relevant internal documents pertaining to the select indicators to assess the accuracy of reporting; 5. Reviewed draft of the Report for statements or assertions for consistency with the findings from our work; 6. Traced select relevant sources of information in line with the Telenor Group non­financial reporting guidelines, reviewed conversion factors in relation to their sources, relevance and accuracy; and 7. Obtained and reviewed evidence to support key assumptions and reasonableness in calculations and other data. The limitations of our review Our review was limited to the information on the select indicators set out within the Sustainability Section of the Annual Report 2014. The accuracy and completeness of the sustainability indicators are subject to inherent limitations given their nature and methods for determining, calculating and estimating such data. Our assurance report should therefore be read in connection with Digi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd’s procedures on the reporting of its sustainability performance. Our independence EY has provided independent assurance services in relation to the Sustainability Report 2014. We have provided no other services relating to Digi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd’s approach to sustainability reporting. In conducting our assurance engagement we have met the independence requirements of the Institute of Singapore Chartered Accountants and Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for Public Accountants and Accounting Entities. Our independence policies prohibit any financial interests in our clients that would or might be seen to impair independence. Each year, partners and staff are required to confirm their compliance with the firm’s policies. Observations and areas for improvement Our observations and areas for improvement will be raised in a report to Digi Telecommunications Sdn Bhd’s Management. The focus on this report will be in addressing any identified gaps between the GRI principles for defining report content, materiality, completeness, sustainability context and stakeholder inclusiveness and those presented within the report. These observations do not affect our conclusions set out below. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed and evidence obtained for the Subject Matter nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information in the Report does not comply in all material respects with the above mentioned reporting criteria. K SADASHIV Partner Climate Change and Sustainability Services Ernst & Young LLP 08 May 2015 Note: 1. International Federation of the Accountants’ International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE3000) VISION, MISSION CEO'S MESSAGE APPROACH STRATEGY FOCUS AREAS PERFORMANCE ACCOLADES ABOUT THIS AND VALUES REPORT Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Governance Empowerment Performance GRI Through Indicators Stakeholder Connectivity UNGC Engagement Empowerment Ethical and Glossary Through Material Responsible Connectivity Assurance Issues Business Statement Passionate Ethical and Employees Responsible Business Climate Change and Passionate Environment Employees Climate Change and Environment Progress vs Targets Feedback | Copyright ©2015 Digi. All Rights Reserved.
