Communication of Progress 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Royal Arctic Line forms an important part of Greeland’s infrastructure and has a special responsibility for ensuring Greenland’s security of supply. So, it is the Royal Arctic Line A/S’ ambition to add financial and social value by offering effective logistics solutions. Our CSR efforts achieve new objectives have extended our data basis, we have formulated an antiIn 2013, Royal Arctic Line signed the UN Global Compact after corruption policy and updated several of our policies. several years of preparation. Finally, we have reached a number of milestones, particularly in terms of suppliers and collaborators. The UN Global Compact, the UN’s ten principles governing corporate responsibility, is an appropriate framework for our However, we are well aware that, in other respects, we still need CSR objectives and for following up on them. to improve and that we must take steps to maintain momentum and achieve new objectives. In 2014, we will be focusing parThe fact that we now report such efforts and measure our own ticularly on diversity, onshore climate and environment and on performance by internationally accepted standards makes it continuously improving data collection. easier for our foreign stakeholders to evaluate our performance in this respect. We are pleased with that since our ambition is to During the financial year we also changed our ways of making compare our performance with that of the other players in the CSR efforts. Such efforts have been distributed on more perindustry. This is why, in our CSR policy, we always aim to imsons, and the CSR Coordinator position, which was an indisprove our performance. pensable element of the preparations for joining the Global Compact, has been abolished. I am by no means denying that Reporting under the UN Global Compact also helps to provide this is a consequence of strict financial control and that savings a clearer picture of the Company’s societal contribution. This a have come from this. However, I am satisfied that we have another advantage of applying the principles. managed to link our CSR efforts to our business by delegating responsibility to people in the “engine room”. We finished makWe need to continue to develop our CSR reporting. With this ing such preparations. Now it is about making an even stronger annual report, which serves as a Communication of Progress link between the overall strategy and day-to-day work. We will (COP) to the Global Compact, we have made progress. We definitely find new ways together with our stakeholders to produce even better results.  Jens Andersen CEO 17 Board of Directors Management Goals CSR-Board Engagement Climate and Environment Employee engagement Reporting in local community Governance General performance Royal Arctic Line’s CSR strategy is formulated on the basis of 2013 2012 2011 the CSR policy and managed by our CSR Board. The CSR Board is made up of five members of Group Management as Employees 762 784 787 well as the chief buyer. In principle, the Board convenes once Trainees 62 65 60 every three months to discuss new measures to be taken and Ships 10 10 10 to reconsider the importance of ongoing initiatives. Once a year Port terminals 14 14 14 the CSR strategy is co-ordinated together with the Board of Directors, and reports are submitted regularly to the entire Nautical miles sailed 387,454 378,531 464,217 group of managers. M3 shipped 750,000 830,000 856,000 The responsibilites are structured under the UN’s ten CSR principles. Add to this the responsibility for achieving the set Royal Arctic Line’s general CSR policy and latest update of its targets, which lies with Group Management and the Board of CSR efforts are available at the Company’s homepage, www. Directors. ral.gl. The CSR policy also serves as the Company’s climate policy and human rights policy, and the other areas are supRoyal Arctic Line’s CSR policy focuses on areas that support ported by underlying policies such as the staff policy, the anthe Company’s business objectives, areas that are important to ti-corruption policy, etc. its stakeholders and areas in which the Company may make a difference. This may be achieved in particular by reducing the environmental effects of the Company’s operations, improving Climate and environment safety and health at work, promoting human rights and ethical Maritime transport is the most economic and environmentally operations and by getting involved in Greenlandic communities. friendly form of commercial transport, requiring less fuel per This will add value to society and to the Company. tonne of goods shipped than transport by train, highway or air. Despite those advantages, it is Royal Arctic Line’s policy to reduce the negative environmental effects of the ships and the Company’s activities. * SEEMP EEOI EEDI International climate and environmental law also brings about a The Energy Efficiency Operational Indicator (EEOI), is a voluntary number of standards. In 2013, Ship Energy Efficiency Manageindex formerly known as the operational CO2 index. The EEOI was ment Plans (SEEMPs) were implemented for every ship as ships developed by the IMO, and in 2013 Royal Arctic Line started 18 are legally required to have a plan for how to improve their energy reporting to the EEOI through the Danish Shipowners’ Association. efficiency. Royal Arctic Line had prepared well for this requireThe Company is currently working on a new strategy to make ment since it implemented Fuel Efficiency Management systems EEOI the future tool to measure on-board energy consumption. in 2012 on board all of its large container ships. Such systems serve to make it easier for the crews to reduce consumption by The Energi Effeciency Design Index (EEDI) was adopted by the assisting with the calculation of optimum slow steaming speed, IMO, and the EU has established energy efficiency requirements hence reducing harbour laytime. to govern the design of new ships. The EEDI is one of many parameters underlying the shipbuilding programme. At sea In order to maintain regular line shipping and security of supply, The shipping industry is subject to extensive climate and envithe 2013 sailing schedule has been very robust. This combined ronmental law*. Royal Arctic Line would like to go even further with various on-board measures has led to a considerable than the minimum legal requirements in this respect as long as reduction of the bunker fuel consumption compared to last year it makes sense in terms of business, and efforts are made to when such consumption was very high as the speed of the reduce the ships’ fuel consumption and optimise the Compaships had been increased heavily in order to compensate for ny’s general consumption of resources. several delays mainly caused by operational problems with chartered tonnage, bad weather, damage and crane failure. Overall, such initiatives are of benefit to both the environment in the form of reduced environmental effects and particulate In 2013, Royal Arctic Line moved a lot closer to the target of emissions as well as higher net income for the Company 65 kilos per nautical mile sailed. Periods of bad weather and through lower expenses. minor technical failure remain an obstacle to the achievement of this target as the wish for slow steaming often has to give way New legislation will be challenging the correlation between for the service obligation in the event of bad weather, ice or particulate emissions and bottom line since the UN International minor repairs. Maritime Organization (IMO) has decided that, from 1 January 2015, all ships regardless of flag and nationality must only use On shore bunker fuel with a sulphur content of 0.1 % when navigating in The financial year 2013 was the first full year in which the ports the Emission Control Area (ECA) (a particular area in the Katof Qaqortoq, Sisimiut, Aasiaat and Nuuk were certified under tegat, the North Sea, the Baltic Sea and the English Channel), ISO 14001 (environmental management) and ISO 9001 (quality with which the EU concurs. This also applies to Royal Arctic management), as was the base port of Aalborg. Those four Line’s ships when navigating into this area north of Scotland, ports serve as hubs, and all import and export cargo pass and it will increase bunker costs considerably. through one of them. IMO also adopted a ballast water management convention In 2013, the main office was included in Clean Office Greenland stipulating that, in future, ballast water must be cleansed before – a partnership involving the WWF, CSR Greenland and six discharging it back into the sea. As a consequence, Royal Greenlandic businesses. The purpose of the project is to reArctic Line will have to install ballast water treatment plants on duce the environmental impact of the offices over time. board its ships. The effective date of the ballast water management convention remains to be set, but the choice of principle Until 2015, the Company will continue its effort to actively make 19 was made as a global measure. the environment and quality a central element of the employees’ day-to-day work. Any benefits from the ISO-certified ports must be spread to the rest of the business, and this also applies to experience gained from Clean Office Greenland. All of the Company’s ships and harbours comply with the International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (ISPS). Working environment and safety Near-misses are unforeseen incidents that do not result in an The employees’ safety, health and job satisfaction are key to accident, sickness or injury, but which might as well could have. Royal Arctic Line’s successful business. Accordingly, regular Therefore, it is important to collect data about near-misses in measures are taken to improve the working conditions, and a order to improve work processes and change dangerous strong corporate culture forms a natural part of Royal Arctic environments to avoid occupational accidents. Following a Line’s objectives. It is company policy to always make adequate decline in the period 2011-2012, focusing on near-misses was training, knowledge and equipment available to the employees emphasised in 2013 as an indispensable tool to avoid accidents to allow them to perform tasks in a safe and secure environas reflected by the number of reports. ment. At sea Safety and security measures are based on the International 2013 2012 2011 Maritime Organization’s (IMO) Internatioal Safety Management Near-misses for vessels 110 53 94 (ISM) Code and the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) Convention. LTA (Lost Time Accidents) 4 7 3 They are audited every year – both internally and externally – and workplace evaluations are made regularly. On shore In order to retain focus on the effort to minimise the risk of Five of the ports run by Royal Arctic Line are certified under accident, all ISM-certified ships must report one near-miss a OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety management month as a minimum. systems). 2013 was the full first year with certification of four Fuel consumption and particulate emissions for container ships Tonnes 2013 2012 2011 Data about the ships’ CO2 emissions are not available as the MGO 3,407 3,591 4,846 calculation method is being updated in accordance with the IMO’s Energy Efficiency Operational Index (EEOI) recommendaHFO LS 6,448 6,432 5,970 tions. So, the CO2 emission data are not comparable. Since the 20 HFO HS 18,969 18,537 19,685 consumption and particulate emission data are comparable, Per kilo of fuel/nautical mile 67 75 66 the ships’ CO2 emission data are assumed to be comparable as SOx 663 624 well, however, a small increase in such emissions has occurred due to a higher number of nautical miles sailed compared to NOx 1,277 1,196 2012. Greenlandic ports. So, the procedures for data collection were the shipping company and also provide a sound basis for recently revised, and from now on data will be published as favourable career opportunities with other companies. comparable data are collected. Work processes are planned and evaluated to ensure a safe Skills development and secure environment for the employees and to allow for the Skills development forms a natural part of the opportunities Company’s offices to share their experience. existing for the individual employee. As a wholly owned Greenlandic enterprise, Royal Arctic Line is particularly responsible for The Group’s action plan for 2014, Groupwide Safety (Sikkerhed contributing to creating jobs in Greenland, and the Company i hele koncernen), has been updated. The ultimate target of the works to increase the share of Greenlandic managers of Royal plan is 0 accidents. Arctic Line – for example, by giving the employees access to supplementary training and by playing an active role in the development of maritime training programmes in Greenland. Employee conditions, skills development and training Royal Arctic Line is privileged to have skilled and committed 2013 2012 2011 employees, and continued access to qualified labour is key to our business. We aim to give our employees a meaningful work Supplementary life with focus on quality, dedication and motivation. training 1,667,079 1,516,889 1,723,898 DKK per employee 2,188 1,935 2,190 Job satisfaction and sickness absence The average level of job satisfaction for 2013 was 74 points on The 2013 job satisfaction survey shows that the score for the scale from 0 to 100. The figure for 2012 is 70, and therefore employees’ degree of satisfaction with access to skills developaction plans were drawn up to improve job satisfaction. The ment is 66 points out of 100, meaning a 3 point increase comtarget for 2013 was 72, which was achieved and exceeded, pared to 2012. A score of 66 is high compared to the EEI for the and for 2015 the target is 75. transport industry (51) and compared to the cross-industry score of 61. (European Employee Index – a common European Sickness absence for 2013 was 3.5 %, which is normal for the database of comparable data). shipping sector, but the absence rate is still somewhat higher than our target of 2.7 %. Suppliers and business partners Royal Arctic Line is interested in influencing its suppliers and Trainees business partners to deal with environmental, social and ethical Royal Arctic Line has a long tradition for being committed to issues in a systematic and structured manner. Accordingly, the increasing the educational level of Greenland. The extensive Company is involved in dialogues and attaches importance to trainee and supplementary training programmes form an imrequirements in order to promote sustainability – also beyond portant part of the Company’s HR strategy and its responsibility our own business. for training local labour. The suppliers that Royal Arctic Line asks to sign the Company’s Royal Arctic Line offers 12 different training programmes, and in purchasing terms and conditions commit to complying with the 2013 62 trainees had enrolled for a programme. Training with UN conventions on child labour, human rights, workers’ rights, Royal Arctic Line must qualify the candidate for a career with anti-corruption and the Rio Convention on sustainability and environmental protection. Royal Arctic Line offers the following training opportunities – NI2 – Academic bachelor of commerce – Transport/Warehouse and terminal assistant manager – Construction equipment mechanic – Warehouse and transport worker – IT administrator – Shipping assistant – IT supporter – Ship’s mechanic 21 – Boilermaker – Ship’s officer – TNI – Office assistant – Terminal worker In 2012, Royal Arctic Line identified more than 120 critical In the autumn of 2012, Royal Arctic Line conducted a major sursuppliers. The target for 2013 was to have 75 % of them acvey of the opportunities and challenges involved in the Compacepting the CSR purchasing terms and conditions. That target ny’s human rights initiatives. Based on this survey, several was achieved and in December we reached an important policies and objectives were updated in 2013 to prevent any milestone when supplier no 100 signed the terms and condirisk of not respecting human rights in future. tions. The number of critical suppliers has been updated, reaching 134 today, meaning that today’s rate is exactly 75. Anti-corruption The objective for 2014 is that 85 % of the identified risk suppliRoyal Arctic Line wishes to operate in a transparent and incorers will have signed the purchasing terms and conditions relatruptible market, both nationally and internationally. Therefore, ing to CSR by the end of 2013. the Company does not accept bribery, facilitation payments or any other type of unethical business conduct. Human rights Although the Company’s domestic markets in Greenland and Royal Arctic Line respects international human and labour Denmark do not experience big problems in this respect, the rights and makes a continued effort to offer their employees development strategy also extends to new markets and new equal terms, conditions and opportunities in this respect. partnerships with players in industries where corruption may Applicants having the same qualifications must be given the occur. same opportunity to become an employee, which is why Royal Arctic Line calls on any interested party to apply for the vacant Therefore, an anti-corruption policy was adopted in 2013 to positions regardless of their background. Royal Arctic Line’s tighten in-house rules, control mechanisms and audit work to efforts to safeguard human rights are supported by guidelines ensure that the Company’s activities are always ethical. This established through the staff policy on how the Company policy is available from ral.gl. All employees have access intends to address equality issues and combat discrimination, through the Group’s intranet to the policy and a reporting victimisation, harassment and violence at the workplace. platform for receiving and handing out of presents. Who is to sign Revised/new policies for 2013 the purchasing terms and conditions? • Policy for the use of social media Suppliers are considered risk suppliers if they hold one or • IT policy on managers’ access to employees’ mailboxes more of the following characteristics: • Recruitment of local labour • They are strategic suppliers from which the Company  For further information, go to ral.gl purchases essential services/goods, or on which the Company depends in some way; • They operate in critical countries or industries – such as the oil industry; • They supply products that may affect the environment or safety at work – such as bunkers, pallets, chemicals or work clothes; • They supply products with the company logo – such as merchandise – that may affect the Company’s reputation. 22 Suppliers having one or more of those characteristics are included in the gross list of suppliers that, based on a risk assessment, should sign the purchasing terms and conditions. The anti-corruption policy is based on a best practice edition, In addition, Royal Arctic Line co-operates with a wide range of which was then adapted to the Company after a series of trade unions and interest groups to promote sustainability in the employee workshops. Prior to the adoption of the Group’s final shipping industry and in society in general. anti-corruption policy, 11 % of the employees participated in workshops. A total of 15 % of the employees took part in such workshops in 2013. CSR efforts for 2014 and in the long run Royal Arctic Line expects to continue to step up strategic CSR The target is for at least 90 % of the employees to become efforts in 2014. Focus will be on diversity, onshore climate and aware of the policy and be trained in how to address corruption environmental conditions and particularly data collection imby 2015. provement in order for it to fully enable the Company in the next few years to report its performance in accordance with internationally accepted standards. Involvement in the local community Royal Arctic Line intends to help the local community of which In 2013, Royal Arctic Line reached a very important objective: the Company forms part to develop positively. Therefore, the Accession to the UN Global Compact. With the accession, a Company offers services, competencies and sponsorships for new framework has been laid down and now efforts must be initiatives that would be of benefit to Greenland. made to be even more compliant in this respect. Royal Arctic Line’s sponsorships primarily comprise free In areas for which the Group has performed very well, such as freightage for the lines operated by the Company and, in excepsupplier management, work must focus on ensuring continued tional cases, financial support. The Company sponsors both success. In areas in which efforts made were not as successful very small events and large events, and every application is as originally hoped for, such as data collection, focus needs to considered by its Sponsorship Committee that convenes once be increased. a month. Moreover, the Company strives to increase the level of involvement in long-term partnerships because a targeted effort Despite clear improvements in one of the best profiled areas, is expected to have more effect on the community as a whole. ship energy efficiency, Royal Arctic Line was not satisfied with the ships’ fuel efficiency for 2013, for which reason the CompaUp until 2015, Royal Arctic Line intends to step up its involveny will give priority to improvements in this respect. The conment in CSR partnerships and formulate a policy on corporate struction of new ships will help to modernise the Company’s volunteering to formalise the employees’ opportunity to do fleet, increase fuel efficiency and reduce particulate emissions voluntary work during working hours. as regards cargo volumes.
