Report 2014 [Year ended December 31, 2014] Invisible values web data collection Editorial policy We have published integrated HORIBA Report since 2013 to help you better understand the true value of HORIBA by introducing our unique corporate culture and invisible values is available on our website. HORIBA Report Booklet To our stakeholders Website Invisible values web data collection This booklet summarizes primarily HORIBA’ s This website provides the detailed information including the HORIBA Report business activities and financial information, web data collection, which features HORIBA’ s safety and environmental along with“invisible values”such as human activities, contribution to the society, and other information. resources and technologies. http://www.horiba.com/to-our-stakeholders/ Notation of HORIBA and HORIBA, Ltd. In this HORIBA Report, the HORIBA Group of companies is described as“ HORIBA ”and the parent company as“HORIBA, Ltd.” HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 01 Index Value-creating spiral P03 Human resources Basic policies P05 Promotion of diversity P06 Work-life balance P08 Human resource development P09 Initiatives for dialogue with local communities and society P10 Occupational safety and health P12 Technologies Investment for R&D P15 Initiatives for the growth of the analysis and measurement industry P17 IP strategy P18 Organizational structures Management philosophy P19 Specific efforts to achieve our goal P20 Invigorating the organization and application of international standards P21 Customers Product considerations P22 Eco-friendly products P25 Support service P26 Relationships with customers P27 HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 02 Diverse human resources attracted to HORIBA s Omoi Responding scrupulously to customers needs Continual investment regardless of economic upturns and downturns Practice of Joy and Fun Focus on analytical and measurement technologies Invisible Values ＝ Assets not visible in the financial statements Value-creating spiral Creating values by using our Invisible Values is one of HORIBA s important management philosophies. The earnings statement and balance sheet both embody visible and important values. However, we believe that the essence of good management is to increase Invisible Values which are firmly rooted in corporate culture. Management s emphasis on maximizing short-term earnings will not foster sustainable growth or an increase in corporate value; these two objectives cannot be achieved if there is neglect to invest in Invisible Values. HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 03 At HORIBA, employees are considered to be not simply“employees”but“human resources”in the sense of resources that are assets. In order for all employees to achieve self-realization through“Joy and Fun”, we have set forth, shared, and been striving to realize HORIBA's five Omoi shown below. HORIBA's strong organizational Human power is generated from the compelling desire of all highly-diversified HORIBA resources employees to practice HORIBA's five Omoi. HORIBA's five Omoi • To be a part of a collaborative community, • To reach across the globe to expand learning that at the forefront of new ideas and creations. captures key business developments, wherever they occur. • To achieve goals and making my life memorable • To be proud of sharing what I do and what HORIBA delivers. by fostering the highest intellectual potential. • I want to participate all around and where I can be of help. Technological development is one of the most important drivers for value creation and the lifeline of a manufacturer such as HORIBA. To make an analogy, technical capability is a form of basic physical fitness, which cannot be Technologies maintained without continual training and exercise. Using this analogy, HORIBA needs to keep training in order to maintain the power to make a dash forward in a recovery phase of the economy. HORIBA operates five business segments in 26 countries. We believe it is important that our human resources in each business and each region take the initiative Organizational in promoting their business. With that aim, we are spreading our“Joy and Fun” structures corporate philosophy into our global group-wide operation and promoting “One Company Matrix Management.” HORIBA helps improve people's quality of life in a sustainable society by supplying products and providing services to customers. We think it is important to provide Customers solutions in addition to supplying hardware (instruments). In order to achieve this goal, we collaborate with suppliers and group companies in Japan and overseas to improve the quality of our products and services. HORIBA works on growing“Invisible Values”, such as human resources, technologies, and its corporate culture.“Invisible Values”are essential in generating future earnings and enabling enterprise continuity, while achieving numerical Brands targets for net sales, profits, and other indicators. We believe that our persistent, continuous efforts on increasing the other four invisible assets, namely“human resources,”“technologies,”“organizational structure,”and“customers,”have greatly helped us to establish our brands, representing trust in HORIBA placed by our customers. HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 04 Human resources Basic policies Basic personnel management policies Open & Fair We believe in disclosing all necessary company information and personnel rules to every employee. This policy ensures open competition and allows free communication between executives and employees, managers and staff, and among employees themselves. We also believe that all employees should have an equal chance and rewards in proportion to their contributions in a fair work environment. Positive evaluation system Challenges always involve the risk of failure. If employees do not accept a challenge, they get no points in our evaluation system, even if they do not fail. If they accept a challenge, they receive a positive evaluation; and if their challenge brings them success, they will get extra points. We determine employee evaluations by how they attack their challenges. Communication Information is not what you report to others, but what you share with others. We have designed communication systems to allow staff to express their opinions and make proposals instead of managers passing information to their staff in one-way communications. Birthday parties for employees To facilitate communication between executives and employees, buffet parties are hosted by the President and other executives for employees celebrating their birthdays each month (head office: once per month; Tokyo: four times per year; Nagoya: three times per year; Fukuoka: once per year). HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 05 Human resources Promotion of diversity HORIBA Stained Glass Project The HORIBA Stained Glass Project was launched in January 2014, to provide a focal point for continuing efforts toward becoming a more vibrant, stronger organization where our people respect each other's abilities and individuality. Goal image Enhancing business Incorporating competitiveness Group/global various viewpoints/ expansion values Next IR/CSR: generation Improving leaders Business external ﬂourishing evaluation Improve HORIBA s business competitiveness Project mission Discovering through diversity Permeating We establish a strong HORIBA by and creating Blackjack Spirit role models allowing various personalities and talents HORIBA to shine for creating new values on an PREMIUM Human Assets Organizational ongoing basis. Securing Strength Removing competent Create next-generation Improve productivity consciousness human leaders and role through drastically models with diverse reforming work styles barriers/limits resources work styles Developing Improving occupational productivity ﬁelds Improving individuals Accelerating added values by work style achieving work-life reform balance Performance by female employees was Overseas employee ratio the first year's theme U.S.A. 12% Americas ex. U.S.A 2% In 2014, performance by female employees was the main theme and Other Europe various workshops featured on topics such as how they go about their 5% jobs or how they feel about the work. In total, 1 , 480 employees participated the project, helping them to be aware of the importance of Germany 9% 58% Japan 42% promoting diversity. As of the end of 2014 women made up 11% of France 16% overall HORIBA managerial level persons. At HORIBA, Ltd., the ratio was Asia ex. Japan 14% As of December 31, 2014 4%. The percentage of women among all group employees is 25%. We believe that we have ample capacity for offering women opportunities to Famel manager ratio develop their abilities and advance in the organization. On the other Targeted No. of female % of female companies managers managers hand, HORIBA's overseas employee ratio was as high as 58% as of the 4 domestic end of 2014. This is not a result of shifting production offshore in order to ９ 4％ companies use low-cost labor but rather is a consequence of our growing need for 15 major overseas 82 11％ highly skilled workers and specialists who hold advanced degrees. This is companies quite unique among Japanese companies. Keeping our corporate motto “Joy and Fun”in mind, we aim to build a powerful organization where all employees respect each other's strength and weakness and make the best out of diversity. HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 06 Human resources Promotion of diversity Promotion of the employment of people with disabilities In order to provide greater employment opportunities for handicapped persons, we collaborate with Job-placement offices to accept employees through on-the-job training. In 2014, we employed thirteen handicapped persons. Official commendation at the Second ACE Forum The Accessibility Consortium of Enterprises (ACE) is a corporation that was established to reform corporate cultures and facilitate business growth by promoting employment of handicapped persons. HORIBA is one of its 24 member companies. At the Second ACE Forum, employees who play active roles at ACE's various member companies received official commendations; among them was Mr. Toshihiko Matano, a HORIBA employee with a hearing impairment who was recognized for the active role he has played as a design engineer for automotive exhaust emission measuring equipment. Employment of Personnel from Overseas We employ skilled personnel irrespective of nationality in a wide range of areas, including research and development as well as administration and sales. Personnel of various nationalities (Canadian, Chinese, South Korean, Russian, Ukrainian, Myanmarese, etc.) are working both inside and outside our companies. We also take the initiative in recruiting new graduates. This year, we employed graduates with foreign citizenship, including those who graduated from school in 2015 , for The eighth consecutive year ( 33 graduates in total, including those from France, China, South Korea, Indonesia and Sri Lanka). Support for athlete employees Based on our basic personnel management policy“Open & Fair,”we actively support our athlete employees by providing an environment that enables them to take on new challenges in order to realize their dreams. Yuki Hayashi, archer Ms. Yuki Hayashi, who plays an active role in the global arena as a member of the Japanese national archery team, is handling both her sports activities and work life quite well by making the most of the seven-hours-a-day work system for regular employees. Her past achievements include ranking highly as a member of the Japanese national team at the Beijing Olympics, winning the all-Japan indoor archery championship as an individual in February 2014, and winning a bronze medal as a member of the Japanese national team at the 17 th Asian Games held in Inchon, South Korea in September 2014. We expect she will go on to even greater success in the future. HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 07 Human resources Work-life balance Support for work-life balance In response to changes in employees' family circumstances, we introduced a shorter working hours system for employees in 2005 and a work from home system in 2006 to maintain and improve employees' work-life balance. We are also working to make these systems known to all employees and to provide training for managers in order to create a work environment where employees can easily apply for our work-life balance support programs, including childcare leave. Employees who started taking childcare leave HORIBA Group companies in Japan (HORIBA, Ltd.; HORIBA STEC, Co., Ltd., HORIBA Techno Service Co., Ltd.; and HORIBA Advanced Techno Co., Ltd.;） （Unit：Person） 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 No. who gave birth 28 24 33 32 34 Women No. on childcare leave 28 26 33 32 33 No. of managers 1 0 0 0 0 No. on childcare leave 3 3 5 5 3 Men No. of managers 0 1 0 0 0 Nearly 100% of women who gave birth took childcare leave and returned to work. HORIBA Open House To enable employees' families to better understand what HORIBA does, HORIBA has held Open House events annually since 2002 and invited employees' families to visit company offices and work sites. As of 2014, 1,181 family members have accepted HORIBA's invitation. Group of HORIBA Working Mothers In 2012, a group of concerned female managers in the process of raising children established the Association of HORIBA Working Mothers. The Association continues to plan and implement internal luncheon meetings, offday meetings for working mothers and their children, and other events for female employees who are rearing children but do not have enough time to communicate with others around them mainly due to their shorter working hours. The Group's members aim to achieve better work-life balance by exchanging information on jobs, families, and child rearing. HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 08 Human resources Human resource development Open application system for overseas training As early as 1984 we adopted the policy of sending some of our people to our overseas Group companies for oneyear period to acquire international working experience and an international outlook. Every employee can apply this with on each individual's own initiative. In 2015, 16 persons will be transferred to post abroad, bringing the total of such participants to 220 persons. We will continue to value the willingness of employees to take up challenges, send them to overseas bases, and develop human resources with multicultural perspective. Employees sent to overseas business sites for training Target: HORIBA Group companies in Japan (HORIBA, Ltd.; HORIBA STEC Co., Ltd.; HORIBA Techno Service Co., Ltd.; and HORIBA Advanced Techno Co., Ltd.) （Unit: person） Area America Europe Asia Country/ U.S.A. Brazil Austria France Germany U.K. China India South Singapore Taiwan Vietnam Thailand Total Area Korea No. of 83 5 1 49 32 10 11 6 10 8 3 1 1 220 persons HORIBA COLLEGE HORIBA COLLEGE offers training courses designed to raise participants' levels of knowledge, skills and business literacy, and to support individual employees in building independent careers. More than 3,600 employees participated in the project in 2014. We are developing global“human assets,”i.e., personnel who are able to flexibly respond to changes in the business environment and develop different strategies. Training center“Fun House” In keeping with the belief that the training center could create more values than a manufacturing plant, we opened a training center that we named Fun House in 1991. Since then, many employees attended the HORIBA COLLEGE training courses, in which know-how and skills are transferred from employees as lecturers to other employees. There are courses for new recruits, and global conferences attended by the management of Group companies in various countries, and others. 5,778 employees used the Fun House in 2014. The attendees have more diverse and stimulating exchanges with each other as a result of being away from everyday assignments and spending time together with their colleagues at Fun House. Ranked among the Best Workplaces in Japan The results of the ninth survey on Best Workplaces in Japan, conducted by Great Place to Work® Institute (GPTW) Japan, showed that HORIBA, Ltd. ranked among the top 16 companies. Since the survey started in Japan, HORIBA, Ltd. has been chosen among the best workplaces for nine consecutive years. GPTW Japan defines the best companies to work for as companies where employees can trust their managers and administrators, work with a sense of pride, and enjoy camaraderie with their co-workers. The survey includes a questionnaire for company executives concerning the company system and corporate culture, as well as questions for a random sample of employees. Employee responses account for two-thirds of the survey, thereby allowing employees' opinions to be more strongly reflected in the final evaluation. The results of the questionnaire conducted among our employees showed many positive responses to survey questions, such as“If something special comes along, we all celebrate it.”and“Our company makes great contributions to local communities and society.”At HORIBA, we work in line with the corporate motto,“Joy and Fun,”and have basic policies of“Open & Fair” “Positive evaluation”and“Communication”Based on these policies, we will continue to maintain a corporate culture that makes HORIBA one of the best companies to work for in Japan. HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 09 Human resources Initiatives for dialogue with local communities and society Volunteering for the“Kimchi from Our Hearts”event On November 29 , 2014 , 40 employees of HORIBA STEC Korea, Ltd. participated in volunteer activities to produce kimchi, a traditional Korean dish made of pickled seasoned vegetables, at a welfare hall in Seongnam City in South Korea's Kyonggi Province. The company annually participates in these activities, which aim to produce kimchi and deliver the completed dish to the elderly and families in the neighborhood together with support supplies. As a member of the local community, the company will continue to carry out these activities in the years to come. Visiting Takata Higashi Junior High School baseball team On June 13 , 2014 , a HORIBA corporate officer visited Takata Higashi Junior High School, which is operated by Rikuzentakata City. This school was established in April 2013 by combining three schools, including the former Hirota Junior High School. In 2012, based on sales from the bazaar it held as part of an internal company event, HORIBA donated a pitching machine to the former Hirota Junior High School. In January 2014, deeply moved by the thank-you letter it received from the representative of the parents' association of the school's baseball club, HORIBA management sent one of its officers to Takata Higashi Junior High School. This corporate officer heard from the principal and vice principal about the events that had occurred since the Great East Japan Earthquake and the current issues to be addressed. The officer reconfirmed the magnitude of the damage caused by the tsunami and was impressed by the enormous efforts that victims of the earthquake and tsunami had made up to that point. There are still temporary residences for evacuees on the grounds of Takata Higashi Junior High School, and members of the baseball team are training using nearby paddy fields as temporary practice areas. The officer was also strongly affected by the fact that despite these hardships, the team members are leading cheerful, energetic lives as junior high school students. Recently, HORIBA donated a set of balls to the baseball team in order to support its members. We hope this will encourage the baseball team to do even more remarkable work. Participating in the“Beach Cleanup in Suma”event The Beach Cleanup in Suma is held twice a year to pick up trash scattered along Hyogo Prefecture's Suma Beach in order to study its composition. This event is part of a global initiative, the International Beach Cleanup campaign, which targets beaches around the world. HORIBA employees have participated in this campaign since 2002. HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 10 Human resources Initiatives for dialogue with local communities and society Environmental delivering classes Based on HORIBA's wish to show children how interesting and important the science of measurement is, in 1994 the company started a program in which it enlisted employees to give talks at schools and events. HORIBA employees demonstrate scientific truths using ordinary objects and materials from daily life and show students how plants and animals use their sensory capabilities, with the thought that some of these students may go on later in life to work with analytic technology. In 2014 , we held 40 seminars, for a total of 2 , 213 participants. The number of pupils who have been present at our classes, and the number of such events Persons Events 2,500 50 2,000 40 1,500 30 1,000 20 Persons(Left) 500 10 Events(Right) 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Project to develop female scientists From September to November 2014, as part of a project implemented by Kacho Girls' Senior High School in Kyoto to develop students who go on to study science in higher education, a total of nine female science and technology employees from HORIBA gave ten lectures on the importance of measuring and manufacturing to the high school's second-year students who wished to advance to medical or science universities. The high school wanted its students to learn how necessary and interesting scientific ways of thinking were by studying the significance and social functions of analysis and measurement. It also wanted its students to imagine how they may work in the future by meeting with women who work as scientists. HORIBA approved of the school's vision and worked to bring this project to fruition. Participating in the Student Formula Japan Competition as a sponsor company The 12th Student Formula Japan Competition took place at a specially set up stadium in Ogasayama Sports Park ECOPA in Shizuoka Prefecture from September 2 to 6, 2014. A total of 96 universities, the largest ever in the history of the competition, participated in the event. An increasing number of universities from not only Japan but also various other parts of Asia took part in the contest, so much so that it could be called an“Asian Competition.”The competition aims to allow young student engineers who will lead the next generation to learn about manufacturing technologies through practical exercises in a way that is not possible through classroom lectures. HORIBA, one of the competition's sponsors, was responsible for inspecting the vehicle technology at the event; in addition, it used small motor exhaust gas analyzer to carry out exhaust gas tests after the race was over, thus selecting vehicles with a high level of environmental performance. Starting last year, not only gasoline-engine-based cars but also electric vehicles (EVs) entered the competition, making their development process a microcosm of that of automobile manufacturers. HORIBA considers this event important because it provides student engineers with opportunities to experience not only exhaust gas measurement but also the products of HORIBA, which is deeply involved in the development of EVs and drive systems. HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 11 Human resources Occupational safety and health Declarations of Occupational Safety and Health In addition to the Physical and Mental Health Promotion Declaration and the HORIBA Group Safety Declaration issued by top executives, HORIBA has adopted a policy of“promoting physical and mental health to create comfortable, vibrant workplaces”as one pillar of its Integrated Management System, including OHSAS 18001 certification (for occupational safety and health). All HORIBA Group companies actively engage in occupational safety and health initiatives. Physical and Mental Health Promotion Declaration (May 7, 2012) To stay true to the“Joy and Fun”motto, the HORIBA Group promotes its employees' physical and mental health in order to help them live fulfilling lives with a sense of purpose in both life and work as well as to realize comfortable and lively workplaces. Chairman, President & CEO, HORIBA, Ltd. Atsushi Horiba Physical and Mental Health Promotion Action Guidelines (May 7, 2012) In order to put into practice the Physical and Mental Health Promotion Declaration, the HORIBA Group works to promote three types of prevention and implement four healthcare measures based on the Code of Ethics, the Health and Safety Regulations, the Healthcare Regulations, and so forth. ■ Promotion of three types of prevention Primary prevention : Promote physical and mental health; prevent illnesses and injuries. The HORIBA Group promotes efforts to create vibrant workplaces by enlivening communication among employees through unique initiatives and events. Secondary prevention : Take measures for early detection and treatment of illnesses/injuries; prevent development of serious symptoms.The Group works with the health insurance union and external partner organizations to provide education and establish a system that allows employees to seek healthcare advice with a sense of security. Tertiary prevention : If unfortunately an employee becomes sick or injured, the healthcare staff members in the employee's workplace and outside the company will keep the sickness or injury confidential and strive with all their might to ensure the person does not become sick or injured again after returning to work, thereby minimizing the negative impact on the employee and his or her workplace. PDCA : HORIBA's health promotion divisions collaborate with the HORIBA Group's Safety and Health Committee to set medium-term targets, and develop action plans for the primary, secondary, and tertiary prevention and indicators to measure the effectiveness of the plans. The divisions evaluate the achievement of the indicators and reflect evaluation results in new action plans. ■ Enhancement of four healthcare measures Self-care Each employee pays attention to his/her level of health and stress, quickly and appropriately dealing with any unwelcome health conditions. Line care Managers ‌ focus on establishing free, open, reasonable, and consistent work environments without waste and paying attention to the work-life balance and health of their subordinates and other concerned parties on a daily basis to facilitate early detection of those in poor condition. Care by internal health management staff Internal health management staff members provide necessary information and advice to promote self-care and line care as well as help each employee to safeguard their health. Care by outside experts The HORIBA Group works with outside expert organizations such as EAP services to operate a system that allows employees to easily seek necessary information and advice to solve problems in their lives and safeguard their health; inquiries are kept confidential. Work-life balance Physical and mental health is not only the foundation of the workplace but also of the family and community. The HORIBA Group is stepping up its efforts to implement four healthcare measures while simultaneously striving to help each employee achieve work-life balance and, together with the employee and his or her family, safeguard health. Chairman of the Group Safety and Health Committee Managing Director, HORIBA, Ltd. Fumitoshi Sato HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 12 Human resources Occupational safety and health HORIBA Group Safety Declaration HORIBA Group Safety Declaration (April 1, 2013) <Basic Principle> We strive to place the highest priority on ensuring human safety in all aspects of our business activities and also attempt to ensure product safety. HORIBA Group executives and employees as well as partner company employees are responsible for placing the highest priority on safety, regardless of profits or delivery times. <Action Guidelines> We shall act based on the following guidelines. 1. We shall qualitatively and quantitatively analyze factors that compromise safety and make continuous improvements in order to actively promote the safety of people working at our company. 2. We honestly recognize that there some factors in our products that may compromise the safety of customers as well as of the employees of HORIBA and our partner companies, so we make positive, continuous efforts to improve safety. 3. To improve safety, we comply with regulations, agreements, and conventions as well as establish our own independent standards to meet requirements. 4. We provide curricula for various safety education programs in order to improve the knowledge, skills, sensitivities, and ability to take action of HORIBA executives and employees as well as of our partner companies' employees. 5. We actively participate in product safety improvement activities undertaken and promoted by customers, other companies, and the public at large. 6. We keep HORIBA executives and employees as well as our partner companies' employees well informed of safety improvement activities in order to raise their safety awareness; we also release information on our safety improvement activities to the public as needed. Chairman, President & CEO, HORIBA, Ltd. Atsushi Horiba HORIBA Group Annual Safety and Health Plan In 2015, in accordance with the HORIBA Group policy,“HORIBA PREMIUM -Create First Class Value”, we formulated an annual safety and health management plan for the HORIBA Group. In order to achieve our annual goals, all group employees are making united efforts to implement safety and health programs. HORIBA Group Annual Health and Safety Management Plan for 2015 Slogan Together, put the Physical and Mental Health Promotion Declaration and the HORIBA Group Safety Declaration into practice; remember the importance of physical and mental health and work to create cheerful, vibrant workplaces under the company slogan,“Joy and Fun.” Action guidelines ・ To reduce the number of work-related accidents to zero, the HORIBA Group strives to provide systematic health and safety training to all employees who need it so that they obtain more knowledge about health and safety. ・ To reduce the number of accidents in which company cars are involved, the HORIBA Group strives to eliminate dangerous driving through business vehicle operation management and making the most of drive recorders. ・To maintain employee health, the HORIBA Group strives to maintain and improve its comfortable work environment. HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 13 Human resources Occupational safety and health Annual Goals and Achievements 【Safety management】 （1）Employment injury prevention ・ Established HORIBA Safety Enhancement Week held in tandem with National Safety Week (patrols by top managers of partner companies and official commendation of risk assessment promotion activities). ・ Participated in the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare's“Safety Project”and applied to enter a contest for visible safety activities. ・ Provided training to enhance safety management (of chemicals, X-ray equipment, lasers, high-pressure gases, electricity, and forklifts)[6 lectures were attended by 678 employees in total]. ・Provided training for newly recruited employees. （2）Traffic safety Safety patrol by top managers ・Acquired ISO 39001 certification (road transport safety). ・Officially commended excellent drivers for safe driving. ・Provided re-training to employees who caused accidents. ・Equipped company cars with HORIBA's proprietary operation management system. ・Developed safe driving manuals (for managers, driving during bad weather, etc.). ・Stepped up driving management through healthcare support. ・Held lectures on safe driving (automobile course attended by 714 employees; motorcycle course attended by 128 employees; and bicycle course attended by 464 employees). ・Conducted driving aptitude tests upon hiring new employees. Forklift driving training 【Occupational health】 （1）Safeguarding of employees' health （2）Prevention of mental disorders ・Implemented a physical and mental health promotion project (company-wide; cross-sectional activities involving general affairs, human resources, health insurance unions, welfare-related companies, OHSAS 18001 administration and operation units, labor unions, occupational health staff members, and EAP providers*). ・Carried out“Health Up Challenge 2014,”a health promotion activity in which employees participated [213 in total]. ・Provided training that included hands-on agricultural experiences. ・Implemented health guidance specified by internal occupational health staff Traffic safety training for employees commuting by motorcycle members. ・Provided training on mental health for managers. ・Conducted integrated medical examinations in 2014 and provided health guidance based on their results (stepped up efforts to support promoting health of employees in distant locations). ・Provided occupational health training (on preventing lower-back pain, VDT worker health, and hazardous substance handling) [6 lectures were attended by 599 employees in total]. ・Supported female workers (offered seminars by gynecologists and obstetricians, email counseling, special diagnosis and treatment on holidays, etc.). ・Conducted stress checks for employees. ・Provided internal counseling (on using EAP effectively). AED life-saving lectures ・Communicated health information through internal company bulletins and the corporate intranet.※EAP：Employee Assistance Program 【Other】 ・Carried out general disaster prevention drills (such as earthquake experiences using an earthquake generator and smoke-house experiences) in 2014. ・Provided emergency training (on fire prevention and disaster prevention training for new employees and AED life-saving lectures) [767 employees attended the lecture]. ・Self-defense fire brigades carried out activities (such as ceremonies to appoint or discharge members, participation in southern region self-defense fire brigade drills, group drills, presentation of exemplary performances, and periodic drills). Smoke room experience ・Established and strengthened health and safety management promotion systems for each division in conjunction with the Integrated Management System. ・Made presentations at academic and other conferences and participated in symposiums. 【Awards】 ・Received the 2014 Director-General of the Kyoto Labor Bureau Excellence Award. ・Received a Certificate of Record for Having No Type II Accidents. ・Received the First Kyoto Award for Companies Practicing Health Promotion (Excellence Award). HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 14 Technologies Investment for R&D Accelerating investments in basic analytical and measurement technologies and application development The development of analytical technology and R&D expenditures and ratio of R&D expenditures engineering technology is vital to HORIBA as an to net sales analytical and measurement equipment manufacturer. Billions of yen ■R&D expenditures (left) % Ratio of R&D expenditures to net sales (right) 12 10.0 We have maintained R&D investment at the level of 11.9 7.8 7-8% of sales, even during economic downturns when 9 7.5 our competitors reduced their investments. This strategy has helped to boost our market share during 6 5.0 subsequent upturn phases. In 2009, our sales declined 3 2.5 sharply, but we maintained the same level of R&D investment. We firmly believe this investment policy will 0 0 contribute to our future growth and profitability 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 improvement. HORIBA aims to improve the efficiency of our R&D investments and realize a higher operating income ratio. Comparison with other companies – operating income ratio and ratio of R&D expenditures to net sales HORIBA recorded 11.2% in operating income ratio and Comparison with other companies – operating income 7.8% in the ratio of R&D expenditures to net sales in ratio and ratio of R&D expenditures to net sales 2014. In recent years, those ratios have been stable Operating Income Ratio 20% and the ratio of R&D expenditures, in particular, has Targeted Operating Income Ratio of HORIBA’s been a higher level compared to other companies. the Mid-Long Term Sysmex Thermo Management Plan [2011-2015] Fisher Scientific HORIBA 2014 Abbott Agilent Laboratories 2011 Technologies 13 % 2005 Siemens 10% 2012 Perkin Canon Shimadzu Elmer 2013 Yokogawa Electric 2000 0 5% 10% Ratio of R&D expenditures to net sales Other companies’ information is extracted from their disclosed materials, which are available as of April 1, 2015. HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 15 Technologies Investment for R&D Mid-Long Term Management Plan's Investments in R&D facilities HORIBA has been investing in R&D facilities for the five business segments for the Mid-Long Term Management Plan period of 2011 to 2015. Enhanced R&D capability for each segment will allow us to accelerate R&D in a balanced manner in the future. Process & Environmental Automotive Test Systems Instruments & Systems HORIBA BIWAKO E-HARBOR Scheduled to be completed in the autumn of 2015; approximately ¥10 billion investment Objective: Improve the time-to-market of new gas measurement products and efficiency of production by an organic integration of development, design and production Japan Medical-Diagnostic Instruments & Systems New Medical R&D Center Opened in July 2015; approximately ¥1 billion investment Objective: Enhance medical R&D including development for medium and large-sized hematology analyzers, with new prospective markets in mind. This is intended to be an important base for growth and profitability France improvement of our medical business. Semiconductor Instruments & Systems HORIBA STEC Kyoto Fukuchiyama Technology Center Opened in 2013; approximately ¥1 billion investment Objective: Develop mass flow controllers and next-generation advanced material control equipment Japan Scientific Instruments & Systems HORIBA Europe Research Center Opened in 2012; approximately ¥2 billion investment Objective: At a location next to the École Polytechnique, the renowned French engineering institution, to use industry, academic, and government interaction and research to quickly ascertain future customer needs and accelerate development of new products France Corporate-wide HORIBA Advanced Technology Center Opened in 2015 April; approximately ¥3 billion investment Objective: Integrate technical development teams of semiconductor sensors used in all segments of HORIBA products to accommodate market needs and shorten the development-to-production time Japan HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 16 Technologies Initiatives for the growth of the analysis and measurement Industry Heritage of Analytical and Scientific Instruments Spectrometer and Monochromator HR 320 was selected to be part of 16 instruments certified as“Heritage of Analytical and Scientific Instruments”by the Japan Analytical Instruments Manufacturers' Association (JAIMA) and Japan Scientific Instruments Association (JSIA). The Heritage of Analytical and Scientific Instruments program was established in 2012 for the purpose of bequeathing valuable analytical techniques, analyzers and scientific instruments that have contributed to the daily lives, economy, education and culture of the people of Japan as a cultural heritage for future generations. The certified products are world-class instruments and technologies that are recognized as representing the power of science and that are to be passed on to the next generation. Masao Horiba Awards The Masao Horiba Award, named after the founder of Specific themes HORIBA, Ltd., was established to promote research in the 2004 pH measurement field of analysis and measurement technology by researchers 2005 Infrared related analysis and measurement technologies working at universities and public research institutes in Japan 2006 X-ray analysis and overseas. HORIBA has given awards to 41 promising Measurement technologies for cells or 2007 biological particles researchers and engineers from 2004 to 2014 and supported Measurement and analytical technologies their activities. We hope the award will continue to serve as a 2008 related to internal combustion engines source of motivation and encouragement to those who 2009 The analysis of the surface of material for the semiconductor and related industries receive it. In situ and continuous measurement of harmful 2010 airborne substances affecting human health, safety, and security Ultra high-sensitive or ultra high-speed analytical 2011 method and technology using electromagnetic radiation from the NIR to the X-ray 2012 Radiation measurement 2013 Measurement of water property 2014 Gas measurement ★Masao Horiba Awards http://www.mh-award.org/en Technical journal“Readout” Readout is a technical journal issued by HORIBA. The name“Readout”represents our sincere desire helping readers understand the company's proprietary products and technologies by offering information about them. Since its first issue in July 1990, the journal has been published biannually. ★Technical journal “Readout” http://www.horiba.com/publications/readout/ HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 17 Technologies IP strategy HORIBA Group IP (Intellectual Property) World Cup Our in-house IP World Cup competition was held for the first time in 2011, with the aim of encouraging creation of HORIBA technology which can initiate the next growth phase of HORIBA.HORIBA's numerous unique technology and intellectual property have propelled growth of businesses. From 2011 to 2014, 68 applications have been submitted In-house presentation by a IP World Cup award winner from 11 bases worldwide. In the Fourth World Cup of 2014, out of 16 applications, 5 superior applicants were invited to the award ceremony and the in-house seminar held at the headquarters in Kyoto. The purpose of the seminar is to facilitate exchange of technological information and ideas among the different business segments. We anticipate to generate synergy effects across different segments as a result. IP Liaison HORIBA has introduced a system to nominate“IP Liaisons” R&D division mainly from among engineers to enhance awareness on intellectual property. The IP Liaisons serve as a bridge for R&D project 1 IP Liaison Following up and the IP division, development and design division, and other communicate closely IP R&D project 2 division divisions. An IP Liaison is assigned for each major IP Liaison development project to promote creation, protection, and R&D project 3 use of proprietary technologies. IP Liaison Promote creation, protection, and use of proprietary competitive technologies From core technology to product development HORIBA strives to astutely allocate its R&D resources to specific analytical technologies, apply them to product development in five different business segments, and achieve product releases efficiently. Process & Automotive Environmental Scientific Medical Semiconductor Infrared measurement Technology for real-time analysis of elements in gases ● ● ● ● Gas flow control Technology to measure and instantly control the flow of gases ● ● ● HORIBA s major analysis and control technologies Particle-size (selected on the basis of sales-size importance) distribution analysis Technology to measure particle diameter and particle distribution ● ● ● ● ● Spectroscopic analysis Technology for analysis of visible light HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 18 Organizational Management philosophy structures One Company Matrix Management We announced the concept of“HORIBA Group is One Company.”in 2004 and have promoted this concept ever since. Under the corporate motto of“Joy and Fun”, we have established basic infrastructure for sustainable growth, by overcoming barriers such as often inherent in national boundaries and corporate organizations. We are united under our corporate brand and all the group companies in the world have worked as one entity, aiming to improve corporate value. HORIBA intends to enhance our organizational strength and become a more competitive global group. HORIBA Brand Book HORIBA published the“HORIBA Brand Book”in 2007 to preserve and cultivate HORIBA’s corporate culture while expanding global business. The Book is like a bible that tells the origin of the HORIBA Brand, lessons which employees reaffirm, share, and convey to others. This is distributed to all group and newly-hired employees. The Book contains the story behind the corporate motto“Joy and Fun”and messages contributed by employees. It is published in six languages: Japanese, English, French, German, Chinese, and Korean. HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 19 Organizational structures Specific efforts to achieve our goal Matrix structure, and promotion of global business strategies HORIBA is managed under the matrix management across five business segments and three operating regions. This is a global organizational framework for executive decisions on strategies and plans by business segment, by removing barriers such as separation of countries, regions, or group companies. This framework has also enabled globally-integrated business operation and ability to swiftly react to diverse opportunities, depending on the market outlook for each segment. We will continue to exploit the benefits of the multiplier effect from successful examples and strengths in one segment or one region to others and improve HORIBA’s corporate values. Shared services for efficient regional management HORIBA has been introducing“shared services”which centralize certain common services such as finance, HR and IT in several divisions and organizations, in the Asia, Europe, and Americas regions. This has enabled identification and selection of skillful expertise to be concentrated in specific services in the organization, as well as achieving more efficient operations, group-wide productivity improvement and cost reduction. Global ERP for One Company: GEO Since 2007 HORIBA has been sequentially introducing the enterprise resource planning (ERP) system, called the GEO System, to each group company, with the aim of enabling quick assessment of business strategies for the entire group as one entity. The introduction of GEO in all major locations of the group will be completed in 2015. This will reduce or eliminate information barriers caused by national boundaries or corporate organization and further facilitate sharing of business resources and information. Restructuring in the U.S. As one of measures toward realization of One Company management, we are promoting restructuring, consolidation, and building of bases in each country. In 2014, the U.S. operation was restructured. Various separate offices in the U.S. were consolidated into one base, with enhanced controlling function as the U.S. headquarters. An improved showroom for Medical-Diagnostics Instruments and Systems segment was opened at this new base, which not only represent pursuit of efficiency but also a stronger supporting function for businesses. HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 20 Organizational structures Invigorating the organization and application of international standards Blackjack Project The Blackjack Project, which began in 1997 with the objective of changing the awareness and activities of employees, has resulted in submission of 830 suggestions and proposals for change in 2014. In addition to improvement in operational efficiency and cost reduction, personnel development and enhancement of organizational strength are among popular proposals, demonstrating one aspect of HORIBA’s corporate culture which emphasizes organizational reform by employees. We hold an internal World Cup competition among candidate proposals from each country where we operate Blackjack Award World Cup and have employees. This competition also provides an opportunity to 2014 winners demonstrate to management and employees how we make our belief a reality. We see the Blackjack Project as having the important function of sharing corporate culture, experience and knowledge. ProposalsProposals submitted submitted in 2014 2014 in e.g. e.g. HORIBA, HORIBA, Ltd. Ltd. Number of proposals Number of proposals Other 1,000 11% Sales promotion ■Japan ■Overseas 800 and marketing 7% Time saving, 600 Quality eﬃciency, cost reduction 18% 400 42% 200 Ideas for Human resources 0 and organization 22% 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The United Nations Global Compact In agreement with the ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption, which the Global Compact (GC) of the United Nations sets forth for companies within their sphere of influence, HORIBA declared its concurrence to the UN's policy initiative in April 2011. Actions taken to date in connection with the policy initiative are shown on the following page. In addition, we have joined the Global Compact Japan Network and are actively involved in the organization's committee work. This is one more way we engage in activities needed and useful to society. <How the items in the HORIBA Report:“Invisible values”web data collection correspond to GC principles> “Human resources”corresponds to GC Principles 1-6. “Technologies”corresponds to GC Principle 9. “Organizational structures”corresponds to GC Principles 7-10. “Customers”corresponds to GC Principles 7-9. HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 21 Customers Products considerations Customers’opinions are precious in product development In addition to adapting to regulations, we find it important to develop products based on the real needs of our customers in analysis and Providing solutions Market (Customers) measurement, by visiting them and exploring their needs. We will directly linked to customers value continue to provide products and analysis and measurement solutions, creation that are directly linked to customers' value creation, and thereby both Products & Solutions expand our business domain and earn their trust. Core technology Regulations & Application technology Quality Improvement Initiatives The HORIBA Group's quality assurance activities cover the following three stages: the first stage, covering product planning to design; the second stage, covering material procurement to manufacture; and the third stage, covering shipment to after sales services. In order to satisfy the needs of our customers, we strive to develop the highest quality standards in the world at each stage, in addition to producing safe and Eco-Design products of outstanding quality. To this end, we are working to reduce total quality costs in a balanced manner with respect to prevention, assessment and loss. ・Design review as an important function to ensure product quality Product Quality Improvement (PQI) ・Stepping up change order control to maintain consistent quality competitions ・On-the-site assessment to examine whether customers' needs The HORIBA Group hosted the Eighth HORIBA PQI are being met Competition in which employees competed over quality ・Reliability assessment tests on essential product parts improvement results. Employees carried out various quality improvement initiatives with themes such as ・Organizing Product Quality Improvement (PQI) competitions to reducing defect ratios, improving technologies, improving eliminate issues job sites, and so on. The HORIBA Group and its partner ・Organizing the Craftsmanship competition companies are committed to quality improvement activities in order to build a system for working together We also collaborate with HORIBA Group and suppliers to establish in harmony. a comprehensive quality assurance system so that we can provide customers with high quality products with consistency throughout the world. HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 22 Customers Product considerations Collaboration with suppliers Frequent communication Corporation, mutual enlightenment & amity Cooperators of Manufacturing Co-evolution Harmony Coexistence Quality activities Contract-related compliance Small group activities Technological improvement & business rationalization Training activities Productivity improvement Stronger management foundations Over the long term we have developed strong ties with our regular production partner companies, which has enabled us to provide customers with high quality products and reliable delivery scheduling. We are now increasing procurement on a global basis through our network of overseas companies. In Japan, in order to ensure continuation of our Win-Win relationships, we provide opportunities to share our thoughts and experience in business matters with suppliers, and help them develop their next generation of managers. In 2014, we worked together with production partner companies at the following events: ・Quality lectures at HORIBA COLLEGE ・Factory tours ・Craftsmanship competition ・Improvement activity report sessions ・QC activity conferences The regular suppliers with which we have been doing business for seven years or longer since 2008 represent 71% (or 681 out of 964 companies) of all our suppliers. They have been able to prosper in good times and survive tough times, together with us. One reason we have been able to increase our market shares in the past even when there have been a strong surge in demand is that our relationships with these suppliers has enabled us to respond very quickly to customer demand. Factory tours Factory tours allowed members of partner production companies to learn about HORIBA products and see firsthand how the materials delivered by their companies were used at HORIBA plants and what roles they played in HORIBA's manufacturing process. In this way, they learned about the high level of HORIBA products' quality requirements. Craftsmanship competition We held our seventh Technical Olympics in which members from the HORIBA Group and our production partners compete with one another. This event allows group company members to develop world-class professional skills and awareness as well as to raise their skill levels through mutual competition with partner companies. A total of 62 people from the HORIBA Group and our production partner companies participated in the competitions. HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 23 Customers Product considerations Responses to various directives, regulations, and so on The RoHS* Directive HORIBA has diligently prepared to meet the Revised RoHS Directive 2011 without delay. In 2014, it declared 39 models conformed to the European Union RoHS Directive. Other countries have their own versions of the RoHS regulations, and HORIBA is taking action by obtaining information on movements aiming to establish statutory regulations mainly through its representatives in Belgium and industry activities; the company is also submitting its opinions on policy-making processes. *RoHs: Restriction of Hazardous Substances European Union Directive on the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment The EU REACH* Regulation In 2012, HORIBA introduced a new system to control data on the substances contained in each type of material so that it can efficiently reply to customer inquiries about whether its materials contain substances of very high concern (SVHC) as designated by the European Union's REACH regulations (as of the end of 2014, there are 161 SVHCs). In the future, since the amount of SVHCs handled is expected to increase, the company will continue to take swift action while seeking suppliers' cooperation. *REACH: Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the use of chemical substances for the protection of human health and the environment in the European Union 1 The GHS* Regulations Manufacturers are sometimes required by law to provide safety information on chemical products in the form of safety data sheets (SDS)*2 and abels.*3 In July 2003, the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS), which stipulates rules for providing such information, was published; subsequently, GHS-related rules have been established on a global scale. Against this backdrop, at the end of 2013, HORIBA introduced an SDS creation support system that supports 43 languages in 50 countries worldwide. Thus, the company is taking GHS-related measures in each country as GHS-related laws come into force between 2015 and 2016 in the EU, North America, and elsewhere. *1 GHS： The Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals *2 SDS： Document used to provide information on the hazardous properties of chemical products and chemicals contained in products in order to ensure safe handling thereof. *3 Labels： Labels are filled in with necessary information and presented (affixed or printed) on containers to provide information on the hazardous properties of chemical products. Integrated Management System (IMS) HORIBA, Ltd. has adopted the Integrated Management System HORIBA Group IMS (IMS), which is a combination of the Quality Management System ISO 9001, Environmental Management System ISO 14001, and Occupational Health & Safety Management System OHSAS Quality management Business 18001, and become the first Japanese company in the analysis system for medical Continuity devices and measurement industry to acquire a JQA Integrated Quality ISO22301 ISO13485 HORIBA, Ltd., HORIBA, Ltd., ISO9001 Management System Certificate of Implementation (JQAHORIBA STEC, Co., Ltd., HORIBA STEC, Co., Ltd., IG0001-08) in 2004. Since 2011, HORIBA, Ltd. and its domestic Occupational subsidiaries began implementing these management systems as Environment health ISO14001 and safety Test station a group. In 2014, HORIBA, Ltd. and a domestic subsidiary also OHSAS18001 ISO17025 acquired the certification for Business Continuity Management Kyoto Analysis Application Center, HORIBA, Ltd. System ISO22301 in the medical and semiconductor areas and strengthened and continues to strengthen its system for ensuring a stable supply of products even in the wake of an earthquake, accident, or various other diverse risk events. We are committed to continually enhancing IMS for customer satisfaction to further improve our corporate value. * IMS (Integrated Management System) is an integrated management system combining multiple ISOs and OHSAS. For detailed data on IMS policy initiatives and results as well as environmental initiatives, visit: http://www.horiba.com/to-our-stakeholders/horibas-csr-policy/integrated-management-system/ HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 24 Customers Eco-friendly products Development of long-life, energy conservation“eco-friendly products” In order to provide customers with products that reflect consideration of their life cycles, such as long those with usable lives and minimization of energy consumption, we have positioned certain products as“eco-friendly products”if they satisfy certain standards we have adopted; we use this description when developing and marketing such products. With social and economic matters such as rising energy costs in the background, we use quantitative measurement to determine to what extent products reduce energy requirements or materials used. With our“eco-friendly products,”we aim to achieve a 25% reduction compared to conventional models. Eco-friendly product: HORIBA Ltd. The OCMA-500 oil content monitor The oil content monitor measures oil content such as in factory waste water, residual oil after washing mechanical parts, and in soil. It is mainly used by petrochemical makers and component processing makers but is expected to be used in the food and other industries in the future. Reduction in environmental load of“eco-friendly products” (Example of an oil content monitor) Annual consumption of 100ℓ Annual consumption of 100 VA solvent at standard usage electricity at AC100-120V (Measuring 25 times/day for 240 days/year) 153.6 75 75 Down Down 60 20% 25% 48 50 50 25 25 0 0 Old model: New model: Old model: New model: Eco-friendly product: HORIBA STEC, Co., Ltd. High-temperature digital mass flow controller SEC（F）-8470F/D The SEC(F)-8470F/D high-temperature digital mass flow controller is a controller used to control the flow of reactive gas (evaporated from an gasification tank containing liquid materials) by embedding the machine in the user's LSC series liquid material gasification system for semiconductor production equipment. This controller enables control of 1.5 times (N2 equivalent) as much flow as its predecessor. The environmentally conscious design was achieved by reviewing the Comparison of environmentally conscious design assessments way the high-displacement small peizo valve was installed as well as its Lightness structure, thus reducing the controller's height by 11 % and width by 4.5 37% compared to its predecessor. In addition, in response to the RoHS Information provision 3.5 Longevity Directive, the controller does not use lead or any other prohibited 2.5 1.5 hazardous substances, thereby better protecting the environment. 0.5 In the future, mass flow controllers are expected to meet needs to Energy 0.0 Ease of -saving recycling control greater flows due to market requirements that liquid material gasification systems handle greater flows and evaporate liquid materials at lower temperatures; HORIBA will contribute to flow control in these Environmental Ease of areas. friendliness dismantling Conventional New Ease of product product processing HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 25 Customers Support service Global customer service organization HORIBA has set up an after-sales service network in the Americas, Europe, and Asia and has earned the trust of our customers. As a part of our internal efforts, we regularly hold international service meetings, which are attended by those in charge of service from various countries, and hold training sessions on services for new products, with the aim of improving services. Experienced service engineers in Japan are dispatched overseas to support overseas service members and overseas employees come to Japan for training. In 2013, we opened a new training center in Kyoto. We also conduct product training sessions for overseas customers who request to visit Japan, verify that we will provide products meeting the specifications and performance standards they require, and participate in a training program. We instruct them on use of the product, and propose the most suitable method of measurement to satisfy specific needs, as well as the method of maintenance. During five years from 2010 to 2014, 376 customers from 145 companies in Asia and Oceania attended product training sessions in Japan. Going forward, we will continue to propose the most appropriate services for each region and give reliable, trustworthy support to customers, so that we can have more satisfied customers and higher market shares. Customer Support Center The Customer Support Center receives customer inquiries placed via toll-free calls and dedicated forms on the website. Inquiries to the scientific instruments and systems division account for about 70% of the total, while those to the process and environmental instruments and systems division account for about 17%. In particular, questions about pH meters represent about 60% of the total, and most of these are solved through free-dial calls and email. In the future, the Customer Support Center will continue to work with the sales, development, and service divisions to proactively respond to customer requests and analytical needs, supporting customers so that they come to prefer HORIBA products for a long time. Breakdown of Inquiries Breakdown of Visits to the Company Website 【By Segment】 【By Content】 Semiconductor Other Complaints Other regions Other North 181 Scientiﬁc 176 266 Medical 1% 1,874 1,774 America 19,455 1% 6% 479 7% Request 6% 265 69% for repair 5% 2% 881 Europe Automotive Test Systems 3% 572 1,304 12% 4% Asia 835 Business inquiries 17% Process & Environmental 9,998 4,817 36% Japan Technical 17% inquiries 2,947 15,281 60% 54% Total number of inquiries in 2014：28,110 Total number of inquiries in 2014：4,885 HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 26 Customers Relationships with customers Exhibitions HORIBA participates in many exhibitions in Japan and abroad, actively presenting its and group companies' new products and technological capabilities. We invite customers and other concerned parties within the industry to social gatherings called“HORIBA Hospitality Suites,”which we hold during each major exhibition. In this way, HORIBA shows the importance of our bonds with customers and we encourage our customers to use these gatherings as opportunities to form connections with one another. At the same time, HORIBA strives to hold briefings for investors so that we become known to as many people as possible. Technical Seminars HORIBA hosts HORIBA ATS seminars for users of our automotive test systems (ATS) twice a year. In 2014 , we held the first seminar in both Tokyo and Nagoya in April, while the second took place in Tokyo in October. Some 60 customers --including automakers, parts manufacturers, public institutions, and universities --participated in each seminar, where HORIBA engineers provided the latest information on exhaust gas tests and lectured on the measuring equipment related to such tests as well as on new measurement technologies. One customer commented,“I was able to reorganize my information on future automotive certification tests. This seminar provided a good opportunity to collect information because we are considering introducing equipment. ”In the future, we will not only provide information on statutory regulations but also offer information on a wide range of measurement technologies and propose systems suited for new testing methods in real time, thus further solidifying customers' trust in HORIBA. HORIBA Report“Invisible values”web data collection 27 HORIBA Report 2014 Invisible values web data collection Issued June 2015
