G L O B A L C O M PA C T C O M M U N I C AT I O N ON PROGRESS COMPANY Orient Occident is marketing high quality floor coverings, interior textiles and design solutions for public interiors and design enthusiasts. The company was founded in 1919 and is a well-known, family owned Finnish company. Our core values are creating value for our customers and operating in a responsible and sustainable way towards our stakeholders, and the environment. Since 2014, we are participant in the United Nations Global compact, the largest corporate responsibility initiative in the world, with over 10,000 signatories based in 140 countries. Oy Orient–Occident Ltd Ruukinkuja 2, 02330 Espoo — Finland (09) 260 660 — orientoccident.fi Period covered by Communication on Progress (COP): 1.4.2014 to 31.3.2015 Statement of continued support 1.4.2015 I am pleased to confirm that Oy Orient-Occident Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Mikko Puputti CEO, Oy Orient-Occident Ltd Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses ASSESMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Our goal is to influence that our employees and all our business partners respect the Universal Declaration of Human rights. We have set up a code of conduct to make our position clear for our employees and business partners. The code of conduct is also published on our web site. We require our employees and business partners to adhere to our Code of Conduct. IMPLEMENTATION We require employees and business partners to adhere to our Code of Conduct. We are monitoring, investigating and acting upon any violation of the Code of Conduct in regard to human rights that comes to our knowledge. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES During the reporting period, we have developed a new process for employees and stakeholders to notify us of any potential violations of human rights principles. There are no reported or known cases of violation of human rights in our value chain in the period of 1.4.2014 to 31.3.2015. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ASSESMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Our goal is to influence that all parties in our value chain respect the ILO Core Conventions. We have set up a code of conduct to make our position clear for our employees and business partners. The code of conduct is also published on our web site. We require our employees and business partners to adhere to our Code of Conduct. IMPLEMENTATION We require employees and business partners to adhere to our Code of Conduct. We are monitoring, investigating and acting upon any violation of the Code of Conduct in regard to labor rights that comes to our knowledge. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES During the reporting period, we have developed a new process for employees and stakeholders to notify us of any potential violations of labour principles. There are no reported or known cases of violation of labor principles in our value chain in the period of 1.4.2014 to 31.3.2015. I the reporting period, we have supported the work by The Finnish Association of People with Physical Disabilities for disabled children and their families (Invalidiliitto). Our support is directed towards improving the possibilities of disabled children to participate in working life in the future. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ASSESMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Our goal is to influence that all parties in our value chain are operating in an environmentally responsible way. We have set up a code of conduct to make our position clear for our employees and business partners. The code of conduct is also published on our web site. We require our employees and business partners to adhere to our Code of Conduct. As we are not a manufacturer of products, our direct environmental impact is relatively small. We have evaluated that by working with suppliers who implement and develop environmentally friendly technologies and promote the use of recycled raw materials, we can have the most significant impact on environment. In addition we can improve the environmental effect of the logistical value chain by optimizing transportation. In addition to reducing the carbon footprint of products, we can have a positive effect on creating healthier working and living environments through choosing to market products with low emissions and non-hazardous composition. IMPLEMENTATION We require employees and business partners to adhere to our Code of Conduct. We increase the awareness of our customers and stakeholders of the environmental effect of our products in their total life cycle. We take part in voluntary developments to reduce our direct carbon footprint and waste. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES There are no reported or known cases of violation of Environmental principles in our value chain in the period of 1.4.2014 to 31.3.2015. We have increased the share of sales of environmentally sustainable products consisting of recycled raw materials with low emissions. We are carrying out an expert consultancy to improve our energy efficiency and to study the production of renewable energy ourselves in our own facilities in Espoo. The study is ongoing and is expected to finish before end of 2015. We have decided to develop our IT systems to better control and analyze the environmental impact of our products and their key characteristics and certifications related to global environment and well as to working and living environments. We have taken steps to reduce the waste of product materials in our deliveries by optimizing the production and installation planning. In addition we have improved the recycling of waste created by our own operations. We are member of The Environmental Register of Packaging PYR Ltd using their solutions for recycling of packaging We have developed partnerships with environmentally certified transportation companies who are using modern vehicles in transportation of our goods. We have also increased the share of direct deliveries to constructions sites, minimizing the carbon foot print of last mile deliveries. We have adopted an environmental policy for company owned cars, enforcing a maximum CO2 g/km emission threshold. In the reporting period, we have supported the work of World Wildlife Fund in protection of the Baltic sea, one of the world's most stressed seas. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ASSESMENT, POLICY AND GOALS We are committed to fair competition and have a policy of zero-tolerance for corruption. All of our employees must avoid any kind of corruptive behavior or anti-competitive agreements with representatives of customers, competitors or business partners. In addition, we have set up a code of conduct to make our position clear for our employees and business partners. The code of conduct is also published on our web site. We require our employees and business partners to adhere to our Code of Conduct. IMPLEMENTATION We require employees and business partners to adhere to our Code of Conduct. We are monitoring, investigating and acting upon any violation of the Code of Conduct in regard to labor rights that comes to our knowledge. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES During the reporting period, we have developed a new process for employees and stakeholders to notify us of any potential violations of labour principles. All employees of Orient Occident have signed a written agreement to follow our internal anticorruptive guideline. There are no reported or known cases of violation of Anti-Corruption principles in the period of 1.4.2014 to 31.3.2015.
