Communication on Progress 2014 UN Global Compact GC Rieber / GC RIEBER AS / Phone: 55 60 67 00 / E-mail: info@gcrieber.no / www.gcrieber.no 1 Content CEO Statement ........................................................................................................................ 3 About GC Rieber ..................................................................................................................... 4 Our Corporate Social Responsibility Framework ............................................................... 5 Core Values............................................................................................................................ 6 Business and Leadership Principles .................................................................................. 7 Internal guidelines for ethics and CSR .............................................................................. 7 Code of Conduct for suppliers and partners CoC.......................................................... 7 CSR Policy, Strategy and action plans .............................................................................. 7 Quarterly CSR Reporting ..................................................................................................... 7 New CSR Function created in 2014 ................................................................................... 8 Selected CSR activities in 2014 ............................................................................................ 9 / GC RIEBER AS / Phone: 55 60 67 00 / E-mail: info@gcrieber.no / www.gcrieber.no 2 CEO Statement A genuine concern for society and our community has been part of our family history for almost two centuries, and represents the fundament of the business principles our forefathers adopted for GC Rieber. Following generations of leaders and owners have further developed and strengthened our value base. Social responsibility has always been a core element of our competitive advantage, which is why I like to call our approach “responsible innovation”. Warren Buffet once said that social responsibility is expensive, and that sustainable behavior requires sacrifices at the expense of profitability. Research has so far failed to provide clear answers to whether organizations which score high on social responsibility, are more or less profitable than those who don’t. I tend to agree that social responsibility and sustainability may imply a cost in the short term. One may miss a profitable contract because it doesn’t pass through internal quality controls, a project may become more expensive due to investments in research and alternative technology, and there is certainly no room for cutting corners to save a penny. However, my strong conviction is that sustainability and responsibility contribute to profitability in the long run. As a matter of fact, I believe they are a prerequisite for every company’s survival. Business is all about trust from stakeholders. Our reputation is our most valuable asset and the key to attracting talent, acquiring new business and ensuring investor loyalty. It is only through a transparent and honest dialogue with our stakeholders that we can prove who we are and what we stand for. Understanding and respecting our stakeholders’ interests and expectations enables us to adjust our course in due time and to ensure that we keep delivering products and services which create value. It is the opposite that will cost us dearly. Unfortunately, we don’t always get it right the first time, and changing realities may take us by surprise. We are therefore humble towards the challenge that lies in achieving our sustainability goals. However, our allegiance to continuous improvement is stronger than ever. This includes our unbroken commitment to the principles of the UN Global Compact initiative. If we at the end of a day – or a year – are unable to document progress and a contribution to making the world a better place, we need to pull out of a project, business area or investment. For our own sake and for the sake of society. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our CSR framework and our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Paul-Christian Rieber CEO GC Rieber AS / GC RIEBER AS / Phone: 55 60 67 00 / E-mail: info@gcrieber.no / www.gcrieber.no 3 About GC Rieber Our employees At the end of 2014, the GC Rieber group employed about 800 people allocated to the following independent business units: Industry GC Rieber Salt AS GC Rieber Salt delivers a wide range of salts and minerals across the Nordic region. GC Rieber Chemicals AS (daughter company of GC Rieber Salt AS) GC Rieber Chemicals AS is a major supplier of a variety of chemicals to the oil and gas industry in Norway. GC Rieber Oils AS (including Fortuna Oils AS) GC Rieber Oils is a leading supplier of concentrated Omega-3 fatty acids to the supplements industry. GC Rieber Compact AS (including Compact India Private Ltd. and GC Rieber Compact South Africa) GC Rieber Compact develops and produces life-saving, ready-to-use foods. Shipping GC Rieber Shipping ASA GC Rieber Shipping is a company with a long history and unique competence within offshore operations in harsh environment. We operate within the subsea, marine seismic and ice/support segments. Commercial Property GC Rieber Eiendom AS GC Rieber Eiendom is a leading contributor towards the development and management of urban business premises in Bergen (Norway). The countries in which we operate Besides Norway, our offices and production sites are located in the following countries: Sweden, Denmark, Canada, Australia, Russia, India, South Africa and Tunisia. The GC Rieber Foundation The GC Rieber Foundation manage philanthropic and charitable contributions to benevolent and social initiatives and a wide array of culture and science projects. http://www.gcrieber-fondene.no/ / GC RIEBER AS / Phone: 55 60 67 00 / E-mail: info@gcrieber.no / www.gcrieber.no 4 / GC RIEBER AS / Phone: 55 60 67 00 / E-mail: info@gcrieber.no / www.gcrieber.no 5 Our Corporate Social Responsibility Framework Core Values The balance between economic strength, a robust corporate culture and respect for our surroundings is a key element of our principles. Our platform is one of long-term business development, exploring new opportunities and stable family ownership. Our value base is one of the key features in our promise to create value through sustainability. Creativity We find it stimulating to put the pieces together in a new way, and we dare to question established truths . Diligence We are constantly looking for new opportunities and are working tirelessly to transform the opportunities into tangible results. Responsibility We go about our business with a strong sense of responsibility towards customers, society, the environment and each other. / GC RIEBER AS / Phone: 55 60 67 00 / E-mail: info@gcrieber.no / www.gcrieber.no 6 Business and Leadership Principles The core of elements our modern CSR policy may be found already in our founder’s business principles from 1879 which, among other, state “Healthy growth and sound financial development can be achieved only if there is open interaction between the company and its business associates, employees, owners, and the community at large. For our targets to be reached, none of these groups may exploit its strength at the expense of the others.” “The company shall treat natural resources with respect, never to be squandered. These resources are to be passed on to future generations in at least as good shape as they were in when we took over.” Inclusive leadership is one of our core principles for GC Rieber executives, and implies that we expect our leaders to build an organization that takes responsibility – for its customers, wider society, the environment, and each other. Internal guidelines for ethics and CSR Based on our strong business principles and core values, we have developed internal guidelines for ethics and CSR that we expect all GC Rieber employees to adhere to. The guidelines contain general principles for best practice and professional conduct, and represent the fundament of our core beliefs and our corporate culture. Code of Conduct for suppliers and partners In order to make our position on CSR and sustainability clear to our business partners, we have set up a Code of Conduct (CoC). GC Rieber will, when selecting suppliers and prior to making investments, consider compliance with this CoC, along with other relevant aspects. The CoC provides a framework for what we consider to be the minimum standard for professional conduct. CSR Policy, Strategy and action plans Our CSR policy is an integral part of our organization and reflects our business goals. At GC Rieber, we involve and engage all parts of the organization in CSR work. Social responsibility and sustainable development are integrated throughout our entire business operations. We believe that our group companies can better support international sustainability programs by actively using their knowhow and competence to drive economic, environmental and social development through own initiatives and efforts. Each business area in the GC Rieber Group identifies business-critical sustainability goals and aligns them with their respective key stakeholders’ expectations. Those goals are then turned into action plans, which are communicated internally and externally, and monitored continuously. Quarterly CSR Reporting All business-unit leadership groups provide quarterly CSR progress reports according to a common format based on the ten UNGC principles. These reports are presented and discussed in company and group Board meetings to ensure top-level commitment, and to monitor continuous follow-up on relevant measures. / GC RIEBER AS / Phone: 55 60 67 00 / E-mail: info@gcrieber.no / www.gcrieber.no 7 New CSR Function created in 2014 In the fall of 2014, a new role was created with a group wide responsibility for CSR and legal to drive the implementation of the United Nations’ ten principles within the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption throughout the organization. The new position was the result of a strategic process carried out by the group’s Board of Directors and the Group Management, which had identified a need for enhanced central CSR capacity and competence to support the group companies’ efforts in achieving our sustainability goals. A new Head of CSR and Legal was appointed with the responsibility to support the company leadership groups in developing their CSR strategy and action plans, review activities and tasks, monitor progress and coordinate reporting in the GC Rieber Group. Specific group-wide tasks for the new role that were identified include  Define management information requirements with respect to CSR reporting tools and formats.  Review the adequacy of our assurance framework, methodology and tools for anti-corruption compliance.  Review the group’s stakeholder communication strategy. / GC RIEBER AS / Phone: 55 60 67 00 / E-mail: info@gcrieber.no / www.gcrieber.no 8 / GC RIEBER AS / Phone: 55 60 67 00 / E-mail: info@gcrieber.no / www.gcrieber.no 9 Selected CSR activities in 2014 Environment GC Rieber Salt Fuel and carbon reduction measures in connection with seabased transportation implemented. GC Rieber Chemicals Ongoing cross-industry R&D project related to chloride reduction in road salt. GC Rieber Oils Certification as “Friend of the Sea”. IFFO Responsibly Supply certification (sustainable fish oil trade) from the Marine Ingredients Organization. Implemented carbon reduction measures in connection with transportation. New cleaning system and procedures implemented to reduce risk of emissions of chemical substances. Study on energy waste reduction conducted. Purchase of tuna fish oil suspended due to high grade of toxic substances. GC Rieber Compact First phase of FSSC 22000 certification completed in South Africa. Comprehensive waste/emission reduction and water saving measures implemented in new production unit in South Africa. Sustainable production project launched in South Africa. Various initiatives related to use of palm oil (alternative products, use of RSPO certified suppliers). GC Rieber Eiendom BREEAM certification for new buildings. Construction of first building in Bergen in BREEAM Excellent class design under way. Development and facilitation of electric car and car pooling solutions for tenants. Comprehensive policies and plans for low-emission and wastereduced construction projects, including requirements with respect to sustainable products and materials. GC Rieber Shipping Reduction of fuel and lubrication emissions Introduction of new policies for use of chemicals and waste management on board. Training in ISO 14001 standard for personnel on board. / GC RIEBER AS / Phone: 55 60 67 00 / E-mail: info@gcrieber.no / www.gcrieber.no 10 Human and Labour rights GC Rieber Oils Participation in cross-industry project with Ethical Trading Initiative Norway regarding human rights situation in Peru HSEQ forum established. GC Rieber Compact UNICEF audit completed in South Africa. Extensive training and induction programmes for employees in new plant in South Africa. Noise and dust reduction measures implemented in plants. GC Rieber Eiendom Enhanced background checks and control of temporary workers. GC Rieber Shipping All vessels are certified according to the Maritime Labour convention. Anti-corruption GC Rieber Salt External audit of partially owned production unit in Tunisia. Legal review of long-term delivery contracts. GC Rieber Chemicals GC Rieber Oils Audits and Self Assessments conducted with suppliers in Peru, Chile and Morocco. GC Rieber Compact Risk assessment in connection with new production unit in South Africa. GC Rieber Eiendom Internal ABC trainings. Whistleblowing and reporting procedures updated. GC Rieber Shipping Procedure for agent appointment revised ABC training included in annual Master appraisals and crew conferences. GC Rieber Group Internal seminar and awareness activities in connection with International anti-corruption day 9th December. / GC RIEBER AS / Phone: 55 60 67 00 / E-mail: info@gcrieber.no / www.gcrieber.no 11 Suppliers and Partners GC Rieber Salt Revision of supplier assessment framework in connection with planned GMP+ and ISO certifications. GC Rieber Chemicals GC Rieber Oils IFFO supplier audits with respect to «Responsible Supply» certification. GC Rieber Compact Regular supplier audits in India, South Africa. Local supplier programme in South Africa established. GC Rieber Eiendom Temporary work agencies must confirm compliance with new EU directive. GC Rieber Shipping Supplier control and audits through Incentra. GC Rieber Group Agent, suppliers and business partners must sign the group Code of Conduct. Contact For further information about our CSR work, please contact Irene Philipps Head of Legal and CSR irene.philipps@gcrieber.no phone (+47) 90982026 or visit our website www.gcrieber.no / GC RIEBER AS / May 2015 / GC RIEBER AS / Phone: 55 60 67 00 / E-mail: info@gcrieber.no / www.gcrieber.no 12
