Page 1 ABOUT THE REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SHWE TAUNG GROUP MAY 2014 / MAY 2015 Page 2 ABOUT THE REPORT SUMMARY 03 17 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT HUMAN RIGHTS Assessment, Policy and Goals Implementation 04 Measurement of the Outcomes Participation to Myanmar’s Development ABOUT THE REPORT 24 05 LABOUR SHWETAUNG GROUP AND SUSTAINIBILITY Assessment, Policy and Goals Implementation Measurement of the Outcomes 06 STAKEHOLDERS INCLUSIVENESS 33 ENVIRONMENT 07 Assessment, Policy and Goals Implementation SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT Measurement of the Outcomes Safety and Sanitary Outcomes 09 CORPORATE STRUCTURE 43 ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 Assessment, Policy and Goals Implementation CORPORATE SUSTAINIBILITY TEAM Measurement of the Outcomes 11 49 ABOUT SHWETAUNG GROUP GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX Page 3 ABOUT THE REPORT CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT To our stakeholders, Place It is with great pleasure that we are introducing our second Communications sustainability at On Progress, reaffirming our support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations the center of our Global Compact. Between May 2014 and May 2015, we group’s have been working on improving and mastering our commitment towards the 10 UNGC Principles in the areas of Human strategy Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Sustainability has continued to be at the chore of our activities this year, guiding our long-term strategies and our daily operations. The focus for this second year of engagement has been put on Aik Htun developing more tools allowing us to assess and measure our practices. Chairman In this Communication on Progress, we provide a deeper description of our actions and the steps taken to improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles, in accordance with our corporate vision of “Inspiring Lives With Responsible Investment and Sustainable Development”. This report will be shared with our stakeholders thanks to our primary channels of communication. We acknowledge that the respect of the Ten Principles of the Global Compact, together with a pro-active behavior to support social stability and economic development are essential to allow the successful and sustainable development of our country. We look forward to support the UN Global Compact in 2016 and beyond. Sincerely, Aik Htun Page 4 ABOUT THE REPORT Shwe Taung Group's activities are guided by the strong corporate vision of inspiring lives with responsible investment and sustainable development. The company is working towards making a positive change by enhancing people, protecting the environment, and participating to the country’s development. Responsible investment and sustainable development are at the core of the company’s strategy, and inherent to the company’s culture. Our aim is to provide high international standards quality products and services while operating through the scope of sustainability. We are committed to be a good corporate citizen, contributing to the society of Myanmar within which we operate. Our aim is to create value for stakeholders, while conducting sustainable business practices, caring for the community and protecting the environment. We aim to champion our CSR engagement and inspire other actors of the business community in Myanmar. In order to achieve this goal, we are committed to identify, manage and fix sustainability-related risks including human capital risk, safety risks, environmental risks as well as fraud and corruption risks. We follow a pro-active behavior towards these areas and our actions do not only comply with Myanmar laws but also go beyond them. This second report has led to a certain number of restatements of information provided in our 1st COP, as our commitments is deepened and our CSR expertise is improving. This report is aiming to reach the Core Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) context to create and disseminate a global framework for sustainability reports have helped shape our own efforts. Shwe Taung will continue to report annually. Materiality Our report covers all the aspects that reflect Shwe Taung Group’s significant economic, environmental and social impacts; as a tool to substantively influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders. Stakeholder Inclusiveness Shwe Taung Group has identify its stakeholders, in order to produce relevant strategies to respond to their reasonable expectations and interests. Sustainability Context Our report aims to present Shwe Taung Group’s performance in the wide context of sustainability. Our corporate objectives, strategies and procedures are designed according to the idea of sustainability. Completeness Our report presents a fair and measured assessment of our strategies & procedures. Our aim is to reflect our significant economic, environmental and social impacts in an objective way, and to enable stakeholders to assess the Shwe Taung Group’s performance between May 2014 and May 2015. Page 5 SHWE TAUNG GROUP AND SUSTAINIBILITY G4-24 G4-30 G4-25 G4-31 G4-28 G4-32 G4-29 G4-33 About this Report PRINCIPLED BUSINES This report provides an overview of our Aligning with Ten Principles on Human economic, social and environmental impacts and Rights, Labour, Environment and Antiperformance between May 2014 and May 2015. Corruption The structure of this report has been guided by STRENGTHENING SOCIETY GRI G4 guideline as well as the 10 principles Taking action and collaborating with stated by the UN Global Compact. All data have businesness, local and international been collected and compiled by our Corporate institutions, businesses and civil sociery to Responsibility Team created in May 2014 advance global challenges following our membership to the UNGC. The Corporate Responsibility Team is composed LEADERSHIP COMMITMENT of acore group of 5 people and of a delegate of Effecting long-term change begins with each subsidiary. The report represents the Shwe Taung's leadership actions undertaken by all these sister companies. REPORTING PROGRESS As a reader of our report and a Shwe Taung Transparency in business practice is crucial Group stakeholder, your views are important to for sustainability. We multiply our audits, measurement and communications tools us. Please send comments and suggestions to: to make sure we reach the highest info@shwetaunggroup.com standard of reporting External assessment hasn’t been provided this LOCAL ACTION year, as we are implementing an external We use our 20+ years expererience in assessment strategy for the year to come. Myanmar to bring local solutions through local lens OUR MATERIALITY STRATEGY G4-19 We consider that a sustainability strategy should be ever evolving, in order to G4-20 always reach its highest potential impact. This involves the use of a set of tools to assess our policies and measure our outcomes. These tools allow us and our partners to have an objective insight of our activities, and to observe our improvements through time. This set of material therefore allows us to set our standards and have them understood by our all stakeholders and observers. They allow us to « translate into a common language » our observations and goals when assessing and reporting on our CSR risks and opportunities. Thanks to the development of these materials, we can translate into principles our standards and ask our stakeholders to do the same. Page 6 G4-24 STAKEHOLDER INCLUSIVENESS G4-25 Our stakeholders are the groups with whom we engage and whom we expect to commit to our principles. We engage our business partners, our suppliers, our client, our cowokers, civil societies and institutions into our commitment to sustainibility. Our strategy relies on long-term relations of trust and confidence, we choose stakeholders that share our vision. Therefore, we communicate of our actions and we have put into place a set of procedures aiming to communicate our actions on a regular basis and assess undertaken policies. The diagram above shows our different stakeholders. Civil society Our business Our partners coworkers Our clients Our suppliers Institutions Environment G4-26 G4-27 Our business partners Our aim is to create long-term value for our business partners. We are determined to set some responsible business practices that will benefit every business working with us. Contracts, common CSR policies, written policies Our suppliers Shwe Taung Group has settled a Code of Conduct for its suppliers so that they comply with Shwe Taung's commitments in the areas of Human Rights, Labour Rights, Environment and Anti-corruption. Contracts, obligation to respect Shwe Taung Group's commitments Our coworkers It is crucial for us to offer the best possible work conditions for our employees, in which they are treated with a fair and equal treatment based on merit. We want them to feel proud of the company they are working for by working in a diverse and inclusive workplace. Code of conduct, training, regular meetings and opinion polls Our clients We are committed to offering our clients with the best goods and services with a fair market price. We want to engage sustainibly with our customers and insure constant customer satisfaction. ISO, customer care, quality management, performance reviews Civil society Participating to Myanmar's development is central in our business strategies. Through our activities, we aim to improve people's lives on the long term. CSR activities, participation to civil society based initiatives Institutions Shwe Taung Group engages with local and international institutions to settle high business standards focused on corporate responsibility, market standards and sustainibility. Involvement in local and international dialogues Environment The environment and its ressources is considered by STG as a stakeholder that also needs to be taken care of in our strategy. Environemental Impact Assessments, Green Plans, National and international dialogues Page 7 SUATAINABILITY CONTEXT Myanmar is knowing an unprecedented moment of change. In the past couple of years, local and foreign investment have dramatically increased, leading to apromising economic growth. The task is huge, and the expectations from citizens, Governments and the international community are high. As a local company with more than 20 field years experience on the Myanmar market, we see the numerous opportunities to develop and increase our businesses. This said, this exciting trend does not come without susbtantial challenges. The intensification of the economy can lead to positive externalities – creating resources, jobs, infrastructures and bringing technologies for Myanmar people – but also negative ones, affecting communities and the environment. It is the reforeour responsibility to adopt a set of good business practices, to insure the sustainable success of our activities and of Myanmar. Very conscious of these risks and opportunities, Shwe Taung Group has adopted a Corporate and Social Responsibility strategy, continuously adapted to match these risks and opportunities. By developing assessment and measurement tools, Shwe Taung Group is always trying to measure its impact and the needs of its environment, to adjust its policies and practices in the scope of sustainibility. We give a particular attention to determine policies that are in accordance with our core businesses and our values : our CSR policy is fully embenddedin to our corporate identity and culture. G4-5 G4-9 G4-3 G4-6 G4-6 Shwe Taung Group is operating in different Our head office is located in Myanmar locations since its Yangon, Ahlone Tower. Shwe creation 1990. Its activities are We have a wide portfolio and Taung also has offices in dedicated to the Myanmar currently count 115 operations Singapore, Thailand and China, market and the company is across the country but they are only owned and stood in majority representation offices. G4-15 by its managing team. G4-9 G4-56 Shwe Taung Group shares one Shwe Taung Group is member vision of Inspiring lives with We count 6129 employees of the UNGC since May 2013 responsible investment and across the country and has since reported sustainable development annually G4-13 Depending on our businesses, our supply chain is composed of suppliers, contractors, business partners, tenants. and final users (etc) Page 8 SO 1 SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT In order to assess our sustainability performance, we have listed the total number of operations and related assessment in terms of local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. Our aim is to see these figures improving continuously every year. Report of the number and percentage of operations with implemented local community Total engagement, impact assessments, and development programs, including the use of: Total number of operations 115 Social impact assessments, including gender impact assessments, based on participatory 4 processes Percentage of Social impact assessments, including gender impact assessments, based on 3% participatory processes Environmental impact assessments and ongoing monitoring 19 Percentage of Environmental impact assessments and ongoing monitoring 17% Public disclosure of results of environmental and social impact assessments 19 Percentage of Public disclosure of results of environmental and social impact assessments 17% Stakeholder engagement plans based on stakeholder mapping 16 Percentage of Stakeholder engagement plans based on stakeholder mapping 14% Broad based local community consultation committees and processes that include 19 vulnerable groups Percentage of Broad based local community consultation committees and processes that 17% include vulnerable groups Works councils, occupational health and safety committees and other employee 16 representation bodies to deal with impacts Percentage of Works councils, occupational health and safety committees and other 14% employee representation bodies to deal with impacts Formal local community grievance processes 1 Formal local community grievance processes 1% G4-41 Page 9 to G4-49 CORPORATE STRUCTURE Implementing sustainability initiatives requires participation from individuals and departments through out an organization, from senior leadership to front-line workers. Like any organizationwide effort, successful sustainability programs require skilled, accountable staff; adequatere sources to meet organizational goals; and a clear understanding of roles and responsibilities across the organization. At Shwe Taung Group, decisions regarding actions that will have an economic, environmental and social impacts are shared by both the board and dedicated sub-committees at both a subsidiary and a group level. Sub-committees work in dependentely but can relate directly to the board, as one board member has been appointed « Coordinator » for the Corporate Sustainibility Team. Indeed, Corporate Social Responsibility policies are designed by each subsidiary indepently, but following the group’s main directions. An independent Corporate Sustainibility Team has been appointed, composed of a core group of 5 people which coordinate with at least one member of each subsidiary. A monthly meeting between the coordinator and the Corporate Sustainibility Team permits the fluid exchange of information between the board and the committees. Since September 2014, CSR Working Groups have been set up. Each group is composed of 10 to 12 employees to efficiently assess, plan, implement, review the daily activites and processes in each subsidiaries or divisions. Managing Director of each subsidiary or division is leading a Working Group for decision making and guidance for sustainability issue. Other members are taking responsibilities of individual CSR related issues; such as Implementation and data collection of elements relating to Human Rights and Labour, Environment and Business Ethic & Anti-Corruption. To compile a correct cost of CSR implementation, accountants are also included as members in the working group. Individual CSR Working Group also include internal audit for CSR issues for monitoring the successfulness of CSR activities. The board and senior managing team give guidelines to develop strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts but give full autonomy for the committees to take initiatives. They have recently approved the update of the organization’s purpose, value or mission, placing in around the theme « Inspiring Lives With Reponsible Investment and Sustainable Development » ; and undertaken a series of business decisions towards this corporate motto. The Managing Team and Chairman have also got ten involved in a series of networks, forums and events dedicated to learning more about CSR activities (like the UNGC Local Network) Shwe Taung Group will keep on enhancing its sustainability efforts by gradually. In corporating existing structures into a Sustainability Management framework. STG communicates on its action. In 2015, STG’s calendar, distributed to more than 5,300 people showcased what we have done in the areas of human rights, labour rights, environment, anticorruption. Page 10 G4-34 G4-36 GR-35 GR-37 CORPORATE SUSTAINIBILITY TEAM Takes decisions on the global corporate guidelines Shwe Taung Approves / disapproves policies Group board in place Review th effectiveness of of Directors policies and procedures Approves Sustainability Report Coordinates activities related to sustainibility Corporate Collects initiatives from Internal subsidiaries and stakeholders Sustainibility Audit Teams Transfer conclusions to the Team executive Translate executive's strategy into an action plan Assess the outcomes Report critical concerns to BoD Implement and experiences policies Propose new intitative Subsidiaries Supply chain Observers Provide practical feedback on initiatives Obervation and coordination. Member of the Board Reports guideline from BoD and of Director translates CST actions to BoD Coordinator of the Coordinates all actions, in charge Corporate of monitoring meetings and Sustainibility Team (Communications communications Dpt) Bring specialized insight on the Training Dpt HR Dpt Engeneering Dpt Audit Dpt different topics One member from each subsidiary reports on undertaken actions and makes sure policies are implemented Page 11 ABOUT SHWE TAUNG GROUP G4-4 Future Energy Shwe Taung Cement Being one of the first and major players in the Myanmar In 2008, STD ventured into a cement manufacturing Energy industry, Future Energy Co., Ltd. focuses on energy project, later known as Pyi Nyaung project, in 2008 investment. The first project – Balu Chaung (3) granted by the Ministry of Mining. In 2010, the Hydropower plant, is located approximately 25 km east of company formed Shwe Taung Cement Co., Ltd. to Loikaw, Kayah State. It has an installed capacity of 52 MW implement this project. The core activities of the and annual average production of 334 Million Kwh. The company include exploration mining for cement raw power genrated by this project will be distributed to the materials, production and distribution of cement with national grid line. This project is the first IPP & BOT (Build, planned annual production capacity of 450,000 tons. In Operate and Transfer) Basis projects of the Group. 2014, the company launched Apache Cement Shwe Taung Property Development Shwe Taung Property Management Shwe Taung has over 20 years of field experience in the We offer management services in the areas of property design, development and construction of real estate development, leasing and property management in projects in Myanmar. From 1992 untll today, the company Myanmar. Our portfolio extends over 600,000 sq ft and has developed over 788 acres of land which include 300 000 sq ft of retail & offices spaces. Retail properties thousands of residential units, offices, commercial centers, include Junction Square, Junction Centre Mawtin, hotels and industrial properties. Junction Centre 8 Mile, Junction Centre Zawana and Junction Centre Nay Pyi Taw.We also manage Grade A office buildings Union Financial Centre and Union Business Centre. As the largest retail mall operator in Myanmar, the Junction Centre Group is ISO (9001:2008) certified and is a market leader in the retail sector in downtown Yangon. Page 12 ABOUT SHWE TAUNG GROUP G4-4 High Tech Concrete Technology High Tech Concrete HTCT provides ready mixed CVC (Conventional Vibrated HTC is one of the domestic market leaders in Concrete) and RCC (Roller compacted concrte) for construction materials industry. HTC manufactures and commercial and residential buildings, federal supplies ready-mixed concrete and provides related government projects, bridge constructions and crushing services to construction sites all over Myanmar. Its facilities for aggregate production. It is the main and products include; low heat concrete, high durable only supplier of RCC concrete for Yeywa Hydropower concrete, high early strength concrete, waterproofing Project construction, the third largest RCC dam in the concrete, self-compacting concrete and retarding world. HTCT had launched its interest in Hydropower, concrete. HTC is the first ISO (9001:2000) certified infrastructure, railway and airport projects. company in ready-mixed concrete industry in Myanmar. Golden Tri Star Golden Tri Star Tolls Established in 2003, GTS brings its technical experience We are one of the first and major player in road and operational expertise in tunnel construction and projects, managing the Yangon-Mandaly Highway bore pilling projects providing comprehensive solutions union road project and the Segaing-Monya/Shwe Bo and service in engineering, technology and Road Project. For those two projects, we implement construction areas. Its most recent construction include and operate computerized weight bridge systems and Hledan Flyover project and the iconic Ruby Hall. Its Maxtoll software systems. Five toll plazas are operated other significant accomplishments are the Shwegyin across the country. Our aim is to provide customer Hydropower plant, the Myanmar Economic Bank satisfaction and we focus on providing safe, convenient Project, the Ayeyarwaddy River Crossing Tower Project, and smooth public transportation.These two highway and the Pakkoku Bridge on Asia Highway. projects are formed on the basis of B.O.T aggreement between the Ministry and Shwe Taung Co., Ltd. The toll fees are collected according to the prescribed rate of ministry of public work. Page 13 ABOUT SHWE TAUNG GROUP G4-4 Cineplex Padamyar FM Junction Cineplex from Myanmar and CJ CGV from Since its first airtime on 88.9FM in 2009, Padamyar FM Korea originated the new joint venture company, has been increasingly popular and continues to get Myanmar Cineplex (JCGV). JCGV,a cinema corporation higher ratings among FM audiences. With over 15 features the latest facilitated theatre, including 6 million listeners, its impression spreads across 12 major screens, 1143 seats in 3 public eye locations both in locations in Myanmar. Yangon and Nay Pyi Taw. In future, JCGV plans to develop new, latest and well-designed cinemas across MyanmarIt is also continuously renovating and enhancing its technology and service to keep abreast with more sophisticated and advancing Myanmar’s lifestyle. ShweTaung Energy Grand Guardian Insurance Shwe Taung Energy operates 15 gasoline and diesel Founded in 2013, Grand Guardian is a Public company distribution centers across Yangon, Bago, Mandalay established with the purpose of delivering better and Sagaing division. These distribution centers are insurance products, introduce value-added services and equipped with up-to-date gas pumps , computer raise the professionalism of the insurance industry in controlled point-of-sale terminals, digital inventory Myanmar. We provide financial protection against control system and environmentally safe gas storage property or financial loses of the people. We also give tanks. financial support to a family that faces untimely death of its breadwinner. G4-4 Page 14 ABOUT SHWE TAUNG GROUP G4-5 G4-57 Contact at Ahlone Tower, 1st Floor, River View Garden Housing, Strand Road, Ahlone Township, Yangon, Myanmar. http://www.shwetaunggroup.com info@shwetaunggroup.com Green River Construction & Hot Line (951) 211430, 212704 Engineering GRCE has gradually grown since 1991 and is now Fax (951) 226979, 212217 standing as one of the leading construction companies. GRCE, an ISO 9001-2008 certified company has accomplished more than 200 projects including landmark buildings around the country. The company has been always foremost in construction sector and applied new technologies for the safety and better Engineering Society. Its core mission is to create a modern living lifestyle in Myanmar. FOCUS ON About ISO 9001:2008 ISO 9001:2008 certifies that the quality policy is a formal statement from management, closely linked to the business and marketing plan and to customer needs. It also certifies that this policy is understood and followed Meet our at all levels & by all employees, and regularly audited and evaluated for customer's conformance and effectiveness. expectations Commitment ISO 9001:2008 has been received for our subsidiary companies in Shwe Taung has committed to : take action to make sure no one uses a bad this year. product; determine what to do with a bad product, deal with the root cause of problems; and to keep records to use as a tool to improve the system. Activites & Services concerned: Shwe Taung Property Management Co.,Ltd (Head office), Junction Centre 8 Mile, Junction Centre Mawtin, Junction Square, Junction Centre Nay Pyi Taw, Junction Centre Zawana (Leasing and Property Management Service). Green River Construction and Engineering Co., Ltd. (Provision of Qualified and Professional Construction Services) Page 15 ABOUT SHWE TAUNG GROUP SHWE TAUNG GROUP’S MISSIONS SHWE TAUNG GROUP’S VALUES G4-56 Page 16 ABOUT SHWE TAUNG GROUP A REAL CHALLENGE The idea of sustainability and responsible business is still quite new for Myanmar, and eventhough companies have followed philanthropic activities for quite a long time, the concepts, materials and assessment tools still need to be developed to reach the highest international standards. As members of the UN Global Compact, we are committed to gradually apply all these exisiting assessing material to ouractivities, and adapt them to the Myanmar context. This commitment will be progressive, and involve awareness raising among our staff and stakeholders. We aim to work together with international organisations and networks in order to benefit from existing guide lines. These participations give us a stong support to determine our targets and objectives, and learn from other's experiences. Our strategy is also the result of an internal process fully linked to our global corporate strategy SUSTAINABILITY, A STRATEGY IN ITSELF Uncoordinated CSR and philanthropic activities disconnected from the group’s strategy have been proven to be not effective. They have to be in line with the group’s business. For designig our sustainibility strategy, we have had to think about who we were as a corporatecitizen. We had to consider what we wanted to bring to Myanmar’s society, and draft a strategy that has both a meaningful social impact for the area in which we operate and a role in strength ening the firm’s long term competitiveness. We know that a sustainibility strategyis an opportunity for building up a significant change for the country as well as a competitive advantage. Our business partners and customers will be more likely to value a company that deeply cares about people, about the community, about the environment. Our busines partners will be more likely to work with a company that cares about not only the short term but also the long term benefits. Our strategy relies on the triple bottom line : Profit, People, Planet. For exemple, thanks to the implementation of eco-friendly systems, we can not only participate to the sustainability of our planet, but also see a significant decrease of our energy bills. Commitment to responsibility and sustainibility can constitute a real winning/winning outcome. Be an employer of Act for Social change choice Design environmentally Promote transparency responsible projects HUMAN RIGHTS Page 18 HUMANRIGHTS // ASSESSMENT,POLICY AND GOALS We fully support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to which every human being is entitled. The 30 Articles mentioned in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights are recognized within the company as the common standard of achievement for all peoples and all nations. We acknowledge that the common understanding and compliance to these rights and freedoms are of the greatest importance. As our aim is to inspire lives through responsible investment and sustainable development, we give a particular attention to embedding Human Rights principles into our company’s philosophy and day to day operations. A guiding principle of our company is that everyone accords to others the rights that individuals claim for themselves and accept the moral and humanitarian values that this embraces. Each person has to be considered as an individual whose happiness and prosperity is a concern of all. Because our goal is to be a good corporate citizen caring about the community at large we will always operate so that our corporate actions comply and encourage the respect of Human Rights. We make sure that all our policies and practices are complying with the fundamental principles described in the Declaration. This includes equal chance, right to life, liberty, security of the person, as well as the freedom of thought, conscious, religion and expression. We are committed to address Human Rights risk, discover incidents of Human Rights abuse within the company and to act upon the Human Rights related issues. We are expecting all our stakeholders, external and internal publics to respect and comply with these core principles. We are aiming to spread this vision and become an example for other institutions in Myanmar and beyond. ACT FOR SOCIAL CHANGE Participation to the international White Cane Day Page 19 HUMANRIGHTS // IMPLEMENTATION HUMAN RIGHTS. Just like last year, zero case of human right breach has been reported in 2014/2015. We believe the whistle blowing policy in place as well as the particular HR 4 attention given by management teams have allowed us to prevent Human Rights-related incident. 100% of our suppliers and contractors are morally hold to respect our Human Rights principles and most of them are contractually hold to do so. WIN-WIN Believing that our success should benefit the developement of Myanmar, we have decided to dedicate 1% of our benefits (earn our main projects) to CSR activities ACCESSIBILITY. We promote the application of universallyaccessible design in our shopping malls, offering higher level of service and better mobility for all, including people using wheelchairs. Since the end of March 2014, we have made our washrooms barrier-free (flat and level floor), installed parking spaces and toilets for people with disabilities. EXCHANGE. Convinced of the importance of sharing information and practices, we have attended and participated to a large number of forums on CSR, including UNGC local network events (this year has been marked by the visit of Ban Ki Moon) and workshops organised by the Myanmar Center for Responsible Business on human rights policies conceptualizaton and implementation. TRAINING. 524 hours of training have been given to 185 of our male employees and 235 of our women employees during the past year. This represents about 10% of our employees. We wil spread these programs to more HR 2 employees in the years to come. In total, 505 of our staff HR 7 are security personel. Amongst them, 80 have been trained to the organization’s human rights policies or specific procedures and their application to security. Human Rights in Myanmar It is only recently that the concept of Human Rights has reached the country’s agenda. We are persuaded that businesses have an important role to play in supporting governmental and institutions efforts in improving people’s lives, providing communities with the Library donation, Monastery for basic medical, food, housing and Orphans, Nay Pyi Taw educational comforts that each individual is entitled to. Page 20 HUMANRIGHTS // IMPLEMENTATION Since 1995 up to March 2015, USD 20.886 million have been dedicated to CSR activities allowing the construction of 3 hospitals and 81 schools across the country. USD2.409 million were invested last year in the fields of Education, Health, Community welfare, Infrastructure and Natural Disaster Relief. Donations are not limited to money. For example, HTC donated left over ready mixed concrete to build an assemble hall and toilets for the 400 students attending the Education Primary School, in Yangon. (See also YTU project) After receiving a substantive training in march 2015, we have been rewarded by UNAIDS and the Myanmar Coalition on Aids for knowing Zero new HIV infection, Zero discrimination and Zero AIDS-related death. We strongly support UNAIDS and the adopted National Strategic master Plan. Architect perspective, YTU, Yangon Amongst the 115 operations we have conducted in the past year across Myanmar, 12% of them have been subject to HR 9 human rights reviews or human rights impact assessments. Shwe Taung Group promotes education and is highly attached to the future of the employees' children. STG has organized an Award ceremony for employees children who have successfully passed high school. The first Padamyar FM audio book features more than 100 hours of aired radio programs dedicated to blind student. As a contribution to the Community Give Back Program, the audio books donation becomes the annual activity of Padamyar FM. On several occasions, we have organized the Give a Gift of Life campaign. About 210 of our staff participated by giving their blood to the National Blood Center three times this year. In case of emergency, employees of the Blood Donation Group can be contacted and constituting 42 blood bags for emergency needs. Shwe Taung organizes various charity events during the year, promoting life enhancement. For example, we invited 582 orphanage kids and physically handicap students during a week to enjoy movie shows, snacks, games, goodies and entertainment from some famous Myanmar singers. Page 21 HUMANRIGHTS // IMPLEMENTATION We have a specific Human Rights code within the overall corporate code We monitor risk assessment to Participation to Yoma make sure possibilities of breach to marathon, Yangon human rights are minimized We carry out impact assessment of its policies We have drafted operational guidance notes Make a responsible use of Media We have set up a complaint Padyamar FM is very active in the field of human right mechanism protection. The team is always enthusiastic at the idea of giving for groups and communities in need such as people, We train our employee and raise their awareness on human rights who were visually impairment, on White Can Day or ethnic related issues refugees fleeing fighting in Kachin State. Conscious of the power of radio, Padyamar FM broadcasts We sensibilize out supply chain weekly programs regarding environmental, social and technological issues. We monitor and evaluate our performance We communicate on our policies and practices We have entered a multi$25000 000.00 stakeholder dialogue on human Water & Education Health Water Sanitation 3,758,337.17 278,484.34 rights 8,476,827.07 Religion $20000 000.00 Sports Society Sport Road & Bridges $15000 000.00 Social 2,589,158.67 1,307,026.97 2,665,301.63 Infrastructure Natural $10000 000.00 Disaster Aid Transport Natural Disaster Infrastructure 1,811,238.33 $5000 000.00 Health Education $ 0.00 Page 22 HUMANRIGHTS // IMPLEMENTATION The Human Resource Department Centre is located at Yangon Technological FOCUS ON University, Insein Township, Yangon. This building will be used as the Centre of Excellence, providing leadership, best practices research, support and/or YTU training for a focus area on engineering technology, business concept or a broad area of study development to bring together faculty members from different disciplines in shared facilities. Yangon Technological University (YTU) is the premier It is 5 storied RC Structure Building with Mezzanine Floor which have total usage engineering university established floor area of 39,787 square feet (3696sqm). There are 5 offices, 1 Meeting Room, 15 Lecture Rooms and 1 Function Hall. in 1924. The Centre is well furnished and is composed of 2 Elevators, Fire Protection and YTU is the country's oldest and Fire Fighting System, Lighting and Water Supply System, Plumbing and largest engineering university, and Sanitation System, Air Conditioning System, Lightening Protection System. one of the most selective universities in Myanmar. Its some green features include: Incorporated passive design measure to maxmise the use of natural ventilation, The university offers bachelor, cooling and lighting master and doctorate degree On-site Waste Water Treatment Plant programs in engineering Energy Efficient Lifts with AC VVF drive, Sleep mode and room-less machines disciplines to nearly 8000 It is localed near to bus stop to maximize opportunities for public transport students. access Water Efficient Fittings such as basin taps, flushing cistern, sink/bip taps and mixers, urinal and urinal flush valve YTU has been one of Asia’s great success stories nearly a century Greenery around the building and is looking forward to reinforce It has been designed to minimise the local environment impact and promote the its leadership position in development on biodiversity, water and soil quality, soil erosion and visual Engineering Technology and amenity. Research. The official opening ceremony was held on May 24th 2015 . The overall project cost is USD1.5 million Activities Highlights LABOUR RIGHTS Page 25 LABOUR RIGHTS // ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS We understand and support the principles of the ILO Declaration and its Articles on the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work covering the areas of freedom of association and common bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour, the effective abolition of child labour and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We work in full compliance with the labour laws and regulations in the area that we operate in. Desirous to be an employer of choice, we aim to have a pro-active behavior in terms of the respect of labour rights and the improvement of working conditions. This leads us to adopt and operate a human resource strategy that goes beyond the national regulations. We do not forbid the creation and the commitment to any trade union, and recognize the right to collective bargaining as long as it is done in accordance with the law. The principles of non-discrimination, no forced labour, no child labour (under 18 years old) are highly respected by ShweTaung Group. We expect our business partners, suppliers and contractors to respect the same principles. We will make sure that each employee does not suffer from any kind of discrimination, feels integrated and happy within the company. As a responsible employer, we are committed to do our utmost to participate to our employees and their families’ life enhancement. BE AN EMPLOYER OF CHOICE Page 26 LABOUR RIGHTS // IMPLEMENTATION COMPLY WITH UNIVERSAL PRINCIPLES We do not employ staff aged under 18 years old and we stricly condemn forced labour. We make sure that our subcontractors and business partners HR 5 & 6 respect these principles. The principles of no child labour and no forced labour are mentioned in most of the contracts with our stakeholders. Any breach to these rules by our (sub)contractors lead to the direct rupture of the contract. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER We are an equal opportunity employer. The recruitment of our co-workers is based on merit, skills, experience and ability, regardless of age, race, gender, physical condition, religion or family status. A policy of non-discrimination prevails throughout all aspects of the employment relationship including recruitment, selection, placement, transfer, promotion, layoff, termination, training, working conditions, benefits and compensation. We follow an equal salaries for equal job policy as well as an equal opportunity of evolvement within the company policy. WORK LIFE BALANCE PROGRAMS We believe the place of work should also be a place for personal development. We organize series of team bounding activities such as annual trips aiming to create a positive work environment in which everyone can evolve harmoniously. We also encourage the formation of sport teams, birthdays celebrations, as well as the expression of group initiatives. Caring about family cohesiveness, our initiatives also include our staff's relatives. TRAINING Orientation training is provided to all new employees in order to raise their awareness on their rights, as well as on the terms and conditions of employment. Training to all employees in different disciplines is provided in order to allow staff to develop and strengthen their skills. Our aim is to provide our associates with fair and dignified employment that enhances each associate’s ability in the long term to contribute to the company’s growth as well as elevate their job prospects with Shwe Taung Group and beyond. COLLECTIVE BARGAIN There is no law regarding Collective bargaining in Myanmar HR 4 presently. At Shwe Taung Group, collective bargain is highly encouraged. Page 27 LA 2 HR 5 LABOUR RIGHTS // IMPLEMENTATION LA 11 HR 6 Health At remote sites, medical check-up is insured by an infirmary provided with adequate medicines. Qualified doctors are hired so that in emergency cases Focus on: Engaging with contractors employees can be cured free of charge. Comfort All our employees are provided with food or If ShweTaung Group doesn’t work with food allowance for the meals during working hours. people under 18 and does not force They are also given the necessary clothes and employment, we are conscious that some equipments (uniform, raincoats, security hats, sun hats etc). of our operations, because of their nature or their localization, brings a risk amongst Safety We offer a safe working environment by our contractors. . providing our staff with necessary equipment and practical training. For this very reason, we have decided to give extra care to make sure our employees don’t hire people below 18 Leave Medical, maternity, annual , earned and casual leaves are drawn up and included in the employees’ years old. If we find out contractors welfare plan. bringing young people to construction sites and plants, we given warning to the contractors and qucikly requested to quit Overtime Overtime allowance is paid above the legal minimum amount in accordance with the company's from present developments or plants. We internal instruction and regulations. are gradually adding this principle in all our contracts. Bonus Annual bonus are paid to employees upon development of their working capacity. The amount We also want to develop programs in the depends on the performance of the individual employees and the company’s ongoing fiscal year future encouraging education for our profit earning. employees children to insure that they can get education in good conditions Prevention We also pilot programs of prevention instead of coming in support to their against Malaria, Hepatitis B&C and HIV (vaccination, blood tests, distribution of mosquito nests and parent’s work. medicines) on remote sites. We are also monitoring our developments and operations to make sure forced Transportation Transportation fees are taken care of by the company for the staff to commute from their labour and compulsory labour are not house to the workplace on time. being permitted. Some concrete meaures are expected to Every day health be inforced next year. FOCUS ON We believe that this is our responsibility to make sure Health policy our employees can work in safe and healthy conditions. Free medical check ups are proposed in all our sites, and In all of our work we are very attached to raise awareness on public healt issues to insure our employees and their families place, we have put wellness. We have also offered the installation of into place medical Myanmar's Red Cross first aid mobile apps for all our equipments to employees having smartphones. answer the short or Deal with emergencies long term needs of Some of our staff's activities are considered more our employees, in dangerous than others. We have put a certain number of Yangon and in precautionary programs to deal with potential risks. For example,Shwe Taung Cement, which site is very remoted sites remoted, has equipped its clinic with an oxygen Doctor at STC’s clinic concentractor. Page 28 LABOUR RIGHTS // MEASUREMENT OF THE OUTCOMES ONE OF MYANMAR'S LARGEST EMPLOYER We count more than 6 000 co-workers across the country. Our employees are from more than 10 different ethnic origin. We keep on expanding our teams and we participate to job fairs in Myanmar and overseas. LA3 SUPPORT YOUNG PROFESSIONALS LA4 We offer various trainings for students who wish to have a first consistent professional experience. We also partner with engeering schools to organize educational tours for students on our main developments. FOCUS ON: PARENTAL LEAVE ENGAGE OUR STAKEHOLDERS All job advertisment and contracts with our stakeholders This year, 75 people were mention our non-discrimination policy and our entitled to parental leave (10 commitment to no child labour and no forced labour . It is male and 10 female). 67 of them also stated that the breach to the respect of these principles will lead to termination of the contract. took this parental leave (2 men and 65 women). Amongst them, GIVE AN ACCESS TO KNOWLEDGE 100% of men and 85% of women returned from their parental We operate company libraries which provide open access leave. to all employees to allow them to keep abreast with up-todate technology and information. The library features 37% of parents are still employed different literatures such as magazines, newspapers, publications on engineering, management, economics, 12 months after their return to marketing, banking, computer, technology, finance & work (2 male, 35 female). accounting, languages, and general knowledge. INSURANCE We are one of the first companies in Myanmar to provide FOCUS ON: EMPLOYMENT life insurance to our employees. 3 120 insurance programs CONDITIONS are curently in place. Employees from one of Ready Made Concrete-Mixing Plant, which has highly risk of snake bite, The employee handbook details are provide “Snake Bite Insurance”. the conditions of employment at ShweTaung Group. A CLEARLY WRITTEN POLICY Our Employee Handbook describes the rights and clearly It includes the minimum notice state the principles that have to be respected at Shwe given to all employees (2 weeks) Taung. Our corporate values are all mentioned, including the principles of ethic, mutual respect, team spirit, nonfavoritism, etc... MEN/ WOMEN EQUALITY OF CHANCES At STG, we make sure that men and women have the same chances of hiring, of evolution, and are paid an equal salary for an equal job. TRANING Internal and external training programs have been given and encouraged. Earned leave were given to participate to trainings. Two of our staff have also taken long-term leave for receiving 1 to 3 years education programs. Thery are guaranteed to have a job with us when they get back. Page 29 LABOUR RIGHTS // MEASUREMENT OF THE OUTCOMES We authorize collective bargaining We have drafted operational guidance notes We have a no child labour policy and systematically check our employees' age with valid documentation We carry out a non-discrimination policy and encourage equal opporunity We assess the risks related to the non respect of labour rights Singapore Job Fair 2014 We monitor and evaluate our performance in respecting labour rghts We measure our impacts and the one of our supply chain We make sure to offer safe working conditions to our staff We communicate on our policies “Protect the financial well being and practices of your Loved ones” is GGIP’s motto We engage into multi-stakeholder dialogue We give regular performance and reviews to all employees FOCUS ON During this reporting year, 241 parents of our Supporting employees aged more than 60 have received financial our help as a recognition proof from Shwe Taung Group in employees October (Full Moon Day). This operation has particular importance taking into account that there pension families: schemes are still limited in Myanmar. HTC company supports the eldest Health Corners have been set up across STG’s offices Page 30 LABOUR RIGHTS // MEASUREMENT OF THE OUTCOMES LA 9 & 10 FOCUS ON This year and like in 2013/2014, 101 training programs were given to LA 4 Training employees. Further development of the We believe continuous workforce is our priority. In the training is key to each We also initiate a reporting year, we started a employee's complementary programme worldwide talent programme: 15 enhancement. This is why promising up-and-coming managers/ (Basic Engineering 7th Batch) for we involve every year our engineers are being trained for this year. This is to provide our staff into training sessions higher management tasks. In four young engineers with in different sectors. modules over 6 months, participants engineering practical knowledge will obtain management and conflictand guide them an appropriate solving competencies or business career path and duration is administration skills. At the same 6months. Advance Engineering time, they will train their strategic and entrepreneurial thinking. is 4th Batch who already trained for Basic Course and this also 6 months duration. Type Trainings Engineering * Basic AT Engineering Technology Development Course * Advanced AT Engineering Technology Development Course * Working At Height Safety Training * Economics Incentives and Rewards for Occupational Safety and Healthy Seminar Customer Service * Shwe Taung Behaviour & Customer Service Training * Personal Grooming & Customer Service Training Personal Development * English Language 4 Skills Course and Language * Shwe Taung Group's Orientation Training Health * First Aid Training * Awareness on Cervical Cancer *Awareness on HIV Computing and IT * Advanced-Computer Office Application Course Management * Business Management & Executive Development Course CSR * Environmental Awareness Training * CSR & UN Global Compact Awareness Training 2000 1704 LA 2 Male 1500 1103 Female 1000 Life insurance Female: 1103 Male: 1704 Group Life Insurance Female: 60 500 303 254 Male: 303 60 47 Snake Bite Insurance Female: 47 0 Male: 254 Page 31 LABOUR RIGHTS // MEASUREMENT OF THE OUTCOMES G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract and gender Permanent Flat Project based Daily Daily Total permanent Temporary Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female 2035 1262 112 7 179 17 611 128 729 316 3671 1734 Female Sector Male 5.4% Corporate / Administrative 2.4% GRI G4 HIGHLIGHTS 3.5% Real Estate 0.6% Men/women equality 27% Asset Management 17.8% 33.3% Construction 36.8% ShweTaung Group’s teams are composed of 3671 men and and 1734 women. 20.5% Construction Materials 31.1% 3.1% Energy and Infrastructure 3% There is no salary variation based on gender and the ratio of the basic salary and 1.6% Trading 5.1% remuneration of women to men for each 5.6% Insurance 2.2% employee category is equal. operation is equal. EC-5 EC-6 GRI G4 HIGHLIGHTS LA-1 There is no instruction or law for the minimum wages amount at this moment. The entry G4-10 level wage provided by the company follows the local minimum wages. ShweTaung Group is committed to follow any future national law that would go towards that objective. Wages are calculated per market value depending on the operation’s location. Significant area of location correspond to areas where ShweTaung Group run operations, plants or have a branch office. 100% of our staff is from Myanmar. ShweTaung Group hires its staff locally. For example, 30% of the staff working in Eskala Hotel (NgweSaung Beach) come from surrounding communities. During rainy season, when the hotel is closed, these employees are relocated to Junction Hotel (Nay Pyi Taw) to insure full year employment.In such cases, a relocation including family allowance such as accommodation rental is being provided based on the employee’s level. Local hiring is done thanks to public job advertising, spontaneous applications consideration and interns hiring. Management positions (General Manager, Assistant Director and Director for Administrative Group, Superintendent Engineer, Deputy Chief Engineer and Chief Engineer for Technical Group) are all held by people from local communities. During the reporting period, turnover rates were of 19.4% for men and 16.6% for women. Activities Highlights ENVIRONMENT Page 34 ENVIRONMENT// ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS We recognize the importance of the respect of the environment and feel concerned about the environmental issues. We understand the complexity of the climate change challenges and the fact that government actions alone cannot provide the urgent solutions required. For this reason, we are committed to participate to the necessary global effort. We are committed to identify opportunities in managing our activities to deliver long term benefits to our stakeholders while responding to climate change risks. We wholly support and comply with or exceed the requirements of current local environmental legislation and code of practice. We understand that the respect of the environment can have immediate impact by daily improving people’s quality of life and can therefore be included to our customer care principles. We are committed to sustainably reduce our environmental impact and continually improving our environmental performance as an integral and fundamental part of our business strategy and operating methods. We recognize the importance of settling policies on a long term, sustainable basis. We are committed to participate to the development of green technologies and renewable resources. We understand that our engagement can also serve our interests, as energy and climate risks can directly impact our own operations, whether because of rising resources prices, operation costs, and legislative changes. Our commitment also makes particular sense in an area like Myanmar where the access to natural resources and energies are still limited. We think this constitutes a great opportunity to develop green technologies and environmental-friendly practices. One of our main objectives is to raise awareness amongst our staff, our stakeholder and our overall public on the topics of green growth, green economy and environmental friendly practices. We are aiming to align with the international standards (such as ISO 14001:2008, ISO5001:2011, ISO20121:2012, Resource Efficiency & Cleaner Production) for environmental management and to refer notably to the UN Global Compact assessment principles and the Global Reporting Initiative to set up our environmental policy. DESIGN ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE PROJECTS Beach cleaning campaign, NgweSaung Page 35 ENVIRONMENT// IMPLEMENTATION EN7 EN18 Whenever we renew bulbs, we systematicall choose LED lights instead of conventional lights In Shopping malls, we have installed hand dryers instead of tissues We prefer digital communication to paper communication We turn off all electronic devices when no one is using them We have an efficient air conditioning usage policy at our offices. When paper is needed, we use eco label certified paper products (such as FSC, SFI, PEFC). We keep updated on the new green technologies available. We gradually implement systematic plans such as the Green Office Plan and the Energy Management System Plan OUR STAFF FOCUS ON Receive lectures and trainings on environmental issues Raise For example, this year, a practical energy conservation and energy auditing course was given by the Asean-Japan Energy Partnership, Awareness allowing our teams to compare our practices with the international Shwe Taung Group standards. We also organize large-scale tree plantation campaigns and understands the beach cleaning campaigns involving all our staff. We for example follow importance that the wider a one tree cut, ten trees planted policy community has to play as OUR CUSTOMERS the end-users of these The cinema unit, Junction Cinexplex, has partnered with NGOs to show projects. We encourage the Group's stakeholders a video clip destinated to communicate on environmental issues. The and publics to play a role video clip is broadcast on the cinema lobby's screens. We also display in protecting the education poster around the walkaways of our shopping malls, like on environment. To do so, we the occasion of the Earth Hour project organized by WWF. On March propose different 28th, lights were turned off for an hour an the official clip was broadcast activities aiming to raise in all Junction Shopping Malls. awareness amongst them OUR STAKEHOLDERS and encourage good practices. We participate to different forums and talks on tackling environemental issues in Myanmar. When negotiating with our business partners, we always make sure to find the most environmentally responsible solutions. EN6 Page 36 EN26 ENVIRONMENT// IMPLEMENTATION Our recycling plant for residual concrete has gained much ground in recent years. The basic function separates left over ultra-fine particles from mixer trucks for being re-used. The discharged waters from all major developments are treated before discharge to public drain. We gradually put into place systems of waste water treatment and Water Recycling & Rain water harvesting. We aim for international Green building certificates for all major developments, assessing our buildings' environmental performances. For our all major developments, we conduct an Environment Impact Assessment (EIA), identifying environmental threats or opportunities related to the site and its surroundings. We make sure to use and produce the Tree planting campaign, most environmentally-responsible PyiNyaung materials • Junctionproducts and possible. Center Mawti Junction Maw Tin, night view Our Environmental Policy FOCUS ON Webelievethat businesses are fullyresponsible for achieving good environmental practices and operating in a Junction Center sustainablemanner. We are therefore committed to reducingour environmental impact and continually improving our Maw Tin's environmental performance as an integral and fundamental part of our business strategy and operating methods. It is our priority to encourage our customers, suppliers and all stakeholders to do the same. Not onlyisthissound responsible renovation work sense for all; it is also a matter of delivering on our duty of care towards future generations. Our policyis to :  Wholly support and comply with or exceed the requirements of current environmental legislation and codes of Open in 2010, Junction practice. Center  MinimiseMaw Tinouriswaste one ofand thethe nreuse or recycle as much of it as possible. most popular shopping  Minimise energy, water and raw material usages in our daily operation in order to conserve supplies, and minimise centres in Yangon our consumption of natural resources, especially where they are non-renewable impacts from our operations on the downtown with more than 2.8 environment million visitorsand local community. every year. Apply It includes two of continuous improvement in respect of air, odour, noise and light pollution from our premises the principles cinemas,reduce and anyshops over 100 impacts andfrom our operations on the environment and local community. a playground. As far as possible purchase products and services that do the least damage to the environment and encourage others A Green to do the building same. renovation program As farhas as possible purchaseproducts and services that do the least damage to the environment and encourage others been operated thisto do to year theimprove same. significantly Assess the environmental Junction Maw impact of any new processes or products we intend to introduce in advance. Tin'sWork environmental andpartners, interest groups and other government agencies in a concerted effort to operate in an with business social features. environmentally responsible manner These commitments are fully supported by Board of Directors with a detail Environmental Management System with ongoing objectives and targets, which provides the framework of delivery of this Environmental Policy. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 36 SHWE TAUNG GROUP MAY 2013 / MAY 2014 Page 37 ENVIRONMENT// IMPLEMENTATION FOCUS ON Junction Center Mawtin shopping center has been renovated and key energy efficiency features have been added including: Junction Center Air-Conditioning System Maw Tin's Existing chiller plant have been replaced with high performance chlorine-free chiller renovation work systems which are optimised and operated at an efficiency of less than 0.78 kW/RT. Environmental-friendly refrigerants with Ozone Depleting Potential (ODP) of Zero are used for chillers. New Chillers have been replaced with sustainable and environmental-friendly products Open in 2010, Junction certified by the Singapore Green Building Council (SGBC) with 4 tickets as highest rating Center Maw Tin is one of the product. most popular shopping New retrofits include the use of Variable Speed Drives (VSDs) for chilled water pumps. centres in Yangon All Air Handling Units (AHUs) and Fan Coil Units (FCUs) have been replaced downtown with more than The total Air-conditioning System replacement is leading to 15% to 20% energy savings. 2.8 million visitors every year. It includes two Chiller Plant Automation and Building Management System cinemas, over 100 shops and Chiller Plant Automation system have been installed along with highly accurate a playground. permanent instrumentation equipment for measurement and verification of the water cooled chiller plant system efficiency. A Green building renovation BMS controls and monitors the building’s mechanical and electrical equipment such program has been operated as air-conditioning, ventilation, lighting, power systems, fire systems, and security this year to improve systems, offering a centralised control and visibility, energy conservation and an significantly Junction Maw improved reliability. Tin's environmental and social features. Lighting Systems Energy efficient lighting systems such as T5, LEDs, CFLs and ceramic discharge metal halides (CDMs) are widely used within the building premises. Universal Design More functional and more user-friendly handicaped toilets. Walkways are designed for wheel chair users and pedestrians with strollers or rolling luggage A Wheel Chairs rental service has been set up for visitors in need. Sustainable Operation & Management The building management’s environmental policy was displayed at various parts of the building to raise awareness among occupants. Page 38 ENVIRONMENT// MEASUREMENT OF THE OUTCOMES FOCUS ON With a strong focus on energy conservation, recycling and environmentally friendly systems, the sustainable green features that Shwe Taung Group Junction City, a has planned for this project will set unprecedented standards for green project environmentally and socially responsible construction and developments Junction City, Shwe Taung's in Myanmar. This project, carried out according to an Environmental newest mix development Impact Asessment aims to achieve the internationally recognized Green currently under construction is Mark certification from the Building & Construction Authority of an environmentally conscious and socially responsible Singapore. project. The project embeds a Some of the intelligent green features include the following: Solar hot water strong endorsement of and photovoltaic panels to for natural heating; high thermal efficiency sustainable design approaches materials and passive design for building envelope; chillers and exchangers; to reduce environment impact and energy conservation. LED lighting; Occupancy motion and dailight sensors; Water conservation sanitary appliances; and Intelligent building management systems. Junction City also focuses on appropriate building materials selection and sustainable construction methods. Once completed, other systems such as water treatment to ensure zero pollution to water resources, non-chemical water treatment to swimming pool and cooling towers, rain water harvesting, and waste water recycling will all work synergistically to reduce reliance on ground water extraction and reduce wastage. Page 39 ENVIRONMENT// MEASUREMENT OF THE OUTCOMES At the end of the year 2014, Shwe Taung has been Since the beginning of its awarded for the completion of activies, Shwe Taung has Hledan Bridge by the organized multiple tree Myanmar Civil Society planting campaigns recognizing its positive impact on the city. We participate to forums and talks on green issues, with the All our major developments objective of uniting our efforts have been designed according to other companies and the to EIA and are being audited Government for a green for green buidling development of Myanmar (see certifications (see focus) focus) We launch programs involving Since 2013, HTC refunds 5% to communities around our sites customers who choose to use to work hand in hand with the ready-mixed concrete all rest of the population (see religious and civil socity focus on Inle Lake program) organization Resource Efficient & Cleaner Production for Green & •Organized by: UNIDO Myanmar Dialogue on Green Groth Improvement of Industrial Energy Efficiency (IEE) •Organized by: the Global •Organized by: Green Lotus Environment Facility and •Objective: The training •Objective: This project UNIDO specifically aims to provide consists in creating a practical introduction to •Objective: To promote national dialogue on Resource Efficiency and sustained Green House Gas sustainable development Cleaner Production (RECP) emissions reduction in the and green growth in and Green Industry & low Myanmar industry by Myanmar through 3 carbon industrial improving policy and working groups. The aim is development with regulatory frameworks; to create interactions applications in particular institutional capacity building between different strong from South East Asia. Low Carbon Industry in Myanmar for industrial energy forces of the civil society, efficiency, implementation the private sector, political of energy management parties and institutions to system based on ISO 50001; unite actions and create and optimization of energy win-win opportunities systems in industry. serving environmental , social and financial needs. Environmental Forums and Trainings attended Page 40 ENVIRONMENT// MEASUREMENT OF THE OUTCOMES We work on the systematic auditing of risk assessment for all our activities. Each risk is being dealt with by providing the necessary training, equipement, security procedures and processes necessary to prevent danger. All our products are respecting the standards settled by the World Health Organization and local legislations As emergency preparedness procedure, fire safety trainings have been put into place in all our sites. Fire Drill are operating in all our Shopping Malls, Office Tower and Complex, Construction Sites, Cement plant and ready-mixed concrete batching plants. We sponsor public debates and platforms related to promoting safety policies in Myanmar, such as the We always care for better safety event organized by the Global Enchanting Education Center in November 2014. Training project in Inle Lake EN11 EN13 FOCUS ON Observation: There is lack of knowledge on usage of agro chemicals and plant protection chemicals, direct discharge of waste water, improper disposal of solid garbage, abundance of water hyacinth and lack of awareness on Community Based environmental conservation which has caused damaging fragile environs of Lake Inle. Feasible Technology Dissemination & Objective: To provide an appropriate technical support for the improvement of Support & Inle Lake health of community by lessening water contamination and change from Environs agro chemical inputs usage in farming, widering public awareness for safer environment. It mainly focuses on providing trainings on Environemental pollution (waste, waste management), ecological water treatment systems, sanitation, hygene, kitchen waste management, HTCT has committed to support Integrated Nutrient & Pest Management, compost making, mushroom Seredipity Travel in a project cultivation using water hyacinth, handicraft. dedicated to develop and promote proper technologies to Material: close livelihood and education loops for being part of the This project will also lead to the installation of library miniature. environmental conservations in Necessary materials support such as provisions of farm tools, quality 6 village around the Inle Lake, a seeds and small seed fund as follow up support will have been provided. region in which HTCT operates. Two HTCT staff have joined the program for 3 months each couse. Page 41 ENVIRONMENT// MEASUREMENT OF THE OUTCOMES We have system management procedures Raise awareness on Environmental Impact ShweTaung Group has sponsored an event We regularly assess and update our organized by TV5 Network, one of technologies Myanmar’s main TV channel. We systematically calculate the lifeThe Inclusive Green Economy Public cycle/costing ratio Seminar invited PrAungThunThet (President's Economic Advisor and also a We participate to enhance biodiversity member of the President's National and natural resources Economic and UN Resident Coordinator's Office) to make an hour presentation on this topic broadcast in live on national We carry out risk and impact assessments television. We gradually set up performance target indicators and tools PR 1 We work towards cleaner and safer PR 2 production We promote responsible consumption Health and Safety assessment : a human rights and environmental challenge We act following the 3R strategy: reduce, re-use, recycle We making sure what we create is responsible and sustainable. For that Over 1000 of our employees have reason, 62% of our significant product and received a training on environemental services have been assessed in order to issues improve their health and safety impacts . We raise awareness among our supply Zero incident of non-compliance with chain and stakeholders regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts We monitor, evaluate and report our of products and services within the performance reporting period. We engage into multi-stakeholder dialogue Activities Highlights ANTI-CORRUPTION Page 44 ANTI-CORRUPTION // ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS We believe that business excellence is underpinned by an unwavering focus on strong corporate governance and prudent financial management. Transparency and accountability are core features of our approach and we remain focused on the highest standards of governance and ethics in all our business practices and dealings. We believe high standards of corporate governance and transparency ensure sustainability and success for our activities as well as the safeguard of our shareholders’ interests. By inscribing corporate responsibility into our agenda, we want to send the strong signal that we recognize the private sector shares responsibility to address and counter corruption. We observe a high standard of corporate conduct in line with local policies, as well as applicable regional laws, regulations and standards. We aim to respect the ISO 26000 standards to guide us in our efforts to operate in a socially responsible manner that society increasingly demands. We publicly state our commitment to work in all its forms against corruption. In order to do so, we aim to implement an effective system to identify and eliminate hazards of corruption, bribery and extortion. All outcomes will be periodically measured and reviewed. We aim to contribute positively to public policy making process by raising awareness amongst our teams and our stakeholders. We want to insure relations of trust with our stakeholders, and make sure that they will be complying with the same principles of ethic, transparency and accountability. PROMOTE TRANSPARENCY Meeting, head office Page 45 ANTI-CORRUPTION // MEASUREMENT OF THE OUTCOMES G4-56 The values our ethic and integrity are central in our company's strategy. We believe that high standards of corporate governance will insure health and stability of our markets, creating value for our stakeholders. We provide necessary training, advice, information as may be necessary to personnel at all levels. We encourage reporting and SO3 whistleblowing policies. We have a zero tolerance policy in terms of corruption and we care to ensure that no financial or other inducements to gain or retain work are offered or accepted by or on behalf of Shwe Taung. The “zero tolerance policy” is mentioned in our Employee Handbook. The Employee Handbook states that it is clearly forbidden to accept or give any kickback or bribe from and to anyone. SO4 The sanctions to any breach of this zero tolerance policy are described in the Employee Handbook, and can lead to termination or dismissal. Employees are encouraged to report any form of corruption to the management team. A continuous control from senior management is set up to ensure that no form of corruption is observed. If even with these precautions a present is accepted, it has to be given to the administration team that will organize a lucky draw with the complete team. We make appropriate financial and staff resources available to progressing sustainable procurement throughout the company. We integrate ethical considerations into our design and business decisions and make sure to practice fair competition. We have transparent reporting procedures and try to continuously improve our practices. We attach a very high importance to contracts and make sure we always honour contractual commitments made Page 46 ANTI-CORRUPTION // MEASUREMENT OF THE OUTCOMES SO 5 Thanks to an effective internal and external reporting procedure,2 cases of bribery and 1 case of extoriton have been reported last year G4 58 SO 4 We have participated to workshops organized by local and international institutions on transparency and reporting, such as the Myanmar Centre for Assess Responsible Business Competition. •4% of our operations have received corruption assessment this year. Our aim is to improve this figure in the years to come 100% of our employees received the handbook to reach 100% of our mentioning our zero tolerance policy towards operations. corruption and trainings have been insured. Report internally •Whistleblowing and escalation Shwe Taung Development has been awarded 4th through line management. best Tax Payer Award in 2015. HTCT has been ranked 14th best tax payer in Myanmar. Report externally •Hotlines and complaint forms to Head Office Shwe Taung's website has been ranked 4th most transparent website by the Myanmar Center for Responsible Business in August 2014 is participating again for this upcoming year. Sustainability was the coretheme of thisyear's management retreat gathering every Shwe Taung's managers in Nay Pyi Taw. A series of presentation, debates and workshops we reorganized around this topic. The 3 days have led to the drafting of a road map, a strategy to promote sustainable business and practices at all level of our operations. Page 47 ANTI-CORRUPTION // MEASUREMENT OF THE OUTCOMES ` We have inscribed anti-corruption FOCUS ON Shwe Taung Group secured the land via a into our overall corporate code government public tender exercise that opened in March 2012. The tender We carry out a zero tolerance Participation to attracted strong interests, with 27 policy on corruption companies bidding for the site. After three public tenders rounds of intensive selection process by We monitor systems management Shwe Taung Group is the tender committee and government procedures attached to public tenders officials, STG was selected as the winning for its project. Developed by bidder for the site in September 2012. Shwe Taung Group in We have appointed specialized collaboration with the units for regular internal audit Yangon City Development The company will design and construct Committee (YCDC), Junction Junction City; and completed built up We carry out risk and impact City is a brand new landmark areas will be shared between STG and assessments development at the heart of YCDC. Yangon City downtown. We communicate on our policy The Hledan Flyover Bridge Project binding publicly agreement has been signed betewen Shwe Taung Group and YCDC under its We put into place an anonymous joint venture system of Public, Private reporting procedure Partnering Policy. We have formalized clear sanctions in case of breache to Junction City and surroundings, this principle Architect view, Yangon We record instances of corruption SO 4 We train all our employees (including management teams) and raise their awareness We raise awareness amongst our supply chain and stakeholders We engage into multi-stakeholder dialogue Page 48 ANTI-CORRUPTION // MEASUREMENT OF THE OUTCOMES G4-38 G4-39 LA 12 GRI G4 HIGHLIGHTS The decision board is chaired by Aik Htun, Chairman. The board is consituted of 8 directors including Chief Executive Officers, 2 Deputy CEOs, 2 Deputy Managing Diretors and 2 Directors. All of them still play an executive role in the company. Amongst this team, two members are women. Women therefore account for 25% of the Board. 7 of them are between 30 and 50 yearsold, when 4 of them are above 50 The highest senior executives are remunerated according to their performance. Performance assessments measured in terms of financial turn over and projects efficiency are conducted every year by the audit team. We are currently developing risk magement systems insuring risk identification & assessment, risk response and risk monitoring & reporting. GRI G4 Content Index Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Provide a statement from the most Chairman’s Statement 3 senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability G4-2 Providea description of key impacts, About the report 4 risks, and opportunities Organizational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the organization. Sustainibility Context 7 G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, About Shwe Taung Group 11-16 and services. G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s Sustainibility Context 7 headquarters G4-6 Report the number of countries where Sustainibility Context 7 the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significan to perations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and Sustainibility Context, 7 legal form. About Shwe Taung Group 11-16 G4-8 Report the markets served (including About Shwe Taung Group 11-16 geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). G4-9 Report the scale of the organization Sustainibility Context 7 G4-10 Report the total number of employees Labour Rights 31 by employment contract and gender. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain About Shwe Taung Group 7 G4-13 Report any significant changes during About Shwe Taung Group 11-16 the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, GRI G4 Content Index ownership, or its supply chain, including: Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination G4-14 Report whether and how the Across the different Sections precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. G4-15 List externally developed economic, Sustainability Context 7 environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 List memberships of associations (such Across the different Sections as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: holds a position on the governance body / Participates in projects or committees / Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership duties / Views membership as strategic Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List all entities included in the Corporate Structure 9 organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. G4-18 Explain the process for defining the About the Report 4 report content and the Aspect Boundaries. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. GRI G4 Content Index G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in Shwe Taung Group and Sustainability 5 the process for defining report content. Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups Stakeholders Inclusiveness 6 engaged by the organization. G4-25 Report the basis for identification and Stakeholders Inclusiveness 6 selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to Stakeholders Inclusiveness 6 stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that Stakeholders Inclusiveness 6 have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or STG and sustainability 5 calendar year) for information provided. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if STG and sustainability 5 any). G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, STG and sustainability 5 biennial). G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions STG and sustainability 5 regarding the report or its contents. G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the STG and sustainability 5 organization has chosen. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the GRI G4 Content Index use of external assurance but itis not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and STG and sustainability 5 current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. GOVERNANCE G4-34 Report the governance structure of the Corporate Sustainability Team 10 organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-35 Report the process for delegating Corporate Sustainability Team 10 authority for economic, environmental and social topicsfrom the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. G4-36 Report whether the organization has Corporate Sustainability Team 10 appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. G4-37 Report processes for consultation Corporate Sustainability Team 10 between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body. G4-38 Report the composition of the highest Anti-Corruption 48 governance body and its committees by: Executive or non-executive GRI G4 Content Index Independence Tenure on the governance body Number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments, and the nature of the commitments Gender Membership of under-represented social groups Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts Stakeholder representation G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest Anti-corruption 48 governance body isalso an executive officer (and, if so, his or her function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). G4-40 Report the nomination and selection Anti-corruption 48 processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including: Whether and how diversity is considered Whether and how independence is considered Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and social topics are considered Whether and how stakeholders (includingshareholders) are involved G4-41 Report processes for the highest Corporate Structure 9 governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a minimum: Cross-board membership Cross-shareholding with suppliers and others take holders Existence of controlling shareholder Related party disclosures G4-42 Report the highest governance body’s Corporate Structure 9 and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, GRI G4 Content Index environmental and social impacts G4-43 Report the measures taken to develop Corporate Structure 9 and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics G4-44 Report the processes for evaluation of Corporate Structure 9 the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether suche valuation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluationis a selfassessment. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. G4-45 Report the highest governance body’s Corporate Strucrure 9 role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes. b. Report whether stakeholder consultation isused to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-46 Report the highest governance Corporate Strucrure 9 body’srole in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest Corporate Strucrure 9 governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-48 Report the highest committee or Corporate Strucrure 9 GRI G4 Content Index position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. G4-49 Report the process for communicating Corporate Strucrure 9 critical concerns to the highest governance body. G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, About Shwe Taung Group 15 principles, standards and norms of Anti-Corruption 44 behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. G4-57 Report the internal and external About Shwe Taung Group 14 mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizationalintegrity, such as helplines or advicelines. G4-58 Report the internal and external Anti-Corruption 46 mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters reated to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistle blowing mechanisms or hotlines. For other specific Sustainability indicators, please refer to GRI specific standard disclosure (HR, LA, SO, EN and PR) GRI G4 Content Index
