BLEU NETWORK INC. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) SEPTEMBER 2014 SEPTEMBER 2015 LETTER FROM PRESIDENT September 1, 2015 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that once again Bleu Network, Inc. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress (COP), we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. We are proud to support the UN Global Compact. Respectfully, Bleu Network Inc. Janet Legrand President HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals Bleu Network is committed to protecting and respecting Human Rights. As a multi-cultural company, we value the diversity of our people, clients and partners. We remain committed to continue to support our diversity efforts as we strive towards inclusion in race, gender, age, color, creed, nationality, sexual orientation, religion, marital status, political beliefs, and disability. Our annual goals focus on preventing Human Rights discrimination by fellow employees or customers. Implementation Bleu Network continues to uphold the United Global Compact Human rights principles by adhering to the highest standards. We believe in educating our employees in the principles of diversity in the workforce and the protection of human rights. By maintaining an open door policy at all office locations we reduce the risk of encountering violations of human rights. We encourage and promote growth from our employees. Measurement of Outcomes Bleu Network's systematic approach for the management of human rights throughout the entire company is fundamental. This approach focuses on proactive diversity recognition, risk assessment and control to prevent human rights violations. In addition, we encourage and empower our employees to utilize Lessons Learned and Best Practices guidelines as a regular health and safety management system; an approach that has helped us protect our most valuable resourceour employees. We are working towards ISO certification hence leveraging communication across all of our enterprises locations. LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of a association and the Effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Bleu Network continues to strive to exceed labor law requirements throughout every business unit. As a very culturally diverse business, we are well-versed in advocacy of diversity, inclusion, wellness and professional development in the workforce. We are committed to promoting and protecting the health and wellness of our employees and the communities where we live and work. We believe in sustainability as part of our corporate culture. Implementation Bleu Network is committed to upholding labor rights, including the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. We adhere to the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Proactive management of health, safety, environment and the community is core to Bleu Network's team, our business and the outcomes we achieve for our clients. They are embedded in our values and the way we work, everyday in every project. Measurement of Outcomes Bleu Network is at the forefront of workplace diversity and will continue to establish itself as a leader in labour principles in accordance with the UN Global Compact. As the company grows and expands its business and operations globally, Bleu Network will strive to remain a culturally diverse organization with opportunities at the center of its core values . ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Bleu Network is committed to conserving our environmental resources and modeling sustainable practices, promoting clean air through our company's collective effort for preservation. We support all efforts to promote green building and to create a sustainable environment. We believe sustainability is key to the betterment of our planet. Environmental consciousness is everyone's business. As LEED® professionals, sustainability is at the core of our values and principles of our organization. Implementation Conservation, Recycle and Reuse. We are proud to plan and act to reduce our social impacts. Proactive management of health, safety, environment and the community is core to Bleu Network's team, our business and the outcomes we achieve for our clients. They are embedded in our values and the way we work, every day in every project. Measurement of Outcomes We continue to uphold our commitment to “Sustainability as key to 21st Century” and “World needs Water”, aims to underline the social impacts within our communities in which we thieve. Achieve sustainable buildings is the key driver of culture, which in turn drives our performance. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals Bleu Network Inc. acts according to the following Corporate Responsibility principles: •Legal compliance in all business and professional activities pursued in all the countries where we operate. •Dialogue, integrity and transparency in all business and professional activities. •Loyalty towards our Principles, Commitments, Vision and Core Values. Implementation In order to succeed in a globally competitive marketplace, Bleu Network continually acts to identify and address new threats and intelligently adapts to the changing risk profile of our operations. Bribery, corruption and program integrity risk, must be vigilantly practiced and managed equally by every member of our organization. Bleu Network takes pride to adhere to the guidelines of our Anti-Corruption Compliance Program within each country we operate. Measurement of Outcomes Bleu Networks takes many measures to maintain transparency and accountability. We diligently work on a daily basis against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. An Ethics and Compliance Officer provides oversight, support, and resources to maintain Bleu’s culture of integrity sound and clear.
