S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 5 Year ended March 31, 2015 The USHIO Group will harness the unlimited by solving society’s problems and improving The USHIO Group is a leading light technology company. Every day, we provide light-related products and services to customers all over the world from our global network of 57 sites. North America USHIO AMERICA, INC. CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS USA, INC. CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS CANADA INC. CHRISTIE MEDICAL HOLDINGS, INC. Europe USHIO EUROPE B.V. NECSEL INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, INC. USHIO FRANCE S.A.R.L. USHIO DEUTSCHLAND GmbH USHIO GROUP USHIO U.K., LTD. MANAGEMENT BLV Licht‐und Vakuumtechnik GmbH PHILOSOPHY NATRIUM Sp. zo.o. 1. Build both a prosperous Company and prosperous employees. 2. Deliver products and services that are competitive in the global market. 3. Contribute to society through superior products and innovative research and development. 4. Expand profits, corporate responsibility, and competitiveness through open and free-thinking business operations. Corporate Data Number of Employees Established March 1964 North America Europe Paid-in capital ¥19,556,326,316 2,000 400 365 President and Chief Kenji Hamashima Executive Officer 1,578 1,559 1,514 Head office 2-6-1 Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, 1,500 300 246 256 Tokyo 100-8150 Employees (as of March 31, 2015) 1,000 200 Parent company 1,755 Japan 705 500 100 Overseas 3,080 Total 5,540 0 2013 2014 2015 0 2013 2014 2015 Editorial Policy 1 CSR Report In choosing the material for this Sustainability Report 2015, we made For the USHIO Group’s detailed CSR report, please see the section of an effort to report in greater depth on the correlation between our website entitled CSR/Society & the Environment. management and corporate social responsibility (CSR) issues. We have Web http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/ also tried to create links so that the report will serve as a gateway to our CSR website and Online Annual Report. We have edited the report to make it easy to read for a wide stakeholder audience. S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 potential of light to create new value quality of life for people. Contents 02 President’s Message Japan 06 Feature Creating New Value in the USHIO INC. LED and LD Business USHIO LIGHTING, INC. XEBEX INC. 10 Topics NIHON DENSHI GIJUTSU CO., LTD. The Biomedical Business ADTEC Engineering Co., Ltd. CSR Procurement PROTOSERA INC. USHIO OPTO SEMICONDUCTORS, INC. 12 CSR at USHIO 5 other companies 14 Governance Corporate Governance and Transparency 16 People Asia Respect for Human Rights USHIO HONG KONG LTD. USHIO TAIWAN, INC. 18 Quality USHIO PHILIPPINES, INC. Relationships with Customer USHIO (SUZHOU) CO., LTD. and Business Partners USHIO ASIA PACIFIC PTE. LTD. USHIO KOREA, INC. 20 Environment USHIO SHANGHAI, INC. Environmental Activities USHIO SHENZHEN, INC. 22 Society Relationship with Society Asia Japan 24 Research and Development/ 1,500 2,800 Intellectual Property 1,304 1,324 2,460 1,261 2,367 2,381 1,200 25 Third-Party Opinion 2,100 Response to Third-Party 900 Opinion 1,400 600 700 300 0 2013 2014 2015 0 2013 2014 2015 2 Online Annual Report Scope of Report For information about the USHIO Group’s business activities, please Time period: This report basically covers from April 1, 2014 to March see our Online Annual Report 2015, and our Group website. 31, 2015, but also includes some activities prior to this scope, and some activities in fiscal 2015. Web http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/ir/ar2015/ Organizations: All USHIO INC. business sites and Group companies worldwide S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 01 President’s Message USHIO is promoting a medium-term management plan that seeks to fuse the sustainable growth of global society with USHIO’s growth strategies. I am proud to present the second sustainability report since my appointment as president. In May 2015, we announced a new medium-term management plan. This plan takes a long-term view on the future of our business, and aims to achieve a dramatic increase in earnings. USHIO’s long-term strategy is to develop business that promotes the creation of a sustainable society. I hope that our report on the first step in this strategy will help to give everyone a better understanding of where we are heading. Medium-term Management Plan and product development divisions, but in every part of and CSR the USHIO Group, from sales through to management In the medium-term management plan announced in divisions. Therefore, in tandem with our medium-term May 2015, we laid out three key measures: “expand plan strategy, we have also been working to strengthen business earnings,” “enhance capital efficiency,” and our management foundation, which is the main body “bolster shareholder return.” through which we create new value. We believe that by continuing to apply USHIO’s “light Specifically, we are looking at the following Group technology” to the problems faced by our customers issues and wide-ranging corporate trends to strengthen and society, we can contribute to solving social issues our management foundation. and realizing a sustainable society. Management transparency To achieve our goals, we must start innovation to Communication with stakeholders stimulate the creation of new value, not only in the R&D Human rights and diversity 02 S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 Financial Results 2013 2014 2015 Net sales ¥143.4 billion ¥157.8 billion ¥159.3 billion Operating income ¥7.5 billion ¥12.1 billion ¥10.3 billion Net income ¥7.1 billion ¥10.7 billion ¥11.2 billion Return on Equity (ROE) (%) 4.3% 6.0% 5.6% * All numbers are rounded down to the figures shown. Medium-Term Management Plan Numerical Targets 2015 (Actual) 2016 (Plan) 2018 (Plan) Target 2020 Net sales ¥159.3 billion ¥180.0 billion ¥220.0 billion Operating income ¥10.3 billion ¥13.0 billion ¥18.0 billion ROE Operating Income Ratio 6.5% 7.2% 8.2% 10% Return on Equity (ROE) (%) 5.6% 5.7% above 8.0% Medium-term Management Plan Medium-term Management Plan 2018 Target ROE above 8.0% Three key measures Expand Business Earnings Enhance Capital Efficiency Bolster Shareholder Returns USHIO will strive to expand business Currently, financial assets account for half To achieve our ROE target USHIO must earnings and improve its business of USHIO’s total assets. Going forward, make growth investments in businesses structure from the following four we will accelerate the conversion from and strengthen shareholder returns to perspectives: 1) reassess resource financial assets to business assets and achieve balanced capital operations. distribution and reallocate, 2) transition review our policy shareholdings. Cash Specifically, this means a policy of greater to solutions business, 3) enter new obtained from selling policy proactivity and activity by maintaining the markets, and 4) expand via M&A shareholdings can be used for business current policy of stable payments of investment. These measures will leverage investments such as M&A, moving away dividends, and for a certain period until existing resources to their maximum in the future from reliance on financial we have increased the certainty of extent and control the increase of cash profits from financial assets to true achieving sustainable business growth for outflow, improving operating efficiency business profits that will help maintain a the future, more proactively and flexibly and speeding up the rate of new stable ROE. repurchasing shares after taking into products and creation of new businesses account projected free cash flows to be for the future. gained going forward and share price trends, as well as active engagement in business growth investment. Strengthen Management Foundation We will establish a management foundation that can realize the creation of new value and ensure a sustainable society (CSR Action Plan) S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 03 Human resource development Communication with Stakeholders Supply chain and CSR procurement We value communication with stakeholders as an Customer satisfaction important aspect of our efforts to improve our Improving the ISO management system management foundation, which will support the progress These are the preeminent CSR factors of our time, of our medium-term management plan. USHIO seeks to and all of them are building blocks for the business incorporate diverse values into its management, and is foundation that will play an essential role in USHIO’s therefore powerfully promoting communication with growth. Here we will start by giving an overview of the customers, investors, business partners, Group medium-term management plan, which will lead into employees, NPOs and others. By picking up on the our CSR Action Plan (details on P. 13), and we will also expectations of diverse stakeholders for the Company highlight several measures that are already in place. and deepening our awareness of internal and external issues, we expect to take up completely new Fiscal 2015 Performance and Overview technologies and approaches, and provide strong of Medium-term Management Plan impetus for innovation that will produce new value. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, net sales were To stimulate communication with USHIO’s employees up 1.0% year on year to ¥159.3 billion; however, and other groups, we promote human resource operating income decreased 14.5% to ¥10.3 billion. By exchanges through proactive redeployments not only of segment, the equipment business was down in sales the human resources in operating divisions, but also and income, but in the light sources business, both with other Groups. We have provided various forums sales and income increased. for exchanges, such as lunch meetings for executive The Group is aware that its results have not obtained officers and employees, and the world café for a standard the market expects over the past few years, communication between employees. especially in the aftermath of the collapse of Lehman Brothers. We see the need to enhance profitability by Shifting to a Structure with improving investment efficiency through development Three Outside Directors investment and with the early creation of future growth In Japan, the Corporate Governance Code was drivers such as solid-state light sources and medical introduced in June 2015 amid increasing worldwide products. We also believe it is necessary to strengthen recognition that dialogue with stakeholders such as our management foundation in order to ensure the investors and non-financial value are extremely effectiveness of these measures. important in corporate activities. Against this background, we set targets for the end of In line with this code, USHIO has added another the fiscal year ending March 31, 2018, three years away, outside director and another outside audit and of ROE of at least 8.0%, net sales of ¥220.0 billion and supervisory board member from the fiscal year ending operating income of ¥18.0 billion (with an operating March 31, 2015. The resulting new structure has a board income ratio of 8.2%), while also aiming for ROE of 10% of directors with eleven directors, of whom three are by the year ending March 31, 2020. outside directors. USHIO’s Board of Directors and Board Online Annual Report 2015 STRATEGY of Auditors and Supervisors is therefore incorporating Web http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/ir/ar2015/strategy/index.html people with diverse backgrounds and experience who Medium-Term Management Plan (PDF) we expect to provide new and different perspectives as Web http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/ir/library/management_plan/index.html well as useful knowledge. At the same time, the boards will receive new perspectives on supervision and monitoring of management and governance. We therefore believe that they can increase the transparency of the Company’s management. Newly Appointed Corporate Officers (Online Annual Report 2015) Web http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/ir/ar2015/governance/interview.html 04 S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 Human Rights, Human Resource Contributing through Business and Development, and Diversity Creating Employment One of the five pillars of USHIO’s CSR Action Plan is As a leading light technology company, in addition to “People.” We believe that it is essential to give conventional fields such as electronics and imaging, consideration to human rights in relation to business USHIO is able to contribute in new areas such as activities. biomedical and life sciences. For example, the Roughly translated as “Mountain Peak Management,” biomedical field has been positioned as a third pillar of Renpo Keiei has been the USHIO Group management USHIO’s business. Here, our blood analyzers and philosophy since day one. We have established a phototherapy devices have received regulatory approval structure for sharing information such as business in a string of countries throughout Asia, and are strategies, corporate ethics, and basic approaches to contributing to a higher quality of life. In the area of CSR. We also respect each Group company’s policies industrial solid-state light sources (LEDs, LDs, etc.) based on individuality, independence, and autonomy to which are expected to contribute to a low-carbon ensure that day-to-day operations are in keeping with society, we have seen major advances for application in local culture, history, and other background aspects. cinemas and automobiles. Under the medium-term We aggressively promote locally hired employees into management plan, we will continue with this kind of positions of middle and senior management. new value creation to develop products and services We have always focused on human resource that contribute to society, and to drive USHIO’s Growth. development as one of our most important priorities; Currently, the USHIO Group’s net sales are 80% however, under the current medium-term management overseas, and more than half of the Group’s employees plan, our policy is to advance these measures even further. are affiliated to overseas Group companies. Looking We have introduced a “Young Executives Scheme,” for ahead, we believe our global development will equipping young employees with the global awareness contribute to community development by creating of CEOs. In long-term human resource development, we significant employment opportunities at our worldwide have also further enhanced our level-specific training network of bases. system, which is designed to foster self-awareness of In October 2010, USHIO declared its support for the employees for each of their own particular roles within 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact. the employment system. Another goal is to improve This year, the United Nations adopted the Post-2015 employees’ English language abilities. We provide Development Agenda. We will also contribute to spaces for everyday English conversation and take other solving social issues such as these through our steps to improve their communication skills. business activities. Furthermore, we are promoting diversity through equal I hope you will continue to offer your understanding opportunities for human resource development and and support for our efforts. activity regardless of gender or ethnicity, and we also have And I hope that you will share your feedback and plans to increase our hiring of people with disabilities. opinions about this report with us. Supply Chain Management Developing a global business means we need to October 2015 consider environmental protection at every stage in the series of processes from raw material procurement through to product disposal by customers. In addition, we must also consider the CSR activities and respect for human rights among our suppliers. USHIO is already Kenji Hamashima practicing green procurement activities and taking President and Chief Executive Officer initiatives on CSR issues as stipulated by our CSR Procurement Policy throughout its supply chain. S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 05 Feature Creating New Value in the LED and LEDs help to conserve energy and resources. They have become widespread among households and people have recently become familiar with them. They are also gradually being introduced, along with LDs (laser diodes), in the industrial sector, where they can hold their own in performance against conventional lamps in conditions that require extremely high specifications. Uses for LEDs beyond Illumination USHIO EPITEX INC.) and in 2010, Necsel Intellectual USHIO LIGHTING, INC. supplies a diverse array of Property, Inc. With the recent addition of USHIO OPTO illumination equipment in places such as hotels, offices, SEMICONDUCTORS, the USHIO Group has now and hospitals, were LEDs can provide unique added prepared a framework to provide a strong line-up of value. But LEDs are capable of providing more than just LEDs and LDs to meet customers' diverse needs. illumination in these fields. As a leading company in light, USHIO is using the light technology it has USHIO Pioneers a New Era for LEDs developed over many years to provide a wide range of and LDs LEDs and LDs, from ultraviolet through to infrared, for Conventional lamps emit a wide range of wavelengths, various applications including semiconductor but LEDs and LDs have a special characteristic in that manufacturing processes and medical uses. they can be made to emit only certain required wavelengths depending on the material used to make Promoting Strategic M&As them. This means that they can use light more USHIO is aggressively promoting M&As with the goals efficiently for each application than an ordinary lamp. of accelerating development and increasing its product LEDs and LDs are relatively young products, and line-up. In October 2014, USHIO acquired the industrial they are considered to hold tremendous potential for and consumer semiconductor laser diode and LED providing solutions in the future to problems facing business of Oclaro Japan, Inc., and made a fresh start global society. USHIO is conducting research and with the business as USHIO OPTO SEMICONDUCTORS, development in pursuit of even higher quality LEDs INC. In 2008 USHIO acquired Epitex Inc. (currently and LDs. Main Markets for USHIO’s LEDs and LDs Visual Imaging Process Measurement Surveillance camera, Projectors, printers, image processing, etc. Lithography, UV curing, 3D printers, etc. measuring devices, controllers, etc. 06 S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 LD Business Group Companies Driving the Solid-State Light Sources Business Lasers for industrial use LED Lighting Total Solutions USHIO OPTO SEMICONDUCTORS USHIO LIGHTING USHIO OPTO SEMICONDUCTORS utilizes unique laser USHIO LIGHTING provides total solutions to meet technologies and manufacturing expertise with a focus customers’ needs, such as comfortable lighting that also mainly on laser diodes for industrial and consumer use. The saves on energy and costs for hospitals, hotels, and other company supplies high power red multi-beam laser diodes facilities, stage lighting equipment and optimal lighting for high-end multi-function office printers, red laser diodes for controls for use in diverse productions, and unique medical and measurement applications, violet laser diodes equipment tailored to specific usage environments and for exposure equipment, high power red laser diodes for purposes, such as plant factory lighting or fish-luring lights. displays, and infrared emitting diodes for optical encoders. UV laser Red laser Near infrared Multi beam LD LED lamps LED follow External LED Wireless controlled laser spot light lighting LED lighting system for plant growth application High Powered Visible Lasers Supplying High-Power LEDs from Infrared Necsel Intellectual Property to Ultraviolet USHIO EPITEX Necsel Intellectual Property provides laser light that offers USHIO EPITEX supplies high-power LED modules for use in brightness, a wide color gamut and saturated colors, and the intelligent transport system (ITS) field, such as devices lower operating costs with a longer lifetime. These for surveillance, traffic surveillance and car-park attributes are used in products for digital cinemas and surveillance, as well as in biometric authentication, medical planetariums. The products include an academic association and biological devices, and industrial-use light sensors. award-winning green laser and other light sources for the new market of premium theater, which are providing powerful impetus for the creation of new markets. White laser Blue laser Green laser Red laser Surface-mount Super beam-type Stem-type LED Ultra High Power LED LED LED Array Automotive/ITS Illumination Science/Medical/Bio Headlights, head-up displays, Treatment, testing equipment, plant factories, ETC (electronic toll collection) Illumination, spotlights, space production, etc. water and air sterilization, etc. S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 07 Feature: Creating New Value in the LED and LD Business USHIO’s Challenge in Next-Generation S Realizing a sustainable society requires saving energy and reducing waste. From this perspective, ordinary LED lighting offers outstanding performance over conventional incandescent lamps, using around 1/8 of the power and lasting around 10 times longer. On the other hand, to develop solid state light sources (LEDs and LDs) that are able to replace the specialized light sources for industrial use provided by the USHIO Group, there are several hurdles that must be overcome. In particular, in fields that require high power and high luminescence, we have only just begun development work that will lead to mass production. Here, Hiroaki Banno, General Manager of the Solid–State Light Sources Division, explains the latest developments and vision for the future in USHIO’s solid–state light sources business. Hiroaki Banno Director, General Manager, Solid–State Light Sources Division USHIO’s Target Areas and Applications fields, we must provide a wide range of light We are currently working on solid–state light sources in wavelengths depending on their application, from six areas, all of them for industrial purposes. The six ultraviolet through to visible light and infrared. areas are 1) Visual Imaging for video and images, 2) Processes utilizing UV light reaction effects and heating Accelerating Development of from visible through to infrared light, 3) Science/ Powerful Light Products Medical/Bio, utilizing the characteristics of light The industrial applications of solid-state light sources wavelengths and materials, 4) Measurement, using the include areas where weak light is sufficient, such as properties of light waves, 5) Automotive/ITS (intelligent measuring equipment, and areas where powerful light transport systems), and 6) Illumination. In each of these is required, such as semiconductor manufacturing processes. In the case of the former, it is actually easier to make solid-state Visual Imaging light sources than the conventionally used discharge lamps and halogen lamps, which have now been largely Illumination Process replaced in mainstream use by LEDs Six Key Fields in and LDs. USHIO’s Solid-State Light Sources On the other hand, in fields where Business Science/ powerful light is required, there are Automotive/ many technical hurdles to be Medical/ ITS Bio overcome. For example, we have only just started work on developing solidMeasurement state light-source products that can operate on par with the high power, 08 S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 olid–State Light Sources high luminescence discharge lamps used in the A Safe and Comfortable semiconductor manufacturing process. USHIO is Automotive Society currently rapidly to promote technological innovation The Automotive/ITS-related market is the subject of with the goal of developing new products to help increasing attention. USHIO is also at work here, realize a sustainable society with its customers. We developing lasers for use in head-up displays. expect solid-state light sources to replace conventional Head-up displays project all kinds of information on ones in these fields, too, in the not-too-distant future. the windscreen of a car, ultimately replacing all driverseat instrumentation such as meters and car navigation, Digitalization of Cinemas and while staying in constant communication with electronic Laser Diodes (LDs) toll charging (ETC) and cloud networks. Meanwhile, ITS Over the past few years, the field of cinema has seen a will achieve a constant bird’s-eye view of the entire road massive shift from film projectors to digital cinema transport network, detecting and responding to projectors. This has contributed greatly to reducing the abnormalities, and contributing not only to individual use of oil resources to produce massive quantities of film vehicles, but to the construction of a safe and that were previously distributed to cinemas. Today, the comfortable automotive society. Head-up displays using shift to digital projectors is all but complete in advanced high performance lasers developed by USHIO are countries, and the USHIO Group’s Christie® products expected to be used in general passenger cars marketed represent about a 40% share of these. As digital cinema in a few years from now. Furthermore, there are still projector demand is being maintained in Asia, particularly many fields in peripheral supporting technology for ITS in China, we believe the projectors will continue to drive where solid-state light sources are expected to play a further resource savings. In addition, since the adoption role. We are actively developing products for these. of digital technology enables central control of the image from the control room, it is likely that movies will be Medium-Term Vision for distributed online for screening in the future, adding Several Years into the Future potential for reducing distribution-related costs. USHIO established the Solid-State Light Source In addition to these trends, USHIO has started selling Promotion Office in 2008. Seven years later, in the fiscal LDs for use in digital cinema projectors. This year, we year ending March 31, 2016, we are expecting to record began full-scale shipments of LD products for premium net sales of almost ¥10.0 billion, and in the fiscal year theater projectors that cannot be made with xenon ending March 31, 2018, we plan to achieve net sales of lamps. The LDs not only help to save energy and around ¥16.0 billion. Apart from the LDs for the cinema resources, they also produce far higher power and field that started full-fledged shipments from the fiscal luminescence than conventional discharge lamps. They year ended March 31, 2015, we also have a large also utilize the single-color of the wavelength to number of products under development that we expect recreate a high color gamut that was previously to release soon. unachievable. This enables them to project images that Society has high expectations of LEDs and LDs right are exceptionally clear and beautiful. now. Our customers are asking for products that will These projectors will herald a new era in cinema for help them to develop products that can contribute to people working in movie realizing a sustainable society. As a leader in the field of production as well as light, USHIO is using its strength in the form of the trust movie-goers. relationships it has built with customers to identify social needs. Through this characteristic approach, we will create new value and grow the solid-state light sources business. S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 09 Biomedical Operations In 2014, USHIO launched the Biomedical Business Division as a third business pillar. As with the solid-state light sources business, we are creating new value that solves social issues by aggressively pursuing M&As and joint development with research institutions, with the goal of creating products that will drive USHIO’s next generation of growth. TheraBeam® UV308 Excimer Light Phototherapy Device The TheraBeam UV308 provides therapy for patients using beams of light. It was created by USHIO with the goal of providing therapy to those in need. Over 350 units have been produced in total to date, and they are currently being used to treat skin disorders in countries around the world. The device has successfully improved the quality of life for numerous patients suffering from conditions such as vitiligo, psoriasis, palmoplantar pustulosis, and atopic dermatitis. Recently, universities and others have made advances in research on atopic dermatitis and its associated itchiness, which is expected to verify the effectiveness of TheraBeam UV308 in this area. Our goal is to provide USHIO’s light to as many patients as possible. Point Reader V® Blood Analyzer Enabling Quantitative Analysis for Animals USHIO has launched Point Reader V, a blood analyzer enabling quantitative analysis for animals using immunochromatography, along with the dedicated reagent Point Strip®. The immunochromatography method has low quantitative accuracy, and has therefore been used only as a qualitative method until now. With the Point Reader V and the Point Strip reagent, USHIO has succeeded in dramatically improving the analysis capability of this method. We are currently developing the Point Strip Canine-CRP—a reagent for measuring inflammation in dogs, and plan to add various other measurement targets in the future, including cats. Today, animal companions have become members of the modern family. Pets cannot explain their own symptoms, but we hope that the Point Reader V, with Point Reader V and Point Strip its ability to quickly measure blood levels on the spot in clinics, will be able to help with diagnosis. * We have now started sales in China, and plan to launch the product in other countries, too. CEALA–Cosmetics for Medical Institutions Photodynamic Therapy is the latest therapy and diagnosis technique that combines light and pharmaceuticals. USHIO has been focusing on this technology for some time, and in the process of research and development has searched constantly for a method to help those who have skin problems. Recently, we have been working on the moisturizing ingredient ALA (Aminolevulinic acid phosphate), and have decided to sell cosmetics made using ALA. These cosmetics are medical cosmetics for people with skin problems. They provide moisture to dry skin, keeping it healthy. 10 S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 CSR Procurement A company’s social responsibility is one of the conditions for the survival of its business. Moreover, an accurate response to this will help a company to demonstrate excellence and form a competitive advantage. However, social responsibility cannot easily be tackled by a single company alone, and requires the action of the entire supply chain. USHIO is continuously expanding the scope and survey items of its initiatives, and working together with its suppliers to increase their CSR response capabilities’. 2015 Number of Response rate respondents to survey 613 90% CSR Procurement Questionnaire Survey Overall average CSR promotion 5.0 In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, USHIO BCP 4.0 Human rights and labor significantly expanded the number of suppliers of main 3.0 production sites covered by its survey, sending the survey 2.0 1.0 Occupational to nearly our entire supplier network 613 companies. Of Social contribution health and safety 0.0 these, 90% responded, and the overall average values for the responses of the companies is shown in the diagram to the right. Information Security Environment Based on these results, we provided individual feedback to each supplier, and used a dialogue process to identify Quality and safety Fair transactions and ethics issues and consult on measures for improvement. CSR Procurement Policy Overseas Procurement USHIO is meeting its social responsibilities as a corporate As companies continue to globalize, the social citizen by supplying superior products and services to the responsibility required of them has increased, and the global market through free and open corporate activities. scope of that responsibility has widened. Issues with For its procurement activities, in the spirit of encouraging human rights relating to overseas labor conditions, water coexistence and co-prosperity, USHIO has defined the five and environmental pollution due to resource points below as the USHIO CSR Procurement Policy, development, or issues relating to mined resources in encapsulating its respect for laws, social norms and war-torn areas are among the responsibilities—and risks— environmental protection. that companies bear both directly and indirectly through 1. Human Rights Alongside Occupational Health and Safety their supply chains. 2. Environmental Consideration, Green Procurement USHIO also procures items from overseas suppliers, and 3. Ensure Product Safety from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 also started a 4. BCP (Business Continuity Planning) survey of domestic business partners, targeting high 5. Fair and Equal Transactions, Legal Compliance volume transactions and items that are often used in (Information Security) general merchandise. Since the situation differs in each CSR Procurement Policy region and country, we seek to create a road map Web http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/csr-procure.html through discussion, and continue to conduct surveys. S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 11 USHIO’s CSR Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) We consider it natural that a corporate citizen should observe laws and regulations, contribute to society, and take steps to protect the environment. These are the foundations of all corporate activity. In addition, a corporation should build good relationships with its various stakeholders and advance by creating and offering new value to contribute to society. This is the kind of corporation that USHIO is working to become. CSR Promotion Framework USHIO has established a CSR Committee, which is chaired by the president. The CSR Promotion Framework committee decides on policies for the whole Company relating to CSR initiatives. The CSR CSR Committee Committee establishes subcommittees as (Chairperson: president) needed to oversee practical implementation of the policies it has decided, and discusses specific initiatives and ways to promote them. Risk Management Office CSR manager At the 24th CSR Committee meeting held in May 2014, the members confirmed current priorities to be addressed and initiatives to be Separate subcommittees taken going forward. Furthermore, at the for each initiative Group CSR Council held in April 2015, the top management of Group companies attended from bases around the world. They completed Business divisions a survey relating to CSR and shared and Group companies information and discussion on supply chain CSR management, BCPs, and other issues. United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles USHIO has declared its support for the United Nations Global Compact of principles concerning human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. We have joined the local UN network supporting the compact, Global Compact Network Japan, and have taken an active role in various sectional activities, including our involvement in co-sponsoring a proposal on supply chain management as one of the participating companies. We have joined the local UN network supporting the compact, Global Compact Network Japan, and are working to promote all facets of CSR among the many other participating companies and NGOs. To this end, we are continuing to play an active role in sectional activities for sharing information on necessary specific measures, and enhancing the activities of each company. 12 S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 Web http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/index.html (CSR/Society and the Environment) Medium-term Plan for CSR In phase-3, where we seek to establish our activity USHIO established the CSR Department in 2009, and foundation, as well as our initiatives for achieving the final formulated a medium-term CSR plan aimed at fusing the targets of the CSR medium-term plan, we are also conducting Company’s management strategies through to fiscal year a Group-wide survey with an eye towards our next step. ended March 31, 2015 with its CSR tasks. USHIO’s mediumCurrently, we are enhancing the survey content by giving term CSR planning comprises three phases. In phase-1 (2010 greater consideration to the situations in each region of the to 2012), we focused our efforts on “forming an infrastructure world. We are also engaged in active communication for CSR initiatives.” In phase-2 (2013 to 2014), we worked to between Group companies in order to further consolidate “dig deeper into CSR issues” and achieved our initial targets. the basis of our CSR activities as a Group. Since fiscal 2014, we have been working on phase-3 (2015-2016). Key Issues in Group Companies (From Questionnaire Survey) Proactive information disclosure and CSR reports Phase-3 Initiatives Social contribution of products In phase-3, we will integrate our initiatives throughout the Participation in volunteer activities, entire Company as we move from the conventional stage of etc., by regional companies reflecting CSR issues in the annual business plans of each Environmental activities business division to the final stage under the Medium-term Education regarding human rights and anti-corruption Plan for CSR, which is “complete integration of management Workplace health and safety, and discrimination-free workplaces strategy with CSR issues.” Selection of suppliers who emphasize CSR We made our first attempt to integrate CSR issues in our 0 3 6 9 12 15 18 medium-term management plan, announced in fiscal 2014. The plan brings together the discussions of the CSR Committee and all the other kinds of committees, as well as CSR Action Plan the Group CSR Council, as well as plan proposals covering The Group’s issues were classified under the five pillars of every aspect, including compatibility of CSR issues in each of governance, people, quality, society, and environment. These the business divisions. items are then broken down further into action policies. Currently, the CSR Action Plan shows USHIO’s CSR framework while forming the underlying philosophy for business planning at each business division and Group company. Formulation of a CSR Action Plan under the Five Pillars Five Pillars Fiscal 2015 Action Plans  trengthen information security S  trengthen Group CSR activities (share S Governance Promote business continuity management information, common targets, grasp needs, Ensure transparency in sequences of business activities, Strengthen measures to prevent corruption etc.) information disclosure, compliance with laws and Provide information to shareholders on CSR Enhance disclosure of non-financial regulations and international rules, prevention of activities information corruption, risk management, and others Initiatives to maintain transparency on tax issues C  reate human rights policy Implement human resource development to People Eradicate discrimination, respect diversity to contribute to maintaining and improving Eradicate discrimination, respect diversity, respect the promote roles for human resources in the business activities over the long term rights of all people related to operations to survive and company Promote work-life balance live, eliminate harassment, worker health and safety, Maintain a comfortable work environment Conduct human rights education prevention of child labor, forced labor, and slave labor, (eliminate harassment, ensure appropriate Formulate a diversity policy worker health and safety) Strengthen monitoring of worker health and avoid complicity in human rights infringements safety P  ure customer satisfaction improvement, with the S  trengthen global quality assurance system greatest emphasis on the customers’ perspective Product safety assessment Quality Quality target and plan development Enhance supplier CSR monitoring Realize attractive quality overall, not only in products, Matters related to strengthening the supply chain Improve ISO (speed up, streamline) but also in concepts and service provision, and including (Promote green procurement and CSR observance of market rules and guidelines procurement, promote activities with an awareness of the basic policy on conflict minerals, practice due diligence on human rights)  argets and Initiatives Based on Phase Four of T S  trengthen chemical substance management the Environmental Action Plan Evaluate Group progress on Environmental Environment •R  educe environmental impact by developing Action Plan, establish next Environmental Disclose information on greenhouse gas and other environmentally conscious products Action Plan • In business activities and product development, Register chemical substance control, observe emissions affected by corporate activities, impacts on anticipate environmental regulation trends thoroughly, and enhance risk management climate change and ecosystems, consideration for •R  educe business site costs along with energy Set new targets under the 5th Environmental resource limitations, management of dangerous waste and resource savings, and take aggressive Action Plan (medium-term target for CO2 and hazardous chemicals, etc. initiatives on distribution emission reduction) •S  tep up environmental activities within the Group and with business partners Society F  oster social awareness by encouraging active participation in social contribution activities, Maintain relationships with local communities, community exchanges, volunteer and pro bono activities involvement with international society, contribution to Promote business in emerging countries Promote participation in volunteer activities education, culture, etc., social contributions through business such as products and services S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 13 Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance and Transparency The basic approach to corporate governance at the USHIO Group is ensuring the transparency and efficiency of the Group’s management, while also increasing corporate value to meet the expectations of the Group’s diverse stakeholders. This approach is one of the Group’s highest priorities. Corporate Governance Framework USHIO uses a management structure that includes a Board of Auditors and Supervisors. The Company has the Board of Directors, which determines management policies and makes decisions about other matters of the highest importance. The directors also oversee the management of business operations. It also has representative directors, who are responsible for conducting business operations. And it has the Board of Auditors and Supervisors, which is responsible for audits. To assist the Board of Directors in reaching decisions, the USHIO Group has three advisory units that examine and discuss management strategies and medium and long-term management policies with respect to USHIO and the entire Group. The units are the Executive Council and Group Coordination Council. In addition, the USHIO Group has a business unit structure and an executive officer system for the purposes of strengthening and speeding up the execution of business operations by the representative directors. Board of Directors, Board of Auditors and Supervisors, Compensation Advisory Board After electing a further outside director at the General Shareholders’ Meeting held in June 2015, the Board of Directors comprises a total of 11 directors: 8 internal directors and 3 independent outside directors. Internal directors familiar with the company’s businesses enable decisions to be made swiftly, while outside directors not involved in the day-to-day running of the company enable USHIO to bolster its management and supervision functions and increase management transparency. The three outside directors have submitted notification as independent executive officers as stipulated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange. They receive explanations from relevant divisions prior to board meetings so that they can participate fully in discussion of matters for resolution. They also exchange information and opinions with other directors and audit and supervisory board members on an individual basis. With regard to audit and supervisory board members, with the election of a further member at the same shareholders’ meeting, the Board of Auditors and Supervisors has five members, including three outside audit and supervisory board members who are independent of the USHIO Group. Furthermore, USHIO has a Compensation Advisory Committee to ensure that executive officer compensation is fair and justified. The committee chair and a majority of the members comprise outside directors. An interview with newly appointed corporate officer can be read on the Company’s website. Web http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/ir/ar2015/governance/interview.html USHIO’s Internal Control Framework 14 S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 Web https://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/manage/governance.html (Corporate Governance) Web https://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/manage/compliance.html (Compliance) Business Audits Initiatives to Prevent Corruption At USHIO, we conduct various audits, including compliance USHIO has stipulated Fair and Equitable Business Transactions audits and audits of export controls, both internally and at our in its action guidelines and has always taken vigorous action Group companies. To ensure the quality and raise the to prevent corruption. effectiveness of these audits, the audit and supervisory board We conduct individual training on corruption prevention members coordinate with relevant departments at all times. relating to each persons’ duties, and for manager class The theme and inspection items in our internal audits are employees, we also conduct training based on the selected in accordance with the situation of the organization to strengthening of anticorruption laws globally. In this way, we be audited from the perspectives of the Company’s business ensure that everyone throughout the Company is aware of aims and minimizing management risks. We take care to ensure corruption prevention. that the audits provide value by helping USHIO achieve its We have also expressed our support for the United organizational objectives. Moreover, the indications and Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles, as part of which, recommendations raised by the internal audits are followed we have strengthened our initiatives to prevent corruption. through periodically until the required improvements have been made. We will continue the audits, aiming to streamline Information Security management, improve business operations, safeguard assets, USHIO handles private information of frequent customers and minimize risks and improve the management structure. is entrusted with their important company information and other information assets in the course of its business activities. Risk Management We consider it a top priority to safeguard such information Through its relevant departments, the Company has identified, from threats such as leaks and modification. Moreover, because evaluated, and specified respective risk categories related to we recognize that information is an asset that generates value, business execution and management, including compliance, and is a source for increasing corporate value, we are taking the environment, product quality, finances, legal matters, measures such as raising awareness of information security natural and other disasters, information management, and among our employees and improving our risk management export controls. systems. This kind of management requires three interlocking To deal with natural disaster risk, we conducted a initiatives: rules must be determined, a framework must be company-wide project to formulate business continuity plans created for observing those rules, and awareness must be (BCPs). In addressing environment risks, we conduct periodic raised. We implement these based on our information security environment risk inspections and impact assessments to management rules and make sure they are applied uniformly manage them. In IT information management, we have and consistently for the USHIO Group throughout the world. established an organization for persons responsible for Specific examples include the promotion of management to prevent leakages of secret or personal countermeasures, such as having a certain secure area at information. With regard to export control risk, a dedicated each business site where access is controlled with department manages the risk by formulating rules and IC-embedded ID cards, antivirus measures for PCs, encryption conducting specialized training, among other steps. For of hard drives, authorization management of operation financial market risk relating to financial instruments such as systems, and strengthening the capacity to respond to marketable securities, we manage the risk by establishing disasters and faults. Other measures include setting up rules. In the global supply chain, including international automatic encryption for external email attachments, models, we undertake CSR procurement to manage the risks functions to prevent sending emails to the wrong recipient, relating to corruption, human rights abuses, and replacing PCs in conjunction with the end of support for environmental pollution. Windows XP, enhancing security control by replacing our PC With regard to the above risks, the Company has asset management tool, strengthening Internet access established the Compliance Committee, chaired by a director, control, and bolstering data access privileges by integrating and a framework for reporting to the Board of Directors. our file services. Recently, we have seen increasing use of tablets and smartphones in addition to PCs, and we have Compliance established an environment that will ensure security for these At USHIO we have established a Compliance Committee, and tools as well, just as with PCs. we work to foster a corporate culture that observes laws and It is also important to enhance information security regulations, practices corporate ethics, and respects Company awareness and skills for each individual employee in order to rules. In fiscal 2014, we conducted a survey and used the prevent information leaks. We have therefore taken steps to company newsletter to ensure awareness of compliance increase awareness among employees of the various threats issues, as well as publishing a new compliance handbook. and opportunities where leaks may occur, by implementing a Through these multiple approaches to the theme of companywide e-learning program, and conducting levelcompliance, we strived to raise employee awareness. specific training for new recruits. We promote these initiatives Furthermore, we have been promoting a Company-wide by operating a PDCA cycle to ensure that this awareness drive to deal with compliance concerns, including potential penetrates our entire organization at every level. risks, as early as possible. We have established an internal In our ISO improvement activities, which started from fiscal consultation desk as well as an external consultation and 2015, we will support efforts to lighten workloads, and to reporting desk, known as the USHIO Helpline. streamline operations and speed them up. S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 15 People People Respecting Human Rights The USHIO Group respects the International Labor Organization’s* Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. USHIO also declared its support for the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in October 2010. The principles relate to human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. USHIO is promoting initiatives to ensure adherence to them. Supply Chain Management USHIO treats human rights issues in the supply chain as an important CSR theme, and is actively striving to realize a society where all human rights are respected. In November 2013, USHIO established the Basic Policy Statement for Conflict Minerals, which is designed to be considerate of the human rights issues in conflict regions. We also announced our CSR Procurement Policy in October 2014, which takes into consideration human rights in the supply chain. CSR Procurement Policy Web http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/csr-procure.html Diversity Diversity is gradually advancing in Japan under the guidance of government policies. USHIO is promoting equal employment opportunities for people regardless of gender or ethnicity. Utilizing Global Human Resources Overseas sales account for approximately 80% of the USHIO Group’s total sales. Human resources capable of blending in to communicate and understand local needs are indispensable in promoting business overseas. We are therefore working to develop and utilize global human resources by conducting international study programs, hiring international students, and providing opportunities for interaction between Group companies. Employment of People With Disabilities In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, USHIO achieved a ratio of employees with disabilities of 1.89%, slightly below the legal requirement of 2.0%. We will continue taking steps to make our workplaces barrier free, including installing sliding doors in restrooms and handrails on stairways, and to promote employment of people with disabilities going forward. Support for Working Women We believe that diverse sensitivities, approaches, and abilities are needed in order to generate new business amid the matured economies of the industrialized nations. Consequently, we have more than doubled the percentage of female employees in sales and technical positions over the past five years. Furthermore, we aim to appoint people in management positions without concern for their gender, and by 2020 we aim to have tripled the ratio of female managers from the current level. Furthermore, in January and April 2013, we held talks between our chairman and female employees to make sure that their voices are being heard by senior management. We have also taken steps to encourage and motivate employees on an individual level. For example, in February 2014, we invited a female sales manager from outside the Company to come and run a study and networking session for female sales staff. The average service period of USHIO employees continues to increase each year, and in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, the service period for female employees exceeded that of their male counterparts, reaching 17 years. Work-Life Balance Support Programs USHIO aims to be able to flexibly accommodate diverse values and working styles regardless of employees’ lifestyles and gender. As part of this, we have a support system for childcare leave that offers much more than the legally required level of support. 16 S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 Web http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/society/employee/index.html (Working Together with Employees) As an additional support for employees balancing Young Executives Group parenting with work, we uploaded the Work-Life Balance In 2015, we started a new program for training young Handbook on our intranet portal for employees. The employees, called the Young Executive Group. The program is handbook contains information on programs for balancing designed to nurture management personnel with both work, as well as information on child-raising and maternal theoretical and practical capabilities over the mediumto welfare, how managers should respond, and other tips for long-term. employees who would use the programs and for their The participants are chosen from among young employees managers. through an open call for applications. There are five target We have also enhanced the work environment to enable criteria: a dream, strategy construction ability, ability to act, people to balance work and parenting while encouraging collaboration, and ability to work in a global setting. The them to review their way of working in order to achieve a participants acquire theoretical knowledge and tackle good work-life balance. For example, we posted interviews specific initiatives relating to actual management tasks. This with female employees in our internal magazine, conducted is the first year of the program, with 21 participants including “no overtime” days and put up posters to promote them, Group company employees. They undertake various activities and organized visiting days for children and family day while exchanging opinions with management personnel and events. The ratio of women returning to work after taking external experts, among others. In this way, USHIO is maternity leave is virtually 100%, and several male preparing a new generation of leaders to drive its employees also take childcare leave each year. development in the future. Consequently, in March 2015, for the fourth time we earned Kurumin* certification under the Act for Measures to Support Communication the Development of the Next Generation. Communication with Lunch USHIO has a longstanding practice of holding lunch meetings Employees Using Childcare Leave 2013 2014 2015 where the president and employees can communicate while Men 5 4 3 enjoying lunch together. In fiscal 2015, we expanded the Women 32 29 25 scope of “Communication with Lunch” activities to include Total 37 33 28 lunches with division leaders and others to encourage even greater dialogue between employees and management. This initiative provides the president and other members of the Taking Childcare Leave management team with an opportunity to communicate After the birth of our third child, I took two months’ childcare directly about the company, the direction of business, and leave to help my wife as it would have been a struggle for her to their thoughts and ideas about them. At the same time, it cope with childcare and looking after our home affairs. I was allows employees to get to know the management. The very happy to be able to sense the daily growth of our baby and lunches are a valuable time, where participants can hear our other children during my time off. I was also able to see how about things that they usually don’t hear, from difficult topics hard my wife is working every day, which made regarding the organization and management, to more private me feel even more grateful to her. The two themes such as personal approaches to work and working months passed very quickly, but I feel it was a style, and ways to learn English. very important time for us as a family. Yohei Yamada World Cafe Harima Division, USHIO Inc. In fiscal 2015, employees conceived and led the World Café project, which aims to achieve a “vibrant workplace with a healthy corporate culture.” The goal of the World Café is to draw attention to the importance of communication by having Education and Training for Human people who do not know each other well come together in a Resources Development relaxed atmosphere, engage in dialogue about certain topics, Various training programs have been established to facilitate and talk openly with one another. the development of personnel capable of acting In fiscal 2015, around 20% of all USHIO employees independently and to make it possible to align “Build both a participated in the program. In their feedback, participants prosperous Company and prosperous employees.” In addition, said they enjoyed having dialogue with other employees revisions were made to the skills required for each division whom they did not usually encounter, and that the and type of job, and a system was established at each office experience helped that will facilitate training and evaluation of employees. them to notice new Regardless of the type of job, all employees are trained to things. The program develop their ability to maintain an awareness of the problem, is helping to foster a problem-solving approach that is not limited by past a corporate culture experience, and the ability to independently develop and of smooth internal implement new proposals. communication and mutual respect. S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 17 Quality Quality Business Partners To accurately grasp the needs of our customers, we think from their perspective, then work as one with our business partners to improve our product development and quality. In this way we provide products and services with appealing quality that goes above and beyond the run-of-the-mill. UPS (USHIO Production System) UPS (USHIO Production System) is the name of an initiative aiming to establish a unique new production system that started at USHIO’s Harima Division from fiscal 2011. Amid a rapidly changing business environment, it is important to be able to efficiently supply high-quality products in any environment. To achieve this, we saw the need to think outside of the box and promote improvements from a broad-ranging perspective by integrating our ongoing UPS, TPM and TQC improvement activities, rather than repeatedly going over the same ground. The main thrust of the UPS movement is ZD (zero-defects) activities, which seek to eliminate defective work by stimulating individual autonomy and enthusiasm among employees and fostering creative thinking. Traditionally, the movement consisted of three pillar groups. Namely, the Manufacturing Technology Group, the Quality Assurance System Reform Group and the Education and Enlightenment Group. However, we have now reformed the activities within our business sites, and in April 2014, we started a new initiative of small group activities within business sites to carry out specific improvement activities by thoroughly promoting “full participation by all people at business sites” and “visualization.” We have formed 91 groups within business sites and have been conducting specific improvement activities. The activities have also contributed to developing human resources by encouraging autonomous management and reforming employee awareness of the front lines. In fiscal 2015, we took further steps to invigorate small group activities, and encouraged female and younger employees to take leadership roles in around 100 small groups. For this fiscal year, we focused especially on uncovering workplace issues and using them as starting points to develop improvements. This has led to actual gains in operational efficiency. We have been focusing on human resource development since fiscal 2015. We believe that “in order to produce good products, it is first necessary to produce good workers” and have therefore been using a PDCA cycle to develop instructors, resolve various themes, and develop training programs to ensure that fundamentals are in place. Through the continuous, steady accumulation of activities, we will establish platforms for manufacturing that can be visualized, and build up expertise. At the same time, we will continue activities to enhance the efficiency and vitality of our workplaces. Customer Service Center Initiatives In our Customer Service Center we prioritize stable operation of customers’ equipment and customer satisfaction. We work to provide them with confidence and safety, on time, while continuing to take various measures to ensure that we retain their trust and reliance. Recently, more and more of the end users for our equipment products are spread throughout the world, so we are taking steps to enhance our local service systems through links with our bases in the U.S., China, Taiwan, and South Korea. While strengthening our local service systems, we will seek to provide enhanced proposal-based services. We will continue striving to increase customer satisfaction even further. Quality Assurance Divisions Quality Assurance Divisions established at each business site maintain links with one another to exploit the good aspects of quality control knowhow developed at each business site. This enables us to meet the exacting demands for quality required by our lineup of medical equipment while achieving even more attractive quality and efficiency. Currently, our chief focus is on deepening our relationships with overseas manufacturing companies even further, as we work to contribute to even higher levels of customer satisfaction through stable Group-wide quality assurance. Furthermore, USHIO organized an in-house system for its initiatives for improving the efficiency and speed of its ISO management system, and started new activities in fiscal 2014. We will maintain our mechanisms for swiftly responding to customer needs while meeting the requirements of ISO. We will aim to achieve radical innovation not bound needlessly to rules and firmly anchored in frontline realities, as we strive to achieve even higher levels of customer satisfaction. 18 S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 Web http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/society/customer.html (Working Together with Customers) Web http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/society/partner.html (Working Together with Business Partners) Promoting Green Procurement and With regard to the Point Reader® blood analyzer, in addition Compliance with International to the original blood serum ferritin measurement, we have Environmental Laws and Regulations also opened new frontiers for application, including blood test To ensure the smooth, stable supply of its products in the diagnoses for animals, and we continue to expand the scope face of a diversifying body of overseas laws and regulations, of potential. USHIO is focusing on timely collection of information, and Currently, we are moving ahead to create infrastructure to building a supply chain designed in response to these support manufacture, sales, and repair of medical equipment requirements. We hold explanatory meetings responding to and external diagnostic reagents for both human and animal purchasing policy, green procurement standards, RoHS, and care. We will continue to prepare a foundation for providing REACH regulations. We also conduct continuous activities value through light in various ways that contribute to based on dialogue with suppliers to avoid problems arising improving quality of life. with delivery schedules and product quality. Through these activities we aim to raise overall customer satisfaction. Checking for Conflict Minerals Furthermore, through production base Environmental In accordance with the clause on conflict minerals in the U.S. Management Systems (EMSs) at overseas Group companies, Securities and Exchange Commission’s Dodd-Frank Wall Street we have strengthened our Group-wide management Reform and Consumer Protection Act, in August 2012, a final framework for responding to customers’ requirements for rule was adopted requiring companies listed on securities environmental preservation. Today, we are working to respond exchanges in the U.S. to disclose and report on their use of accurately to the varieties of target substances subject to conflict minerals in their products. Conflict minerals include chemical substance regulations and the applicable product tantalum, tin, gold, and tungsten, produced in the Democratic categories by using the AIS format to create systems for our Republic of the Congo or adjacent countries. The law has equipment products, which have many components, in order been enforced since January 2013. USHIO uses significant to promote greater efficiencies in our management system. quantities of tungsten in its electrodes, and has therefore responded by strengthening its surveys on suppliers’ use of Promoting CSR Procurement materials in these and other components. We have been From the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, the Green reporting the survey results using the EICC/GeSI* Conflict Procurement Committee was renamed the CSR Procurement Minerals Reporting ledger sheet. Committee, as we implemented green procurement as part of In November 2013, we formulated our Basic Policy our CSR Action Plan. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, Statement for Conflict Minerals, and we have been promoting we analyzed our customers’ expectations of us in terms of coordination on this policy within the Group, including with CSR initiatives. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, we Group company USHIO Lighting. established a CSR Procurement Policy to further ensure that we conduct CSR procurement. BCP Initiatives In December 2014, we held explanatory meetings for The Great East Japan Earthquake of March 2011 taught us a suppliers at the Yokohama Division, Head Office, and the powerful lesson on how entire industries can be impacted by Harima Division regarding revisions to our green procurement the inability to supply just one component. USHIO INC. standards and CSR procurement. For revisions to the USHIO commands extraordinarily large market shares for many of its green procurement standards, we explained the need for a light source products used in various industries. Recognizing fresh review of these standards due to legal and regulatory our important responsibility to ensure stable supplies of these changes, as well as additional chemical substances that products, we have been actively promoting business continuity suppliers must verify. In terms of CSR procurement, we plans (BCP). offered In April 2012, we established a dedicated, companywide explanations of the committee to formulate a business continuity plan, mainly for USHIO CSR the light source business, including building systems to enable procurement policy minimization of damage and swifter recovery and enable and conducted a coordination between each business site in the event of a survey of CSR major disaster. In April 2014, we formulated the USHIO INC. initiatives. BCP (business continuity plan), with a primary focus on our main offices. The BCP stipulates organizational structures for Harima Division each kind of role, including labor, fund procurement, and public relations, and we continue to revise the structure and our responses through regular drills. Our next step is to look at Product Development Related to our response to other kinds of risk (natural disasters and Biomedical QOL Improvement human-related incidents), and how to implement it throughout In fiscal 2013, we established an independent business unit for the Group. With respect to information security, for example, biomedical operations. We began development of medical we have made our business process systems more robust equipment starting with the TheraBeam 308® excimer light photoagainst disasters and faults, and have bolstered our network therapy device, and since obtaining various medical approvals, we infrastructure and internal data assets as part of an ongoing have been developing a range of business infrastructure. effort to ensure stability across all aspects of our operations. S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 19 Environment Environment ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIVITIES The USHIO Group has defined a vision of where it wants to be in 2020, and is strengthening its initiatives to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society through its core operations. 2020 Environmental Vision The USHIO Group formulated its 2020 Environmental Vision with the goal of becoming a company able to contribute through its business activities to the realization of a low-carbon, recycling-oriented, biodiversity-preserving society by the year 2020. USHIO has been promoting Phase Four of the Environmental Action Plan since April 2013. Phase Four of the Environmental Action Plan In setting our objectives for Phase Four of the Environmental Action Plan, we focused on production efficiency, assuming power shortages in light of the power supply situation following the Great East Japan Earthquake, and set out the following four key themes. Phase Four of the Environmental Action Plan Expand Sales of Global Warming Chemical Substance Resource Conservation Environmentally Countermeasures Management and Biodiversity Conscious Products Preservation •C  reate Super Green •R  educe CO2 emissions at •E  nhance reliability and •R  educe waste emission products business sites efficiency of CMS volume by unit sales • Increase ratio of •R  educe CO2 emissions • Enhance customer • Promote stakeholder environmentally due to distribution response regarding engagement* conscious products chemical substance • Social contribution among net sales management activities • Biodiversity preservation Committees for Each Measure Promote Activities Global Warming Green Products CSR Procurement 3R activities at each Countermeasures Committee Committee business site Committee Fiscal 2015 was the second year of the plan. Changes CO2 per Base Unit (Group) (t-CO 2)(%) Among other achievements, compared to fiscal 30,000 105 2013 we achieved a 7% reduction in CO2 29,423 emissions (per unit sale) through efforts at our 29,000 100 100 main production sites, continued to create Super 98.5 28,056 28,000 95 Green products, and reduced waste emissions by 27,165 93.0 7% (per unit sale). Further information on our 27,000 90 activities and progress through fiscal 2014 are 26,000 85 reported on our website. From 2016 onward, we will continue to explore our four themes, and after 25,000 80 ascertaining the status of our Group companies in 24,000 75 each region, we will start on Phase Five of the 2013 2014 2015 Environmental Action Plan, with new targets. CO2 emissions Base unit SCOPE 3 Initiatives USHIO is working to reduce CO2 emissions at its business sites through energy-saving activities. Recently, in addition to this, there has been a call to grasp indirect CO2 emissions that occur throughout the product lifecycle, for example, when it is being used. This change will affect corporations by widening the scope of data collection from energy used at business sites to include all phases from component procurement to product distribution, use, and disposal. In addition to the previous aspects for management, Scope 3 includes GHG emissions management relating to aspects such as use of products and materials, transportation and movement of people. 20 S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 Web http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/eco/manage/index.html (Environmental Management System) Web http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/eco/effect.html (Global Warming Countermeasures) SCOPE 1, 2, and 3 (Main Group Companies in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015) SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3 Purchased Capital Fuel and Upstream Waste Business Employee Use of sold End-of-life Category goods and goods energy-related transportation generated in travel commuting products treatment of services activities not and operations sold products included in distribution Scopes 1 and 2 t-CO2 2,497 25,742 368,156 14,519 6,502 427 492 720 2,153 601,639 9 Percentage 0.24% 2.52% 35.99% 1.42% 0.64% 0.04% 0.05% 0.07% 0.21% 58.82% 0.00% Up until now, under Phase Four of the Environmental evaluate changes in water usage at our production sites and Action Plan, we have focused on reducing CO2 emissions CO2 emissions analysis at production site offices, which we from distribution. We recognized the importance of have used to develop energy saving measures and so forth. ascertaining the Scope 3 CO2 emissions, and started survey We conduct continuous data collection and monitoring of and analysis of these in fiscal 2012. In fiscal 2014, we CO2 emissions in water usage, and waste emissions at each ascertained the Scope 3 CO2 emissions for the USHIO Group business site. These data are used to share issues at each (above table). Under the new Phase Five of the site and discover best practices, helping to improve Environmental Action Plan, we will work to increase the environmental operation efficiency. These activities form the accuracy of this information and examine measures for also foundation of environmental management at USHIO. reducing our indirect CO2 emissions. Currently, solar power generation is occurring at two CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS, INC. (CDSU) locations. We will continue steps to introduce renewable Wireless Thermostat for Air Conditioning System energy measures, including increasing the number of sites CHRISTIE USA has installed a new air conditioning system that that use renewables. can appropriately monitor the temperature and air conditioning levels for the entire head office building and ECO-SYS – USHIO’s Environmental warehouse to reduce energy consumption. The system uses a Management Information System wireless thermostat that can track, monitor, and report on USHIO is the subject of numerous surveys regarding its energy use in the air conditioning system 24 hours a day so environmental impact, from corporate evaluation that problems can be resolved immediately, even from a organizations, and also as part of our customers supply remote location, thereby increasing energy efficiency. chains. We also conduct information disclosure for the entire USHIO Group, and manage progress on targets for LED Lighting in the Employee Car Park and environmental performance and environmental management Other Areas indicators in line with the Environmental Action Plan. To meet CHRISTIE USA has replaced the lights in the employee car these requirements, we introduced the ECO-SYS park and wall lighting in company buildings with LEDs. This environmental management information system in 2006. This has improved the appearance of the company buildings and system not only enables central management of the USHIO made the car park lighter and safer to use. The head office Group’s environmental information, but also acts as a tool to No. 1 Building car park has achieved a 64% reduction in support progress management on environmental targets at electricity use following the changeover to LEDs, and the No. Group companies and business sites, such as energy saving 2 Building has achieved a reduction of 87%. and waste reduction. The reported results have helped to At the same time, LED lighting has also been used in a project to extend the offices of the Legal Division. In the working Development of ECO-SYS Use areas, the LED lighting has 2006 2010 2013 2015— incorporated sensors to detect ECO-SYS introduced Progress report system Analysis tool Development into sunlight, enabling the same level introduced a platform of brightness as usual but with lower power consumption during Increasing quantity Increasing quality fine weather. CHRISTIE USA aims to achieve Follow-up on Environmental Environmental data Action Plan progress the energy saving targets of Phase collection ESG evaluation response Four of the Environmental Action Improve environmental Plan through these initiatives. Compilation of efficiency collected data M  easure environmental impact Analysis of compiled data Reduce environmental impact Evaluate Group-wide performance Dialogue informed by environmental data S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 21 Society Society Relationship with Society As a member of the international community, USHIO will contribute to the development of respective regions where it conducts business. The Group has a growing body of contribution examples following its expansion in Japan and overseas, and in addition to the initiatives reported here, is engaged in various activities in the fields of education, culture, disaster support, and exchanges with local society. These areas are vital aspects of sustainability. The USHIO Foundation The USHIO Foundation was established in 1994 to commemorate the 30th anniversary of the founding of USHIO. As globalization progresses, the foundation will contribute to society by assisting the development of the next generation of human resources, including overseas students, who will be responsible for leading the world in the future, and promote further interaction and mutual understanding between Japan and other countries. In fiscal 2015, the foundation provided scholarships to 46 graduate students (including overseas students) and 11 students in specialized courses at colleges of technology. So far, 488 scholarship students have been accepted, and we continued to focus on calling for scholarship applicants from schools in areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. USHIO INC. Holding a Workshop at Tsukuba Science Edge 2015 On March 24, 2015, USHIO participated in Tsukuba Science Edge, an annual event for junior high school and high school students studying sciences. At the event, our New Technology Development Department ran a workshop on “welding with light.” All participants had the opportunity to use one of USHIO’s excimer lamps to conduct an experiment where the UV light caused two different substances to bond at the molecular level. Great cheers went up at the moment when the two substances fused together. In a feedback questionnaire, 94% of the students said they found the workshop to be “extremely worthwhile” or “worthwhile.” We believe it provided a valuable learning experience that opened students’ eyes to the potential of light. Receiving Students for Factory Tours On February 5, 2015, 40 first-year students from the Information Systems class at Shizuoka Prefectural Gotemba High School visited our Gotemba Division. On their tour, the visitors saw a factory where large-scale equipment is manufactured and learned about the manufacture of ultrahigh-voltage mercury lamps, which are a type of discharge lamp, among other things. Summer Holiday Children’s Tours On August 8, we held the Summer Holiday Children’s Open Day at Harima Division—a workplace tour for children of employees. In addition to the factory and office tour, children and their parents had lunch together in the staff cafeteria and tried observing the spectra of different light sources by making a simply prism out of a CD. It was a good opportunity for the children of the employees to learn about their parents’ workplace. 22 S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 Web http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/society/community.html (Relationship with Society) Web http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/society/contribution.html (USHIO Group Support for Culture and Learning) CDS also conducted a NIHON DENSHI GIJUTSU CO., LTD. (NDG) Children’s Art Gallery featuring Bamboo Grove Maintenance Volunteers posters created by employees’ At NDG, employees each families and children, held a year gather to participate lottery to raise donations, and in volunteer activities for produced a video about maintaining a bamboo United Way’s future initiatives. grove. The initiative to maintain the bamboo Charity Barbecue grove in Nakai Chuo Park The CDS-UK office held a charity barbecue at its workplace in Kanagawa Prefecture on August 15, 2015 to raise funds for the supporting people started in 2007, and this year was conducted for the 11th entering the London Marathon (a charity marathon). With time. The number of volunteers grows each year, and NDG support from many employees, including a charity group, the plans to continue contributing to maintenance of wooded event managed to raise one quarter of the target amount. areas, which make up 40% of the area of Kanagawa CDS-UK plans to continue these kinds of activities in future. Prefecture. USHIO HONG KONG LTD. (UHK) USHIO ASIA PACIFIC (THAILAND) LTD. Completing a Charity Marathon Tree-Planting Activities on Lantau Island, Hong Kong On February 8, 2015, UAPT UHK members participated participated in a charity in a volunteer tree-planting marathon held in Lunpini activity on Lantau Island, Park in Bangkok. The event the site of Hong Kong was organized by International Airport. Thailand’s largest cinema Around 40% or 440 km2 of chain, Major Cineplex Hong Kong is designated Group Plc., which put out a as a national nature park, call on its website for participants from movie theaters and and nature in the park is managed strictly by the government. related equipment companies. Almost all of the participation However, frequent forest fires have prompted private fees were donated to buy wheelchairs for children in need organizations to conduct tree-planting activities with special through an NPO. permission from the government. UHK members helped with the planting of around 50 saplings. USHIO PHILLIPINES, INC. (UPI) In the Philippines, many CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS, INC. (CDS) companies take part in CHRISTIE Community Garden various activities during At a community garden July, which is volunteering started by CHRISTIE month. UPI has won the Canada’s Facility Best of SCR (Social Department in April 2013, Company Responsibility) staff cooperate with one award at its industrial park another under a “Health, each year. This year, UPS volunteered in a blood donation Wellness, Green Initiative drive, a prison visit, and soup kitchen program. Participation Drive” to plant various vegetable and flower seeds in unused spaces. The program continues to expand, with a dedicated wiki website USHIO KOREA, INC. (UKI) for participants, featuring photographs of vegetable and Welfare Facility Visits UKI visited the Young flower growth and a guide to harvesting, as well as recipes Deung Po Welfare Facility using the harvested vegetables. in Seoul again in 2015. This time, UKI brought boxed Annual United Way Campaign lunches to elderly people CHRISTIE Canada continued again this year to provide living alone who tend to outstanding community support through the United Way skip meals. It was a good Campaign. CHRISTIE’s initiative sought to address the opportunity to consider following issues under the 2014 theme of “Healthy Kids.” that elderly people nearby are facing poverty and loneliness, Bullying in schools and that there is something that everyone could do to help. Addressing the decline in education (literacy) UKI plans to continue this activity. Child poverty S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 23 Research and Development / Intellectual Property Research and Development R&D expenses (billions of yen) The main targets of the Group’s R&D are light sources for industrial applications 12 10.8 for development and production, which include work use and application of 10 9.9 8.9 optical applications in electronic and electromechanical equipment, moving 8.6 8 ahead with development of indispensable peripheral technologies and 6.7 development for commercialization of optical units, optical equipment and 6 systemization. We keep abreast of the latest developments in markets and 4 technology and conduct strategic R&D activities. We have an organization that enables interaction among the R&D teams from different product groups to 2 encourage development of new kinds of light sources and equipment. 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Achievements in Fiscal 2015 LED bar unit for crop raising Temperature measurement module for High luminescence, lightweight In recent years, due to “unseasonable halogen heaters measuring accurately 4K30 projector developed for rental weather resulting from global warming” while adjusting for ambient light staging and “growing awareness of food safety,” The USHIO Group has developed the CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS CANADA a plant factory that makes it possible to world's first temperature measurement INC., a wholly owned subsidiary, farm plants and vegetables in a planned module for halogen heaters that developed the Christie® Boxer 4K30 manner without agrochemical use by measures the temperature of heated with high luminescence, 3DLP picture artificially controlling the cultivation objects while correcting for the impact of quality in a compact, lightweight yet environment, is attracting attention. ambient light to provide accurate, nonrobustly housed design. This USHIO LIGHTING has been researching contact measurements. This not only projector for rental stages, such as LED light sources for use in plant enhances the quality of temperature those used at concerts, theme parks factories, and has developed the world’s control, but opens the way for use of and projection mapping, uses NFC first LED unit for cultivating grain such as halogen heaters in applications that had tracking to enable users to monitor rice, fruits, vegetables, corn, and pulses not been possible with conventional the use time and serial numbers of with high-luminous-energy, a radiation individual lamps, making it possible PPFD (photosynthetic thermometers to rapidly exchange lamps on-site photon flux density) of because of without having to stop shows. over 1,000 μmol/ inaccurate m2/s*. measurements. *At an irradiation distance of 200 mm Intellectual Property No. of patent applications/ patents registered The USHIO Group’s policy on intellectual property is as follows: 250 219 219 216 212 202 1. Contribution to earnings 200 167 Give strategic advice and proposals autonomously to contribute to the 151 149 147 150 Company’s earnings. 121 2. Acquire effective patent rights 100 Conduct patent right acquisition activities with an eye to utilization, acquiring 50 and maintaining intellectual property that can contribute to activities in M&As, new businesses, and existing businesses for the entire Group. 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 3. Rigorous intellectual property compliance No. of patent applications No. of patents registered Conduct survey and analysis of other companies’ intellectual property to visualize intellectual property risk and ensure rigorous intellectual property compliance. 24 S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 Third-Party Opinion Sachiko Kishimoto A graduate of the School of Education, University of Tokyo, Ms. Kishimoto founded the forerunner to the foundation, NPO Public Resources Center, in 2000. She assumed her current position in 2013, following work at a private-sector think tank and studies in the United States. Her present work involves, among other areas, the development of socially minded capital flow, including donations, NPO funding and social investment, as well as corporate social responsibility. In addition to membership in Executive Director the Cabinet Office of the Government of Japan’s Joint Societal Development Advisory and Chief Secretary, Committee, she serves as director of several non-profit organizations, including the Public Resources Foundation Japan Fundraising Association and the Japan Association of Charitable Organizations. This year marks the first time I’ve been asked to offer the the integration of management and CSR to discuss policies third-party opinion for USHIO. Allow me to offer my regarding the possible social impact on other stakeholders opinion on the content of the Sustainability Report 2015 as as well, detailing what USHIO has construed the probable an outside citizen from an NPO/NGO perspective. effects to be and the extent to which it has targeted First, in the Top Message, USHIO shows that it recognizes measures for addressing them. the importance of a management base for the promotion of Third, under the section “USHIO’s CSR,” USHIO has CSR in the drive to realize its medium-term management clearly listed an overview of its CSR Medium-Term Plan and plan announced in May 2015, and reveals how enthusiastic key points for initiatives under its CSR Action Plan, top management is about it. I agree with USHIO’s recognition launched from the fiscal year ending March 2016. Why of efforts to safeguard management transparency, concern were these points deemed important? How do they link to for human rights and diversity, and supply chain the direction of management plans, priority business and management as vital issues, particularly given its desire to the promotion of new businesses? In light of the direction develop activities going forward as a global company. stated in the Top Message, I found myself wanting a more Second, while the feature articles focus in on the concrete explanation. Also, in this Sustainability Report, centerpieces of the medium-term management plan—the with the exception of a few areas, such as employment Solid State Lighting and Biomedical businesses—when rates for persons with disabilities and work-life balance, discussing the social value and high future potential of the reporting of numerical targets and results for individual USHIO’s pioneering businesses, it is probably a good idea USHIO CSR initiatives is fairly abstract. Accordingly, from a to also discuss the social costs associated with stakeholder’s standpoint, it is hard to determine whether development of these businesses. For example, since or not USHIO made steady progress on its CSR initiatives USHIO will promote M&A to expand its LED and LD for the fiscal year ended March 2015. In the future, when it product lineup, I would also like to hear about comes to CSR issues deemed material* in nature by USHIO, employment and customs in this expanded business base I look forward to a clear detailing of why these issues are network, and about initiatives for strengthening supply material in how they connect to management strategy, chain management globally. Regarding growth divisions set along with specifics concerning plans, targets, and progress for development in the coming years, beyond simply status for the reporting year. offering new value to customers, I think it is essential for *Material: Initiatives that match the degree of importance for stakeholders and companies to level of priority. Response to Third-Party Opinion Nobuyuki Kobayashi Director, Officer in Charge of CSR This year, Public Resources Foundation Executive Based on this guidance, we will take steps to clarify Director and Chief Secretary Sachiko Kishimoto for the targets that tie directly to social contributions that first time offered USHIO her opinion of our Sustainability highlight the unique character of our businesses, and Report 2015, for which we are extremely grateful. Since strive for robust dissemination of more specific 2010, USHIO has strengthened efforts designed to information. With respect to global supply chain merge management strategy with CSR issues. Ms. management, together with further strengthening Kishimoto has offered guidance on rating the importance initiatives, we will strive to create Win-Win relationships of CSR topics and the establishment of specific targets. in this area. S u s ta i n a b i l i t y R e p o r t 2 0 1 5 25 Published by:  CSR Department, Risk Management Office, USHIO INC. 6409 Moto-Ishikawa-cho, Aoba-ku, Yokohama-shi, Kanagawa 225-0004, Japan Tel: +81 45-901-2812 Fax: +81 45-901-2814 E-mail:kankyo@ushio.co.jp http://www.ushio.co.jp/en 1509S①
