Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013/14 Group commitments Newrest Group makes a commitment to its clients, employees, collaborators, and the environment on a number of key points: ensuring the quality and hygiene of our products and services, respecting human rights and the working conditions of our employees and collaborators, respecting the environment, and fighting against corruption. To this end, Newrest strictly adheres to international hygiene standards. In order to highlight our active commitment, we also comply with the UN Global Compact. This initiative includes 10 key principles derived from: The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. Quality, Health, Safety & ENVIRONMENT indicators, quality management indicators, food safety manageCorporate QHSE management has completed internal audits ment indicators for the products we serve, and health and safety of quality and food safety management in 77% of Newrest’s management indicators for employees’ occupational safety subsidiaries. and health. Newrest’s commitment to transparent practices and continuous improvement has led us to define indicators for all our quality ↗ Occupational health and safety management system objectives, and the next financial year will In addition to the health and safety policy determined also include environmental management indicators. by the Group’s presidents, Newrest has defined rules to ensure that basic health and safety management methods are put in place ↗ Quality management for employees. and client satisfaction Partial deviations detected during internal audits are considered to be major non-conformances. Our quality management approach seeks to establish close ties with our clients based on mutual trust and on their satisfaction The objective of the policy and the safety management system Management indicators with our services and products. Quality management involves a combination of systematic, is to gradually reduce the number of accidents. The Newrest Board thus closely monitors KPIs for its establishments. These are for continuous improvement inter-related activities, concerning all levels of the company, the Incidence Index, which indicates the number of accidents with the aim of delivering products and services best suited causing lost working days per one thousand employees, and to our clients’ needs. the Gravity Index, which assesses the number of lost working days Quality, implementation of ↗ Internal audits implementation of Given the complexity of our service environment, we sometimes due to accidents in relation to the total number of hours worked. Our clients and consumers trust the Quality Management System Newrest’s Quality Management system 77% of subsidiaries audited fall short of 100% compliance. Thorough analysis of all deviations us to provide catering services ↗ QMS: 100% of inflight catering business and incidents detected along the chain allows us to identify areas for improvement and further our “continuous improvement” ↗ Environmental commitments in the system in line with two expectations: Quality, client satisfaction ↗ Consumer satisfaction surveys in 50% of cafeterias approach. At Newrest, we have developed several active management ↗ Q u a l it y, He a lt h , S af e t y an d En v ir on e m e n t initiatives for our businesses with environmental impact. These tasty products and safe products. ↗ Microbiological analysis in 88% Newrest has created a global “QMS” database, including incidents detected during service to clients in the inflight catering sector. initiatives range from systematic management in compliance of our subsidiaries Quality, food safety with organic production certification or ISO standard 14001, ↗ HACCP system internal audits 100% This database alerts all management levels, from service of centers audited for which some of our operations are certified, to alternative Quality management aims to fulfill these expectations, and as such, supervisors to top management, of the quality of service delivered energy or recycling initiatives. Newrest has developed its Quality Management System, which ↗ Incidence & Gravity index to our clients. Occupational health and safety 100% of our subsidiaries By contrast, in instances where there is direct contact includes all the processes used, from menu creation and menu ↗ Internal audit 77% of our subsidiaries Starting this financial year, environmental management is one planning to product delivery for cafeterias, canteens and remote with the consumer, such as school and company cafeterias of our global objectives, made evident through the obligation catering or transport companies (airlines, rail, etc.). It involves all Environment ↗ Internal audit 77% of our subsidiaries or remote sites, we rely upon consumer satisfaction surveys to reduce energy consumption by 5%, water consumption by 5% our human resources, from top management to new employees, to detect areas for improvement. and paper consumption by 5% at all our headquarters. These including chefs, nutritionists, organizers, supervisors, etc. objectives will be reported to the Board for all of our organizations. We chose to have the quality management system certified Our objective is to guarantee the safety of our employees and those within the environment of our activities, as well as environmental ↗ Quality and food safety by an internationally recognized agent (Bureau Veritas) so that safety. We seek to achieve this by developing and implementing management implementation would be consistent in all our operations. We have used the ISO 9001 standard as a model, and certification stringent health and safety procedures. Consistent implementation Incidence index evolution and compliance with the OSHAS 18001 management model has It is already quite clear that food safety management must (accidents/average staff*1’000) of our operations will be based on their consolidation. be carried out using a systematic method of identification, allowed us to obtain certification for operations faced with specific Our quality management system acts as an integrated management localization, evaluation and inspection for possible risks related market requirements. system, making it easier to obtain other certifications if required to the health standards of the products in the food chain. This by our clients or the markets in which we operate. In particular, we have certified our food safety management ↗ Objectives for continuous is the focus of the HACCP system implemented in all our centers. process with ISO standard 22000 in markets where required by food safety standards. improvement This financial year included evaluating the efficiency of the HACCP system implemented in all the centers where Group commitments Even though our activity has no significant environmental impact, None of our commitments can materialize without measurement we prepare and serve meals, using two verification tools: internal our choice to manage resources as efficiently as possible has led and improvement tools. We have put indicators and targets in place audits and microbiological analysis of the meals prepared. us to develop methods and actions that allow us to accomplish for each of our objectives. Internal follow-up audits of the HACCP system have been carried our objectives. Wherever required in collaboration with our clients, During this exercise, we initiated a regular communication project out by local QHSE experts in 100% of cafeterias, canteens 2005/06 2013/14 we’ve made our commitment clear through ISO 14001 certification. with the Board with respect to quality indicators: client satisfaction and remote catering in which we operate. 4 5 Newrest's Involvement IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES 2. Local procurement ↗ 87% of global Group purchases are made locally ↗ More than 50% of purchases are made locally in 90% of our countries ↗ 100% of purchases are made locally in 45% of our countries (Panama, Peru, Congo, Zambia and Uganda, for example) ↗ Up to 12% of local purchases are bought from cooperatives ↗ Ne w r e s t ’s In v ol v e m e n t In L o c a l C om m un it i e s ↗ Cooperatives 1. Local employment Newrest enters into partnerships with agricultural cooperatives These partnerships with cooperatives allow us to work together almost everywhere in the world. These purchases may represent on the following: up to 12% of the amount of local purchases, as is the case ↗ Newrest commits to certain volumes, thereby ensuring in Morocco, for example. the sustainability of small farms. ↗ Payment terms are shorter in certain cases, ↗ 93.3% of our employees are hired locally Products purchased from cooperatives are for the most part such as in the Congo. fresh products: ↗ It goes without saying that purchases from cooperatives must ↗ 99% of employees in 50% of our countries ↗ fruit and vegetables in Guinea, Niger, Madagascar, Bolivia not jeopardize product quality, so quality control monitoring are hired locally and French Polynesia, and procedures are implemented at the cooperatives, which ↗ lama meat in Bolivia, is also the case for all our local suppliers. ↗ 80% of our countries have hired ↗ dairy products in Morocco, ↗ Substantial work is carried out to improve production conditions, ↗ eggs in the Congo and Niger. as it is the case in Bolivia, for example, where Newrest Bolivia more than 95% of their employees supports the cooperatives' farmers with their applications from the local population for certification to the Bolivian health authorities. Group commitments 6 7 Our Socio-Economic AC TIONS Our compliance with the principles of The Universal ↗ Chile ↗ Oman Declaration of Human Rights has led many Newrest In December 2013, Newrest Chile's team at work on the site In order to improve the health of the residents and citizens subsidiaries either to support NGO activities where Alma, a gigantic telescope, is located, in the north of Chile, organized a Christmas party in the small village of Camar, 70 km of the Sultanate of Oman, Newrest Wacasco once again renewed its support this year for the Oman Cancer Association via in countries where we have operations or to launch from the operation site. Twenty-three children between the ages Dar Al Hanan, which provides free accommodation, food services, of one and ten who live in this village of 60 inhabitants, their own actions. 3,000 meters above sea level, were able to enjoy a Christmas psychological support and administrative assistance to young patients and their families. pageant prepared by our employees. The employees, in coordination with the village teacher, handed out 1. Key figures The goal of this foundation is to allow children of all ages to develop their personality and creativity through music and theater. gifts and clothing, and two volunteered to dress up as Santa Claus and his elf. Thanks to the generosity of Newrest teams, every child received two gifts and a bag of candy, and spent an hour with Santa ↗ Panama Claus and one of his elves. Newrest Inalsa presented a donation in kind to a home that cares ↗ 5,500 individuals have benefited for children placed there by order of a court. Household linen from Newrest's support in the form of direct actions or donations and cleaning products were distributed. 3. Health and ↗ More than 350 employees were actively involved ↗ Gabon During the year, Newrest Gabon donated food products humanitarian actions ↗ Actions in place in 75% of Newrest’s countries on a number of occasions to the Port-Gentil Parish, which manages an orphanage with close to 30 children. ↗ French Polynesia The goals of the Oman Cancer Association are: ↗ Morocco ↗ to promote screening in remote regions of the Sultanate of Oman 2. Social actions Newrest Morocco funds schools in the working-class areas In French Polynesia, Newrest participated in the “good health and balanced diet” days organized by the social security fund. Eight ↗ to support the families of patients during their cancer treatment (transportation, accommodation and meals), of Casablanca via the Al Jisr association and through Newrest employees took turns over two days promoting a balanced its membership in the Initiative association. Throughout diet, aimed at fighting obesity and diabetes. ↗ to follow up on patients and ensure they follow ↗ O ur S o c i o Ec on om i c A c t i ons their chemotherapy treatment properly and regularly, the year, close to 30 employees helped 350 children benefit ↗ to assist patients and their families with administrative ↗ Bolivia from Newrest's assistance. ↗ Austria procedures related to or resulting from their illness. In Bolivia, Newrest trained 45 unemployed women six hours per week for five months on the following: food hygiene, ↗ South Africa Newrest Wagons-Lits Austria made a number of donations to local associations in the field of health: ↗ Philippines stock management, creation of restaurant menus, cleaning, Newrest dnata supports Oliver's House, an orphanage ↗ an association that helps children suffering from AIDS (HIV Kids), Typhoon Haiyan, which struck the Philippines in November 2013, laundry services, reception, customer service. in Johannesburg, by donating food products. This home ↗ an Austrian association involved in the fight against cancer caused major damage to 41 provinces. The Newrest Group donated welcomes children with AIDS who are either orphans (Austrian Cancer Research). €15,000 to its subsidiary in the Philippines to allow the employees The objective of this training is to prepare the communities or have been abandoned. working on sites abroad to shorten their stay away from the country for the Paris-Dakar race stopover. This year, once again, Newrest Bolivia provided breakfasts ↗ Croatia ↗ Madagascar and return to look for their dear ones from whom they had no news. In 2013, Newrest created the ESPER Madagascar association. For its part, Newrest SOS collected donations in the Philippines to primary schools and kindergardens in the town of San Cristobal Newrest Dubrovnik helped the communities in the town In partnership with the French “Entendre le Monde” association, from its employees and clients in the amount of € 22,000, beside the mine we manage. One thousand children were the focus of Cilipi, close to the airport where Newrest operates: Newrest Madagascar will provide support for the detection which was donated to the Red Cross in the form of clothing, canned of a communication campaign on “good health and a healthy diet” ↗ Donation of a laptop for a neighborhood center that and management of deafness in the region of Toamasina. goods, blankets, bottled water and footwear. The year-end provided by our specialist in childhood nutrition. the townspeople completely renovated. This center has a room One of the French association's missions is planned for early 2015, party was canceled and the budget allocated was also used for Group commitments this purpose. International NGOs focused on the Tacloban ↗ The Netherlands where weddings, birthdays and other municipal events take place on a regular basis. in parallel to the deployment of doctors, nurses and medical equipment, and focuses on training and ensuring the sustainability and Leyte provinces, so Newrest SOS decided to help families In The Netherlands, Newrest distributed meals and drinks ↗ Donation of school materials to an underprivileged family of the association's actions on site. in Culion, Coron and Busuanga. to food banks and small toys to the Peter Pan Foundation. in Cilipi that has a disabled daughter. 8 9 Our Employees: OUR GRE ATEST STRENGTH ↗ Congo 4. Actions focused In partnership with Total E&P Congo and Allianz, Newrest Congo on disabilities participated in the organization of an event in aid of an orphanage in the city of Pointe-Noire. Close to 40 orphans were invited to take 1. Employee training part in an afternoon dedicated to the introduction of rugby at the rugby school’s training session. The children, although very shy at first, were very enthusiastic ↗ Croatia to meet and talk with the players, educators and monitors, and 1.1 Key figures Newrest Dubrovnik financed the purchase of a seat to facilitate rapidly threw themselves into the game. The entire event the transportation by car of paraplegic children for an association was organized to ensure it would be warm and friendly, thanks to the partners (Total E&P Congo, Allianz Congo, Minoterie Minoco) ↗ 85% of employees trained that works with highly disabled children. and all the volunteers who attended. Newrest Congo then served a hearty snack that all of the event's participants richly deserved. ↗ 170,000 training hours ↗ Tunisia ↗ O ur S o c i o Ec on om i c A c t i ons ↗ O ur Em plo y e e s : O ur Gr e at e s t S t r e ng t h ↗ 23,800 employees trained In Tunisia, Newrest sponsors a farm focused on the insertion of the disabled. For the most part, it welcomes disabled individuals ↗ More than 6,000 toolbox training sessions from needy families who live close to the farm. for more than 5,000 employees ↗ France ↗ Employees trained regardless of their position in the company In France, Airshop (inflight sales) subcontracts to an association that employs disabled workers, the ANRH ESAT Corbeil BAPC, in Corbeil Essonnes. The products, packaging, labels and use-before dates are provided to the center, along with 1.2 Training topics 1.3 Trainers a demonstration kit. Then all of the components are assembled and Airshop recovers the products packaged in boxes. 6. Miscellaneous actions General ↗ Personal hygiene ↗ Languages ↗ Waste management Training is provided... ...either by outside providers, in particular for training on: ↗ occupational health and safety, ↗ Food safety ↗ HACCP ↗ Kitchen production ↗ the use of chemical products, 5. Sports-related actions ↗ Unidirectional flow principle ↗ Pastries and baked Kitchen/cooking ↗ aviation and airport safety. ↗ Angola goods ↗ Restaurant management ↗ Culinary training ↗ Food allergens ↗ Halal food ↗ Traceability ↗ Stock management and FIFO ↗ Use of chemical products Since 2012, Newrest Angola has worked in partnership with ...or internally, when the training is provided by: the Dom Bosco association. In 2013, a hotel school was inauguService ↗ Customer service ↗ our HSE managers, ↗ our site managers, ↗ Austria rated: a new step forward in this collaboration. ↗ Aviation safety ↗ Procedures on safety measures ↗ our training managers, who visit the different operation sites. Newrest Angola can now hire professionals who have been at aircraft doors↗ Aircraft approaches and the inflight Newrest Wagons-Lits Austria supported Special Olympics which, Inflight handling activity ↗ Ramp safety for the handling through its actions and based on its values, contribute perfectly trained on our multiple trades for offshore and onshore activity ↗ VIP cuisine With regard to external training, Newrest decided to enter into to giving true meaning to these activities, and highlight and projects. Newrest Angola's goal is to go even further a partnership with REHIS, the Royal Environmental Health Institute in its partnership with Dom Bosco by working with our clients Remote sites ↗ HUET and BOSIET for offshore oil sites of Scotland. This Scottish training institute provides member promote essential values: promotion of the individual, the meaning ↗ Survival at sea of honest effort, team spirit, respecting the adversary, loyalty, to promote the development of internships. companies with training materials. Our trainers are accredited the will to win, the joy of winning and the acceptance of defeat. ↗ Occupational health and safety ↗ First aid and administer exams to our employees. These exams are then ↗ Croatia Occupational health and safety ↗ Ebola: symptoms and the fight against the disease ↗ Risk prevention ↗ Fire safety sent to REHIS, which corrects them, then sends us the results. Newrest Wagons-Lits Austria also financially supported In Madagascar and Oman, 330 individuals were trained on HACCP Group commitments an association, which, in collaboration with the national police's Newrest Dubrovnik financed the castration of six dogs in a kennel and food hygiene (first and second levels). ↗ Computer training on internal software sports department, helps adolescents in difficulty through for dogs that roam the city of Dubrovnik. This kennel is home IT (Unirest, Winflight) and external software (Sage) sports activities. to close to 400 dogs. ↗ Conflict management ↗ Financial management Management and reporting 10 11 2. Employee motivation ↗ Newrest Cameroon celebrates May 1st All of Newrest's employees in Cameroon attended its first Labor Day parade. Contract employee representatives also participated in the parade that celebrates workers. Afterward, a meal was shared on the company's premises and gifts were handed out. ↗ Newrest Antilles participates in the “Relais Inter-Entreprise” relay competition On May 27, 2014, Newrest Antilles in Pointe-à-Pitre participated for the first time in the “Relais Inter-Entreprise 2014” sports event organized by an association that bears the same name, “Relais Inter-Entreprise”, which commemorates the abolition of slavery. Close to 60 teams composed of companies, municipalities ↗ 35 Newrest Peru employees and associations attended. As planned, three employees from participated in the Lima marathon Newrest Antilles Sabrina Lujien, Chef, Vans Chalat, Supervisor, and Mirtha Lujien, Temporary Chef, participated in the 61 km In May 2014, 35 Newrest Peru employees ran in the 10 km long inter-company race. and 21 km races at the Lima marathon, a perfect occasion ↗ Initiative in Austria ↗ Newrest Gabon celebrates May 1st for a time of shared enjoyment and team building. Everyone ↗ O ur Em plo y e e s : O ur Gr e at e s t S t r e ng t h The distinctive feature of this race is that, at the start gave their very best and made it to the finish line. Newrest Wagons-Lits launched an internal contest over the year Newrest Gabon organized a company meal to celebrate May 1st. and at the end of the race, the teams are composed of women only. Every three kilometers, the baton is relayed, so a full team for its employees on board trains: the 25 employees who achieve the highest number of sales on board trains receive prizes. Close to 80 of the subsidiary's employees met during the afternoon on a sports field close to the Newrest Gabon premises. requires 24 people. Their goal for 2015: a team exclusively com↗ Culinary Art in Morocco In the early part of the year, a large sign was displayed, listing posed of Newrest Antilles employees. Twelve Newrest chefs participated in the first culinary art training the 25 prizes to be awarded at the end of the year. These prizes One of the chefs was responsible for preparing a festive meal, session, led by the famous Moroccan chef, Meryem Cherkaoui, include trips to Italy and a flat-screen television. with the help of prep cooks. Employees enjoyed a friendly on Wednesday, May 28, 2014. On the occasion of this innovative atmosphere and a buffet with salads, braised chicken, roast initiative based on the “gastronomic use of Mousseline-brand ↗ Employee of the year mutton, braised pork chops, jumbo shrimp kebabs, whole braised fish, rice, couscous, manioc and various sauces on the side. mashed potatoes” theme, original recipes, easy to reproduce in Mauritania In addition, musicians played well into the evening. for catering, were prepared throughout the day. After Casablanca, this training will be provided in the region Newrest Mauritania organized an incentive event for its employees: of Rabat. This initiative falls within the Newrest Group's Human the election of the best employee of the year. The election is not Resource policy, which consistently targets a training dynamic based solely on the quality of the work accomplished and committhat allows its employees to constantly improve. ment to the company but also on the individual's personal values. Toure N Diabou was the proud winner in 2013. BWO, local and head office representatives came especially to attend the event. ↗ Multiple initiatives in Oman Group commitments In addition to the employee of the month initiative, Newrest Wacasco launched the Employee of the Year and Driver of the Month contests; the latter emphasizes the zero-accident policy and compliance with the highway code rules. 12 13 The Environment 1. ISO 14001:2004 ↗ French Polynesia A few recycling figures certifications Since 2011, Newrest has partnered with SEP – Fenua Ma (“Société Environnement Polynésien”), a semi-public company founded in 2007. It has three main goals: ↗ 98 tons of cardboard Austria ↗ 57 tons of glass ↗ 127 tons of compost ↗ the study and implementation of household and industrial waste treatment operations for all of the archipelagos The Newrest Group launched a widespread in French Polynesia, ↗ 5 tons of paper Portugal ↗ 1.2 tons of glass certification campaign for its units in 2014. ↗ the protection and rehabilitation of former unauthorized ↗ 850 kg of plastic Today, five countries have been certified or uncontrolled landfills, ISO 14001:2004: ↗ the protection of natural spaces. For each kilo of recyclable waste thrown into recycling bins, ↗ Austria the SEP pays one Polynesian franc to associations selected ↗ Bolivia by the mayor of the operation's town and that focus as a priority on the town’s underprivileged children. Industry also participates ↗ Greece in this operation and, thanks to its efforts in sorting and recycling waste, the SEP provides funds to large associations ↗ Portugal such as Village SOS in Papara and SAGA. ↗ Switzerland Every year, Fenua Ma rewards its partners – all those who endeavor to ensure that waste is systematically and appropriately sorted. On June 5, 2014, awards were handed out to the towns, companies, 2.3 Reduction in the use of paper We manage multiple different activities in these countries, schools, island towns and hotels that have signed an agreement As a general rule, documents are printed in black and white and the certification covers operations in the rail, remote site, with Fenua Ma. and on both sides, which is the default setting on all computers. inflight and catering sectors. Newrest received the “Tortue d’Or” award in the “corporate” Furthermore, electronic archives are given preference over paper category. Approximately 500 kg of cardboard and more than 300 kg archives. To this end, intranet platforms have been developed both 2. Recycling and waste of plastic waste are recycled every week. This prize rewards at the Group level and in the different countries. ↗ Croatia, Spain and Uganda the Polynesian teams and their efforts to sort waste, which directly reduction policy benefits the children in their town. Finally, scrap paper is reused in printers for internal documents. Replacement of wood or cardboard crates by reusable, foldable plastic boxes, cleaned by the suppliers after each delivery. ↗ Mexico A few figures on savings achieved: ↗ T h e En v ir on m e n t ↗ 90% reduction in the quantity of wood boxes and crates in Croatia The tax on waste paid to the city of Cancun decreased ↗ In Uganda, the boxes and crates have all been replaced 2.1 Waste reduction by plastic boxes by 60% thanks to the purchase of an organic waste disposer, which significantly reduces the weight of waste disposed of. Austria ↘ -9.27 tons ↗ Group ↗ Cyprus Cyprus ↘ -1% At the Congo's initiative, an awareness-raising campaign on waste Newrest Cyprus has put compactors in place for cardboard, 2.2 Recycling and reusing Portugal ↘ -2 tons was launched on all catering and remote sites. which is therefore recycled. Systematic recycling of the following items: Congo ↘ -10% (reuse of scrap paper) These posters were then translated into five languages: French, ↗ Cardboard ↗ Glass ↗ Paper English, Spanish, Portuguese and Madagascan. ↗ Angola ↗ Cooking oil (into biofuel in Tunisia and dog food in Africa) Madagascar ↘ -32% Similarly, the use of Winflight software for inflight catering and On Total's Girasol site, the client has achieved ISO 14001:2004 Group commitments certification. Therefore, as a subcontractor, Newrest Angola Recycling of the following items, if treatment centers Mexico ↘ -3% Unirest software for the remote sites and catering helps many exist in the country: countries produce the quantities actually required for site has implemented a comprehensive series of measures to reduce consumption. For example, Winflight allows for a real-time forecast the impact of its activities on the environment. The most significant ↗ Electronic devices ↗ Batteries ↗ Light bulbs of the number of meals to be produced, facilitating the optimal measure was to replace the detergent used in the past ↗ Cleaning products ↗ Cans ↗ Plastic ↗ Wood crates use of raw materials. with one that is more eco-friendly. ↗ Green waste as compost ↗ Toners 14 15 Nutrition ↗ Headquarters ↗ The Netherlands By reducing the page number of the 2013/14 Activity Report During the extension work for the inflight catering unit, and promoting its electronic diffusion, 23% of paper and ink LED lighting was put in place virtually throughout the site. have been saved, compared to last year. The reduction in the consumption of electricity is not visible yet, but should be next year. ↗ Cyprus Since the beginning of 2014, all of the inflight catering trucks Elimination of desktop printers, centralization on one printer now use AdBlue®: an aqueous solution composed of 32.5% urea that uses less electricity and ink. and 67.5% deionized water. By using this solution, 85% of pollutants (nitrogen oxide) is transformed into water vapor and harmless ↗ France nitrogen. The impact of the use of this product cannot be measured, however the quantity of CO2 produced Eco-friendly printing of the 176,000 SNCF cards and 100,000 has dropped significantly. brochures for sales on board airplanes for the Airshop subsidiary. ↗ Greece Each user has a code to print, and the number of documents printed is monitored every month. ↗ The Netherlands The Dutch Ecofont software was installed on every computer. During printing, Ecofont punches holes in the typed letters, with no impact on legibility. Up to 50% of ink used can be saved. 2.4 Reduction in the consumption of energy 1. Use of Unirest 2. Use of Winflight ↗ T h e En v ir on m e n t ↗ Nut r it i on Austria ↘ -1,400 kWh ↗ Congo Cyprus ↘ -15% electricity ↘ -4% fuel oil Logistics schedules have been revised to allow for the optimization Unirest software is used on many remote Similarly, an internal software package of deliveries and therefore the reduction of CO2 emissions. and catering sites, and has been used was developed more than seven years ago France ↘ -7% fuel oil ↗ This has led to a 10% drop in the consumption of fuel oil throughout the company since 2012. for the inflight sector. It is currently ↘ -4,500 liters fuel oil as compared to the prior year. It has the following features: used in 80% of the countries in which we have Portugal ↗ creation of detailed menu plans based on the nutritional an inflight activity. Reunion Island ↘ -52% fuel oil ↗ French Polynesia requirements of each client, ↗ creation of recipe sheets with details on the food products This software allows for: In French Polynesia, the production of gas to produce required, ↗ the creation of menus for each airline, Spain ↘ -6.5% electricity ↘ -2.8% fuel oil hot water dropped by 100%: hot water is now produced solely ↗ creation of menus based on the menu plans and recipe sheets, ↗ the creation of corresponding recipe sheets, from solar energy. ↗ management of food product stocks and the cost of food ↗ the updating of requirements in accordance Switzerland ↘ -1% electricity ↘ -0.1% fuel oil (new trucks purchased) products, and therefore the management of purchases based with the passenger load rate of flights, ↗ stock management, Tunisia ↘ -12% fuel oil ↗ Cameroon on upcoming menus, ↗ nutritional impact of each dish proposed. ↗ management of the cost of food products, Tracking of vehicle consumption was implemented in order to ↗ the proposal of menus suited to everyone's Group commitments Cameroon ↘ -10,000 liters fuel oil dietary requirements (gluten-free, vegetarian, etc.). adjust the consumption of light and heavy vehicles. This tool is currently used in 50% of our countries that have ↘ -15% electricity (energy-saving light bulbs) a catering and/or remote site activity, and it should be deployed Congo ↘ -10% fuel oil (new logistics) Every month, the logistics manager reports on monthly consumpin 75% of these countries by next year. tion to the director general, who then compares it to prior Uganda ↘ -20% fuel oil consumption to determine the refills for the following months. 16 17 4. Nutrition on our operation sites Regardless of the country and type of operation, ↗ encouraging the population to adopt healthy dietary habits, ↗ offering a balanced diet, consumed in a healthy (100% ↗ Oman Newrest designs healthy meal plans in partnernon-smoking spaces) and pleasant (hygiene, waste-sorting) On the Vale site in the Sultanate of Oman, a healthy meal option ship with its clients. environment, is proposed. It includes a sugar-free soda, products with low A healthy meal option (with no animal fat or red meat) is offered ↗ allowing for the consumption of alcohol-free beverages animal-derived fat and milk product content, as well as vegetables on most of the remote and catering sites. at a reasonable price, and grilled white meat. ↗ improving awareness on dietary habits and health among both Of course, the calorie content of dishes is displayed on the self-service line, allowing everyone to select a meal the population (more specifically, individuals who eat outside ↗ Spain of their homes) and food service professionals, that best suits their nutritional needs. ↗ contributing to a reduction in the incidence of risk factors In July 2014, Newrest Spain celebrated the Newrest Canarias' for chronic diseases resulting from dietary habits. First Technical Days on Nutrition in Schools with the organization Also, a nutritionist regularly visits certain sites, offering those of exhibits, roundtables and working groups in which experts from who wish a personal program that includes sports activities Every day, Newrest Canonica offers a meal option that is prepared Newrest and its clients were able to meet, train, collect information and tips on a healthier lifestyle. with organic products, and at least 30% of purchases are made and hold discussions. Furthermore, taste tests of all of the dishes offered are attended in the cantons in which it has operations. All of the participants were highly motivated during these Days, by clients in all business sectors. This allows for an evaluation of the organoleptic characteristics of our services. This committee ↗ Congo which, with regard to processes related to the municipal sector, were prepared with Newrest Morocco's teams. includes representatives of our clients who can then provide Contrary to local dietary habits, Newrest Congo stopped using us with their feedback both positive and negative on the food services proposed. products rooted in tradition but that are unhealthy in its cuisine, ↗ Tunisia such as bouillon cubes. On November 14, 2013, World Diabetes Day, Newrest Catering Finally, day events dedicated to the prevention of diabetes, in Tunisia organized a breakfast at the head office of Attijari Bank obesity and smoking are organized in almost every geographical areas. Similarly, for catering sites, “Taste Test Weeks” are held, ↗ Uganda in Tunis. A healthy meal was served in the presence of our team of nutritionists in order to inform and educate the bank's 3. Marcel and Linda in particular on school catering sites. Local recipes were adjusted to reduce the quantity of cooking oil. Furthermore, the awareness of employees was raised on the employees on this subject. Awareness-raising flyers were also distributed to provide guests with information on diabetes campaign ↗ Greece importance of including fruit and vegetables in their diets, as well as of reducing their consumption of animal-derived proteins. and the various stages of this disease. ↗ Nut r it i on On catering sites, the side dish for the main meal may be replaced with a salad. ↗ French Polynesia Since its creation, the Polynesian subsidiary has implemented Newrest designed posters on the importance ↗ The Netherlands numerous measures to improve its clients' well-being by providing of proper nutrition. These posters are now In partnership with Arkefly, Newrest Netherlands created a healthier healthy food, one of which was the implementation present in most of our catering and remote sites. menu that includes fair trade products for the airline's crews. of an awareness-raising campaign on dietary balance. This concept was developed further to the success of Madeleine In the company's cafeterias, a specialized dietician's assistant on the school catering sites. ↗ Switzerland provides information to employees on the composition of a balanced meal when they choose their food. She also provides Newrest Canonica received “Fourchette Verte” and “Région Terre Group commitments advice to consumers in accordance with the composition of their d'Avenir” certification for its catering activity. The “Fourchette tray. Communication materials with information on food groups Verte” label is based on the following criteria: are distributed: each group has a color code that is also set out in front of each dish. 18 19 Corruption ↗ South Africa ↗ South Africa 1. Corruption A transparency/non-favoritism policy has been implemented 3. Supplier selection All purchases are renewed via an invitation to tender every in the company. dnata Newrest maintains this transparency thanks three months to ensure we procure products of the highest quality to its open door policy, which allows everyone to express their fears possible at the best price, and also to allow for fair competition or provide information on practices that do not comply between our suppliers and avoid bribes or any other form ↗ Group with the anti-corruption policy. Suppliers are selected by external audit. of corruption. Regardless of the country involved, It is essential that suppliers respect certain rules Newrest Group employees must maintain ↗ Madagascar in order to earn accreditation: product quality, ↗ Niger commercial relations based on transparency Four individuals were trained so as to be able to provide internal stock management, freshness, transportation Our suppliers are selected solely on the basis of criteria related and honesty. This requirement also applies training on anti-corruption rules and procedures. system and cold chain integrity. Selections to the quality of products, their price, availability and responsiveness. Purchases must imperatively be approved by three distinct to our suppliers and clients; underhanded are made based solely on these criteria. competition is frowned upon. ↗ Ghana Supplier audit procedures and questionnaires have been individuals: the country manager, the operations manager and the financial manager. A zero-tolerance policy regarding corruption, applicable established by Newrest and are used in all countries. Newrest Group employees are formally prohibited from giving gifts or money to clients or officials in order to win contracts. to all stakeholders, was implemented. For any invitation to tender, each country must obtain a quote ↗ Gabon Additionally, Newrest employees refuse any gift offered from at least three different suppliers. This process must be The list of approved suppliers of local products was revised further by suppliers that are certified or seeking certification repeated once every year at a minimum for every family of products to audits. In 2014, 15 local suppliers of products with whom in order to obtain a deal or lower prices. purchased. The price is not the only criterion taken into account Newrest Gabon had been working were removed from the list, All forms of pressure or bribery towards sanitation inspection in the selection the quality of products also plays a role. and only four were retained. personnel in order to have them ignore certain failures to meet Of course, a contract is drafted locally to ensure a legal tie binds hygiene standards are unacceptable. Newrest entities to the suppliers. ↗ Angola All rules apply regardless of the country, whether corruption In 2014, a new team took over the purchasing department. is common or not. ↗ Panama Their first project was to implement a system to improve control over the purchasing process. The Newrest Group has implemented strict procedures to identify A detailed purchasing process has been implemented. Its goal at-risk persons (purchasing managers, sales managers). Employees is to ensure that the selection of a supplier matches the product Suppliers are now called in and a questionnaire is filled in to better are monitored by country managers, zone managers and internal price and quality criteria, thereby avoiding all forms of corruption understand their capacity and reliability. During all negotiations audits, who control the figures for each country every month and in the selection process. on potential reductions, a number of executives are present. verify procedures during their regular visits to different countries. Then all the information is included in the contract prepared A global anti-corruption policy has been drafted and translated ↗ Croatia by the legal department. into the three main working languages. 2. Fair competition Newrest Dubrovnik selects its suppliers and builds client/supplier relations very carefully. The objective is not just the price ↗ French Polynesia ↗ C or r up t i on ↗ Mexico and quality, but also the supplier's compliance with QHSE rules, its reputation and honesty. Despite various attempts by suppliers Anti-fraud procedures were implemented in the Faa'a production unit. These procedures, related to the processing of invoices, Despite widespread corruption in the country, Newrest's to bribe our team, it has been very loyal and has complied payments, purchases and logistics, are read and signed operations in Cancun are transparent: no employee has given Foul play is unacceptable in any invitation with the principles imposed, and all offers of this type by all department heads and operators. Random controls take into unfair proposals from suppliers or public officials. to tender that Newrest Group responds to. have been refused and management informed immediately. place to verify compliance with these procedures. Contracts can only be won during normal ↗ The Netherlands competition between various participants. The purchasing process has been divided into three different phases, each one managed by a distinct individual, so that ↗ Philippines We believe that, “You reap what you sow.” This is a key feature no one can interfere in the decisions of others. Different individuals In September 2014, Newrest SOS participated in the Annual Social dumping or prices that do not conform to market regulations of the company’s management and production processes. manage the processes to select products, negotiate prices, place Integrity Summit, focused on corruption, as an innovative company. are practices that are not tolerated. Prices are studied indeTransparency and honesty are essential tools to achieve this goal. orders and receive products. Group commitments pendently. No agreements are made with the competition. The event was organized by the Business Center in Makati, and was attended by many public and private sector representa↗ Switzerland Offers proposed for all contracts are evaluated jointly by country, zone and sales managers in the activity corresponding ↗ Mauritania tives, as well as youth. No year-end gift is accepted from any supplier and invitations to the invitation to tender. The process of answering and awarding All new suppliers are approved by the Director General to any event whatsoever from suppliers are politely declined. contracts is also closely monitored by the matrix organization. and Assistant Director General. 20 21 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT OFFICE NEWREST 61 boulevard Carnot • 31000 Toulouse – France Phone: +33 5 62 89 39 88 | Fax: +33 5 62 89 39 70 COMMUNICATION NEWREST Dominique Pilatte, Communication Director 61 boulevard Carnot • 31000 Toulouse – France Phone: +33 5 62 89 39 79 | Fax: +33 5 62 89 39 70 INVESTORS RELATIONS NEWREST Matthieu Jeandel, Vice President Finance Service 61 boulevard Carnot • 31000 Toulouse – France Phone: +33 5 62 89 39 87 | Fax: +33 5 62 89 39 70 www.newrest.eu
