Mobica for Advanced Industries  Type of organisation: Industrial Company  Main activities Manufacture and assembly of interior automotive components & car metal chassis assembly  Location: 6th of October City 3rd Industrial zone Plot #3  Number of employees: 600  Website: www.mobica.net 1 Certificates  ISO TS 16949  ISO 14001 for environmental management  ISO 26000 Social Responsibility  OHSAS BS 18001 For HSE  ISO GUIDE 25 for Labs acquired/ ISO 17025.  GM Global Supplier Certificate (SFE & QSB)  Best Supplier for Nissan Egypt  Approved Supplier For VW Germany  Approved Supplier For BMW Germany MOBICA ISO 26000 project 3 Our vision and mission  Our vision: To be a global and regional market leader in quality automotive interior systems through utilizing the latest sustainable technology and management systems.  Our mission: To Exceed our customers’ expectations via continuous improvement and upgrading of our capabilities and personnel.  Our values: Integrity and honesty Transparency and openness Quality Ethics and confidentiality Policies: QSEpolicy, Human Resources, Mobica approach to (environmental, social and economy) Sustainability (Sustainability policy/Code of conduct) 4 MOBICA Policy MOBICA FOR ADVANCED INDUSTRIES Controlling and regulating the use and rationalization of resources. Prevention of injuries and health illness. Quality‚ Environment ‚ Health & Safety and Social Responsibility Continually improve the effectiveness of the quality , environment , Policy occupational health & safety and social responsibility management MOBICA for Advanced Industries has considered as a leading systems. company In the field of automotive Interiors and body frames industry Comply with the applicable legal requirements , recommendations of in Egypt and Middle East, and it recognizes the importance of the ILO and other requirements of environment , OH&S and social implementing the quality‚ environment , occupational health &safety responsibility. and social responsibility management systems for the success of the Continual evaluation of all company activities and processes which company, and working effectively as a teamwork to reach a high affects the environment. competitive position all over the world. Potential hazard identification , risk assessment and Identifying of MOBICA for Advanced Industries realizes also that meeting its necessary control to protect workers . customer’s requirements and expectations, as well as care with its Adhering to the global principles which include a set of core values in suppliers by giving them technical support, clear agreements and the fields of human rights, labor standards, environmental and antihonest feedback of their performance is the meaning of its quality and corruption, transparency, expression right and intellectual freedom excellence. As well as the importance of the quality, MOBICA is and non-discrimination. responsible for protecting the internal & external environment , save Maintain the confidentiality of the information and data of MOBICA health , safety and rights of their employees under its control. and all stakeholders. Top management also is committed to : The implementation of this policy is achieved through all persons , Provide high quality sustainable products complied with the technical contractors and dealers with the company by providing the necessary specifications & customers requirements. training and resources‚ and to make them aware of their personal Comply with the requirements of the quality‚ environment , commitment toward the environment, OH&S and social occupational health & safety and social responsibility ( ISO 9001 , responsibility to realize the objectives which are annually reviewed. ISO/TS 16949, ISO 14001 , OHSAS 18001 and ISO 26000 standards & The implementation of this policy takes a strategic importance in guides ). MOBICA for advanced industries to preserve its competitiveness and The company doesn’t use child labor or oppression at work. sustainability through global and local markets. Prevention of all kinds of environmental & product pollutions. Our stakeholders  Our external /internal stakeholders: Customers ( GM – Nissan – BMW – MB – Cherokee – Toyota – Suzuki ). Governmental bodies ( HSE office , Health Insurance offices , Electrical company , Taxes , ….. etc. ). Suppliers ( Ezz Eldekhila company , BASF , DAW , Air liquid for gases …. etc ). NGO ( The Egyptian Junior Business Association , 6 of October business association …. etc ). Owners ,Top Management , Workers , Board. Contractors , Services Providers , Visitors. 6 Our steps forward – Human Rights 1. Establish and imrove a special system for labour practices : Improve the working environment , increase woman and disable workers and improve the salaries & incentives systems. 2Sustainable use for all our resources. 7 Our steps forward – Labour 1. Make a special HSE team for Appling Occupational Health & Safety sys. according to OHSAS 18001 standard , and 6S principles. 2. Put a target “ ZERO “ for accidents ratio inside Mobica , and strive to accomplish it across continuous improvements and error proofing devices. 3. Extend the training sessions in the field of HSE & civil protection to include the main Mobica suppliers. 4. Develop & improve our processes and products through adopting the new manufacturing ways , workers suggestions and projects , rather than the continuous training of Mobica stuff. 5. Supporting continuous improvement ideas through prizes & incentives to insure creativity & development. 6. Build a special system & committee , as well as ideas bank , which deal with , investigate and assesse workers suggestions & complaints. 7. Adopting woman working in steering positions as well as production sites. 8. Provide scholarship donations for workers while providing opportunities for promotion. 9. Mobica sharing in the modification of the Egyptian Lobour Law. 8 Our steps forward – Environment 1. Improve the surround environement : Decrease the industrial emitions and wastes , using clean power sources and increasing the green areas. 2. Improve & develop the env. measuring results through using recent technology. 3. Increasing in inside and outside green areas. 4. Using alternative energy sources , and pursuit to using renewable sources ( solar energy ). 5. Using natural lighting ( windows ) instead of electrical lighting. 6. Prepare env. awareness programs for MOBICA suppliers , contractors , and stakeholders. 9 Our steps forward – Anti-corruption 1. Establishing & sharing the Ethical working & behaviors principles & items between MOBICA & its customers. 2. MOBICA established & shared the Ethical working & behaviors principles & items between MOBICA workers. 3. Sharing with the Egyptian Junior Business Association in anti corruption initiatives. 4. Sharing in manufacturing associations & syndicates activities like 6th Oct. Investors Association , TAVT , Oct. Investors Syndicate …. etc. 10 Our steps forward – Community 1. We serve our surrounding community during the charity projects , training sessions , give priorities to the surrounding workers and suppliers and keep the green env. 2. Encouraging and training charity associations children & youth like “ Sohbet Khair association “. 3. Develop youth creativity and innovation skills through the organizing of design innovation competition. 4. Mobica conducted a summer training session for the students of the Egyptian universities , 49 students is taken this year. 5. Mobica arranged a visiting from 50 applied arts students ( Domiate Univ. ) to Mobica factories. 6. Mobica arranged training sessions for Mubarak – Cool students. 7. Mobica sharing in many symposiums and movements like “Ana Hona”. 8. We are supporting and sharing in all events related to social responsibility and new energy resources. 11
