Responsible growth AAK Sustainability Report 2014/2015 The first choice for value-adding vegetable oil solutions Responsible growth Scope At AAK, sustainable development is fundamental to our This report covers AAK’s entire organization, including business. Hand in hand with financial growth, social and production plants, administrative offices, sales offices and environmental responsibility is key to our continued devel­ sourcing operations. The environmental data is restricted opment and future success. This is what we mean by to the production plants. During the first half of 2014 AAK “responsible growth”. acquired Belgian oils and fats business CSM Benelux NV in We believe that building sustainability into our everyday Merksem and Fabrica Nacional de Grasas S.A. (FANAGRA), activities helps us achieve our vision of being the first choice a Colombian company that specializes in vegetable oils and in value-adding vegetable oil solutions. fats for the bakery segment. Data from these acquisitions is AAK’s model for responsible growth covers the five focus not included in this report. Data from our Brazilian factory in areas Marketplace, Supply chain, Environment, Workplace Jundiaí, São Paulo, whose production started in April 2015, is and Community. not included either. Throughout the report, AAK colleagues share stories about some of our many CSR initiatives. Top managers also share Global team effort their thoughts and insights in relation to their specific areas of responsibility. This report aims at providing a clear picture The annual production and release of our GRI Report is a of how we at AAK work with sustainability – our drive towards global team effort involving staff from various functions at all responsible growth. sites. This report is available in English and Swedish. It can In line with this, our Sustainability Report is a global team be downloaded as a PDF-file at www.aak.com. To obtain a achievement that includes statements, initiatives, projects printed copy please contact Corporate Communications at and views from the entire organization. In addition, it docu­ comm@aak.com. ments – for both stakeholders and ourselves – that Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is firmly anchored within our organization. Head office AAK AB (publ.) Jungmansgatan 12 SE-211 19 Malmö, Sweden +46 40 627 83 00 www.aak.com info@aak.com Registered office: Malmö Reg. No. 556669-2850 AAK in 60 seconds We develop and provide value-adding vegetable oil solutions AAK’s proven expertise is based on more than 100 years in close collaboration with our customers, enabling them to of experience within oils & fats. With our headquarters in achieve long lasting business results. Malmö, Sweden, 18 production facilities and customization We do so through our in-depth expertise in oils & fats plants, and sales offices in more than 25 countries, our more within food applications, working with a wide range of raw than 2,500 employees are dedicated to providing innovative materials and broad process capabilities. valueadding solutions to our customers. Through our unique co-development approach we bring So no matter where you are in the world, we are ready to together our customers’ skills and know-how with our help you achieve long lasting results. capabilities and mindset. By doing so, we solve customer specific needs across many industries – Chocolate & We are AAK – The Co-Development Company. Confectionery, Bakery, Dairy, Infant Nutrition, Food Service, Personal Care, and more. Key figures 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (SEK million unless otherwise stated) Net sales 14,808 16,695 16,911 16,537 17,814 Adjusted operating profit (EBIT) 824 918* 1,003** 1,127* 1,242*** Operating profit (EBIT) 824 914 975 1,117 1,262 Operating profit per kilo (SEK) 0.57 0.64 0.66 0.69 0.73 Earnings per share (SEK) 14.15 14.72 15.66 17.87 21.15 Return on Capital Employed (%) 13.10 13.30 14.20 16.50 16.00 * Adjusted for acquistion costs ** Adjusted for acquisition costs and the effects of Hurricane Sandy costs *** Adjusted for acquistions costs, a net positive impact related to the acquisition in Belgium, net profit from the divestment of Binol and non-recurring cost for production optimization in Europe. AAK in the world Production plants Customization plants Sales offices Sourcing operations Customer innovation centres Our reason for being AAK’s core business is the production of vegetable oils and with essential fatty acids that our bodies are unable to syn­ fats solutions based upon natural, renewable raw materi­ thesize. However, following the rise in obesity and obesityals. Produced in our plants in Europe and the Americas, our related diseases, fat is often seen as harmful and something solutions reach global markets through our sales offices in to be avoided. key locations throughout the world and our close network of At AAK, we work continuously to develop healthy types of agents and distributors. oils and fats that meet the requirements of customers and We use raw materials, such as rapeseed, soya beans, consumers. shea kernels, sunflower oil and palm oil, primarily sourced in Northern Europe, West Africa, Southeast Asia and Latin Part of daily life America. Some raw materials – seeds and kernels – are Close customer cooperation is central to our work, whether crushed and the oil is extracted at our production plants, identifying the right solution for an application or developing while others are bought as crude oils or semi-refined oils, new products. As a supplier to a wide range of manufactur­ which we then process and refine further. ers of branded goods in the food, cosmetics, animal feed Drawing on our extensive knowledge and experience, we and technical industries, we interact with very different utilize and add value to the natural properties of vegetable customers who have very different needs. oils and fats, and this has been our speciality for more than However, all our customers have one interest in com­ a century. mon: applying value-adding vegetable oils and fats in their products. As a result, vegetable oils and fats from AAK are A vital ingredient present in many of the products we all use and consume on Fat is essential to human life. We need it for energy, to a daily basis. absorb vitamins, to produce hormones and to provide us IV Contents CEO statement by Arne Frank................................................................................................................................................. 2–3 Responsible growth at AAK......................................................................................................................................................... 4 The Global Compact – AAK, a member since 2002.................................................................................................................... 5 Global CSR objectives and achievements 2014 and 2015+................................................................................................... 6–7 Marketplace............................................................................................................................................................................ 8–13 Supply chain......................................................................................................................................................................... 14–29 Environment......................................................................................................................................................................... 30–37 Workplace............................................................................................................................................................................ 38–45 Community........................................................................................................................................................................... 46–51 CSR approach..................................................................................................................................................................... 52–54 CSR organization....................................................................................................................................................................... 55 Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index.................................................................................................................................... 56–58 Reporting criteria........................................................................................................................................................................ 59 1 CEO and President: Responsible growth – a foundation for future success Climate change, a growing demand for food, natural resources under pressure – the challenges that our planet is facing are many. To be able to manage them, it is critical that we utilize our resources optimally and see responsible behavior as both our shared and individual responsibility. In this Sustainability Report, AAK’s sixth, we aim to present our corporate social responsibility objectives, activities and achievements in a transparent way. AAK’s core purpose is to create value-adding vegetable oil In West Africa, we persistently work towards a more solutions together with and for our customers. In order to sustainable and efficient supply chain, benefitting both AAK succeed with this purpose we use our company program and the hundreds of thousands of women who collect shea AAKtion to guide us. The execution of AAKtion is built upon kernels. Our special Kolo Nafaso program, which focuses on our model for responsible growth. Responsible growth for us, support, training and trading directly with the women, con­ is about acting responsibly towards all of our key stake­ tinues to progress. During the season 2014/2015 we have holders – investors, global and local customers, suppliers, been reaching out to 55,000 women, exceeding our goal of employees and the local communities in which we operate. enrolling 50,000, and we will continue to progress and enroll To drive progress within our CSR activities, we focus our more women in the upcoming years. efforts within five areas: Marketplace, Supply chain, Envi­ We continue to support and be fully engaged in the ronment, Workplace and Community. We continuously set Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and we also and achieve ambitious objectives within each of these areas continue our engagement in GreenPalm, still today probably based on both internal and external performance bench­ the only tool to ensure support also to independent small­ marking, best practice sharing and a highly engaged global holders producing certified sustainable palm oil. organization. However, the RSPO requirements have been widely criti­ cized for not effectively addressing CO2 emissions caused by AAK – a trusted supplier deforestation and plantation development on peatlands. AAK Analyses of our business clearly indicate that food safety is shares this view and has a sustainable palm oil policy that a top concern for our customers and their stakeholders. This outlines our commitments on sustainable palm in general very much conforms to our own assessments. AAK produc­ and specifically requirements for no deforestation and no tion sites are food safety audited and certified in accordance development on peatlands. We are pleased with the strong with one or more internationally recognized food safety progress on the implementation of the policy and especially standards. Our recent acquisitions are currently undergoing on traceability to mills. this process. Another key priority for our customers as well as for our­ Resource efficiency selves is ethical supply. We share our ethical information and We are also proud to share with you some good results ethical audit reports through the Sedex platform. within resource efficiency. Despite shifting our focus to more refined products that, in general, will require more resources Responsible sourcing per produced unit, we have made some great improvements There is a strong request from our customers that the sourc­ for a number of key efficiency parameters. Energy consump­ ing of raw materials is done in a responsible way, specifically tion, calculated per MT produced, decreased by 2.8 percent within palm. We continue to increase our focus on social while water consumption remained the same as last year. and environmental issues in the supply chain. Our fully In 2014, carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuel per MT implemented Supplier Code of Conduct addresses labour processed decreased by 11 percent compared to the year and human rights, environment and anti-corruption. Today, before. These achievements were delivered by a very dedi­ virtually all of our raw material suppliers have approved and cated and highly responsible global operations organization. signed our code. 2 Safety and education – key concerns within AAK During 2014, our global Lost Time Injury Rate at our produc­ tion sites dropped by an impressive 58 percent, from 1.2 to 0.5. Moreover, Lost Day Rate – a measurement of the sever­ ity of incidents – decreased by 41 percent, to 7.2. This is an effect of the relentless work done by our global safety team that continued to pay off during 2014. The negative impact of corruption is gaining more and more attention globally, both from stakeholders and from tightened legislation. Businesses all over the world are exposed to corruption risks on a daily basis. We already ­address anti-corruption in our Code of Conduct, our ­Supplier Code of Conduct and our Code of Conduct for Agents and Distributors, but in addition, we have rolled out two e-learning modules for our employees in order to increase their aware­ ness of corruption and to give them knowledge about how to deal with it. Local engagement Being a global company, AAK contributes to the develop­ ment of the local communities in which we operate. We do so primarily by creating jobs, paying taxes and doing business with local enterprises. In addition, we endeavour to be a good corporate citizen by taking issues such as health and safety, diversity, labour standards and our environmental impact seriously. However, we realize that there are a variety of different ways to further engage actively with the local communities in which we are situated. I am very pleased to see the many ways in which our employees truly engage with their local communities. The initiatives presented in this report are only a few of those implemented by our employees. Responsibility going forward We are with this Sustainability Report very proud to share with you our significant progress across all of our five focus areas. Going forward, we will continue to grow our business responsibly, not only by applying our model for responsible growth, but also by developing it as we gain new knowledge and as the external environment changes. Arne Frank CEO and President 3 Responsible growth at AAK Responsible growth is the key objective of our AAKtion strategy, and is essential to our vision of being the first choice for value-adding vegetable oil solutions. For us, responsible growth is about our responsibility towards all of our key stakeholders – the local communities where we operate, our customers, our employees, our investors and our suppliers. Based on our strategy, input from our stakeholders and market trends we have developed a model for responsible growth to guide our global CSR work. AAK responsible growth CSR organization Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is a solid platform and a behind all of this is our global CSR organization, established broad concept based on ten universal principles within Hu­ in 2007. man and Labour Rights, Environment and Anti-corruption. To be transparent and share information with stakeholders It enjoys participation by all of the major players in global is also part of our approach. Sedex facilitates the sharing business and CSR, including the GRI (Global Reporting of information with customers. Our Sustainability Report Initiative), ETI (Ethical Trading Initiative), ICC (International shares information globally, primarily with investors in AAK, Chamber of Commerce) and OECD (Organisation for and via the web with all stakeholders. Partnering with other Economic Cooperation and Development). AAK has been a businesses, NGOs, and governmental agencies is a key member of the UNGC since 2002. element of the Global Compact concept, and we are proud AAK’s CSR policies and codes are based on the UNGC, to participate in several partnerships. The RSPO, the Global and apply globally to all AAK business activities. So are the Shea Alliance, Danida in Denmark and the British organiza­ policies and codes of many of our customers, which enhanc­ tion TREE AID are a few examples of these. es our strategic alignment. Our CSR system is not static, adjusting instead to input We have defined five CSR focus areas – the ‘pillars’ – that from such stakeholders as customers, investors and employ­ are important to our business. These provide an overview ees. We monitor new and upcoming legislation. We follow and help us focus our resources. To maintain momentum trends in our communities, and benchmark our CSR prac­ and drive improvement, we define objectives within each of tices against those of retailers, customers and competitors. the five focus areas. Further, we monitor many other indica­ Our overall objective is to grow AAK responsibly and tors internally, based on the GRI guidelines. The engine achieve sustainability as a whole. 4 AAK, a member since 2002 The United Nations Global Compact is an initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With more than 12,000 signatories in over 145 countries, the UN Global Compact is the world’s largest voluntary corporate sustainability initiative. The principles are: Principles Examples of AAK commitments Human Rights Businesses should support and respect AAK Code of Conduct is understood, the protection of internationally pro­ accepted and signed by all AAK employees claimed human rights; and (page 12). make sure that they are not complicit in AAK Supplier Code of Conduct is an integral human rights abuses. part of the approval system for suppliers. During 2014 it was implemented with more than 85 percent of direct raw material suppliers (page 15). Labour Businesses should uphold freedom of AAK Code of Conduct regulates interaction association and the effective recognition with both our customers and suppliers of the right to collective bargaining; (page 12). the elimination of all forms of forced and Labour rights issues are governed by the compulsory labour; AAK CSR Policy (page 41). the effective abolition of child labour; and AAK monitors labour rights issues globally the elimination of discrimination in respect (page 41). of employment and occupation. Environment Businesses should support a precaution­ Local resource efficiency projects estab­ ary approach to environmental challenges; lished at all production sites (page 31). undertake initiatives to promote greater AAK decreased its energy consumption by environmental responsibility; and 3 percent during 2014, and net direct CO2 encourage the development and diffusion emissions by 11 percent per produced unit of environmentally friendly technologies. (pages 33 and 34). Anti-corruption Businesses should work against corrup­ Two e-learning modules addressing antition in all its forms, including extortion and corruption were launched during 2014 bribery. (page 41). 5 Global CSR objectives and achievements 2014 and 2015+ The objectives and achievements for AAK for 2014 and 2015+ are presented below in brief. The objectives and achievements are further commented in more detail in the five sections to which they apply, namely Marketplace, Supply chain, Environment, Workplace and Community. Global CSR objectives 2014+ Global CSR achievements 2014 Marketplace Anti-corruption training Anti-corruption training 2014: Module 1 passed by at least 80 percent of all Module 1 was successfully passed by 94 percent of the relevant employees target group Module 2 passed by at least 20 percent of all relevant Module 2 was successfully passed by 41 percent of the employees target group AAK Code of Conduct for Agents and Distributors AAK Code of Conduct for Agents and Distributors 2014: Implemented with minimum 50 percent of AAK 41 percent of our agents and distributors signed our agents and distributors code. Awaiting already existing agreements to expire for further progress Supply chain Palm oil traceability Palm oil traceability 2014: All palm oil supplies 100 percent traceable to mills 100 percent traceability to mill for palm oil at origin. 2017: All palm oil supplies 100 percent traceable to Overall traceability including palm oil, palm kernel oil and plantation level derivatives was 95 percent Supplier Code of Conduct Supplier Code of Conduct 2014: Maintain minimum 98 percent implemented for More than 98 percent of direct raw material suppliers direct raw material suppliers (excl. West Africa) accepted and signed our code Supplier Code of Conduct (West Africa) Supplier Code of Conduct (West Africa) 2014: Maintain minimum 95 percent implemented with 98 percent of direct raw material suppliers accepted and direct raw material suppliers signed our code Environment Energy Energy 3-year energy efficiency process driven by local energy Efficiency projects progressing according to plans efficiency teams at all sites: 2013: Teams established, monthly meetings and at least one project initiated 2014: Energy efficiency projects at all sites delivering according to plan 2015: Energy efficiency results documented at all sites Waste Waste 2015: Minimum 98.5 percent of waste disposed as 97.6 percent disposed as reused, recycled or recovered, reused, recycled or recovered an improvement of 1.3 percent Workplace Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR): Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR): Reduce LTIR at production sites with minimum 10 percent per year. 2014: Production sites maximum LTIR 1.1 (baseline Objective exceeded with Lost Time Injury Rate at 0.5, a 2012: 1.4) reduction of 58 percent 2014: Sourcing West Africa LTIR at or below 2.3 Objective was not met with Lost Time Injury Rate increasing to 4.2, several incidents occurring under difficult circumstances outside AAK premises Community Local engagement Local engagement 2014: Engaging in local projects and activities All sites are engaged in relevant local community activi­ ties in a variety of ways 6 AAK responsible growth CSR organization Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact Additional global CSR achievements 2014 Relentless efforts to use resources more efficiently resulted in additional achievements in 2014, such as: 2.8 percent decrease in energy used per processed unit 11.0 percent reduction of net direct CO2 emission per processed unit 3.3 percent reduction of water discharge per processed unit Global CSR objectives 2015+ Marketplace Anti-corruption training 2015: Module 1 passed by 100 percent of all relevant employees Module 2 passed by 100 percent of all relevant employees AAK Code of Conduct for Agents and Distributors 2015: Implemented with minimum 80 percent of AAK’s agents and distributors Supply chain Palm oil traceability 2015: Maintain strong progress towards full traceability to supplier mills 2015: Risk assessment completed with 100 percent of supplier mills 2017: All palm oil supplies 100 percent traceable to plantation level Shea supply chain 2015: Include at least 70,000 women in our Kolo Nafaso project Environment Resource efficiency 3-year resource efficiency process driven by local efficiency teams at all sites: 2013: Teams established, monthly meetings and at least one project initiated 2014: Resource efficiency projects at all sites delivering according to plan 2015: Resource efficiency results documented at all sites Waste 2015: Minimum 98.5 percent of waste disposed as reused, recycled or recovered Workplace Safety Any work related injury is unacceptable and AAK is constantly working towards a zero injuries workplace. We monitor and report Lost Time Injury Rate globally Community Local engagement 2015: Engaging in relevant local projects and activities 7 AAK responsible growth CSR organization Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact Key achievements RSPO supply chain certification Percent of production sites 100 90 90 80 80 60 60 60 40 20 20 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 In progress Sedex members Percent of production sites 100 80 82 80 73 70 60 60 40 40 20 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Food safety certified Percent of production sites 100 100 90 91 91 80 80 70 60 40 20 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 In progress Marketplace This section covers all areas in which AAK interacts with customers. It includes products, product development, food safety, product information and market communication. Interaction with customers is based on sound business ethics and a deep understanding of the company’s responsibility for safeguarding customer brands. As a supplier of ingredients for some of the world’s best-known brands, AAK recognizes its role and its customers’ expectations and sees these as key elements in the way the AAK company program, AAKtion, is executed. AAK focuses on three business areas: Over the years, AAK has established longstanding relation­ ships with customers built on mutual respect and a detailed Food Ingredients understanding of customer needs. Knowing your customers Our largest business area primarily offers solutions to the means knowing your markets, and that gives AAK a head Bakery, Infant Nutrition, Dairy and Food Service industries. start when responding to market trends. From time to time, AAK even has set new trends through the development of Chocolate & Confectionery Fats leading-edge solutions. Our second largest business area offers functional cocoa Oils and fats from AAK perform valuable functions in butter alternatives for chocolate, compounds for coating and customers’ products. They may ensure the right meltdown moulding, and speciality fats for confectionery fillings. property, carry flavour, supply essential fatty acids, provide structure and much more. In each case, AAK’s understand­ Technical Products & Feed ing of customers’ requirements is key when developing the The Technical Products & Feed business area offers fatty right solution. This is why close cooperation is so important. acids and glycerine for various applications and proteins and In cooperation with our customers’ key people, AAK’s experts fats for animal feed. test applications, develop solutions and explore new produc­ tion methods. Marketplace achievements 2014 AAK Code of Conduct for Agents and Distributors Anti-corruption training After successfully having implemented our Code of Con­ Even though we already address anti-corruption in our Code duct with all employees, and our Supplier Code of Conduct of Conduct, our Supplier Code of Conduct and our Code of with our raw material suppliers, we launched our Code of Conduct for Agents and Distributors, we have decided to in­ Conduct for Agents and Distributors in May 2014. We were crease the awareness and knowledge of the topic internally. aiming to achieve a 50 percent implementation but due to To that end we launched two e-learning modules addressing already established contracts the objective unfortunately anti-corruption topics during 2014, one in February and a takes a bit longer to deliver upon. By the end of last year second one in October. At the end of the modules there is a 44 percent of our agents and distributors had accepted and multiple choice test that needs to be passed by all employ­ signed our code. ees at increased risk of encountering corruption. By the end of 2014 we had exceeded our objectives of 80 percent for module 1 and 20 percent for module 2 with a completion of 94 percent and 41 percent respectively. 9 ” ” Sustainability Meeting consumers’ awareness – fully integrated in AAK of healthy and sustainable food Judging from our dialogues with our customers, how How is AAK’s new product development affected by an important is sustainability to them? increased consumer awareness of healthy food? When looking at sustainability through the lens of time, This awareness plays a role in all product development mankind as a whole, and more specifically the food industry, projects within AAK. In fact, a number of our product devel­ has made tremendous progress. In its initial phase only a opment projects are driven mainly by the requirement of few decades ago sustainability was almost seen as a bur­ healthy and nutritional food, focusing on more nutritional bal­ den. Then it became something nice and necessary to have anced fatty acids profiles and more balanced energy intake. whereas now the industry as a whole and an overwhelming Other projects with a different focus also have a nutritional majority of our customers consider sustainability a mission angle, as all product development ideas and projects are critical and a fully integrated part of their business models. measured up against certain nutritional standards during the We at AAK welcome this since sustainability is very close to process, for example securing a continuously lower content our heart and fundamental to the way we conduct our busi­ of trans fatty acids in products within our portfolio. ness. Sustainability is not static, much more work needs to be How is it affected by an increased consumer awareness of done and therefore it is essential to realize that the evolution sustainable food? of sustainability is continuous. To stay ahead of the game, Sustainability is, just like health and nutrition, a major and two aspects play a role of paramount importance. Firstly, we global trend in our industry. We are committed to grow our need to continue to listen very carefully to our customers, business sustainably by constantly ensuring that our impact many of which play a key leadership role in this evolution on nature, the environment and the societies in which we and who co-define the future roadmap. Secondly, we need to operate is limited or positive. In the development process this continue to take responsibility and act. At AAK we want to be also means that all new products, processes and technolo­ part of initiating and leading the debate but also to implement gies are measured up against internal standards to ensure the necessary actions with a clear objective: to collectively that their implementations will drive AAK in the direction of progress towards a fully sustainable food value chain. our objectives. What are the specific sustainability issues that our Regional and national regulation also have an impact on customers are interested in right now? AAK’s work. In what ways? We are witnessing a clear broadening of the scope that our When developing and producing food and food ingredients, customers are defining. Whereas focus initially was on the differences in regional and national standards and regula­ primary raw material supply chain and, for example, the tions have to be taken into account, just as much as ancient preservation of High Carbon Stock rainforests, we now clear­ local traditions which often are the basis for people’s food ly hear the voices of our customers throughout the whole preferences. At AAK we work globally with complex pro­ food value chain asking us to include in our sustainability cesses and raw material supply chains covering major parts programs aspects of securing the livelihood of smallholder of the global market. We match our solutions with relevant farmers, improving the living conditions of communities and market standards and regulations, and the customization of addressing the rights of women and children, to name a few. the final product to a specific solution is always conducted At AAK we are proud that our customers have recognized by our local product development resources, which have all and confirmed that we have a very clear program and ambi­ relevant laboratory and pilot plant facilities at their disposal. tious targets that will further cement our leadership position when it comes to sustainability. We will continue to work hard to maintain this. Jan Lenferink Karsten Nielsen President AAK Europe Chief Technology Officer 10 Sharing knowledge with our customers In interaction with customers, knowledge sharing is very important. AAK is focusing on customer co-development where one important part is to run trials at the pilot plants at one of our customer innovation centers. This is done in order to offer the best possible solution for the customer. Both the AAK Academy and our customer magazine are useful tools for sharing knowledge and to give the latest information available. AAK Academy are described, together with food – the knowledge safety and practical advice for handling oils and the functionali­ center for lipid ties in the final applications. technology Complete documentation The AAK Academy is a unique training concept, exclusively Participants receive complete for customers. The Academy cultivates a good understand­ documentation of all lectures. ing of lipid technology and its role in food and other applica­ In addition, they get a copy of HANDBOOK VEGETABLE OILS tions that guides customers in the search for the most suita­ the publication “Handbook – AND FATS ble fat for a given product. It also facilitates dialogue between Vege­table oils and fats”. The customers and AAK to achieve the best cooperation. handbook is written by experts from AAK and contains both The AAK Academy offers a wide range of courses, and theoretical and practical knowledge relating to oils and fats. the format is highly flexible, with lecturers selected from the Since the beginning, in the early 1990s, AAK has educated experts among AAK’s staff. The Academy’s basic courses thousands of customers in lipid technology. For those cus­ on oils and fats technology give a comprehensive overview tomers who do not have the possibility to come to AAK, the of relevant topics. The important role of oils and fats in the Academy is held at customer sites. The goal is to continu­ diet is reviewed from different standpoints. Soft processing ously expand the Academy and make it possible for even methods and their enhancement of quality and functionality more customers to be educated in this lipid technology. AAK’s customer magazine – latest trends and information AAK always aims to share the latest information with custom­ ers, and one way of doing this is our customer magazine. It is an important tool for creating and maintaining awareness among customers. The content varies over time and exam­ AAK Magazine | No 1, 2014 ples of topics include new product launches, highlights of product benefits and the latest news from the scientific world. The magazine is highly appreciated among customers, and investors also see it as a good way of receiving infor­ mation about AAK. It is available both in a printed version and as an e-book that can be found at our website, www.aak.com. It is distributed around the globe and also serves as a marketing tool at exhibitions, conferences and in customer contacts. Cost savings in ice cream, page 2–3 nd, page 6–7 pralines on tre Filling fats for y handling, page 14 Flakes for eas ery, page 16–17 fitability in bak Increased pro 11 Substantial product information for customer support The minimum requirement for product information is usually Quality & Product Safety Sheet contains additional in­ stipulated by legislation and stated in the standard contracts formation related to the product such as allergens, GMOs, used in our business. Requirements for further information contaminants, country of origin, raw materials and additives, depend on the type of delivery. For example, they vary ac­ typical fatty acid composition, etc. cording to whether the product is standard or highly refined, and whether an ingredient or a final consumer product. For some products, a AAK’s product information sheets sometimes have differ­ Certificate of Analysis ent names in different countries, but in general, three types accompanies each deliv­ of information are available: ery. The certificate is produced by the relevant Bakery solutions Product Information Sheet/Product Specification speci­ AAK laboratory and Company fies the physical and chemical properties of the products and confirms compliance with The Co-Development is often part of a contract. agreed product specifica­ tions. Material Safety Data Sheet relates to safety issues, often concerning transport. This is a legal requirement for chemi­ cals, but not for food. However, most customers demand this information. A matter of trust KFC calls AAK “the unsung hero” in its restaurants AAK Code of Conduct When it comes to meeting customers’ needs and expecta­ tions, trust is just as important as products. AAK customers AAK UK was named KFC Supplier of the Year 2015 and must be able to rely on AAK as a safe supplier, and par­ KFC Food and Packaging Supplier of the Year 2015 in the ticularly upon the company’s commitment to working in an prestigious KFC UK supplier awards, held at a ceremony in ethically sound manner. London in March. The AAK Code of Conduct, which is understood, accepted Describing AAK as “the unsung hero in our restaurants”, and signed by all AAK staff, regulates interaction with both KFC struck at the very core of AAK’s CCV (Creating Cus­ customers and suppliers. The Code is based on the same tomer Value) approach in saying: standards as the supplier codes that customers expect AAK “This supplier has extended from their core business to to follow, encompassing ILO conventions, human rights, support KFC by developing new products to meet changing OECD guidelines and the UN Global Compact. The AAK customer needs. They have heavily invested in Food Service Code of Conduct is AAK’s guarantee to customers that the capability and are looking to invest further into innovative company acts responsibly, right across the organization. packaging formats to support our brand in the future. They are key supporters of Spend Smarter initiatives that have Food safety helped reduce our cost of spend year-on-year and have Food safety is another area of customer concern. To satisfy underpinned this with flawless service and availability.” the requirements of customers as well as national and The award is the result of a team effort spanning across international legislation, AAK’s production plants are certified sales and customer innovation, production, supply chain, in accordance with recognized standards, and subject to technical and marketing, and to win such an accolade, AAK regular audit by third parties. AAK’s Quality Control functions had to get everything right, consistently. ensure and document that each and every delivery lives up This approach has also opened up the possibility of broad­ to specifications and all food safety requirements. ening the range of products that AAK supply. AAK is also The AAK Group vision is to be the customers’ first choice being engaged as a strategic partner to build its KFC sales in value-adding vegetable oil solutions. To achieve this vi­ across Europe. sion, it is important to show customers that AAK is a respon­ sible, trustworthy supplier that would never compromise their brands. 12 ” Mutual respect and shared AAK rewarded with objectives of responsible sourcing Sustainable Ingredient Award Lipex SheaLight from AAK Personal Care was named best Social respect and environmental responsibility are key Sustainable Ingredient at the Sustainable Beauty Awards principles for Ferrero. How is this reflected in your choice of held in Paris in November 2014. The Sustainable Beauty suppliers? Awards highlight those who are at the forefront when it Ferrero’s fundamental principles relating to sourcing from comes to sustainability in the beauty industry. The Sustain­ suppliers are excellence in raw materials quality and compli­ able Ingredient Award goes to a cosmetic ingredient that ance with the internationally recognized social, ethical and makes a significant difference in terms of environmental and/ environmental standards. We believe that sustaining longor social footprint. As the winner, Lipex SheaLight from AAK term and trust-based relationships with suppliers are keys to Personal Care meets both requirements. drive continuous improvement towards sustainable supply Lipex SheaLight is made using shea butter and etha­ chains and high quality raw materials sourcing. nol from renewable sources, environmentally acceptable AAK is one of Ferrero’s important long-term suppliers catalysts and low energy processes – all to minimize with a long history of mutual respect and shared common environmental impact. Since shea is a non-cultivated, wild objectives of responsible sourcing. Being an integral partner crop there is no land use consumption in its production. towards sustainable sourcing, AAK endeavours to adhere to The manual harvesting reduces the use of fossil fuels, and the stringent requirements of our Ferrero Codes of Business provides needed income to the rural women who perform the Conduct and Code of Ethics, and to promote the shared harvest in West Africa. values in advancing Ferrero’s sustainable supply chain com­ mitments. AAK has committed to partner with Ferrero in meeting the Ferrero Palm Oil Charter. What does that mean? Moving beyond certification, Ferrero launched a Palm Oil Charter in 2013 to strengthen the commitment to responsible sourcing of palm oil. The Charter has ten specific criteria to address the leading causes of deforestation and to create a balance between the conservation of the environment, community needs and economic benefit and viability. Fer­ rero has agreed with suppliers, including AAK, to meet the targets of the Charter. To achieve sustainable supply chains becomes extremely challenging when a single actor takes on the journey alone, which is why it is inevitable to work closely together with suppliers to ensure continuous progress. Third party certification of AAK As one of Ferrero’s major long-term suppliers, AAK was production plants among the very first suppliers to support Ferrero in achiev­ ing our objective of reaching 100 percent sustainable and 91 percent of AAK plants are certified to one or more segregated RSPO palm oil by the end of 2014. AAK is also internationally recognized food safety standards one of our key partners in supporting the implementation of (FSSC 22000/ISO 22000/BRC) the Ferrero Palm Oil Charter and ensuring ‘No deforestation – No peatland – No exploitation’ palm oil in our products. 90 percent of sites handling palm oil have RSPO Supply Chain Certification. 100 percent certified expected in mid-2015 63 percent of sites are quality management certified according to ISO 9001 45 percent of sites are environmentally certified according to ISO 14001 In addition, various production plants are also certified accord­ ing to other standards such as national energy standards, the KRAV organic standard, feed safety, health and safety, Halal and Kosher production. 13 AAK responsible growth CSR organization Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact Key achievements Supplier Code of Conduct excl. West Africa Implementation % 100 98.4 98.5 95 90 80 60 40 20 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Supplier Code of Conduct in West Africa Implementation % 100 95 98 90 80 60 59 40 20 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Key data Processed raw materials X 1000 MT 2000 1806 1735 1671 1643 1500 1518 1485 1000 500 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 14 Supply chain This section covers activities related to the sourcing of raw materials that AAK uses in its production plants. Sustainable sourcing of raw materials is the backbone of AAK’s business and a key element of the AAKtion program. The combination of the right raw materials and value-adding functionality is key to the wide range of solutions offered. Just as it is vital for AAK to obtain the right raw materials, AAK places equal emphasis on sustainable growing and procurement. For this reason AAK has implemented a Supplier Code of Conduct that, among others, applies to AAK’s direct raw material suppliers worldwide. Continued enforcement of AAK Supplier Code of Conduct Introduced in late 2009, the AAK Supplier Code of Conduct The AAK Supplier Code of Conduct stipulates is an integral part of the approval system for suppliers. Dur­ requirements with regard to the following: ing 2014, compliance was 98.5 percent of direct raw material suppliers, who were required to approve and sign the Code Human rights Housing or demonstrate their compliance in some other way. The Supplier Code of Conduct is now an integral part of the ap­ Child labour Young workers proval system of new raw material suppliers and compliance Working hours Remuneration of the Code is a prerequisite for final approval. However, Working environment Freedom of association changing supplier base makes it challenging to achieve 100 Environment Corruption percent. In West Africa, the Code has been implemented in a dif­ Forced labour Notification ferent way due to various linguistic and cultural challenges. Discrimination Workplace violence Because ethical requirements in business relations are not a widespread tradition in the region, more meetings and expla­ nations are required to achieve the necessary understand­ ing. In 2014, an all-time high recognition level of 98 percent was achieved. Supplier management In addition to palm oil, shea and rapeseed, AAK processes a range of other raw materials. While AAK’s engagement in palm oil and shea is evident, the work to enhance sustain­ ability aspects covers all the raw materials in the company’s supply chain. Until 2010, AAK operated two different supplier approval practices. Since then the company has been working to integrate them into one common practice, based on quality, food safety, environmental and ethical requirements. Today, AAK’s supplier approved process is globally based on the same principles. The Supplier Code of Conduct is a fundamental tool for as­ materials suppliers. Still, by urging suppliers to positively in­ sessing suppliers. In this context, AAK has decided to work fluence their suppliers, AAK aims to broaden the company’s within its sphere of influence, i.e. to focus on those whom sphere of influence and inspire other players in the supply AAK has the best chance of influencing – AAK’s direct raw chain to act responsibly. ” Minimal impact on the environment AAK takes a holistic approach to responsible sourcing of What commitments does AAK make to ensure no its raw materials. What does that mean? deforestation? A holistic approach, for AAK, means that we are interested AAK strives to do business with honest and committed palm in engaging and developing the entire supply chain in the oil suppliers who manage their production in an environ­ large number of countries around the world from where our mental and sustainable manner and in accordance with our raw materials originate. Our approach includes responsible AAK palm oil policy and our AAK Supplier Code of Conduct. purchasing practices, community engagement, education, Deforestation is one of the key concerns related to palm oil adherence to social and environmental standards as well as production and we are very committed to ensure no defor­ a strong focus on work safety and regulatory requirements. estation in our supply chain. Traceability to mill for sourcing AAK will continue and further strengthen its obligation to of palm oil and associated products, including palm kernel source raw materials in a sustainable and ethical way and oil, is a means to assess if a supplier works in accordance always with respect for people involved in our operation and with AAK’s palm oil policy. In parallel with the work on estab­ supply, using our AAK Supplier Code of Conduct to secure lishing traceability, we have, together with Proforest, imple­ compliance and commitment. By taking a holistic approach mented risk assessment and mill verification programs. Risk to responsible sourcing, we can create and secure our future assessment is necessary for us to prioritize efforts and to as well as create value for our customers. identify those origins where there is a significant risk of policy non-compliance. What measurements does AAK take in order to source its raw materials with minimal environmental impact? To minimize our environmental impact is important to AAK and we seek to optimize our supply chain so that our carbon footprint is kept to a minimum. Last year we opened a new office in Singapore in order to coordinate and manage our sourcing activities and our logistics flow on a global level. By understanding and engaging in the local markets in which we operate, we will be able to source our raw materials closer to origin while we at the same time discover new opportuni­ Torben Friis Lange ties in the marketplace and establish innovative sourcing President Asia solutions. 16 AAK sources raw materials from all over the world Rapeseed Palm oil Palm kernel oil Olive oil Soya bean oil Northern and Asia and Latin Asia Southern Europe US and South America Central Europe America Sunflower oil Shea kernels Corn oil Coconut oil Eastern Europe West Africa America and Eastern Malaysia and the and Mexico and Southern Europe Philippines AAK’s core business is speciality vegetable oils that meet the Raw materials are obtained from rapeseed, palm oil, soya needs of the food, confectionery and cosmetics industries. beans, shea kernels, sunflower seed, olives and many other Sourcing renewable raw materials from around the globe, sources. Drawing on the company’s extensive knowledge the broad product portfolio is manufactured at AAK’s produc­ and more than a century of experience, the properties of tion plants in Europe, Asia and the Americas. vegetable oils are exploited to add value to the products of customers within the company’s target industries. 17 ” Palm – increasing demand for sustainable palm oil Globally, palm oil is the most produced and consumed veg­ RSPO progress etable oil, accounting for 32 percent of the world’s vegetable Due to the position as an intermediary in the palm oil supply oil production. Soya bean oil, at 22 percent, holds second chain, AAK is fully dependent on the availability of supply place. The oil palm has the highest yield of all oil crops – six of physical, segregated sustainable palm oil and, to some to ten times more than other oil seed crops. extent, on demand from customers. Customer requirements However, palm oil production has raised serious concerns drive the kind of palm oil delivered by AAK. relating to deforestation and the elimination of endangered In preparation for future demand, AAK production plants animals, to name two. As a consequence, WWF in 2003 initi­ processing palm oil have obtained RSPO Supply Chain ated the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) along Certification and are capable of producing sustainable palm with AAK, Golden Hope Plantations, Migros, Malaysian Palm oil as required. Oil Association, Sainsbury’s and Unilever. The organization AAK is committed to increasing the volume of RSPO certi­ has now worked for more than a decade to promote the fied raw material that it purchases, with the ultimate objective growth and use of sustainable palm oil worldwide. to achieve RSPO certification of all palm oil purchased. Driv­ en by demand, 20 percent of AAK palm oil products in 2014 One recognized system were RSPO certified, an increase of 6 percentage points We continue to be very engaged in the RSPO, and its Board. from 2013. Mindful of the current level of supply and demand AAK recognizes the RSPO certification as the only estab­ which varies significantly between markets, AAK has revised lished and stable systematic organization and standard for its time bound plan to only sourcing RSPO certified crude sustainable palm oil. RSPO is not perfect. However, it is palm oil by 2018 and RSPO certified palm oil, palm kernel oil important to have one well established recognized system and derivatives by 2020. rather than a series of individual systems and organizations, which add complexity and might prevent progress towards a fully sustainable palm oil supply chain. 18 ” Towards a sustainable palm oil industry What is the main objective of the Roundtable on What have been AAK’s main contributions? Sustainable Palm Oil? As a founding member of the RSPO, and a RSPO’s objective is to promote the growth and member of the Board of Governors since use of sustainable oil palm products through inception, AAK continues to be very engaged credible global standards and engagement of in the RSPO. The company recognizes RSPO stakeholders. certification as the only established and stable systematic organization and standard for sus­ It has been eleven years since WWF initiated tainable palm oil. the RSPO along with AAK and others. How far has the organization come towards its objectives? What are the main objectives for RSPO within the When RSPO was formed in 2004, certified sustainable palm next couple of years? oil (CSPO) wasn’t very well received. It was a constant uphill The RSPO aims to continue to increase production and struggle to change the perception of both growers and end use of CSPO. Particular challenges are major consuming users. countries such as China and India and even Indonesia. In Since then there has been significant progress both in addition, the RSPO will focus on smallholders by a jurisdic­ attitudes and tangible results. A credible certification scheme tional approach to enable much wider scale of production has been established with independent certifiers and an of certified sustainable palm oil. We currently have about independent body to verify those certifiers; complaints 145,000 smallholders certified and aim to increase the num­ processes are in place with an independent review lead­ ber significantly. There are many other focus areas, including ing to major changes; four supply chain options have been other production locations in Africa established; we have more than 2,300 members; and most and Latin America and supply importantly, 20 percent of global palm oil production is now chain development. The RSPO is RSPO certified. developing into a large and com­ However, the RSPO recognizes that it is only part way plex organization, but one which along the road and that CSPO will only cease to be a niche keeps its ultimate objective front product when 51 percent of global production is certified. We and center. believe we are well on the way to achieve the end objective, but that there are many more obstacles to overcome. Darrel Webber RSPO Secretary General ” Supporting the production of GreenPalm – the inclusive supply sustainable palm oil chain option Food manufacturers and retailers have a simple way to reward palm oil producers for adhering to sustainable and During 2014 we oversaw the trade of responsible practices, and to tell their customers that they do 3,421,809 certificates, maintaining the so. It is an exclusive, RSPO-endorsed, web-based platform impressive levels from the previous for trading in sustainable palm oil certificates, called the year. The premiums paid for Palm GreenPalm Program. Kernel Oil certificates during 2014 Organized by Book & Claim Ltd, an AAK subsidiary, the remained high following their rise dur­ platform makes it possible for food manufacturers to pay ing 2013. The price was volatile, trading palm oil producers directly for producing RSPO certified between $40 and $80 during the year. sustainable palm oil (CSPO). There are three obvious advan­ Premiums paid back to RSPO certified growers totalled tages to this: $35 million during 2014. Adding that to the premiums paid previously gives a cumulative total of $87 million. Manufacturers of consumer products get a simple way to GreenPalm continues to link independent smallholders to support sustainable palm production the global marketplace and we were very pleased to con­ Smallholders who lack access to a certified supply chain clude the trade of 100 percent of all the certified groups Palm can obtain a premium for their efforts Kernel Expeller certificates to a Dutch cheese manufacturer. No requirements for supply chain certification makes this The GreenPalm option is geographically neutral and any the fastest way to engage in the support of sustainable RSPO certified grower, no matter what scale of operation or palm oil location, can be linked to the demand regions so that they can be rewarded for their sustainable achievements. It is The GreenPalm Program supports the production of sustain­ the only fully inclusive option available and it will continue to able palm products that meet the requirements defined in drive the RSPO to complete its vision – to transform markets the Principles and Criteria of the Roundtable on Sustainable to make sustainable palm oil the norm. Palm Oil (RSPO). Bob Norman General Manager GreenPalm AAK sustainable palm oil commitments AAK’s Sustainable Palm Oil Policy has been developed sig­ nificantly over the past year, with contributions from various AAK’s progress report on sustainable palm oil – August 2015 stakeholders. In a dynamic environment, commitments from The Co-Development Company customers and suppliers relating to sustainable palm oil have seen parallel development. AAK’s policy is consistent with a wider market move, and puts AAK at the forefront of palm AAK’s progress report palm oil – September on sustainable 2014 AAK’s progress report palm oil – January 2015 on sustainable sustainability. AAK’s policy is founded on the following pillars: High Carbon Stock (HCS), but mindful that there is as yet no common industry definition of HCS. Until a common support for the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil framework has been developed, AAK will apply the HCS (RSPO) framework and identification tool that have been developed traceability by Greenpeace and others. no deforestation We seek constantly to improve our policy as further issues no development of peatland and demands emerge, at the same time being mindful that free, prior and informed consent (FPIC) implementation is even more important than words. AAK’s policy is to communicate progress as a minimum AAK has clear definitions for traceability, peatland devel­ annually in our Corporate Social Responsibility report. opment and FPIC. For deforestation and FPIC we rely on However, we report more frequently as appropriate. RSPO definitions, supplementing the High Conservation AAK’s progress reports and palm oil policy can be found Value (HCV) RSPO definition used for deforestation with at www.aak.com under Documentation/Policies. 20 AAK Sustainable Palm Oil Policy implementation protocol AAK’s Sustainable Palm Oil Policy identifies a number of Our risk assessment and mill verification program follows commitments relating to the traceability and sustainable a three-stage process: qualitative risk assessment, geospa­ sourcing of palm oil. Recently, AAK adopted an implemen­ tial risk assessment and mill verification. The three stages tation protocol defining the mechanisms used by AAK in are elaborated in the implementation protocol, together with implementation of the Sustainable Palm Oil Policy. supporting mechanisms and tools: The protocol covers traceability, risk assessment and mill level verification. Establishing traceability to palm oil mills en­ Traceability process and definitions ables AAK to take the steps necessary to ensure that these Risk assessment methodology known sources meet our policy requirements. Risk assess­ Mill level verification approach, together with specific proto­ ment is necessary in order to allow us to prioritize our efforts, col and verification checklist by identifying those origins where there is any significant risk Internal monitoring and reporting mechanisms, of policy non-compliance, and focusing greater scrutiny on including grievance procedure highest-risk mills, including mill based verification. Grievance procedure AAK is committed to high environmental and social stand­ holders, as AAK recognizes that this kind of engagement ards in its supply chain, as evidenced in our Sustainable increases transparency and allows us to gauge the imple­ Palm Oil Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct. AAK also mentation status of our policies across our supply chains and recognizes that the scale and complexity of our supply work towards continuous improvement. chains mean that full implementation of these policies can The procedure is applicable to AAK operations worldwide be challenging. Our grievance procedure being part of our and to all third-party palm oil suppliers. The procedure cov­ implementation protocol is intended to allow stakeholders to ers the steps of recording grievances and communicating highlight any perceived issues in AAK palm oil supply chains with the relevant parties, developing plans to investigate a and facilitate solutions to them. It should be noted that AAK grievance, deploying a field verification team, and creating has a commitment to the RSPO grievance process that it and implementing action and monitoring plans to resolve will follow if any grievance is raised through that mecha­ grievances. If a supplier that breaches AAK policies is not nism. This grievance procedure is an additional approach able to resolve the issue related to the grievance, AAK will to ensure all grievances raised are approached in a timely, terminate commercial relations with that supplier. transparent and systematic manner. Objectives and scope The grievance procedure document is a guide for how griev­ ances raised by external parties will be handled by AAK. The procedure encourages input and feedback from stake­ 21 ” Proforest – partner for responsible sourcing of palm oil AAK partnered with Proforest in May 2014. What is the and producer engagement. We believe that we offer our scope of the partnership? partners an unrivalled level of technical support. In addition, The scope of the partnership is essentially to implement we are always aiming to maximize positive sustainability im­ AAK’s Sustainable Palm Oil Policy. The policy includes com­ pacts, and to deliver that we utilize a ‘critical friend’ approach. mitments on sourcing RSPO certified palm oil, traceability and specific sustainability requirements. Implementation of How would you describe the first year working alongside the policy needs to be demanding and credible, yet realistic AAK? and achievable. In some activities, Proforest provides techni­ I would say that it was largely dominated by the objective cal support to in-house teams, while in other areas where of achieving 100 percent traceability to mill. AAK’s commit­ AAK does not have specific expertise, Proforest necessarily ment to meeting this has definitely been impressive, given takes the lead. the magnitude of the supply base and the large volumes involved. In parallel, we made a start on actually looking at relative risk levels of various origins, in terms of AAK’s policy commitments, and carried out the first batch of site verifica­ tion assessments (in Peninsular Malaysia). It’s fair to say that implementation is going to involve a sustained and signifi­ In what ways can Proforest assist its partners in their dif­ cant investment of effort to engage with suppliers and their ferent sustainability challenges? mills, but AAK’s actions to date, It is no doubt easier to make policy commitments, than including setting up a senior-level to ensure they are meaningfully implemented. In order to taskforce and an in-house training deliver robust implementation, Proforest has developed its module, have demonstrated that own approach to responsible sourcing, based on years of the company is entirely serious experience with different forest and agricultural commodi­ about meeting the challenges ties. This provides a pathway of implementation along which ahead. we can support and guide the companies we are partnering with. Proforest’s responsible sourcing approach covers policy Neil Judd commitments, traceability, risk assessment, site verification Director Proforest Sustainability through teamwork Developing our policy and putting it into action has been driv­ commitments and the requirements they need to meet in en through a cross-functional and cross-border cooperation. order to continue to be part of our supply chain. In 2013 we established a Palm Sustainability Task Force with Our global Operations team has ensured that all relevant members of the functions being key to ensure the sustain­ sites are RSPO certified and manage our supply on a daily ability of our palm oil. The objective of this task force is to basis according to market needs. develop our policy, to ensure delivery upon our commitments Further, in 2013 we established a Sustainable Palm Oil in our policy and to stay ahead of the market needs. The task Champions network with the objective to ensure that we force has members from Sourcing & Trading, Operations, track and adjust to trends in the local markets globally, that Sales & Marketing, CSR and our external partner Proforest, our sales people everywhere are well aware of our sustain­ and they meet frequently. able palm oil solutions for our customers, and that they share Our global Sourcing & Trading team is playing a key role best practices from more developed sustainable palm oil in delivery on our policy commitments. The team has been markets with less developed ones. The network has mem­ working proactively with our global supply base for palm bers from all of our sales regions around the world and they oil. This is to ensure that all of our suppliers understand our meet on a monthly basis. 22 AAK sales force training and support Making a difference to our customers In November 2014 AAK published a booklet, “A guide to AAK Palm Oil Policy and Actions”. The booklet is an internal tool meant to support employees in sales enabling them to fully In 2008 AAK received its first delivery explain AAK Palm Oil Policy and Actions. In parallel to the of RSPO certified sustainable palm publication, our Sustainable Palm Oil Champions network oil, marking the start of a new sus­ gave presentations to the sales organization explaining in tainable journey in palm oil and, more detail the content of the booklet. for AAK, a new way of working To further strengthen and qualify our dialogue with custom­ with customers and their sustain­ ers, we have launched an internal 25 minutes e-learning ability requirements. module on sustainable palm oil. The learning objectives are: This first delivery was made to our site in Hull and our UK team quickly real­ To understand the importance of palm oil – to the world ized that their expert knowledge of RSPO certified palm oil and to AAK; could make a real difference to their customers. By under­ To understand the sustainable palm oil framework covered standing the total supply chain from the mill to the supermar­ under the RSPO; ket shelf, the team engaged with each part of the chain to To understand key definitions related to palm oil and trace­ encourage uptake and share knowledge. ability; This started with the major retailers who began develop­ To understand AAK policy and actions towards sustainable ing policies to deliver RSPO certified sustainable palm oil in sourcing of palm oil; private label products, but who were unsure of what quanti­ To use the knowledge acquired in this course as a tool ties and qualities were physically available. AAK, along with when working with customers on topics related to palm oil GreenPalm provided information and support to develop and AAK policy and actions. these policies while making a direct difference on the ground by encouraging the use of GreenPalm certificates as a first The e-learning module has a multiple choice test that during step. Many retailers continue to use GreenPalm to deliver 2015 needs to be passed by more than 400 employees iden­ fractions and derivatives for their 100 percent certified objec­ tified as the target group. tive at the end of 2015. AAK customers, many of which supply the retailers, needed guidance on how to gain and supply RSPO certified material. Here, again, AAK supported them not only by sup­ plying the products, but by offering training to technical and commercial teams. This included showing them how to meet RSPO supply chain audit requirements and advising them on how to use the Claims and Communication guidelines. Sustainable presentations to individuals and large groups are part of AAK’s regular contact with customers. AAK recognized the need to go beyond the RSPO com­ mitments and the need for traceability of palm oil as a first step, and during 2014 a policy was developed. This was developed by the global Palm Sustainability Task Force, with representatives from all key functions within AAK and based upon input from key external stakeholders. Together with our Sustainable Palm Oil Champions network, the task force has been able to react relatively quickly to customers’ needs. Many of our customers have similar palm oil policies as AAK within their own CSR commitments and this alignment is a strong starting point for a good supplier/customer relation­ ship. By working together, AAK and our customers can support the transformation towards a fully sustainable palm oil supply chain. 23 ” Nestlé: A transparent and traceable supply chain What are some of the key principles for Nestlé when it AAK take strong action to address key sustainability issues. comes to sustainable palm oil? The strengthening of the AAK Sustainable Palm Oil Policy in At Nestlé, we believe that the first step towards sustainably 2014 to include commitments to no deforestation and no de­ produced palm oil is to create a transparent and traceable velopment of peatlands was a significant step forward. AAK’s supply chain. We are committed to transform our palm oil work to date to support their supply chains is aligned with supply chain in compliance with our Responsible Sourcing their commitment and has been important for Nestlé. We are Guidelines. Nestlé is conscious of its responsibility in contrib­ convinced that AAK will continue its journey and encourage uting to effective and sustainable solutions. them to continue showing progress on transparency, trace­ ability, and implementing its policy in the coming years. You have been working with AAK for many years. How do you view AAK as a supplier? Marco Gonçalves AAK has for many years been one of our leading suppliers Nestlé SA Chief Procurement Officer of oils and fats. Over the last two years Nestlé has seen Achieving traceability As part of implementing our sustainable palm oil policy origin, we managed to end 2014 at 89 percent traceable commitments of no deforestation and no development on which we consider a strong result given the complexity of peatland, we request all our raw material suppliers of palm this supply chain. Strong focus will continue throughout 2015 oil to provide us with traceability information. This has also within all areas. become a mandatory requirement for new suppliers as part For oil being produced away from origin, we generally of our standard approval procedure for palm oil suppliers. find that the whole industry is having difficulties in getting 2014 was a successful year in the sense of relatively quickly fully traceable oil to the mill level. The reason is that much of adjusting our supply chain to meet the necessary require­ these suppliers’ feedstocks are commingled in land tanks at ments stipulated in our palm oil policy. It has been important the port of shipment, and further throughout transportation. for us to work closely with our suppliers and explain to them This makes it difficult to maintain traceability back to mills, why AAK requests information which for some suppliers is where the crude oils could possibly have been produced. regarded as sensitive information. Nevertheless, our suppli­ Despite our strong progression on traceability during 2014, ers have generally welcomed the initiative which AAK among our journey is far from completed. It has to be emphasized other palm oil processors is taking in transforming its supply that traceability is only a tool for risk assessing our supply chain towards palm oils produced under stronger sustainable chain. Having the traceability in place is of course a neces­ practices. sary starting point to ensure that the oil we source complies By the end of 2014 we achieved 100 percent traceable to with our policy requirements. Some stakeholders are cur­ mill for all the palm oils sourced at origin, which is a result rently asking for traceability beyond the mill level all the way of a joined teamwork within AAK together with our suppli­ to plantation level. We fully agree that such traceability will ers around the world. For the palm kernel oils sourced from allow us to make an even more thorough assessment of our 24 supply chain. We also recognize the complexity in obtain­ provide us with any updates within their supply chain. By ing such information at that detailed level. Currently we are doing so, we ensure a high degree of validity in our risk as­ monitoring for traceability to the plantation level, which is sessments which is vital for achieving credible results. Our starting to see progress. focus currently is on assessing compliance of identified mills, Traceability will always be retrospective to a certain extent which we consider to be the most effective implementation and will be a snapshot of what supply chains look like at methodology. a specific point in time. Therefore, to ensure that we keep a high level of quality in the data we are using for our risk assessment, we ask our suppliers every sixth month to Overall progress 97% 11 % August 2015 86 % Palm oil from origin Palm kernel oils Palm oil – others By-products 13 % 100 % 91 % 84 % 59 % Indirectly traceable Traceable to known source Key progresses AAK has advanced rapidly in putting its sustainable palm oil qualitative risk assessment process completed for all policy into action: identified supplier mills geospatial risk assessment completed for 20 supplier mills strong progress towards the target of 100 percent trace­ higher risk supplier mills identified for on site mill ability to mill for sourcing of palm oil and associated verification assessments in 2015 products, including palm kernel oil and sourcing for finalized AAK Palm Oil Policy implementation protocol technical, non-food use adopted a palm oil grievance procedure 100 percent traceability back to mill origin for palm oil and 97 percent overall for palm oil, palm kernel oil and residuals 25 Rapeseed – sourcing close to home Rapeseed is an important raw material at AAK. Thanks to fatty acids linoleic acid (Omega 6) and alpha-linolenic acid local seed suppliers and in-house processing, AAK can offer (Omega 3), as well as vitamin E (tocopherol) and vitamin K. oils from traditional seeds and a range of speciality variants. Its nutritional and functional properties mean that rape­ Most of the rapeseed used by AAK’s products is grown in seed oil is ideal for use as a cooking oil or ingredient. Food Sweden, where farms have increased their output in recent applications range from mayonnaise and salad dressings to years. Through close cooperation with the farmers, AAK is baby food. In margarines and bakery products, rapeseed oil able to maintain control of the entire value chain, from the ensures the right consistency and an improved nutritional production of raw material to finished products. The rape­ profile. seed meal that remains after oil extraction is used as animal For high-temperature processes, high oleic acid-varieties feed. of rapeseed are significantly more suitable. The advantages With a high oleic acid content, rapeseed oil has the low­ are a low saturated fat content together with good thermal est saturated fat content of all vegetable oils and is high in and storage stability. monounsaturated fatty acids. It also contains the essential 26 Shea – a strategic raw material Shea kernels are a very important and unique raw mate­ Over more than 60 years, AAK has gained extensive rial for AAK. The shea tree is a wild tree growing in a belt knowledge and experience of this raw material and the local across Africa south of the Sahara. Countries with the highest communities in which AAK operates. Selected shea trees are population of shea trees include Mali, Burkina Faso, Nigeria, continuously monitored and combined with multiple weather Ghana, Ivory Coast, Benin and Togo – also some of the least data in a complex matrix to assess the size of the next developed countries in the world. Due to a very long maturity harvest, and a number of processes take place to ensure an period, shea trees are not grown in plantations. unbroken supply chain from the collection of shea kernels and early pre-treatment, to transportation to ports and ware­ houses and then shipment to Northern Europe. Burkina Faso Improved livelihood Mali AAK works with the women who collect the shea kernels, building capacity in local communities. AAK’s work in these areas includes the formation and teaching of women’s groups in villages, and by doing direct business with them, the women have been able to markedly improve their liveli­ hood. Ivory Coast Benin Ghana Togo ” Great progress in West Africa We at AAK have seen some important progress within our years back we also employ a number of deaf mute people activities in West Africa over the last year and we continue to in Ghana who are doing an excellent work in a safe environ­ improve our presence in the region. ment. During the past year we have, among other things, final­ In addition, we continue our work regarding the compli­ ized the building of our yard in Bobo-Dioulasso, Burkina ance with the AAK Supplier Code of Conduct and our Faso and refurbished our yards in Ghana where we also involvement as a founding member of the Global Shea have started a women’s groups project. Financed by Danida, Alliance. AAK has a clear vision to work in the direction of a we have also started a shea tree regeneration project in sustainable value chain and to focus even more on sustain­ Burkina Faso together with The National Agricultural and ability and traceability. Environmental Research Institute (INERA), and TREE AID, a British development and environmental NGO. Since some Henrik Vingaard Sourcing & Trading Director ” Exciting times for the Global Shea Alliance The Global Shea Alliance is a multi-stake­ and non-profits. Our members range from holder non-profit organization established small start-ups to large international in 2011 with AAK as one of its founding businesses and are based in 25 different members. What is the main purpose of the countries. The GSA offers a compel­ alliance? ling opportunity to join industry-wide The GSA focus areas are sustainability, sustainability efforts, support interna­ market expansion, competitiveness, and tional promotion, network with mem­ policy advocacy. In the past few years, we bers, access technical support, and gain have launched a number of important initiatives to achieve exposure. For our membership, we think it’s important to our mission: offer sustainability, quality, and promotion activities in order The GSA Sustainability Program defines guidelines for to drive continued interest. sustainable business practices and projects that improve women’s empowerment and tree populations in Africa. What are the main objectives for the alliance within the Registered partners are building warehouses for women next year? collectors, offering business development trainings to We have an ambitious year planned at the GSA. We are women’s groups, undertaking health and safety initiatives, increasing our membership and sustainability partners as and much more. The program is about creating largewell as rolling out public private partnerships to help scale scale impact through GSA member collaboration. the size of existing projects. We are also launching a Euro­ We hold three international conferences and exhibitions pean conference and developing an international strategy to in Africa and the US each year to promote shea-based promote shea in food and cosmetic industries. ingredients and products. We established a quality standard for kernels and held trainings on best practices for processing and storage that benefited 30,000 collectors last year. We are supporting producing countries to undertake international policy advocacy campaigns that will open important new markets. Joseph Funt In recent years, the number of GSA members has in­ Managing Director creased considerably. What is the reason for this? Global Shea Alliance It’s been an exciting few years for the GSA and we now have 380 members including brands, suppliers, women’s groups, 28 ” Kolo Nafaso – women’s groups in Burkina Faso We continue to develop Kolo Nafaso, our women’s groups program in Burkina Faso. Kolo Nafaso, which means “the house of shea kernel benefits”, started as a project in 2009 but has now developed into a program. Consequently, this is not on trial basis but has turned into one of the ways in which AAK are sourcing shea kernels on a permanent basis. During the season 2014/2015 we have been reaching out to 55,000 women. Our goal was 50,000 but so far we have experienced an ever increasing interest from women and women’s groups to participate in the program. The result is very much aligned with our aim to reach out to a broader base of women. The women should benefit from our way of working, which is by following the Fair Trade principles. AAK is pre-financing, educating the women in how to process the shea, giving support in logistical issues as well as paying a quality bonus. But not only the women will benefit from being able to deliver quality shea kernels, AAK will also benefit from buying shea kernels that are both traceable and of better quality. For the coming season we intend to increase the number of women even further to include 70,000 women. We also create work for local people with positions such as extension workers, team leaders, drivers, accountants and warehouse personnel. To increase the safety awareness, we have put time and resources into new safety gear for our extension workers driving around on inferior roads. Our personnel has recently participated in a first-aid course which should increase their possibility to help each other and the people around us in case of need. The cooperation with the women’s groups and being on the ground in many areas of Burkina Faso is vital to AAK. It helps us to get to know much more about the value chain and also to spread our knowledge to raise awareness. Monika Hjorth Sourcing & Trading Manager AAK responsible growth CSR organization Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact Key achievements Waste to reuse, recycle or recovery % 100 Objective 2015 98.3 97.6 97.4 97.4 95 96.3 90 85 84 80 75 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Key data Energy consumption Per unit processed material 3.0 2.85 2.5 2.57 2.59 2.44 2.52 2.25 2.0 1.5 1.0 0.5 0.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Water consumption Per unit processed material 1.6 1.4 1.4 1.2 1.3 1.3 1.2 1.2 1.0 1.1 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Environment The section on Environment covers AAK’s impact on the environment in terms of consumption and emissions from our production plants. It is a clear top priority for us to minimize our use of natural resources and emissions per processed final product even though our stronger focus on speciality drives a higher degree of processing. We have been able to create strong results within this area over the last years and also during this year due to a strong focus on internal and external benchmarking as well as best practise sharing. To make this section easier to navigate, it has been divided into four sub-sections: Energy, Air, Water and Waste. AAK’s production plants differ in size, capacity and the types To achieve this, environmental projects are implemented, of processes used. Processing vegetable oils is both com­ consumption and emissions are monitored, and best practic­ plex and energy-intensive. es are identified by benchmarking production plants against AAK is very much aware of the footprint that production each other and against other players in the industry. A hand­ plants leave on the environment. Therefore, the company ful of AAK’s various environmental projects are described in constantly strives to reduce its consumption of energy and this section, presented by the employees who are directly water, and to reduce waste and emissions. As part of the involved in achieving the results. AAKtion program, the aim is to become more environmen­ As a matter of course, we take environmental laws and tally friendly – and improve day by day. regulations very seriously and are proud to report that, in 2014, we recorded no incidents of non-compliance. Environmental objectives Resource efficiency Waste A common way of measuring resource efficiency is to calcu­ Sending waste to landfill means not utilizing any of the po­ late the amount of resources consumed versus the produc­ tential value that may still be present. What’s more, in many tion output. However, AAK’s strategy of producing and selling countries, a landfill tax has been introduced to reduce the more specialized, refined products means that, all things amount of waste disposed of in this way. being equal, we require more resources per unit of output. AAK’s objective is that, by the end of 2015, minimum 98.5 This sometimes blurs the results of efficiency initiatives and percent of the company’s waste will go to reuse, recycling makes it hard to paint a clear picture and give well-earned or recovery. During 2014, 2.4 percent (equal to 2,600 MT) of credit to the projects. the total waste was disposed of in the least favourable way: For this reason, a decision has been taken to focus on landfill. The remaining 97.6 percent of the waste material local organization, projects, progress and results driven by was disposed for reuse, recycling or recovery. This is an local resource efficiency teams. improvement of 5,4 percentage points compared to 2013. The main challenges to obtain our 2015 objective are new The process: acquisitions with less focus on waste and a change in US 2013: Teams established, monthly meetings and at least federal legislation regarding used bleaching earth. In spite of one project initiated these challenges we will do our utmost to achieve the 2015 2014: Resource efficiency projects at all sites are delivering target. according to plan Least favourable Most favourable 2015: Resource efficiency results documented at all sites Landfill Recover Recycle Reuse Reduce During 2014 efficiency projects have progressed according to plans. During 2015 individual improvement results will be The development that we want our waste disposal to follow: documented. going from waste to landfill, over recovery, recycling and reuse, to reduction. 31 ” Our journey, our successes, our shortcomings What has the change from commodity to speciality meant produced huge benefits. We have worked hard to improve for AAK’s environmental work? our European Supply Chain, where our sites ran independ­ This change has brought many challenges to our organi­ ent of each other, often duplicating activities. We still have zation, our manufacturing and our supply chain. We have a long way to go to achieve our ultimate goal, but improve­ been focusing on productivity, whilst introducing additional ments to our cost base, reduced waste, reduced transpor­ processes, to handle complexity throughout, to provide tation, better energy and water efficiency and improved tailored solutions to our customers. One could argue that this ­capacity utilization are clear benefits to our sustainability is not an environment for conservation. However, we believe focus. and continuously demonstrate that this is not the case, for example through waste diversion, by improving and revamp­ What are the biggest challenges ahead? ing our manufacturing operation, by improving safety and the When we think about threats to the environment, we tend to welfare of our employees and contributing to and supporting picture cars, planes and factories with large smokestacks, the welfare of our neighbours. Our driving goal is to accom­ but I believe that one of the biggest dangers to the planet is plish what seems impossible and remain profitable with a our need for food. We are in a world that is demanding more. supply chain that is lean and agile, in a world of constrained By 2050 the world’s population is likely to increase by 35 per­ resources. cent, approximately another two billion people, to nine billion. Our challenge is how to achieve this – not by using more, but What are some of the specific actions that AAK has taken by using less; by reducing our valuable resources employed within sustainability? to produce enough food to feed this population, by eliminat­ We are moving away from jargon that often weighs down ing waste whilst freezing our agricultural footprint, by growing sustainability improvements to clear concise Aims, Actions more on our farms, by using resources more efficiently and and Targets. We are clearly focused on the long term and by improving yields. One may think this is impossible, but it this approach has reaped many benefits. Our long term is not. We just need to find the right way to achieve the goal, goals hold AAK accountable to what we promise to our set our minds to doing it and collectively take accountability stakeholders. It prevents us from setting expectations too and deliver what we promise. This is where I see AAK in all high, it removes short term hurdles and it allows time to de­ of our endeavours in the next few years. We will not solve sign corrective actions that are also sustainable for the long the food challenge, but we will play our part in every way term. We have introduced many new procedures, among possible, reducing our environmental impact, through con­ them MOC (management of change). This is a powerful tool tinuously improving performance. that we have employed in our safety procedures, where any change brought about to our current processes/practices needs to be fully approved and signed off. This one change in our processes has contributed to improve our safety per­ formance by more than 50 percent. What are some of the benefits that your efforts have produced? Our global activities across all manufacturing sites, where David Smith we learn and share best practices between each other, have President European Supply Chain Transport optimization in AAK Dalby During 2014, Food Service in AAK Dalby has together with products, more products per pallet, and fewer delivery times. some of its largest customers worked with transport optimi­ The focus during 2014 has been cost-effective transports zation. Many customers’ ordering patterns are usually based with full trucks from factory to the warehouses. The environ­ on internal logistics and commercial factors, but often also on mental benefits have been obvious, but after evaluating the tradition. These habitual patterns were based on customer project it has also been acknowledged that the quality and needs, but was perhaps in the end not the optimal solution. delivery service has increased significantly. Instead the flexibility was limited to full pallets of almost all 32 Energy Energy costs and the link between energy consumption and energy consumption has decreased by 2.8 percent despite a impact on the climate, motivate continued focus on energy strategic decision to increase the production of highly refined issues. Responsible growth is only possible if energy con­ products which, all other things being equal, require more sumption and costs are kept as low as possible. energy to process. Due to the industry’s relatively high energy consumption, efforts to increase energy efficiency and, where possible, Direct energy consumption 2014 – per energy move toward renewable energy sources are important. The type of energy used at AAK’s production plants var­ ies considerably and very much depends on location. In Montevideo, Uruguay, all direct energy consumed is derived from biomass, while in Louisville, Kentucky, for example, all energy comes from coal. Some production plants have their own power plant and sell energy in the form of steam and electricity externally. The total energy consumption given in this report has been adjusted for this. In 2014, AAK’s production plants had a combined direct energy consumption of 3,780,000 Gj, an increase of 0.6 4% Biofuel percent compared to 2013. Direct energy consumption from 20 % Fuel oil renewable resources constitutes 29 percent, an improve­ ment of 12 percent. 25 % Biomass During the same period, electricity purchases (indirect en­ 51 % Gas ergy consumption) increased by 3.7 percent to 764,000 Gj. The proportion of green electricity constitutes 39 percent, the Purchased electricity 2014 same percentage as last year. Several sites are purchasing 100 percent green electricity. Energy consumption decreased by 2.8 percent Overall, total energy consumption reached 4,544,000 Gj, an increase of 1.1 percent. Calculated per MT produced, Total energy consumption x 1000 Gj 5000 4000 39 % Renewable 3000 61 % Non-renewable 2000 1000 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Direct CO2 emission % 100 80 Air 60 40 Rising average temperatures, more extreme weather and 20 changes in rainfall patterns are all symptoms of the climate 0 change we are experiencing. Today, legislation and markets 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 aim to mitigate these changes by reducing the greenhouse gas emissions believed to be the driver of global climate Non-renewable Renewable change. AAK is playing its part. In 2014, AAK generated 247,000 MT of carbon dioxide at its production plants, which is 1.4 percent less than in 2013. Total direct CO2 emission 39 percent of direct carbon dioxide emissions stemmed from Per unit processed material renewable resources. Carbon dioxide emissions from fossil 200 fuel per MT processed decreased 11 percent compared to 2013. The ozone layer protects life on earth by filtering out some 150 of the sun’s harmful UV radiation. For that reason, any thin­ ning of the ozone layer is hazardous. AAK works actively 100 toward eliminating all equipment that uses ozone-depleting substances (ODS), which are generally used for cooling. 50 Due to new acquisitions, a significant rise was experienced in 2013, from 27 kg to 3,127 kg of ODS. In 2014 ODS de­ creased with 26 percent to 2,325 kg. 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Due to the Group’s use of fuels, its production plants emit 246 MT NOx (nitrogen oxide) and 177 MT SOx (sulphur oxide). 232 MT VOC (Volatile Organic Compounds) are also Direct emissions emitted from plants that run extraction and solvent fractiona­ tion processes. MT 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Nox Sox VOC 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 34 ” Developing business while diminishing our carbon footprint During 2014, AAK South America finished an investment, Changing the logistic route Asia-Europe-Uruguay to Asiaaiming at increasing the business of new products in the Uruguay has not only helped to develop the business, it has South American region. also diminished the transportation carbon footprint for the In order to make the project viable the new products had to palm derivatives used. be competitive in terms of price. Therefore, it was necessary to optimize the costs for the palm fractions used in the new María Soledad products’ recipes. At the production premises in AAK Uru­ Regional Manager for Applications and Product Quality, guay, a new method for the rapid melting of palm fractions AAK South America has been developed, allowing the reception of palm fractions directly from Asia, the first link in the palm chain production. Water In addition to being energy-intensive, vegetable oil process­ to 2013. However, calculated as processing water per MT ing requires large amounts of water, mainly for cooling and produced, consumption remained the same. steam production. Most AAK products do not contain water on leaving the plants. Water discharge When water is discharged, its quality is measured by two Water consumption different methods: BOD5 (biochemical oxygen demand) and Combined, the Group’s production plants use approximately COD (chemical oxygen demand). This determines the de­ 24,000,000 m3 of surface water. This water, which is used gree of pollution and has to be within stipulated limit values. for cooling, has no contact with products or pollutants and is The method used is defined by the local authorities. returned to the source without any change in quality. The dis­ Total BOD5 for sites using this method was 6 MT while charged water may, however, be slightly warmer than when COD was 1,230 MT. Measurements are within the stipulated entering the Group’s system. limits. All discharged water from AAK sites is treated at own Ground water and municipal water used in processing or municipal treatment plants. totalled 2,300,000 m3, an increase of 4 percent compared Water consumption Water discharge X 1000 m3 X 1000 m3 2500 2000 2000 1500 1500 1000 1000 500 500 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 35 Waste During 2014, AAK’s production plants generated 111,000 reduction in packaging material. By weight, 56 percent of MT of waste. This is an increase of 50 percent compared to AAK’s products are bulk deliveries, while 44 percent are 2013 predominantly caused by an increase of shea kernel packed goods. processing. 99.8 percent of the total amount of waste was non-hazardous. 2014 waste disposal In waste disposal, there is a clear, very determined effort towards reducing waste going to landfill. Nevertheless, new acquisitions joining the AAK Group previously had a low waste disposal focus and their challenge now is to improve waste management to a level that meets AAK’s objective for 2015, which is sending less than 1.5 percent to landfill. Changes to US legislation regarding the use of bleaching earth also presents new challenges. In 2014, 2,500 MT were disposed of as landfill, which is a decrease of 200 MT com­ pared to 2013 (an improvement of 7 percent). A large proportion of the waste is shea meal, which is the residual product when oil is extracted from shea kernels. 2% Landfill Shea meal has no nutritional value and is used as biomass 4% Reuse in power plants. 22 % Recycle The majority of AAK’s finished products are delivered in 72 % Recover bulk, defined as more than 0.9 MT per delivery unit, thus including pallet tanks. Delivering products in bulk means a Total waste Hazardous waste MT % 120,000 2.0 100,000 1.5 80,000 1.0 40,000 0.5 20,000 0 0.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 ” Ashes to fertilizer for the most Swedish of industries – forestry AAK Sweden continues its successful initiative to return all of As a result of this measure, AAK Sweden has reduced its its ashes, approximately 400 MT per year, from the burning amount of waste to landfill by 75 percent. This large reduc­ of pellets to the forest. The use of our biological ashes con­ tion is a very important part of the Group’s efforts to overall tribute to reducing carbon dioxide emissions and to maintain reduce the amount of waste to landfill. and support sustainable forestry. By spreading the ashes, important nutrients that are removed during logging are Anders Söderström returned. This ensures the soil’s long-term productivity, while Site and Customer Quality Manager, AAK Sweden soil acidification is prevented. 36 ” Environmental benefits through pipeline pigging During the past year, AAK in Runcorn has developed a pig­ product changes per week and this will allow the recovery of ging system that will result in some important environmental approximately 100 to 150 kg of products per week depend­ benefits. The pigging system is fitted as an addition to the ing on the product mix. hold tank project to allow the recovery of products from the The pigging system is now fully operational and we are re­ pipe work running between the hold tanks and the line filling covering products at the end of each run. We have success­ heads, to reduce the amount of products being sent to waste fully reduced the amount of chemicals and products being and to increase yield during each product change over. processed through our trade effluent system and have seen In total the system has 48 meters of 50 mm pipe work an increase in yield. running between the Hot Make Kettle (HMK) vessels and the filler heads on the lines, with a recovery rate of approximate­ Mike Pocock ly 1 kg of product per meter of pipe work. We have up to four Health, Safety and Environmental Manager, AAK Runcorn ” AAK Mexico granted Clean Industry Certificate Clean Industry is a local certification for companies that reviews resulted in the authorities’ through their participation voluntarily contribute to the complete satisfaction and in May effective enforcement of environmental legislation. The 2015 the Clean Industry Certificate certification also improves the efficiency of the companies’ was granted. production processes, environmental performance and The Clean Industry Certificate, competitiveness. which is valid for two years, creates In 2014 we set the goal of joining the program and momentum in AAK Mexico’s com­ achieving the certification for the facilities at the port of mitment and helps us, as a socially Lázaro Cardenas. During the certification process, several responsible company, in our envi­ administrative changes had to be made, among them a ronmental responsibilities. reorganization of legal requirements that both ourselves and our suppliers had to meet, managing change in environ­ José Luis Paredes mental controls, and operational changes aimed to establish Health & Safety Manager, AAK Mexico programs in favour of the environment, for example saving water and electricity and making good use of fuel – all of great benefit for the entire organization. After approximately nine months, the implementation of programs, monitoring procedures and comprehensive AAK responsible growth CSR organization Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact Key achievements Lost Time Injury Rate* 2.5 2.3 2.0 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.4 1.2 1.0 0.5 0.5 0.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 * production sites Lost Day Rate 40 39.6 35 37.7 30 25 20 20.9 15 15.5 10 12.1 5 7.2 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Workplace This section is about working life at AAK: how to remain an attractive workplace for employees, and to make sure that everybody is healthy and safe. AAK’s employees are the company’s most important resource. With 2,459 employees at the end of the year and many different locations across the globe – in production plants, sales offices and sourcing operations – AAK is a diverse company with many different job functions. Common to every employee are the company’s values and Code of Conduct, which govern the way in which business is conducted, how the AAKtion program is executed, and how employees interact with each other and the company’s stakeholders. Combined with the UN Global Compact and the CSR Policy, this provides the framework for AAK as a workplace. Workplace objectives Lost Time Injury Rate Any work-related injury is clearly unacceptable and AAK con­ Production sites: Reduce LTIR by at least 10 percent stantly strives to be a zero injuries workplace. Since 2010, per year (baseline 2012 at 1.4) to or below 1.0 we have aligned definitions and measured injuries across the Sourcing sites in West Africa: Maintain LTIR at or AAK Group. We have defined Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) below 2.3 as the number of work injuries that result in one or more days/shifts of sick leave per 200,000 working hours. At our production sites, LTIR dropped by an impressive 58 Global LTIR objectives and reporting for previous years percent to 0.5. Moreover, Lost Day Rate – a measurement have included records for both production sites and sourc­ of the severity of incidents – decreased by 41 percent to 7.2. ing sites in West Africa. Since 2012 we have broken down A clear outcome of the relentless work done by our global LTIR at production sites and West African sourcing sites. The safety team. safety challenge in West Africa is very difficult and very much At our sourcing sites in West Africa, conditions and chal­ related to logistics conditions outside AAK premises with lack lenges are very different and LTIR increased from 2.3 to of traffic control and very poor road conditions. For these 4.2. This is, amongst other initiatives, being addressed by reasons we have set up separate objectives since 2014: widespread safety training aiming to change the culture into a “safety first” mindset. ” A healthy and competitive work environment What are the most important reasons for the improvements turning our goals into actions, create an understanding and in AAK’s health and safety performance over the last year? a commitment to our goals and values, which in turn move The biggest contributor to the improvements of the AAK our business forward. In addition, AAK’s strategy is broken safety record was the concerted efforts of the entire Global down into specific goals for units, teams and each individual, Safety Management Team. The global team has been in and performance and behavior is evaluated and discussed place since its creation in 2013 and the results have shown. on a structured basis in a yearly Personal Development By sharing procedures, trending near misses and incidents Plan (PDP) and a mid-year review. It is our experience that through KPIs and monthly meetings, we saw where the fo­ information sharing, a high level of involvement and ongoing cus of our efforts were required. These factors improved our feedback and coaching on behavior creates commitment and overall programs in all facilities. The interaction of the various accountability. safety professionals was instrumental in identifying hazards, eliminating risks and strengthening the programs at all sites. What is AAK’s strategy for talent development within the The resulting integration of site practices allowed the overall company? team to advance the culture of safety in all activities including Our ability to innovate and co-develop is crucial to us. That a global team work approach that allowed AAK to achieve takes talent. The last couple of years we have identified world class safety numbers in 2014, reducing the Lost Time a number of capability gaps and this has given us a bet­ Injury Rate (LTIR) by more than 50 percent below our stated ter understanding of our future needs within functional and goal. This number includes eight facilities with no lost time leadership development. In addition, each employee has incidents and four sites that were incident free for the entire a development plan which is formulated in a yearly PDP. year. Development takes place through international assignments, job-rotation, feedback, coaching and functional and leader­ AAK is a large and diverse company with many different job ship training. functions. How do you ensure that all employees work ac­ cording to the same values and towards the same goals? A healthy and competitive work environment is about ensur­ ing clear direction, alignment and commitment. At AAK we ensure direction by communicating our strategy throughout the organization. This is done by using different internal communication channels such as our intranet, newsletters, monthly management calls and town hall meetings. Howev­ Carla Leilani Packness er, we consider our managers and their daily conversations Vice President HR & with employees and our different teams to be our most im­ Communications portant communication channel. These conversations about Staying healthy Safety in the workplace is also about maintaining health. Health checks and vaccinations AAK is present in many countries with very different cultures, Access to sports facilities varying degrees of health awareness and different health ini­ Company sporting events tiatives by local or national authorities. For this reason, there Healthy food offers is no uniform approach to maintaining health, activities are instead guided by local decision-making, based on a needs For employees in West Africa, AAK offers include free assessment. Most initiatives focus on employees. Examples mosquito nets, annual information on risk control, vaccina­ of AAK’s health initiatives and offers include: tion against yellow fever, meningitis and cholera, and health insurance – again based on a local needs assessment. First aid and safety training AAK Mexico also operates health facilities and offers Widespread protective equipment consultation for employees’ family members and the local Computer glasses community as a whole. 40 Labour rights Labour rights issues are governed by AAK’s CSR Policy, Giving staff equal and fair treatment is another focus area which applies to all Group sites. Among other things, the of the CSR Policy. During 2014, one incident of discrimina­ policy states AAK’s view on child labour and young workers, tion was recorded, this at one of the sites in the UK. The on forced labour, and on freedom of association and the right incident was fully investigated and it was found that the to collective bargaining. employee had acted in a racist manner and was summarily 41 percent of AAK’s employees are covered by collective dismissed. bargaining agreements. In 2014 there were no strikes at AAK The ratio of basic salary for men relative to women is not sites but in Montevideo, Uruguay, production was closed reported, since interpretation of the data would not give a down four times due to local union meetings. true picture. On average, AAK pays more in salary to male AAK does not have a Group policy that stipulates a com­ employees than to female employees, not because the mon, cross-group notice period for significant operational basic salary for male employees is higher, but because male changes. Instead, we abide by national legislation and local employees generally have jobs with a higher salary. For the agreements based on collective bargaining, combined with same job, the salary for male and female employees is the that which is outlined in the CSR Policy: “We give fair notice same. to employees of significant changes that could substantially affect them.” E-learning anti-corruption AAK has signed the UN Global Compact committing AAK to For employees at increased risk of encountering corruption, establish anti-corruption measures, and anti-corruption has these modules are mandatory and must be passed. also been addressed in the Code of Conduct, the Supplier The first module, with a general introduction to anti-corrup­ Code of Conduct and the Code of Conduct for Agents and tion, was launched in early 2014. The second module, with Distributors. a focus on competition law, was launched late 2014. The However, corruption still remains a common risk through­ purpose of the training modules is to ensure awareness of out the world for all companies, and a decision was made to what is corruption and provide knowledge about how to deal internally promote awareness and knowledge of this topic. To with it. Both modules are expected to be passed by all target that end, e-learning modules addressing anti-corruption top­ group members by the end of 2015. ics have been launched. The modules have a length of ap­ proximately 15 minutes and end with a multiple-choice test. ” AAK program will help employees finish their high school studies “Never let anyone tell you that you cannot do something. If of their spare time, besides doing homework and studying you want something, go for it. Period.” during weekends at facilities and with teachers provided by When I heard those words in a movie and watched what AAK. the character was able to do as part of the story, the idea We are convinced that by the end of the program and with struck me. How strong a person’s will and energy can be the improvement of their skills they will be able to better un­ to reach such extreme power and overcome obstacles to derstand their contributions to the company goals. Altogeth­ achieve a goal! er, it is a good example of how, through a great effort, people In AAK Mexico, we feel joy and motivation because we with the right mindset and at any stage in life, can continue have people with such energy. Six months ago a group of to develop their skills, in spite of the responsibilities that work twenty operators joined “Prepa AAK”, a two-year program and family bring every day. It is for this reason that we would that will help them to formally finish their high school studies. like to share our respect and appreciation for this excellent This group decided to invest more than eight hours a week group of colleagues. Oliva Servin Human Resources, AAK Mexico The AAK workforce in numbers As of December 31, 2014, AAK had a total of 2,459 employ­ refers to an employment relationship which can be broken by ees (an average of 2,439 employees, as stated in the Annual either party with no liability. 4 percent of our employees work Report 2014), 2.2 percent less than in 2013. Among perma­ part-time. nent employees, approximately 11 percent left the company. The average age of employees in Europe is significantly Employees* by age, % higher than in the rest of the world due to a more mature organization. 22 percent of AAK’s permanent employees 100 >49 are female. This is a lower percentage than in many other 80 40–49 businesses, and is explained by the fact that working in the production plants typically attracts more men than women. At 60 30–39 managerial level, 17 percent of employees are female. <30 69 percent of AAK’s employees are permanently em­ 40 ployed, while 11 percent are on temporary contracts. The 20 remaining 20 percent comprise trainees, agency staff and atwill employees. The latter is a doctrine of American law that 0 Americas Europe West Africa Employment contract type Employee* category by age, % 100 >49 80 40–49 60 30–39 <30 40 <1 % Apprentice 4% Agency staff 20 11 % At-will 16 % Temporary 0 69 % Permanent Management Salaried Hourly paid Employee* category by gender, % Employees* by age 100 Females 80 Males 60 40 20 15 % <30 23 % 30–39 0 28 % 40–49 Management Salaried Hourly paid 34 % >49 Employees* by gender, % Employee* turnover by age 100 100 Females 80 Males 80 60 60 40 40 20 20 0 0 Americas Europe West Africa <30 30– 40 40–50 >50 * Permanent and at-will employees 43 Global Safety Management Team Port Newark surpassed five improves safety years without a lost-time incident The AAK Global Safety Management Team, consisting of On September 19, 2014 the AAK Port Newark facility passed safety professionals from sites in Europe, South America and the five-year mark without a lost-time incident. Earlier that North America, set some ambitious safety goals for 2014. year it also passed the 1,000,000 hours worked without a The key goal was to reduce the lost-time incident rate – the lost-time incident mark. measure of injuries that require time away from work – to 1.1 Thanks to the dedication of the employees and the from 1.2 per 200.000 working hours. Due to the hard work of emphasis on the safety-quality-production mindset, the Port the entire team the rate was reduced globally to 0.5 for the Newark staff worked safely while handling the challenges year. This was a reduction of more than 50 percent. of two hurricanes and several major construction projects. The team developed creative strategies and programs to Worker safety takes precedence in every job completed at ensure our workers are the safest in the industry. Overall, the plant while the entire safety structure has been elevated every site reduced their lost-time incident rate or stayed at to the highest AAK standards. zero incidents. The largest reductions were made at our two In connection with the five-year mark, site Manager Nigel UK sites. Our sites in Belgium and Brazil were added in 2014 Glover noted that “Safety is always topic number one during and both had no lost-time incidents. Our site in Port Newark, every meeting and that helps keep the safety mindset front New Jersey surpassed five years without a lost-time incident and center. Employees are encouraged to bring up safety during the year. topics and the quickest resolution to the issue becomes the top priority”. Earlier in 2014, both AAK’s site in Hillside, New Jersey and the one in Louisville, Kentucky passed the one-year thresh­ old leaving every AAK US facility over that milestone. This is the first time that this has been accomplished. 45 AAK responsible growth CSR organization Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact Community In this section, activities that AAK initiates and engages in, be they local, regional, national or international, in order to play the part and act responsibly in society, are presented. Contributing to, and being part of, the community in which AAK operates is essential for maintaining a positive relationship with neighbours, politicians and authorities. Which community activities the Group engages in is dependent on what is relevant and adds most value to the local community. Through a commitment to community causes, AAK is also instrumental in creating a workplace with highly motivated employees who take pride in working for a company that makes a noticeable difference. Local community involvement As a global company, AAK contributes to the development an area. During 2014, no operations that required a special of the local communities in which it operates by creating community impact assessment were established or termi­ jobs, paying taxes and doing business with local enterprises. nated. However, it takes more than this to truly become part of the The impact of existing operations is continuously moni­ community in which the Group operates. tored through dialogue, open house events, hosting visitors, Community engagement is based on diverse thinking, participation in local events and councils, giving presenta­ which leads to initiatives ranging from giving employees time tions and participating in interviews. Media monitoring also off to engage in local activities and donating products and provides a picture of local attitudes towards AAK. raw materials to providing used equipment and giving direct Overall, AAK’s community involvement helps secure a financial support. social license to operate, which is essential for AAK as both AAK is very much aware of the impact the company has a company and a player in local business life. on the community when entering, operating in, or leaving Community objective AAK has long been an active member of the communities in which it operates through sponsorship, or through direct participation in projects. In 2014, AAK engaged in numerous local activities. AAK will continue to secure integration with its local communities in the future. 47 ” Being a good neighbour Is AAK Mexico implementing any practices to protect the What is important in developing a good relationship with the environment in the Morelia area? community? AAK is focused on always complying with all government Creating a culture of respect for the community from every­ regulations, which we do. In addition, we have implemented body within the organization is of key importance. We play a water reuse system that has reduced the use of water our part in contributing to the development of the local com­ by 4 percent in the last two years, and we are also working munity and acting responsibly in society, but it takes more diligently to reduce our generation of solid waste. Neverthe­ than that to truly become part of it. We let the community less, our commitment to caring for the environment has lead know that we are a responsible company in all aspects. All us to new projects. We are, for instance, currently working on this generate the synergy to create a solid relationship with the implementation and eventual certification of ISO 14001 the local community. In addition, the closeness to the com­ to manage our environmental responsibilities, as well as with munity give us a better understanding on how to interact and environmental challenges such as climate change. engage in activities and programs that are relevant to the majority of our neighbours. What determines whether AAK engages in certain community activities or not? The impact we can generate in our close-by community. All of our programs and activities, such as football tournaments, arts and crafts workshops and healthy lifestyle advice, are focused on the well-being of our neighbours. Our prioritiza­ tion of activities include the desires and needs of all the different age and gender groups in the community, thus we focus on the activities that have a higher impact and that are Octavio Diaz de León welcomed in the community. President North Latin America ” AAK starts three-year project on shea tree regeneration A three-year research project financed by the Danish devel­ opment cooperation Danida through the Danish Embassy in Burkina Faso was launched in June, 2015 during a work­ shop in Bobo-Dioulasso. The aim of the project is to secure the shea supply for future generations. The shea parkland in West Africa is getting older and the rejuvenation of shea trees in the fields is therefore of utmost importance. Further­ more, the pressure on the trees could be on the increase due to population growth, modernization of agriculture and an increased use of shea trees for fuel wood. The project, which is called “research-development project on shea tree regeneration”, is a partnership between AAK, The National Agricultural and Environmental Research Institute (INERA), and TREE-AID, a British development and environmental NGO. INERA will bring in the technology package, TREE-AID will teach the techniques in the vil­ lages and AAK will set their women’s groups and extension workers at the disposal of the project. The aim is not to do AAK very much believes that it is time to start regenerat­ fundamental research but to base the project on existing ing the shea parkland in West Africa for the benefit of future results from the research and adapt them to a context of generations. research-development aiming at giving the communities in the bush access to a simple technology package that will Mads Jules Feer help regenerate the shea tree population. Sustainability & Shea Manager, West Africa 48 ” Support to school in Benin, West Africa In May 2014 school benches donated by AAK were delivered The number of students is likely to increase further and to Collège d’Enseignement Général de Komiguéa in order AAK is already planning for additional support – perhaps with for the school to be able to handle the large influx of, mainly, more school benches, but definitely with teaching materials. girl students. The number of schoolgirls have increased dra­ Through an upcoming project we will provide the school’s matically since the Benin Government decided that schooling library with lending books for students who can’t afford to buy for girls should be free. This great initiative meant, however, their own. no funding of school benches, buildings or books. The village of Komiguéa is located next to AAK’s shea pro­ Christer Yxell curement center and many of the employees come from the Country Manager, Benin and Togo village. Therefore, we at AAK really wanted to help. Together with the people of Komiguéa, we have now been able to ex­ pand the school’s capacity, and it has now more classrooms with school benches than ever before. 49 ” We did it again! For the summer of 2014, around 430 people participated in our annual summer courses, held during four weeks in June and July in order to take advantage of the summer break at school. We offered several activities, with football, creativity, Arabic dancing and jazz being the most popular. In addition to long standing favorite courses karate, yoga and ballroom dancing, we added a couple of new ones, among them zumba dancing and a reading workshop which both were great successes. We offer activities for all ages and we encourage our entire community to take advantage of the We will continue to provide our community with quality chance to practice sports and have fun at the same time. We services and professionalism and for 2015, we’re hoping to have professionally trained teachers with great experience be able to keep the good level that has always characterized and that are very well prepared to motivate and encourage the summer courses. We are certain that they once again will people to do their best. This event has indeed become a be a great success. good opportunity for our community to combine physical and mental health and to learn and develop new skills. Ramiro Corona Human Resources Manager, AAK Mexico AAK Louisville cancer walk The AAK Louisville facility participated in the Walk for Life to raise money for breast cancer research. This has become an annual event for the employees and grows every year. In 2014, 18 employees and family members walked and 26 employees donated to the cause. Altogether, AAK employ­ ees raised $1,355 that went to the American Cancer Society and local research facilities. This is just another way AAK Louisville is helping their neighbors and communities. 50 AAK as a global citizen The impact of business goes beyond local communities. At a global level, AAK does its best to become involved in areas where the Group can make a difference – by utilizing our sphere of influence. AAK is naturally a member of various national and inter­ national organizations that aim to improve the industry by, among other things, setting common standards and aligning analytical methods, and, in general, by safeguarding the in­ terests of the vegetable oils and fats industry. Through these organizations, AAK interacts openly with authorities and aims to influence the legislation that governs our business. Examples of memberships that safeguard the interests of the industry National associations The Netherlands Oils, Fats and Oilseeds Trade/NOFOTA The Association of Dutch Oil Processing Industries/Vernof The Product Board Margarine, Fats and Oils/MVO The Confederation of Danish Industry/DI The Association of Danish Oil and Oilseed Processors/ADOP Asociación Nacional de Industriales de Aceites y Mantecas Comestibles/ANIAME Confederación Patronal de la República Mexicana/COPARMEX Asociación de Industriales del Estado de Michoacán/AIEMAC The Swedish Food Federation/LI The Swedish Plastics and Chemicals Federation/P&K The Seed Crushers’ and Oil Processors’ Association/SCOPA The National Edible Oil Distributors Association/NEODA The Association of Bakery Ingredient Manufacturers/ABIM The Swedish-American Chambers of Commerce/SACC The Institute of Shortening and Edible Oils/ISEO The American Fats and Oils Association/AFOA The National Confectioners Association/NCA The Uruguayan Chamber of Industries/CIU International associations The EU Oil and Proteinmeal Industry/FEDIOL The Federation of Oils, Seeds and Fats Association/FOSFA FoodDrinkEurope The European Oleochemicals and Allied Products Group/APAG The National Institute of Oilseed Products/NIOP 51 CSR approach Engaging with stakeholders Responsible growth is the key objective of the AAKtion Ongoing dialogue with external stakeholders strategy and is essential to the Group’s vision of being the AAK values the ongoing input from, and dialogue with, first choice for value-adding vegetable oil solutions. For AAK, stakeholders in regard to our CSR approach, including their responsible growth is about responsibility toward all key assessments of the Group’s efforts. Through this dialogue, stakeholders – the local communities where AAK operates, we can ensure that AAK continues to be their first choice, global customers, employees, investors and suppliers. also when it comes to CSR. AAK’s model for responsible growth is a dynamic one, AAK regularly receives questionnaires, supplier codes of continuously enhanced by new knowledge, changes in the conducts and suchlike from our customers and investors, external environment and engagement with key stakeholders which we respond to in accordance with our policies. This for their input. type of input, combined with sustainability reports, materiality Input from key stakeholders comes from ongoing dialogue, analyses etc. serves as an important guide to priorities on at both local and corporate levels, about their expectations of our stakeholders’ agendas – and supports our continuous, the AAK Group now and in the future. What do they expect proactive efforts to maintain an up-to-date perception of what from AAK as a good neighbour, a preferred supplier, an may be expected from us in the future. attractive workplace, a profitable investment and a valued customer? Their input guides us to where, and at what level, Contacts AAK should set its next objectives to drive future perfor­ Jesper Korning, Global CSR Manager mance in this area. Email: jesper.korning@aak.com An example of input from shareholders is their emphasis that sustainable sourcing is a key element when reviewing Anne Mette Olesen, Chief Marketing Officer new investment options, since this affects the risk profile of their portfolio. This input has reconfirmed strong focus within Or e-mail: sustainability@aak.com this area, and has supported and guided AAK to raise the ambition level. AAK responsible growth CSR organization Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact 52 Investor Relations Shareholders AAK endeavours to generate an attractive return on invest­ During 2014, a capital market day was held in Karlshamn, in­ ments for its shareholders. The largest shareholder is Melker cluding a factory visit, and a large number of meetings were Schörling AB, which indirectly owns 34 percent of AAK. In held with analysts and other professional operators on site in total, approximately 75 percent of AAK’s shareholders are Amsterdam, Brussels, Chicago, Frankfurt, Helsinki, Copen­ Swedish. More information about AAK’s ownership structure hagen, London, New York, Paris and Stockholm. is available at www.aak.com. AAK strives to facilitate current and potential shareholder assessments of our performance through the transpar­ Dialogue with shareholders ent communication of our financial results, and our work to AAK’s aim is for the shares to be valued on the basis of enhance environmental and social sustainability. During the relevant, accurate and up-to-date information. This requires year, we engaged in dialogues with a number of socially re­ a clear strategy for financial communication, reliable informa­ sponsible investment analysts and investors. Some investors tion and regular contact with financial market stakeholders. have a particularly strong focus on CSR, and seek greater Contact with the financial markets takes place via pres­ insights into how companies manage sustainability and cor­ entations in conjunction with quarterly reports and meetings porate responsibility issues, particularly with regard to long with analysts, investors and journalists at capital market and short-term risks affecting the business. AAK meets with days, seminars and visits to AAK’s divisions. such investors regularly, and provides information on our strategy and approach, risk management and anti-corruption Shareholder activities program, among other issues. Capital market days The intention is that the Group’s annual Sustainability Road shows Report is the most appropriate and efficient channel for Meetings with institutional investors providing information about AAK’s CSR practices. For this Meetings with equity analysts reason, the aim is to answer the most common questions in Local meetings with the Swedish Shareholders’ this report. However, a constructive dialogue on risks, op­ Association portunities and strategies related to CSR and sustainability Annual General Meeting is valued. Maintaining momentum Increasing CSR awareness An important aspect of the AAK Group’s CSR work is The introduction of dashboards is sharpening attention on maintaining global momentum. To ensure that this hap­ progress made. These comprise a one-page presentation of pens, the Global CSR Manager visits all production plants data and graphics showing GRI indicators with high priority regularly. These visits have multiple purposes, besides the or under significant development. A global dashboard has value of face-to-face meetings. During workshops with the been created for AAK’s Executive Committee to follow global local teams, local plans are completed, feedback is given on developments, while local dashboards illustrate and bench­ the locally reported GRI data, potential contributions to our mark developments at individual production plants. Sustainability Report are discussed and objectives, projects The adoption and global implementation of our AAK Code and initiatives for the coming period are presented. A special of Conduct is another promoter for the integration of CSR in theme on this year’s tour was the palm oil supply chain with our business. The Code is fully implemented with all employ­ a focus on AAK’s new palm oil policy, various market trends ees, who have read, understood, accepted and signed the and requirements, new vocabulary and definitions linked to Code. Further systems have been established to ensure that palm oil sustainability – and the challenges ahead. our Code is part of the introduction package for new employ­ To promote the continued sharing of information, best ees. practices and progress on CSR objectives on a more regular Another successful initiative has been the development of basis, monthly virtual conferences are held with the participa­ the CSR Toolbox, a global one access-point to CSR material tion of all CSR team leaders. established at our intranet and available to all AAK employ­ To make CSR even more visible within the organization, ees. The CSR Toolbox comprises material such as policies an internal CSR award is presented each year to the AAK and codes, presentations, training material, reports and site or business area that has demonstrated outstanding Q&As. CSR performance. In 2014, the production site in Morelia, Furthermore, the introduction of short e-learning modules Mexico received an award for significantly improved key indi­ targeting specific topics has been embraced by the organiza­ cators such as energy and water consumption, CO2 emis­ tion and proven to be an effective way to train employees sions, waste to landfill and Lost Time Injury Rates. globally. AAK CSR organization responsible growth CSR organization Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact Management CEO and Executive Committee Production Sourcing Global CSR Manager CSR team CSR team CSR team CSR team CSR teams CSR teams CSR teams CSR teams Aarhus Montevideo Morelia Zaandijk SE UK USA West Africa DK South MX NL America Karlshamn Runcorn Port Newark, NJ Benin Dalby Hull Louisville, KY Ghana Hillside, NJ Burkina Faso Mali Ivory Coast Decentralized approach We believe in the importance of anchoring our CSR efforts in Since the global CSR organization was established in the organization and in incorporating a sustainability mindset early 2007, its objective has been to ensure breadth and into our everyday working life. To that end, we have set up a diversity in the local teams, which are fundamental to our decentralized global CSR organization responsible for CSRCSR work. The teams possess competencies in Human related initiatives, progress, communication and reporting. Resources, Health, Safety & Environment, Finance, Sourc­ ing, Operations and Sales. At our production sites, the teams Global CSR organization with local roots consist of five to ten people led by a CSR Team Leader. The The Global CSR Manager reports to the CMO (Chief Market­ teams at our sourcing operations in West Africa have a dif­ ing Officer) who is a member of AAK’s Executive Committee. ferent composition, and may draw on competencies from the The CMO’s responsibilities include CSR, Corporate Strategy, major sites. Business Development and Marketing. At Board level, the Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the follow-up and reporting of CSR topics, codes and policies. 55 AAK responsible growth CSR organization Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Objectives and GRI GRI is a network-based organization that pioneers the world’s most widely used sustainability report­ Transparency ing framework. The reporting framework sets out Stakeholders Sedex the principles and performance indicators that Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability organizations can use to measure and report their Trends Report economic, environmental, and social performance. Benchmarks AAK web The framework also addresses the United Nations Partnerships Global Compact principles and the OECD’s Guide­ Group CSR policies and codes lines for Multinational Enterprises. UN Global Compact See www.globalreporting.org for more information. Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the CEO pp. 2–3 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Annual Report 2014: pp. 20–21, 33–35 2 Organization profile 2.1 Name of the organization p. II 2.2 Primary brands, products and services Annual Report 2014: 10–19 p. 9 2.3 Operational structure Annual Report 2014: p. 76 2.4 Location of headquarters p. II 2.5 Countries where the organization operates p. IV 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual Report 2014: pp. 82–83 2.7 Markets served pp. 9–13 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Annual Report 2014: pp. 60, 67 pp. III–IV 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Annual Report 2014: pp. 33–34 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period p. 13 3 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period 01.01.2014–31.12.2014 3.2 Date of most recent prior report 01.01.2013–31.12.2013 3.3 Reporting cycle Annually 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report p. 52 3.5 Process for defining report content pp. 52, 54, 59 3.6 Boundary of the report p. 59 3.7 Specific limitations of the scope or the boundary of the report p. 59 3.8 Basis for reporting on entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period or between pp. II, 59 geographical locations 3.9 Description of data measurements techniques and the basis of calculations p. 59 3.10 Explanation of any restatement of information given in earlier reports p. 59 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting No significant changes 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures pp. 56–58 3.13 Policy and practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report p. 59 56 4 Governance, commitments and engagements 4.1 Governance structure of the organization Annual Report 2014: pp. 75–80 4.2 Position of the Chairman of the Board Annual Report 2014: p. 76 4.3 Number of independent, non-executive members of the Board Annual Report 2014: p. 76 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations to the Board or company management Annual Report 2014: p. 75 4.5 Connection between compensation and the organization’s performance Annual Report 2014: p. 78 4.6 Procedures in place for the Board to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Annual Report 2014: p. 78 4.7 Procedures for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the Board Annual Report 2014: pp. 76–77 4.8 Mission, values, codes and principles relevant to economic, environmental and social performance pp. 4–5, 12, 16, 20 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing the organization’s management of economic, environmental and social performance Annual Report 2014: pp. 78–79 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board’s own performance with respect to economic, environmental and social performance No reporting 4.11 Explanation of how the precautionary principle is addressed p. 12 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental or social initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses pp. 5, 18, 28 4.13 Memberships of associations p. 51 4.14 The organization's stakeholders pp. 52–53 4.15 Basis for identification of stakeholders with whom to engage Engaging few selective stakeholders 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement pp. 47, 51–53 4.17 Key topics that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and the organization’s response Supply chain sustainability EC Key topics that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and the organization’s response EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Employee benefits: SEK 19,800,000 Community donations: SEK 700,000 EC2 Financial risks and opportunities due to climate change No reporting EC3 Coverage of the defined benefit plan obligations Annual Report 2014: pp. 62–63 EC4 Financial assistance received from government SEK 1,300,000 EC6 Policy, practice and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers No reporting EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community No reporting EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit pp. 37–40 EN Environmental Performance Indicators EN1 Material used by weight or volume p.14 Packaging materials: 43,000 MT EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input material 0.1 % EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source p. 33 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source p. 33 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source p. 35 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity Hull, UK and Port Newark, US sites adjacent to protected areas. No significant impact on production EN12 Description of significant impact on biodiversity No significant impact identified EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions p. 34 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Insignificant in relation to emissions from production EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances p. 34 EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions p. 34 EN21 Total water discharge p. 35 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method p. 36 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills No significant spills EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impact of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation pp. 20, 31–37 EN27 Percentage of products and packaging material reclaimed p. 36 Main initiative to reduce packaging material is to convert to bulk deliveries where relevant EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws No non-compliance incidents and regulations 57 Fully reported Partly reported Not reported LA Labour Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region p. 43 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region p. 43 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements p. 41 LA5 Minimum notice period regarding operational changes p. 41 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of fatalities by region pp. 38–39 One case of occupational disease registered LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention and risk-control programs in place regarding serious diseases p. 40 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 12.9 hours per employee Inadequate recording globally LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category p. 43 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category p. 41 HR Human Rights Performance Indicators HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or p. II that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and action p. 15 taken HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken p. 41 HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may No risks identified be at significant risk, and actions taken HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken No risks identified HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures taken No risks identified SO Society Performance Indicators SO1 Programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities p. 47 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption p. 15 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures p. 41 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption No incidents occurred SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying p. 51 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance No non-compliance incidents with laws and regulations PR Product Responsibility Performance Indicators PR1 Life-cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for p. 10 improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products pp. 11–12 and services subject to such information requirements PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications No reporting PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and No non-compliance incidents use of products and services FP Food Processing Sector Supplement FP3 Percentage of working time lost due to industrial disputes, strikes and lockouts p. 32 FP5 Percentage of production volume manufactured in sites certified by an independent third party p. 10 58 Reporting criteria Scope and materiality Data and calculations This is the sixth AAK Sustainability Report. The first We release the GRI Report internally in the first quarter was published in October 2010 and our aim is still to of every year. The report is based on information continue reporting on an annual basis. received from all sites, and contains both local and Since commencing structured reporting in 2008, we compiled global data. A section showing trends from have followed the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3 the previous year is also included. Data and information Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. As this is the most from the GRI Report form the basis of our Sustainability widely used reporting framework, we believe many Report, which is published externally. readers will already be familiar with its principles and The majority of data in the Sustainability Report are find them helpful when searching for information. We drawn from measurements. Air emissions data are have focused on GRI Core Performance Indicators with based on direct measurements, calculations based on a few additions from GRI’s Food Processing Sector specific data and calculations based on default values. Supplement. Information concerning purchased electricity from Because GRI is an all-encompassing format, it is not renewable resources is based on national grid informa­ relevant for us to report on all criteria. In 2010, we initi­ tion, if not purchased as green electricity. Information ated an internal process to identify the issues relevant about employees, including numbers, gender, compo­ to our business and our stakeholders. This involved sition etc., is calculated per December 31, 2014 and discussions with staff at all sites and feedback from based on payroll information. other stakeholder groups. In 2013, we began using Some minor data errors have been identified since the materiality analysis tool to map our own priorities the 2013/2014 Sustainability Report was launched. against our stakeholder priorities. That has been a very These data have been adjusted in the present report. useful tool in identifying important focus areas. Our am­ The only relevant to mention being 2013 total energy bition is to focus on reporting the information requested consumption caused by miscalculation at one of our by stakeholders, or that of internal value. sites. From our experience of the reporting process, This Sustainability Report is a supplement to the AAK we expect corrections will also be necessary in future Annual Report 2014 and, therefore, only contains a reports. Nevertheless, we believe that the trends and summary of financial performance figures. Both reports overall picture given are a true reflection of our activi­ are available on AAK’s website. ties. In general, the data in this report covers our activi­ The data included comprises data reported to au­ ties from January 1 to December 31, 2014. Updated thorities, and information generated specifically for this information for some 2015 events is included, since report. The report has not been reviewed by external they are considered to be of material importance to our auditors. We trust that the requirements of authori­ stakeholders. ties along with their effective scrutiny of the company Environmental data (GRI abbreviation: EN) relate to are a sufficient guarantee of the accuracy of the data the eleven AAK production plants that were fully opera­ reported. tional in 2013 and the AAK products produced by our toll production partner Cousa in Montevideo, Uruguay. Other core data also include purchasing sites and sales offices. 59 Production plants Customization plants Sales offices Sourcing operations Customer innovation centres The first choice for value-adding vegetable oil solutions We develop and provide value-adding vegetable oil solutions in close collaboration with our customers, enabling them to achieve long lasting business results. We do so through our in-depth expertise in oils & fats within food applications, working with a wide range of raw materials and broad process capabilities. Through our unique co-development approach we bring together our customers’ skills and know-how with our capabilities and mindset. By doing so, we solve customer specific needs across many industries – Chocolate & Confectionery, Explore more at Bakery, Dairy, Infant Nutrition, Food Service, Personal Care, and more. www.aak.com AAK’s proven expertise is based on more than 100 years of experience within oils & fats. With our headquarters in Malmö, Sweden, 18 production facilities and Or contact us at customization plants, and sales offices in more than 25 countries, our more than 2,500 employees are dedicated to providing innovative value-adding solutions to info@aak.com our customers. So no matter where you are in the world, we are ready to help you achieve long lasting results. We are AAK – The Co-Development Company. Published by AAK AB, Sweden. Produced by AAK Corporate Communications, AAK Corporate Social Responsibility. Graphics and original: www.johnjohns.se. Photography: www.benfoto.se, AAK, Shutterstock. Print: Exakta.
