Environmental and Social Report 2015 Tokyo Electron Group Corporate Philosophy We strive to contribute to the development of a dream-inspiring society through our leading-edge technologies and reliable service and support. Vision A real global company generating high added-value and profits to Semiconductor and FPD industries through innovative technologies and groundbreaking solutions with diverse integrated technologies Management Policies The Management Policies contain the management values which Tokyo Electron holds as important in achieving the Corporate Philosophy. They express the manner of thinking that underscores the general rules of management in eight points. 1 Profit is Essential 5 Employees The TEL Group aims to contribute to the development of Employees are the source of the creation of value, and TEL Group society and industry and enhancement of corporate value employees perform their work with creativity, a sense of responsibility, while emphasizing the pursuit of profit. and a commitment to teamwork. 2 Scope of Business 6 Organizations The TEL Group leads markets by providing high-quality The TEL Group builds optimal organizations that maximize products in leading-edge technology fields with a focus corporate value where each employee can work to their full on electronics. potential. 3 Growth Philosophy 7 Safety, Health and the Environment We will tirelessly take on the challenges of technological The TEL Group gives the highest consideration to the safety innovation to achieve continuous growth through business and health of every person connected with our business expansion and market creation. activities as well as to the global environment. 4 Quality and Service 8 Social Responsibility The TEL Group strives to understand the true needs for achieving With a full awareness of our corporate social responsibility, customer satisfaction and securing customer trust while we strive to gain the esteem of society and to be a company continuously improving quality and service. where employees are proud to work. Cont ent s ● Editorial Policy Tokyo Electron creates its Environmental and Social Report to inform stakeholders of the Tokyo Electron Group’s corporate roles and responsibilities for the development Corporate Philosophy/Vision/Management p.2 of a sustainable society, as well as specific initiatives based on them. This fiscal year Policies/Contents/Editorial Policy 2015 report features a Materiality (important sustainability issues) review, goals and Corporate Profile p.3 progress of efforts aimed at resolving pertinent issues, and performance data. Message from the President p.4 The TEL Group is committed to promoting and improving CSR activities at Identifying Materiality (Important sustainability p.6 Group plants and offices, while proactively disclosing the progress of such efforts. issues) We hope these efforts will help our stakeholders understand us better and we invite suggestions and feedback for further communication. CSR Goals p.8 Feature Article: Challenge to Technological p.10 ● Scope of report Innovation Tokyo Electron Group (46 consolidated companies) Corporate Governance p.12 (Tokyo Electron and its subsidiaries in and outside Japan) Working Together with Employees p.16 * In April 2014, Tokyo Electron Device Limited changed from a consolidated subsidiary to an equity-method affiliate. Safety Initiatives p.18 ● Period covered Quality Initiatives p.20 Fiscal year 2015 (April 1, 2014-March 31, 2015). However, some information for fiscal Procurement Initiatives p.21 year 2016 has also been included. Environmental Initiatives p.22 Social Contribution p.28 ● Publication timing External Evaluation (main awards received) p.29 Publication of this report: July 2015 (Japanese), August 2015 (English) Publication of the next report: July 2016 (Japanese), August 2016 (English) Comments from a Third-Party Expert/Response p.30 Publication of the previous report: July 2014 (Japanese), August 2014 (English) to the Third-Party Comments Performance Summary p.31 ● Guidelines referred to in this report CSR Policy p.33 Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 issued by Japan’s Ministry of the GRI Guidelines Table p.34 Environment Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 published by the Global Reporting UN Global Compact Table p.35 Initiative (GRI) 2 Corporate Profile (as of April 1, 2015) Financial Data (Billion yen) Consolidated net sales Company name: Tokyo Electron Limited (TEL) 668.7 633.0 612.1 613.1 Address: Akasaka Biz Tower, 5-3-1 Akasaka, Minato-ku, 497.2 Tokyo, Japan 107-6325 Established: November 11, 1963 Representative: Tetsuro Higashi, Representative Director, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) President & CEO (as of June 19, 2015) Main business: Semiconductor production equipment business, Consolidated operating income flat panel display (FPD) production equipment 97.8 business 88.1 Capital: 54,961,190,000 yen 60.4 Number of employees: 1,486 32.2 Number of Group employees: 10,854 12.5 Number of locations: In Japan: 9 companies; 28 locations 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Outside Japan: 37 companies in 15 countries; 48 locations R&D expenses Worldwide total: 46 companies in 16 countries; 81.5 78.6 76 locations 70.5 73.2 71.3 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Main Products Net sales by division (Consolidated) PV (photovoltaic panel) Other Semiconductor production equipment production equipment 0.5 billion yen 3.6 billion yen (0.1%) (0.6%) FPD production equipment 32.7 billion yen FY2015 (5.3%) Semiconductor production Coater/developers Plasma etch system Thermal processing system equipment CLEAN TRACKTM LITHIUS ProTM Z Tactras TM TELINDY PLUS TM 576.2 billion yen (94.0%) Net sales by region (Consolidated) Other 3.0% China 9.5% Taiwan 23.1% Europe 10.2% FY2015 Single wafer deposition system Single wafer cleaning system Wafer prober Japan Trias e +TM CELLESTATM -i PrecioTM 15.5% U.S. Korea 22.1% 16.6% Assets 2014 2015 Total 828.5 876.1 Cash & cash equivalents 268.1 317.6 Trade notes, accounts receivables 129.0 110.8 Gas chemical Single wafer cryokinetic Electrochemical Inventories 168.2 175.5 etch system cleaning system deposition system Certas LEAGATM ANTARESTM Stratus Other current assets 56.0 66.7 Tangible assets 112.3 106.8 Intangible assets 29.5 27.5 FPD production equipment Investment & other assets 65.1 70.8 Liabilities & Net Assets 2014 2015 Total 828.5 876.1 Net assets 590.6 641.1 FPD plasma etch/ Inkjet printing system for Debt 13.5 0 ash system OLED panel manufacturing ImpressioTM Elius™2500 Other liabilities 224.4 234.9 (As of March 31, each year) Note: Figures are rounded down to the nearest 100,000,000 yen. 3 Message from the President Transforming for Sustainable Growth Tetsuro Higashi Representative Director President & CEO Tokyo Electron Limited New challenges and innovation “We strive to contribute to the development of a dream-inspiring society through our leading-edge technologies and reliable service and support”—guided by this Corporate Philosophy, the Tokyo Electron Group as a member of the electronics industry is committed to contributing to the further development of the industry and a sustainable society. Although Tokyo Electron Limited (TEL) had been preparing for a business combination with U.S.based Applied Materials, Inc. since September 2013, the business combination agreement was terminated in April 2015. Despite both companies having made their utmost efforts and contributed to discussions aimed at gaining the approval of the relevant authorities, the business combination did not go ahead because there remained a gap between our view and the view of the United States Department of Justice. The business environment surrounding not just TEL but the semiconductor production equipment industry as a whole has reached a turning point; however, our fundamental policy of undertaking drastic reforms in order to ensure our own growth and contribute to the industry as a “Globally Excellent Company” remains unchanged. Through the business combination process, we reaffirmed the strength of TEL’s world-class corporate culture. With confidence and pride in that strength, and with the determination to make the required changes, we developed our new Medium-term Management Plan with a vision as part of our effort to enhance our corporate value. Enhancing the TEL Group’s operating base and corporate governance In fiscal year 2015, we proactively undertook restructuring reforms for further profitability improvement. We withdrew from the unprofitable business of photovoltaic panel production equipment, consolidated business locations, and sold some stocks of Tokyo Electron Device Limited, which is engaged in the electronics components and computer networks segments, changing it from a consolidated subsidiary to an equity-method affiliate. With these measures, our gross profit margin, ROE, and free cash flow for fiscal year 2015 all improved dramatically year over year. We will step up efforts to enhance our operating base for further business growth. Under the new operating structure announced in May of this year, the next generation of leaders were appointed to senior management and a new position of Chief Operating Officer (COO) was established, reporting to the President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO). The rejuvenated management and the newly created position are intended to lead the acceleration of operations with the goal of boldly differentiating our main business in this rapidly changing and intensely competitive environment. Furthermore, the addition of experienced top executives from overseas subsidiaries to our executive officer team is expected to enhance our competitiveness at the global level. 4 Message from the President Transforming for Sustainable Growth Joining EICC® The electronics industry, to which the TEL Group belongs, is becoming ever more challenging. Business activities must be conducted from a socially conscious perspective and must contribute to the sustainability of society. To ensure our efforts to that end are broadly in line with international standards, TEL joined the United Nations Global Compact in July 2013. Moreover, having already conducted CSR activities prior to fiscal year 2015, in June 2015, we joined the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition® (EICC®), a CSR alliance that sets forth a code of conduct in relation to labor, safety, the environment, and ethics for the global electronics supply chain. Even before joining, TEL had incorporated the EICC® Code of Conduct into its corporate activities, identified social issues related to its business, and steadily implemented initiatives to address those issues. With EICC® membership, we now aim to proactively launch and implement such initiatives on a Group-wide basis and work with suppliers to promote CSR throughout the industry as a whole. Product stewardship—product development for improved environmental performance Having undergone a tremendous evolution involving a series of performance improvements and cost reductions, semiconductors have played an important part in the development of our advanced information-and-communications-driven society. For further advancement, there are growing expectations for technological innovation of both semiconductors and semiconductor production equipment. Meanwhile, reducing environmental impact is indispensable to the formation of a sustainable society. Under the slogan of “Technology for Eco Life,” the TEL Group is developing equipment to solve environmental issues. To limit the environmental impact of its products during customer use, the TEL Group conducts life cycle assessments to reduce their energy consumption. In fiscal year 2014, we achieved a 50% reduction of energy consumption for our major models (per wafer compared to fiscal year 2008). Subsequently, in fiscal year 2015, we set a goal of reducing both energy and pure water consumption by 10% from the fiscal year 2014 level within the next five years. Together with stakeholders To develop together with society, the TEL Group is building relationships through our ardent efforts to fulfill our strong commitment to addressing social issues, such as developing the next generation and making community-based contributions according to local needs. The TEL Group is also committed to enhancing its corporate value by fostering employee engagement and incorporating opinions from customers, suppliers, shareholders and other stakeholders into its business activities. Last year, TEL identified materiality (important sustainability issues) that will drive long-term value creation in light of social issues. This year, we verified these again with stakeholders from the perspectives of business continuity and growth and identified 20 issues, including some new ones. We will now prioritize them to make optimal use of our management resources. We will continue to sincerely welcome feedback from stakeholders to accelerate our transformation and achieve our own corporate growth and that of society. We greatly appreciate your continued support and understanding. EICC® is a registered trademark of Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Incorporated. 5 Identifying Materiality (Important sustainability issues) The Tokyo Electron Group identifies the materiality of its social responsibility by taking into account potential risks in its business activities in light of changing international social and environmental needs, as well as through stakeholder communications. The TEL Group also periodically examines the validity of the identified materiality and reports the progress of activities to stakeholders as part of its responsibilities. Process of identifying materiality Identify social issues surrounding our business Step Based on guidelines like the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and EICC® 1—a code of conduct for the 1 electronics industry—and feedback from stakeholders, a review was carried out by the Chief CSR Promotion Director, the CSR Promotion Executive Officer, and the seven key departments in charge of CSR promotion. Social issues affecting our business environment were identified. 1 EICC® (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition®) sets forth a code of conduct in relation to labor, safety, the environment, and ethics for supply chains in the electronics industry. Check the relevance of the issues to business based on the size of impact Step Based on the relevance of the social issues identified in Step 1 with respect to the TEL Group’s business sustainability, issues that are or will be high impact were identified. 2 Revisit the validity of materiality Based on the materiality identified in the previous fiscal year, the Materiality Review Meeting, attended also by external experts, was held to discuss the validity of each outstanding issue and issues to be added, from the perspectives of business Step continuity/growth and stakeholders. 3 Key outcomes at the Material Review Meeting • Customers in the electronics industry expect speedy innovation. We should consider adding “promoting innovation” and “protecting and using intellectual property” to further enhance the strength of the TEL Group. • Human resource development is indispensable to continuing innovative product development and is also a source of competitiveness. It is more important than ever to improve employees’ skills and abilities, respect diversity, and offer vital workplaces that make it possible for everyone to work hard and achieve their goals. • In enhancing governance and compliance to meet the growing demands of society, it is crucial to recognize issues and address them on a Group-wide basis. Stakeholder Materiality Review Meeting (March 25, 2015) communication will play an increasingly important role in ensuring transparency and accountability of business operations. Identified materiality Materiality matrix The TEL Group will promote and improve its CSR activities based on the following. 1 Issues Reported by/on 2 1 2 Solid financial footing Annual Report 3 3 Governance/ethics and compliance Stakeholder communication p.8, 12–15 pp.7–8 4 Stakeholder perspective 4 Product quality p.9, 18–27, 31–32 5 Innovation management p.10 5 6 Supply chain management p.9, 21, 27, 32 7 EHS1 management p.8, 9, 16–19, 22–27, 31–32 14 8 6 8 Business continuity/BCP2 p.13 15 10 9 7 9 Environmental contribution of products p.9, 22, 24–25, 31 16 10 Information security p.8, 13 11 11 Diversity p.8, 16–17, 32 17 13 12 Workplaces with vitality p.8, 16–17, 32 18 12 13 Protecting and using intellectual property p.11 14 Product life cycle management pp.8–9, 18–27, 31–32 19 15 Promoting energy savings p.9, 22–27, 31 16 Reducing water consumption p.9, 24, 26, 31 20 17 Conflict minerals p.9, 21, 32 18 Reducing waste/recycling p.9, 24, 27, 31 19 Social contribution activities p.8, 28–29, 32 20 Biodiversity conservation p.9, 23 Business continuity/growth perspective 1 EHS: environment, health and safety 2 BCP: business continuity plan 6 Identifying Materiality (Important sustainability issues) Stakeholder Communication Our belief in stakeholder communication The TEL Group strives to maintain good relationships and build trust with stakeholders who have, or are likely to have, an impact on its business. To help our stakeholders properly understand the value of the TEL Group, we ensure transparency and accountability of our operations by disclosing information in a fair, impartial and timely manner. Communication with stakeholders is imperative for us to understand their expectations for the future of the Group, and can help us minimize our social and environmental risks and identify areas needing improvement. Such stakeholder communications shape our business with further opportunities, advantages and competitiveness. Use of stakeholder communication Business cannot be undertaken without stakeholders and society. We identify important stakeholders who are essential to the TEL Group’s business. For these stakeholders, we clarify our roles and responsibilities related to the corporate functions they face in daily business. While helping such stakeholders fully understand the progress of our business activities and future plans, we make use of the feedback obtained from the communication for our business at an early stage. Measures against stakeholder communication-related risks To act in a fair and timely manner with regard to stakeholders obtaining our information, we periodically file our official report to the public domain and make our press release and information available on our official website. To secure communication channels with any stakeholders, contact information is clearly indicated on the website. TEL’s key stakeholders Functions in charge Key communication methods Earnings announcement (quarterly), interviews, overseas roadshow Shareholders/investors Management, IR (once or twice/year) Customers Sales, R&D, Marketing Interviews, executive meetings, survey (annual), Technology conference Business Update Briefing (biannual), Partners Day (annual), STQA1 audit, Suppliers Procurement interviews Employees Management, HR Employee meetings, Technology conference, interviews, survey (annual) Factory tours, participation in and hosting local events and contributions, Local communities General Affairs interviews Compliance to laws/regulations, filing to the public domain, monitoring Governments/associations General Affairs and advocacy, coalition with industry and external groups 1 STQA: Supplier Total Quality Assessment Examples of stakeholder communication Example 1: FTSE4Good Global Index Example 2: Technology Conference The TEL Group considers building networks for communication Tokyo Electron selected for with customers and within the Group as indispensable for driving inclusion in the FTSE4Good innovation and making effective use of information assets. We hold the Technology Conference internally and externally for Global Index information sharing and multifaceted communication. Both In recognition of our initiatives in communication and disclosure, participating customers and employees have provided favorable FTSE, a wholly owned company of the London Stock Exchange, feedback on the conferences. has selected Tokyo Electron for the FTSE4Good Global Index every year since September 2003. The Index is designed to measure the performance of companies demonstrating strong Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practices. Technology Conference 7 Tokyo Electron Group CSR Goals To measure the progress of CSR initiatives, the Tokyo Electron Group examines sustainability issues to be prioritized by functions and sets annual targets and goals. Each target and goal is linked with Materiality (important sustainability issues; p. 6). Fiscal year 2015 Fiscal year 2016 Targets/Materiality Theme Goals and results Theme Goals Sustainability management [Goal] CSR management Sustainability management CSR management • Take full advantage of existing CSR [Results] Ongoing. Biannual CSR management systems. Sustainability Promotion Council drives • Regular reporting to management management progress. Launched monthly and stakeholder briefing for timely operations. communication [Goal] EICC® initiative EICC® Establish a system for EICC® promotion Materiality: [Results] Ongoing. Held internal seminars and provide internal education. CSR (twice; participants totaled 120). Governance/ethical behavior and compliance Communication [Goal] Stakeholder engagement Communication Stakeholder engagement Set the policy and implementation plan. [Results] Ongoing. Improved Stakeholder Disclosure Enhance transparency and accountability. transparency in environmental communication and social reporting. Social Social contribution Social contribution activities • Set the policy and implementation contribution activities. measurements. Social contribution activities • Increase voluntary programs. Ethics and compliance [Goal] Annual ethics and compliance Ethics and compliance Improve the management • Review the current system education education worldwide management system. • Formulate an improvement plan [Results] Achieved. 9,200 executives Embed ethics into practice and employees worldwide were Ethics subject to the education. Materiality: Harassment-free workplace [Goal] Raise ethics awareness. The Code of Ethics The Code of Ethics in line • Check conformity with the EICC ® code Governance/ethics and [Results] Achieved. 7,400 executives with society’s concerns of conduct. compliance and employees in Japan were • Review The Code of Ethics. subject to the web-based Information security education. Diversity [Goal] Recruit foreign national Diversity Diversity management Leverage diverse workforce and help graduates. initiatives and understanding individuals unleash their full potential. Diversify the workforce for the and respect for different (Further raise employee awareness.) globalization of business. values [Results] Ongoing. Foreign nationals accounting for 11.1% of new hires (joined in April 2014). [Goal] Cross-cultural understanding Understand and respect different values [Results] Achieved. Provided crossin global operations. Human Resources cultural training. (Promote internal personnel exchange and communication.) Better workplace and career development Occupational safety and [Goal] Employee healthcare Better workplace to empower women health Identify and respond quickly for (Analysis of current issues, and formulate employee health. action plans.) [Results] Ongoing. Started employees’ healthcare alerts to supervisors. Work-life balance [Goal] Support employees in Work-life balance Support for balancing work Improve working behavior to balance Materiality: balancing work and family. and family work and family by offering support EHS management [Results] Achieved. Reviewed the nursing systems. care support system. Diversity Ongoing. Monitored users of the shorter working hours Workplaces with vitality system. Product safety [Goal] Safety compliance in product Product safety Safety compliance in • Appropriately respond to requirements design product design for equipment safety compliance of [Results] Achieved. customer RFQ (request for quotation). • Complied with TS (TEL • Develop product safety engineers. Standard) with regard to • Check safety compliance of newly safety for all the group’s developed equipment. products. • Complied with KC-Mark (Korea Certification Mark) and Korea’s Occupational Safety and Health Act. Accident prevention [Goal] Accident prevention. Implement Accident prevention Accident prevention. • Reduce TCIR by 38% and potential cause-analysis and intelligence Implement cause-analysis severe injury by 50% year on year. sharing to prevent similar and intelligence sharing to • Continue safety patrol, new Fab safety accidents. prevent similar accidents. checks, and preventive measures. [Results] Achieved. • Conducted safety patrols, new Fab safety checks. • Reduced TCIR* by 28% and potential severe injury by Safety Safety and health first 38%, year on year. for everyone * TCIR: Total Case Incident Rate. This is the occurrence rate of workplace accidents (Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standard) per 200,000 hours worked. Safety education [Goal] Improve safety behavior Safety education Improve safety behavior Advanced safety update (goal: 100% including practical education. including practical attendance) [Results] Achieved. education. Accident prevention (participant number • Advanced safety update goal: over 15,000) (participants totaled 8,900) • Accident prevention (participants totaled 15,000) • Traffic safety (participants in Japan totaled 1,100) Materiality: Safety management [Goal] Clarify policies and organize Safety management Clarify policies and organize • PDCA at the global EHS meeting and Product quality group-wide function. group-wide function. each company’s safety meeting [Results] Achieved. • Check and correct safety activities in EHS management • Held global safety meeting all countries/regions. (three times). Product life cycle • Promoted safety activities in management each facility. 8 Tokyo Electron Group CSR Goals Fiscal year 2015 Fiscal year 2016 Targets/Materiality Theme Goals and results Theme Goals CSR activities [Goal] Conduct the 2nd annual supplier CSR survey and check CSR activities Conduct the 3rd supplier CSR survey with key suppliers covering more than 80% across the improvement (of average score). across the of procurement by amount. supply chain [Results] Achieved. Conducted the 2nd survey, which is compliant supply chain with EICC® requirements, with key suppliers covering more than 80% of procurement by amount and identified Developing a improvements made (at 25% of the suppliers). reliable supply chain management Conflict [Goal] Conduct the 1st conflict minerals survey. Conflict Conduct the 2nd conflict minerals survey. framework minerals [Results] Achieved. Conducted the 1st conflict minerals survey in minerals Improve data accuracy. Procurement CFSI (Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative) format, with key Materiality: suppliers covering more than 80% of procurement by amount, and identified 117 smelters certified to CFSP Product quality standard (Conflict-Free Smelter Program). Supply chain BCP [Goal] Conduct the 4th procurement BCP survey and check BCP Conduct the 5th procurement BCP survey with key suppliers covering more than management improvement (of average score). 80% of procurement by amount. [Results] Achieved. Conducted the 4th survey with key suppliers Product life cycle covering more than 80% of procurement by amount, management identified improvements made (at 41% of the suppliers), and conducted improvement activities at low-scoring Conflict minerals suppliers. Quality [Goal] Reduce accidents resulting in property damage. Quality Reduce accidents Based on a reduction plan, reduce accidents resulting in improvement [Results] Achieved. Reduced by 7.7% year on year. improvement resulting in property damage caused by products by 20% year on year property damage across the Group. Quality [Goal] Improve quality documents and review the periodic Improving Improve quality of Survey of training participants: management review process. customer equipment training Goal: Average score of 4 or above (out of 5) [Results] Ongoing satisfaction Provide customers and service engineers with training 1. Improving Group-wide common quality documents curriculums that cover knowledge and operation skills Launching quality by working with related departments in charge on an required for equipment safety and safe operations, as well Quality improvement ongoing basis. as maintenance methods, to improve customer satisfaction activities globally 2. Strengthened the periodic review. and service quality. Improving Customer satisfaction survey: Materiality: customer Goal: Score 3 or above (out of 4) in all items. satisfaction Conduct survey, analysis, action and review activities Product quality continually to improve quality and services and deliver even more value to customers. Product life cycle management Compliance Check compliance with Group-wide common regulations and manuals (PDCA). Products [Goal] Reduce environmental impact of products (set new Products Reducing Develop a roadmap for understanding the current situation goals). environmental and achieving the goals. [Results] Achieved. Set the goal of reducing energy (based on impact of products SEMI S23) by 10% (from FY2014 by FY2019). Set the goal of reducing pure water by 10% (from FY2014 by FY2019). [Goal] Comply with Chinese RoHS. Compliance with Global launch [Results] Achieved. Expanded activities for product compatibility Chinese RoHS with Chinese RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) to overseas production sites. [Goal] Promote voluntary product compliance with European Promoting Continue to ensure that major models of each business unit RoHS. voluntary product contain 98.5% or more compliant parts. [Results] Achieved. Complied with 98.5% or more parts of major compliance with products to European RoHS. European RoHS [Goal] Comply with environmental regulations of each country. Compliance with Continue to ensure products’ compliance with REACH and [Results] Achieved. Complied with REACH and the environmental chlorofluorocarbon regulations in Europe, as well as GHS, chlorofluorocarbon regulations in Europe, as well regulations of each battery regulations, and energy efficiency regulations of as GHS, battery regulations, and energy efficiency country each country. Strengthen overseas systems. regulations of each country. Strengthened overseas Strengthen supply chain management. systems. Plants and [Goal] Promote energy consumption reduction (Reduce by 1% Plants and Promoting a Reduce energy consumption: Reduce by 1% year on year. offices year on year). offices reduction in energy Continue activities. [Results] Achieved. 11 out of 12 plants achieved their goals. consumption [Goal] Reduce water consumption (Maintain the level of Reducing water In Japan: Maintain the FY2012 level. FY2012). consumption Outside Japan: Maintain the benchmark year level. [Results] Achieved. 10 out of 15 goals were achieved. Continue activities. Environment Solving environmental issues [Goal] Recycling waste (Maintain a recycling rate of 97% or Recycling waste In Japan: Recycling rate of 97% or higher through our leadingmore in Japan). Outside Japan: Recycling rate higher than the previous edge technology and [Results] Achieved. The recycling rate was as high as 98.9% in fiscal year services Japan and 88.2% outside Japan. Procurement [Goal] Green procurement Procurement Green procurement Continue activities. and logistics [Results] Achieved. Conducted the 2nd annual survey with key and logistics Based on analysis of survey results, plan activities, conduct Materiality: suppliers covering more than 80% of procurement by the 3rd green procurement survey, and improve evaluation Product quality amount and identified improvements made. With a 100% of low-scoring suppliers. response rate, confirmed improvements at 46% of the Supply chain suppliers. management [Goal] Reduce environmental impact of logistics. Reducing the Continue activities. [Results] Ongoing. Continuing activities. environmental EHS management impact of logistics Environmental Environmental [Goal] Environmental management system Environmental Environmental Respond to 2016 revisions. contribution of management [Results] Achieved. TEL Group manufacturing plants have been management management products ISO 14001 certified. system Product life cycle [Goal] Environmental education Environmental Provide web-based education on design for the management [Results] Achieved. Provided working-level managerial personnel education environment. with education on design for the environment. Promoting energy [Goal] Design for the environment Design for the Develop education programs and implement them for savings [Results] Achieved. Developed guidelines on design for the environment procurement. environment. Reducing water consumption [Goal] Environmental communication Environmental Continue to publish Environmental and Social Report. [Results] Achieved. Continued to publish Environmental and communication Reducing waste/ Social Report. recycling [Goal] Biodiversity conservation Biodiversity Based on the guidelines, conduct ecosystem tours multiple [Results] Achieved. Based on the guidelines, organized and conservation times at each plant in Japan. Biodiversity participated in ecosystem tours at each area in Japan. Hold symposiums. conservation Create a list of conservation activity targets in key areas. 9 Feature Article Challenge to Technological Innovation Dramatic improvement of performance of semiconductors has been achieved with miniaturization and the use of larger wafers. This evolution has been supported by semiconductor production equipment, and Tokyo Electron is committed to taking on challenges for innovative technological development to provide greater value to customers. Innovation Management Application-oriented device development The emergence of smartphones gave rise to a new need for “application-oriented” semiconductor device development, with a focus on functions and performance demanded by users. This development requires not only differentiation in device design, but also diversification of materials and process technology. As a manufacturer of semiconductor production equipment, TEL has addressed all technological possibilities and worked on technological development with a system comprehensively prepared for future technologies. This system includes in-house development and joint development with customers, as well as midto long-term cooperation with universities and consortia for promising technologies. Taking on challenges for miniaturization and higher performance With ever-growing demand for further miniaturization and higher performance of semiconductors in recent years, TEL is working on the development of innovative equipment. We are jointly developing EUV (extreme ultraviolet) exposure technology, which is expected to serve as a next-generation lithography technology, with imec1 and other global consortia and exposure equipment manufacturers. As for multiple patterning ALD System technology, which achieves miniaturization with unique deposition and etching NT333TM This semi-batch ALD deposition system technologies, we are developing a process that focuses on reducing patterning cost, based on a concept different from the conventional ALD method can achieve aiming to bring the 10-nanometer node to practical use. high-quality nanoscale deposition while Meanwhile, we are demonstrating the equipment and process technology for maintaining high productivity. 3DI (three-dimensional integration) technology, which allows production of higher performance semiconductors with three-dimensional chip stacking. We accomplish this through process integration evaluation with a consortium. 1 imec: A world-leading nanoelectronics research center. imec conducts joint research with businesses around the world on technology for information and communications, healthcare, and energy for technological innovation based on scientific knowledge. High-speed, large-scale data processing and power-saving Metallization System Triase +TM EX-IITM TiN device development This is the latest single wafer metal deposition system for next-generation devices. Featuring To achieve the goals of future device development—high-speed, large-scale data low temperature, excellent step coverage, and thin-film controllability, this system can handle processing and power-saving devices—we are conducting research on next-generation various deposition materials. semiconductors using new materials that outperform conventional silicon. We are working on commercialization of gallium arsenide (GaAs) for higher-speed processing and graphene for power-saving devices, as well as undertaking research and development of silicon photonics2 as a communication technology with low power consumption. As an initiative to achieve lower power consumption with next-generation devices, we are focusing on MRAM and participating in an industry-government-academia joint research program at Tohoku University’s Center for Innovative Integrated Electronics Systems (CIES), to which we provided support for construction. 2 Silicon photonics: Technology for forming integrated circuits on silicon by using photonic devices Tohoku University, Center for Innovative Integrated Electronics Systems (CIES) 10 Feature Article: Challenge to Technological Innovation Protecting and Using Intellectual Property Policy for intellectual property activities Number of Active Issued Patents 16,376 16,421 15,776 A fundamental tenet of the Tokyo Electron policy for intellectual property (IP) activities 1,647 1,623 14,021 1,654 is to contribute to an increase in corporate revenues by supporting TEL’s business 12,539 1,344 1,634 1,889 1,983 activities in both existing and new market sectors by protecting TEL’s IP. With this 1,074 1,486 2,875 2,847 2,780 policy, TEL is developing an IP portfolio to protect its own products in line with its 1,435 2,520 596 439 354 2,275 technological and product strategies. Furthermore, TEL fully respects IP rights of third 555 580 4,221 4,299 4,326 parties. TEL strives to minimize the risk of potential disputes, which could interfere with 3,799 3,458 our business activities, by actively monitoring developments in technology, products, and IP rights, and taking appropriate measures. 3,717 4,317 4,891 5,227 5,288 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Japan U.S. Europe Korea Taiwan China Operation of intellectual property activities TEL allocates IP personnel to product development centers and manufacturing facilities, where R&D are performed, as well as to corporate headquarters, where our sales and marketing departments are concentrated, in order to have them work closely with the departments to develop an IP portfolio and minimize the risk of IP disputes. IP personnel also educate engineers and disseminate information to increase awareness and knowledge of IP. In developing the IP portfolio, these personnel organize invention disclosure campaigns and invention mining sessions to ensure R&D achievements be entitled to IP rights. Additionally, for each area of business and R&D, they regularly convene IP committees, composed of IP staff and managers as well as sales/marketing managers and R&D managers. These committees discuss and make decisions about portfolio development and optimization, as well as policies and options Invention mining session for minimizing the risk of IP disputes, in view of market, technological and competitive trends and cost-benefit analyses. Achievements of intellectual property activities Global Application Rate at Japanese Companies For the protection and effective use of IP in regions where TEL and its customers 67.8 71.8 74.0 70.3 operate their business, TEL files patent applications not just in Japan but also in other 67.1 countries. At TEL, the global application rate (percentage of applications for inventions filed in multiple countries) has remained at around 70% for five consecutive years, 27.0 30.0 31.0 25.0 surpassing by far the average of other Japanese companies. Moreover, TEL fully examines the details and patentability of invention disclosures before filing. Thus, TEL 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 achieved a 74% and 62.8% success rate (or “allowance rate”) for applications filed Filing year in Japan and in the United States, respectively, in 2013. These figures exceed the TEL All-applicant average (calendar year) average success rates in each country. Additionally, TEL takes low-cost procedures Source: Statistics on Patent Filing and Examination by the Japan Patent Office * TEL’s global application rate in 2013 was compiled by TEL. Japan Patent Office data has not been released. such as direct transaction with local patent firms for filing foreign patent application. Efficient portfolio development with a high success rate and low operating costs is one Patent Allowance Rate of the sources of TEL’s competitiveness. 78.0 73.9 74.2 74.0 TEL’s portfolio contributes not only to the differentiation of its own products and 67.7 73.4 66.8 70.0 enhancement of its competitive advantage but also to revenue improvement through 71.8 66.9 licensing and selling to other companies. 62.4 55.0 60.5 62.8 50.1 53.9 53.5 49.0 51.2 45.6 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Allowance year (calendar year) TEL (Japan) All-applicant average (Japan) TEL (U.S.) All-applicant average (U.S.) Source: TEL and all-applicant average in Japan: Statistics on Patent Filing and Examination by the Japan Patent Office All-applicant average in U.S.: Patents Dashboard by the United States Patent and Trademark Office TEL (U.S.): TEL 11 Corporate Governance As the globalization of its business progresses, the TEL Group believes that enhancing corporate governance is crucial to achieving management that emphasizes improving corporate value for all stakeholders. The TEL Group is building an optimal corporate governance structure that is highly effective at improving and strengthening its internal control system and risk management system. Corporate Governance Compensation for corporate directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Tokyo Electron endeavors to establish and operate optimal and highly effective structures of governance based on its three basic Tokyo Electron has adopted the following executive compensation principles: (1) Ensure the transparency and soundness of business program with the intention of tying compensation more closely operations; (2) Facilitate quick decision-making and the efficient to financial results and shareholder value, raising corporate execution of business operations; and (3) Disclose information in a competitiveness, and enhancing management transparency. timely and suitable manner. 1. The compensation for corporate directors consists of a monthly fixed remuneration and a performance-linked compensation. 2. The performance-linked compensation system for corporate The corporate governance framework directors is designed to align compensation more clearly with Adopting an audit and supervisory board system based on the financial results and increases in shareholder value. It takes Companies Act of Japan, Tokyo Electron has established its into account consolidated net income and consolidated return own Nomination Committee1 and Compensation Committee2 to on equity (ROE), two performance indicators of consolidated increase the transparency and objectivity of its management. The business results. Necessary adjustments are then made when Company adopted the executive officer system to facilitate decisionthere are special factors that should be taken into account, such making and, in 2015, established its Corporate Senior Staff (CSS), as principal performance indicators for the term under review, mainly comprised of its executive officers, as a global body for including profits and losses, and so on. In principle, performancethe deliberation of TEL Group strategies. Moreover, recognizing linked compensation comprises cash bonuses and stock-based the importance of managerial transparency for shareholders, compensation. Performance-linked compensation is limited to five Tokyo Electron has been disclosing the remuneration of individual times the fixed yearly remuneration. The ratio of cash bonuses to representative directors in its business reports since 1999. stock-based compensation has generally been one-to-one. Stockbased compensation consists of granting share subscription rights [Report for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2015: http://www.tel.com/ir/stocks/ asm/document/52_01.pdf] with a set strike price of one yen per share and a three-year vesting period before the granted stock options may be exercised. 1 Nomination Committee: This committee nominates candidates for directors and 3. The performance-linked compensation of outside directors does a candidate for CEO, which it submits at the meeting of the Board of Directors not include stock-based compensation. for approval. 4. The compensation for Audit & Supervisory Board Members 2 Compensation Committee: This committee develops proposals for the executive compensation program and the compensation to be paid to representative consists only of a monthly fixed remuneration, to maintain directors, which it submits at the meeting of the Board of Directors for approval. independence from management. 5. Retirement allowance systems for corporate directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members have been abolished since the end of fiscal year 2005, as part of the revisions to Tokyo Electron’s executive compensation program. Diagram of the Corporate Governance Framework, Internal Control System, and Risk Management System (as of April 2015) Shareholders’ Meeting Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Independent Auditors • Compensation Committee • Chief Business Ethics Director • Chief CSR Promotion Director • Nomination Committee • Chief Internal Control Director Confirm the progress of improvements and give instructions Representative Request for improvement/Report Directors Audit and improvement reports Compliance & Internal Control Executive Officer Request for improvement/ CSR Promotion Executive Officer Report Committees • Ethics Committee Executive Officers Internal Audit Dept. (Global Audit Center) • Information Security Committee • Export Trade Control Committee CSR Promotion Council Request for improvement/ Audit Report Risk Management & Internal Control Function (General Affairs Dept.) Request for improvement/Report Monitoring Administrative Depts. Business Depts. Check and balance 12 Corporate Governance The Board of Directors Auditing by internal audit department The Board of Directors consists of 13 directors, two of whom The Global Audit Center is the internal audit department of are outside directors. Directors serve a one-year term in order the TEL Group. This department is responsible for auditing to ensure that Tokyo Electron can respond quickly to the business activities undertaken at the Group’s domestic and changing business environment, as well as to more clearly overseas locations, as well as their compliance and systems, define management accountability. To ensure and maintain and evaluating the effectiveness of internal control systems. As the soundness and appropriateness of business practices, necessary, the Global Audit Center also provides guidance to notwithstanding the rapidly changing market environment and operating divisions. technological industry trends, management by people who have specialized knowledge and experience in the industry is Business continuity management essential. Based on this premise, the Board of Directors is mainly composed of internal directors, but outside directors are also After 2012, the TEL Group redeveloped its Business Continuity invited to join in order to objectively ensure the effectiveness of Plan (BCP) at the headquarters to respond to large-scale board decisions. earthquakes. The BCP is being developed at the plant and office levels by reviewing measures for early recovery and alternate The Audit & Supervisory Board production following a disaster. Emergency supplies, such as food and drinking water, along Tokyo Electron has five Audit & Supervisory Board Members, with first-aid outfits for times of disaster, are made available at all three of whom are outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. times and thorough measures involving a disaster scenario are The Audit & Supervisory Board Members attend meetings of carried out across the entire Group. the Board of Directors and other important business meetings, audit the directors’ performance of duties, determine audit policy and the division of auditing duties among Members at Audit & Information security management Supervisory Board meetings, and examine the Group’s execution Under the TEL Group Information Security Policy and the of operations. Through these and other measures, Audit & Regulation for Management of Technical and Business Supervisory Board Members work to provide effective auditing. Information, Tokyo Electron has put in place a framework for preventing information leakage to ensure appropriate Internal Control/Risk Management management and safe and effective use of information assets. In order to strengthen management of technical and business In order to enhance the TEL Group’s corporate value and information across the Group, we review operation rules, as remain accountable for our actions to all stakeholders, we needed, and regularly provide web-based education for all are making efforts to strengthen viable internal control. This executives and employees of Group companies in Japan and involves implementing practical measures that are in line with overseas. We also review rules related to information security. To the Fundamental Policies concerning Internal Controls within get across the contracts and ensure rule compliance, we obtain the Tokyo Electron Group, set out by Tokyo Electron’s Board of consent for rule compliance from all executives and employees of Directors. We are also conducting activities for internal control TEL Group companies, including those overseas, every year. over financial reporting based on the Financial Instruments and Additionally, we have established a system for reporting Exchange Act of Japan. In response to the May 2015 changes incidents that lead to actual information leakage as well as those to the Companies Act and the Ordinance for Enforcement with that possibility. In light of these reports, we respond promptly of the Companies Act, Tokyo Electron has updated the to each incident and integrate analysis results into Group-wide Fundamental Policies concerning Internal Controls within the efforts and measures. Tokyo Electron Group. The Company is working to strengthen internal control systems as a corporate group and to improve the audit system of the Audit & Supervisory Board in terms of concreteness and robustness. Risk management system To more effectively strengthen the internal control and risk management systems of the entire TEL Group, Tokyo Electron appoints a Compliance & Internal Control Executive Officer. Furthermore, the Company has established a dedicated risk management and internal control function within the General Affairs Department to manage and reduce risks through necessary measures such as, for example, analyzing risks that could affect the TEL Group and instructing responsible departments to conduct self-assessments of major identified risks. The function also regularly reports the status of risk management activities to the Audit & Supervisory Board Members and the Board of Directors. 13 Corporate Governance Business Ethics and Compliance Compliance education Stakeholder trust is the cornerstone of business activities. In Through the TEL Group’s e-learning system, we provide a order to maintain trust, it is necessary to continuously act in common web-based training program covering the basics of rigorous conformity to business ethics and compliance. In line compliance, export-related compliance, and other topics. All with the Fundamental Policies concerning Internal Controls within executives and employees are required to complete this training, the Tokyo Electron Group, all Group executives and employees as well as a web-based training program on insider trading and are required to maintain high standards of ethics and to act with a other subjects tailored to specific positions and job roles. clear awareness of compliance. In fiscal year 2015, we completely redesigned the existing basic compliance education program to include details on how to handle the confidential information of other companies Improving business ethics and specific cases of conflict of interest. We provided the new education program to all executives and employees of Group In 1998, Tokyo Electron formulated the Code of Ethics of companies in Japan. As of March 2015, we are providing the Tokyo Electron Group to establish uniform standards to web-based education on the Act against Delay in Payment of govern all of its global business activities. In the same year, Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors of Japan to all the Company appointed a Chief Business Ethics Director and executives and employees of Group companies in Japan to established the Ethics Committee, which is responsible for ensure fair transaction. promoting business ethics awareness throughout the TEL Group. We also provided web-based, test-format education on The Ethics Committee comprises the Chief Business Ethics business ethics and compliance to all Group executives and Director, the Ethics Committee Chairman, and presidents of employees in fiscal year 2015, including those overseas, as we did major Group companies in and outside Japan. The members in the previous year. These efforts will be continued every year. meet semiannually, report on ethics-related issues faced by each company, and discuss measures to further improve ethical behavior and compliance. The Code of Ethics is reviewed, as appropriate, in response to changes in the expectations of society. In January 2015, an anti-corruption statement was added to the introduction based on Principle 10 of the UN Global Compact about working against corruption including extortion and bribery. The Code of Ethics and its Q&A section are published in Japanese, English, Korean and Chinese and disclosed on the intranet to enable all Group executives and employees, including those overseas, to view them at any time. Web-based, test-format education [Code of Ethics: http://www.tel.com/environment/corp_governance/compliance/ ethical.htm] Internal reporting system Compliance system In the event that an employee becomes aware of any activity that may violate a law, regulation, or principle of business ethics, Tokyo Electron has appointed a Compliance & Internal Control the TEL Group operates an internal reporting system that Executive Officer from among its executive officers to raise employees may use to report their concerns. An ethics hotline awareness of compliance across the TEL Group and further and a compliance hotline have been established for all Group improve its implementation. The Company has also drawn up the companies, and this reporting system is also in place at each Compliance Regulations, setting out basic compliance-related overseas location. In all cases, this system ensures that strict requirements in line with the Code. The Compliance Regulations confidentiality is maintained to protect whistleblowers and ensure are intended to ensure that all individuals who take part in the that they are not subject to any disadvantage or repercussions. business activities of the TEL Group clearly understand the There has been no violation of compliance that could have had a pertinent laws, international standards, and internal company major impact on the Company’s business or local community in rules, and consistently apply these rules in all of their activities. fiscal year 2015. 14 Corporate Governance CSR Promotion Framework Approach to CSR President & CEO The Tokyo Electron Group believes that achieving sustained growth through sound business practices forms part of its corporate social responsibility to stakeholders. To achieve this, we must not only Chief CSR Promotion Director provide high-quality products and services, but we must also be CSR Promotion Executive Officer a company that is esteemed in terms of good faith, fair corporate activities, the pursuit of safety and environmental preservation, CSR Ethics Personnel Safety Quality Environment Procurement respect for human rights and ethics, crisis management, corporate governance, and compliance. CSR Promotion Council The Tokyo Electron Group carries out initiatives based on its CSR Policy and in response to the opinions of its stakeholders. TEL Group companies (11 locations worldwide) Key initiatives for fiscal year 2015 In fiscal year 2015, the CSR Promotion Council, comprising seven CSR promotion departments and CSR promotion executives, set specific indicators for departmentspecific issues and measured achievements. Separate from the biannual council meeting, a monthly working-level liaison meeting was established to actively discuss CSR issues in a timelier manner. To promote EICC® on a company-wide basis, the TEL Group held internal seminars and invited guest lecturers to make presentations. The events were attended by around 120 people in charge of CSR promotion. Internal presentation on the EICC® Code of Conduct Participation in CSR Initiatives To work on CSR issues from a broad perspective and make improvement efforts, the TEL Group proactively participates in various initiatives. Since July 2013, the TEL Group has The TEL Group decided to join been a member of the United Nations EICC® in June 2015. EICC® sets Global Compact. In support of its Ten forth a code of conduct for labor, Principles, the TEL Group will continue safety, the environment, and ethics to work to maintain the harmonious to be used in the management of pursuit of both its corporate activities supply chains. and a sustainable society. TEL Group CSR Policy ❶ Corporate Activities ❹ Environment The Tokyo Electron Group will provide safe and high-quality products The Tokyo Electron Group seeks to achieve harmony with the global and services to customers around the world and contribute to the environment. We strive to reduce our own impact on the environment realization of an enriched society. and contribute to reducing the environmental impact of our customers by developing and providing eco-friendly products. ❷ Business Ethics The Tokyo Electron Group acts in compliance with the laws and ❺ Communication with Stakeholders regulations of each country and with international regulations, as well as The Tokyo Electron Group discloses information relating to the in accordance with strict business ethics. We refrain from engaging in Group in a fair, impartial and timely manner, strives to engage in any conduct that impedes fair and open market competition. two-way communications, and works to meet the expectations of stakeholders appropriately. ❸ Respect for Individuals The Tokyo Electron Group respects the individuality and unique ❻ Social Contribution character of each person. We recognize and appreciate the diversity The Tokyo Electron Group engages in social contribution activities of our employees, share a sense of mission with them, and promote worldwide as a good corporate citizen to contribute to the development the development of workplaces with vitality. of local communities and society. 15 Working Together with Employees Business growth requires that each employee, as the core of the company, have creativity, a positive attitude, flexibility, enthusiasm, and a sense of responsibility. The Tokyo Electron Group seeks to be a corporation where a diverse range of employees can work to their full potential. Employee retention rate three years after 93.6% joining the company Worker-friendly Environment Personnel system In order to achieve our goal of creating an inspired, innovative and energetic company, we adopted a personnel system that promotes both the growth of individual employees * Average in recent five years; refers to Group and the organization as a whole. For example, our evaluation system values not only company employees in Japan excluding Tokyo Electron Device Limited results, but also the initiatives taken to achieve them. We also provide our employees To enable new hires to quickly get oriented in with opportunities for personal development. Furthermore, we engage in fair treatment their workplace and comfortable with performing and skills evaluation, so that talented employees who make significant achievements their duties, the TEL Group has adopted an are well rewarded, and managerial personnel have incentives matched to their level of Off-JT System1 and an OJT System2. We also responsibility (job grade). hold regular interviews to keep up-to-date with and discuss the state of the workplace and employee relations, in order to ensure a pleasant work environment for all employees. 1 Off-JT System: Off-the-job training system. The system allows employees to develop their skills off the job, such as by participating in collective training and attending classes. Initiatives for work-life balance 2 OJT System: On-the-job training system. This education method allows employees to learn through We have enhanced our childcare support system and nursing care leave system to the performance of actual work and to hone their help employees continue to pursue their career while experiencing various life events. skills through a gradual increase in the level difficulty. According to Japanese law, for example, companies must take measures such as reducing regular working hours for parents with children under the age of three. Tokyo Electron goes beyond this minimum, giving parents of children of elementary Users of shorter working hour system for childcare school age or younger the option to work shorter hours, as well as offering additional [Persons] 130 assistance in balancing work and family life (see the graph on the right). As a result of 109 these measures, in fiscal year 2015, 52 employees (95% of the total number of eligible 85 employees) took childcare leave, and another 46 returned to work after taking childcare 75 leave. At the same time, about 34% of female employees in Japan are successfully 65 50 50 53 balancing work and family as working mothers, continuing to develop their careers. 47 34 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Children under the age of three Children over three years old but not yet completed elementary school Improving employee health and the workplace environment * Refers to employees of Group companies in Japan excluding Tokyo Electron Device Limited The TEL Group places the highest priority on safety and health of its employees. In February 2012, we issued a health declaration stating our commitment to providing our employees with services like walking activities to promote health, healthy meals at company cafeterias, physical health counseling with doctors, and mental health counseling. In fiscal year 2015, we organized health seminars and various events with a “healthy diet” theme, while holding events to measure body composition, bone health, and blood vessel age to help employees understand the state of their health. Additionally, we are making continued efforts to ensure that TEL is a safe and productive workplace by providing all employees with mandatory education for preventing workplace harassment, as well as external professional counseling services. Examples of healthy meals at company cafeterias 16 Working Together with Employees Number of Group employees Initiatives for globalization and diversification (Persons) 12,304 12,201 10,844 The TEL Group globally operates its business. As of March 2015, sales outside of 10,343 10,684 Japan make up 85% of the Group’s total sales. Meanwhile, about 34% of TEL Group 8,186 8,205 7,908 8,004 employees work outside Japan. 7,166 Recognizing that every person is entitled to have his or her basic human rights respected, the TEL Group works to create an excellent work environment and strives 1,633 1,652 1,622 to be a corporation where employees with diverse backgrounds and abilities can work 1,084 1,150 888 888 to their full potential. One such effort is establishing an environment where physically313 644 305 challenged employees can work without any inconvenience to promote employment 1,046 1,217 1,494 1,559 1,412 of those who are physically-challenged. As a result, the proportion of physically2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) challenged employees is 2.0% at TEL and 1.9% at all Group companies in Japan. Japan Asia Europe U.S. Worldwide * Excluding Tokyo Electron Device Limited in fiscal year 2015 Proportion of employees working in Japan and outside Japan Human Resource Development 23.5% 25.1% 32.9% 33.3% 33.9% TEL UNIVERSITY 76.5% 74.9% 67.1% 66.7% 66.1% The TEL Group has an internal education institution, TEL UNIVERSITY, for strengthened people development as well as enhanced capabilities of the entire organization. TEL UNIVERSITY courses include such programs that provide individual employees End of End of End of End of End of March 2011 March 2012 March 2013 March 2014 March 2015 with world-class knowledge and skills, leadership development programs for nextEmployees working outside Japan generation leaders, and management and organizational training programs. Employees working in Japan * Data as of the end of March 2015 excludes Tokyo Electron Device Limited. Main initiatives for fiscal year 2015 Examples of programs hosted by TEL UNIVERSITY For TEL Group employees working around the globe, ability to communicate is one Number of participants by program for fiscal year of the most important skillsets. In fiscal year 2015, we held seminars on improving 2015 communication and facilitation skills at TEL Group companies in Japan. To help English conversation class 478 classes 2,742 persons employees from different cultures understand each other, achieve common goals, and Communication seminar 15 classes 250 persons unleash the full extent of individual and organizational abilities, we provided a crossCross-cultural 42 times 1,420 persons cultural communication program in which 1,420 employees participated. As for English communication program learning, we improved English conversation and self-learning courses so that each Career design seminar 12 times 290 persons Next-generation leaders employee can choose a class that suits his or her duties and current skill level. development program 10 times 10 persons Furthermore, we hold career design seminars to help individual employees think Management training 4 times 69 persons about the way they live and work, and to take proactive and positive action accordingly. Semiconductor seminar 6 times 89 persons Voice <Balancing Work and Childcare> I took childcare leave twice, and I am now using the reduced working hours system for childcare. Particularly in the first year after returning to work, I often had to take a sudden leave of absence when my child became sick. There was a time when I couldn’t make it to work more than half the time in any one week, and I found it difficult to pursue my career in this condition. Fortunately, many of my colleagues are aware of the importance of mothering. Thanks to the understanding and support of people around me, I have been able to balance my work and family responsibilities. I am so grateful, not only for the childcare support system, but also for a work Risa Kawano environment that allows me to continue to work and pursue my career development Intellectual Property Department while raising my children. Tokyo Electron Limited 17 Safety The Tokyo Electron Group performs a range of business activities including development, manufacturing, transportation, installation, and maintenance with the highest priority on the safety and health of all personnel from top management to frontline staff and makes proactive and continuous improvements to enhance safety and promote good health. Safety Promotion Framework Raising safety awareness for all individuals is crucial if we are to provide worksites EHS promotion framework where all employees can work safely. With the safety slogan of “safety first,” the Representative Director, TEL Group has established the Equipment Safety Promotion Meeting and the Work President & CEO Safety Promotion Meeting under the supervising EHS Meeting. The Equipment Safety Promotion Meeting enhances safety by ensuring compliance with safety standards and General Manager, Development & equipment-safety-related laws and regulations. The Work Safety Promotion Meeting Manufacturing Division discusses, and puts into practice, matters related to work safety at customer locations and TEL Group locations, from a global perspective. These meetings identify causes EHS Meeting of accidents resulting in injury and/or damage, due to either equipment or human error, and make efforts to prevent similar incidents from reoccurring. Equipment Work Product Product Operation Safety Safety Environment Environment Environment Promotion Promotion Value Compliance Value Meeting Meeting Meeting Meeting Meeting Equipment Safety Design The TEL Group carries out risk assessments in consideration of the product life cycle, even from the development phase. Based on the assessment results, the TEL Group Implementation of risk assessment implements intrinsically safe equipment design1 to reduce the risks that machines pose to humans. The Group also examines and ensures compliance with changing laws and regulations around the globe, abiding by all safety regulations of the regions our Design equipment is shipped to, and allowing inspections by safety certification organizations when necessary. Research and Manufacturing Safety considerations in the phases of equipment design and development have Development become increasingly important in recent years. Today, compliance with international safety standards and guidelines is a requirement for equipment to be recognized as being safe for use. Since 2007, the TEL Group has provided web-based equipment Services Process safety education to help its engineers learn about safety in the context of equipment engineering design. This gives them the basic safety knowledge required in terms of risk assessment and introduces examples of accidents. In the coming fiscal year, we plan to revise the education program to include the latest accident cases and new safety Installation/ Quality assurance start-up standards to further educate our engineers. As a result of these efforts, there were no serious injuries caused by product design in fiscal year 2015. 1 Intrinsically safe equipment design: Innovative machinery design that eliminates the causes of machinery-related hazards posed to people. Topics <TEL FSI, Inc. Received Governor’s Safety Award from Minnesota Safety Council 2> In recognition of its outstanding activities for accident prevention and labor safety, TEL FSI, Inc. received the Governor’s Safety Award for Meritorious Achievement from the Minnesota Safety Council. The council has presented the Governor’s Safety Awards every year since 1934 to honor businesses that are conducting outstanding safety activities. The council selects award winners by comparing recent injury and illness data with national industrial data for past years and examining the operation of comprehensive safety programs. 2 Minnesota Safety Council: A non-governmental, non-profit organization established in 1928 to improve the quality of life of people in Minnesota through the elimination of preventable work-related accidents. 18 Safety 0.24 [TCIR] Initiatives for Work Safety To secure the safety of all people involved in its business, including regular employees, temporary staff, subcontractors, and customers, the TEL Group continuously improves its activities to prevent work-related accidents. This is accomplished by identifying and analyzing potential risks in workplaces and sharing the knowledge group-wide. Each plant and office is aggressively promoting safety activities by establishing The TEL Group carries out accident a system under which representatives from each department conduct safety patrols prevention activities on an ongoing basis to at least once a month to solve problems by their own initiative. This is in addition to reduce the number of accidents. As a result, a management system based on OHSMS1. New plants and offices outside of Japan the occurrence rate of injuries from accidents aim to establish similar systems for safety management. To prevent unsafe conditions during work—as indicated by the TCIR and behavior that may lead to accidents, all workers share details about their work value—has remained at a world-class safety and work areas before performing their duties. This works as a cautionary exercise, level of less than 0.5 since 2005. In fiscal year providing countermeasures against possible accidents and mistakes that can occur 2015, we achieved a TCIR value of 0.24. during operation. Moreover, each work group has an appointed leader who oversees the entire worksite to minimize risk factors that could lead to accidents or mistakes. Additionally, to further raise workers’ safety awareness, a safety manager visits the workplace to demonstrate how to exercise caution against risk factors. When we deliver a product to a new plant or production line, we check its facilities, equipment and safety standards against our Group regulations in advance. This way, Occurrence rate of workplace accidents we can identify any ambiguities with regard to safety and solve problems, if any, to (FY2011 level as 100) improve the environment for safe operation. 110 100 100 100 As a result of these continued safety activities in and outside of Japan, the number 82 of accidents in fiscal year 2015 with the potential for severe injury dropped by about 80 40% from fiscal year 2014. The overall rate for workplace accidents, including mild 50 50 injuries, decreased from 110 in fiscal year 2014 to 80 this fiscal year (a decrease of 31 28%), when including data of the four companies acquired2 in fiscal year 2013. The 19 TCIR3 value also declined to 0.24 from 0.37. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) 1 OHSMS: Occupational Health and Safety Management System. A management system to reduce the Workplace accidents potential for work-related accidents and improve the level of safety and health management by defining Accidents with the potential for severe injury a series of PDCA (plan, do, check, act) processes under the safety and health policy set by senior management. 2 Four companies acquired: TEL Magnetic Solutions Ltd., TEL Solar AG, TEL FSI, Inc., TEL NEXX, Inc. 3 TCIR: Total Case Incident Rate. The number of workplace accidents (Occupational Safety and Health Administration standard) per 200,000 hours worked. Safety Education To improve individual employees’ awareness of safety, the TEL Group provides webbased education. In fiscal year 2015, we provided update advanced safety education to all workers involved with our Group. The aim was to renew their awareness of work rules, which were established with reference to past accidents, as well as rules for wearing protective gear. Additionally, to eliminate accidents, we provide five web-based education courses4 at our offices and plants around the world, along with risk prediction training. The latter is designed to prevent accidents by predicting potential risks in the workplace and has Safety education (risk prediction training) proved statistically effective. In fiscal year 2015, about 1,500 persons participated in the training and raised their awareness of accident prevention. The TEL Group also requires all new hires to take safety education while providing safety information to its suppliers as part of its thorough efforts for accident prevention. 4 Web-based education courses focusing on five themes: being caught in a driving unit, ergonomics (backache), pointing and calling, exposure to liquid chemicals, and work safety rules. 19 Quality The Tokyo Electron Group provides high-quality products and services. We include the entire process from development through manufacturing, installation and maintenance. We also focus on the quality of the entire customer experience. For us, the satisfaction and trust of our customers is proof of our quality. Quality Promotion Framework Quality Promotion Framework To promote Group-wide quality activities, the TEL Group has established a Representative quality promotion framework headed by the President and, below him, the Senior Director, Executive Vice President, who is also General Manger (GM) of the Development and President & CEO Manufacturing Division. Important quality issues and common issues are addressed through mutual cooperation between the presidents of the Group companies and General Manager, Development & the Quality GM. For cross-divisional quality promotion activities, the TEL Group Manufacturing has established five working groups, namely, the Technology Control Committee, Division Secretariat Production GM Committee, Material GM Committee, Quality GM Committee, and (Quality Promotion Software GM Committee. These committees cooperate with each other for efficient Presidents of Department) and stable quality control, with the goal of improving customer satisfaction. Group companies The TEL Group has also promoted the acquisition of ISO 9001 quality management Heads of GM system standard certification. Since 1997, 10 locations, primarily manufacturing committees companies, have obtained the certification and plan to maintain it. Technology Production Material Quality Software Control GM GM GM GM Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Initiatives to Improve Quality Design Parts * Working group members Standardization Standardization consist of officers and Quality Management and Quality Control Examination Working Working general managers from (Certification) (QM/QC Examination) Group* Group* plants and offices in Japan. To promote high-quality manufacturing according to customer needs, the TEL Group QM/QC Certification Holders carries out cross-sectional quality improvement activities on an ongoing basis not (Persons) 880 only at directly involved departments such as development and design but also at 737 departments concerned with planning/sales, administration and services. As part of these efforts, we encourage Group employees to take the QM/QC Examination and 427 get certified. Administered by the Japanese Standards Association and the Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers, this examination is a major quality certification test, 162 with the number of holders in Japan totaling more than 278,000 (as of March 2015). The certification enables employees to improve their awareness and skills in the area of quality control, improve the quality of their work, and provide customers with high2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) quality products. With this initiative, which started in fiscal year 2012, the number of certified employees has increased each year to reach a cumulative total of 880 as of Conceptual Image of Understanding the end of fiscal year 2015. Customer Needs Customer needs For customer satisfaction Requests Expectations To incorporate customers’ opinions and provide products and services of higher quality, we have conducted a customer satisfaction survey since 2003. In fiscal year 2015, we went one step further and established a mechanism to help the entire TEL Evaluation by department Group incorporate customer opinions in order to provide products and services that satisfy customer needs in a more effective manner. In an effort to accurately understand customer opinions so that we can reflect them in our products and services, we include in the written survey specific questions that help us design 満足 Understanding 不満足 customer needs improvement activities at a working level. 案件 We share the results of the survey across the Group and clarify departments in charge before we carry out the formulation, execution, and follow-up of an improvement plan. We carry out these PDCA activities on a continual basis so as to Planning/ Service deliver even greater value to our customers. sales Development/ Purchase/ production As a result of these quality improvement activities aimed at better customer design mp satisfaction, quality costs (that is, complaint-related costs) have decreased for three rov rt s effo I i ng q nt consecutive years since fiscal year 2012. In each of the recent two years, the costs uality through continuous impro ve m e decreased by 15% on a year-over-year basis. 20 Procurement The high-value manufacturing that the Tokyo Electron Group strives for is based on the functions of all materials and components that make up the products and the pursuit of high quality. We value communications with suppliers and seek to grow manufacturing on a global scale with our suppliers based on ongoing trusting relationships. Supply Chain Communication In addition to daily communications, the TEL Group holds the Production Update Briefing and TEL Partners Day as platforms for enhancing relationships with suppliers. At these events, we introduce CSR initiatives and honor outstanding suppliers. In our procurement policy, meanwhile, we call for the cooperation of our suppliers regarding compliance with labor-related laws, such as prohibitions against child labor and forced labor, and respect for fundamental human rights. This policy is published on our website. Our specific activities include regularly conducting Supplier Total Quality Assessment (STQA) audits with critical suppliers. In fiscal year 2015, we conducted our second supplier CSR survey, with key suppliers accounting for more than 80% of our procurement by amount. The survey, which conforms with the EICC® Code of Conduct, identified improvements made in 25% of suppliers’ CSR activities compared to the TEL Partners Day held in fiscal year 2015 previous year. We provided the suppliers with feedback on the survey results to make two-way improvement efforts. In June 2015, the TEL Group joined the EICC® to continue to promote EICC®compliant supply chain CSR. Initiatives for procurement BCP ❶ Investigate damage Speed & accuracy Post-disaster measures Procurement BCP scheme and evaluate impact (Procurement BER1) Procurement BCP ❷ Support recovery Procurement BCP Together with suppliers, the TEL Group has prepared a disaster protocol on an ongoing efforts and take procurement measures basis. A database of the location map of procurement sources plays a major role (Procurement BDR2) when crises arise. Every year we update the database so that we can promptly identify damage and quickly take steps for recovery following a disaster. In fiscal year 2015, Pre-disaster ❸ Establish BCP system Minimize risks we updated about 14,000 locations and checked on the impact caused by the three measures with suppliers disaster cases that occurred during the year. We have also conducted an annual survey on BCP system readiness to reduce ❹ Build relationship with suppliers risk in business continuity with our suppliers. In fiscal year 2015, we conducted a based on mutual trust and procurement BCP survey with key suppliers, who together account for more than 80% respect of our procurement by amount, and identified that 41% of them had improved from the 1 BER: Business Emergency Response. First response previous year. We provided the suppliers with feedback on survey results for future taken immediately after a disaster. 2 BDR: Business Disaster Recovery. Recovery improvement activities. effort that is made according to the findings of the damage investigation. Conflict Minerals Conflict mineral type The TEL Group plans to eliminate the use of raw materials and components containing Conflict Usage example mineral name conflict minerals from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, or its neighboring Electrolytic capacitor, IC, and Tantalum countries, which form a source of funds for armed groups and give rise to human rights refractory metal Tin Solder, plating, and reducing agents violations and poor working conditions. Cemented carbide and electronic In fiscal year 2015, we conducted a survey on countries of origin and smelters of Tungsten components and mechanisms conflict minerals in CFSI3 format. The survey identified 117 CFSP4-certified smelters related Gold IC, plating and connectors to products that we procure. We will conduct the survey every year to make joint efforts with our suppliers to improve the response rate, survey method, and data accuracy. 3 CFSI: Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative. Founded by members of the EICC® and GeSI (Global e-Sustainability Initiative) to inspect and certify conflict material smelters to see whether or not they are being used for the benefit of the Democratic Republic of the Congo or its neighboring countries, which provide funds for armed groups. 4 CFSP: Conflict-Free Smelter Program. The CFSP is promoted and led by the CFSI. 21 Environment The TEL Group aims to solve environmental issues through our leading-edge technology and services under slogan of “Technology for Eco Life.” We strive to contribute to the establishment of a sustainable society by reducing the Group’s impact on the consumption of resources, on biodiversity and on climate change by taking actions that both directly and indirectly contribute to the protection and conservation of the environment. CO2 Emissions across the Value Chain With the recent trend among businesses toward measuring and controlling not only their direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions but also CO2 emissions across their value chains (linkages for providing products and services to customers; chains of activities such as procurement, development, production, sales and services), the TEL Group measures these emissions in compliance with international GHG accounting standards, the GHG Protocol. Scope 3 downstream Not from the TEL Group 3,191 kilotons Scope 3 upstream Scopes 1 & 2 Not from the TEL Group Own emissions 377 kilotons 147 kilotons End-of-life treatment of sold products Employee 1 kilotons commuting Direct emissions 15 kilotons from fuel & gas use Purchased Scope 1 goods & services Business travel 10 kilotons 304 kilotons 7 kilotons Capital goods Indirect emissions Transportation & Waste generated in from electricity use 33 kilotons Use of sold products distribution operations & heat purchase (downstream) Fuel& 1 kilotons Scope 2 3,122 kilotons 68 kilotons energy-related Transportation & 137 kilotons activities distribution (upstream) 12 kilotons 5 kilotons The GHG Protocol categorizes GHG emissions across the value chains into three scopes: Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions from use of fuel and gas owned or controlled by the company Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from use of electricity, steam and heat purchased by the company Scope 3: E missions from corporate value chains excluding scopes 1 and 2, such as product transportation, employee business travel, and major outsourced production processes Scope 3 is divided into upstream activities, which include emissions associated with purchased or procured products and services, and downstream activities, which include emissions associated with sold products and services. The TEL Group’s direct emissions associated with fuel and gas use (scope 1) and emissions from electricity use and heat purchase (scope 2) add up to 147 kilotons, or about 4% of the total. Indirect emissions (scope 3), which are not from the TEL Group, total 3,568 kilotons, or about 96%. In particular, use of sold products, which is one of the 10 categories related to the TEL Group, makes up 84% at 3,122 kilotons. Therefore, the TEL Group is stepping up efforts to reduce CO2 emissions, including reducing the energy consumption of equipment and peripheral devices, ensuring the effective operation of equipment systems, and promoting the energy-saving operation of customers’ factories, and will continue its initiatives to reduce environmental impacts for the development of a sustainable society. 22 Environment Environmental Management EHS promotion framework Environmental activity promotion framework Representative Director, In order to promote environmental activities across the Group, Tokyo Electron has President & CEO established the EHS Promotion Center at its headquarters. Executives of Group companies appoint members of the Product Environment Value Meeting, the Product General Manager, Development & Environment Compliance Meeting, and the Operation Environment Value Meeting, all of Manufacturing Division which carry out activities to achieve environmental goals. Meanwhile, the biannual EHS Meeting checks the progress toward the environmental goals for continued improvement. EHS Meeting Since 1997, the TEL Group has been working to obtain certification for the ISO 14001 environmental management standard, primarily at its manufacturing Equipment Work Product Product Operation subsidiaries. Currently, eight locations are certified and we will continue to acquire and Safety Safety Environment Environment Environment Promotion Promotion Value Compliance Value maintain the certification. Meeting Meeting Meeting Meeting Meeting As a result of checking and maintaining compliance with environmental laws, emission standards, and other voluntary standards, the TEL Group was not involved in any environmental incidents or accidents, was not found to be in violation of any environmental law, and was not subject to any related legal proceedings in fiscal year 2015. Number of participants in design 330 for the environment program Environmental education Recognizing the importance of complying with environmental laws and regulations and reducing environmental burdens, we established an education program for workinglevel managerial personnel in fiscal year 2015. We held lectures on the importance of manufacturing environmentally friendly products—explaining related environmental persons laws and regulations, statutory procedures, and penalties contained in them—and how to save energy when using products, as well as how to save resources and recycle. Three hundred and thirty people took the course. In fiscal year 2016, we will launch the program at seven locations outside Japan and provide web-based education in order The design for the environment program to reach more participants. was established to provide customers with products that are compliant with laws and regulations and designed to reduce Biodiversity environmental impact. In fiscal year 2015, 330 persons participated in the program. Business activities of the TEL Group do impact biodiversity while also benefitting from it. Based on our recognition of this, we are making efforts to conserve biodiversity and improve the related framework. The goal of biodiversity conservation activities in fiscal year 2015 was to hold ecosystem tours at least twice at plants and offices in Japan. The Yamanashi Plant held a lecture on biomimicry, in which participants observed how the owl’s powder down repels water and learned about the various properties of spider silk. Observing nature in this way provided participants with opportunities to find helpful hints for their own daily operations. CO2 emissions from these programs and the related travel were carbon offset1. We will continue activities for biodiversity conservation. 1 Carbon offset: The making of a monetary investment in an activity elsewhere that abates greenhouse gas emissions to compensate in whole or in part for GHG emissions from one’s own activities. Ecosystem tour Topics <Environmental Debriefing> Since 2009, the Tohoku Plant has invited its neighbors (representatives of community associations) as well as representatives of the local business, government and academic communities to its Environmental Debriefing for the Local Community to exchange opinions and deepen mutual understanding. The environmental and social commitment is explained, goals and achievements of the TEL Group are reported and a tour of plant facilities and production lines is provided. As of fiscal year 2015, a total of 137 people have participated in the debriefings. 23 Environment Product Initiatives Initiatives to prevent global warming Major energy-saving models Based on life cycle assessment, the TEL Group is lowering the energy consumption of its products to reduce the environmental impact of product use at the premises of its customers. In fiscal year 2014, the TEL Group achieved a 50% reduction in energy Thermal consumption by its major products (per wafer; compared to fiscal year 2008). For total processing system TELINDYTM PE energy assessment, the TEL Group assessed electricity, water, nitrogen, dry air, and exhaust in electricity equivalents (compliant with SEMI S23 guidelines). With a reduction in the energy consumption of products, the percentage of energy-saving models1 as a proportion of total sales increased to 72% in fiscal year 2015. Plasma etch system In this fiscal year, the TEL Group set the goal of reducing energy and pure water Tactras TM Vigus TM consumption by 10% from the fiscal year 2014 level by fiscal year 2019. To that end, we will promote environmentally friendly manufacturing with the development of new Coater/developers technologies for further reduction of energy, water and chemical substances as well as CLEAN TRACKTM with proactive measures against greenhouse gases. LITHIUS ProTM Z 1 Based on in-house standards Average energy consumption of products and proportion of energy-saving models among total sales Single wafer metallization system (%) Trias e +TM EX -IITM TiN 100.0 93.2 68.7 72.0 60.2 Single wafer cleaning system 55.7 52.0 52.0 CELLESTATM -i 27.0 44.7 38.0 40.2 40.2 7.0 Gas chemical etch system 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Certas LEAGATM Average energy consumption (per wafer; FY2008 level as 100%) Proportion of energy-saving models among total sales (data disclosure started in FY2010) Scrubber system NS300Z Initiatives to reduce environmental impact of products Major reduction Equipment category Product Major initiative Electricity Water N2 Dry air Exhaust Thermal processing Introducing an energyTELINDY TM PE ◎ ○ Wafer prober system saving heater PrecioTM series Improving high-frequency power efficiency Plasma etch system TactrasTM VigusTM ◎ ○ ○ ○ ○ Operating sleeping mode of a chiller CLEAN TRACK TM Improving productivity Coater/developers ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ LITHIUS ProTM Z with high throughput Lowering temperature Single wafer Triase +TM EX-IITM process ◎ ○ ○ metallization system TiN Improving productivity with high throughput Chamber overview Not using a chiller Single wafer plasma Triase +TM SPAi Optimizing the exhaust ◎ ○ ○ Chamber parts Plasma electrode treatment system system Single wafer cleaning Improving productivity CELLESTATM -i ○ ○ ○ system with high throughput Wafer Gas chemical etch Improving productivity Certas LEAGATM ◎ ○ ○ ○ system with high throughput Improving productivity Scrubber system NS300Z ◎ ○ ○ with high throughput Reducing dry air with dew Wafer prober PrecioTM series ○ ◎ Fine ceramic point monitoring Fine ceramic Fine ceramic is deteriorated with use re-coated Initiatives to reduce waste The TEL Group is making proactive efforts to reduce waste generated by its products. Etch systems require periodic replacements of thermal or other parts inside the chamber, as they deteriorate due to continuous plasma processing. The TEL Group has made it possible to use deteriorated chamber parts repeatedly by re-coating them with fine ceramic, which minimizes waste generation and reduces costs. 24 Environment JAMP AIS survey with suppliers in Japan started in Initiatives for chemicals contained in products For the manufacturing of environmentally friendly products, the TEL Group has built a system for managing chemical substances contained in products. We collect information about the laws and regulations of every country at an early stage to take appropriate actions for legal compliance. For example, when any substance of very high concern April 2015 (SVHC) is present in our products at 0.1% or higher, we submit the information as required by the REACH1 regulation. We also provide chemical safety data sheets ((M)SDS) in accordance with the GHS2 regulations. In addition to legal compliance, we also set our own standards to reduce chemical substances. Although TEL Group products are not subject to the EU RoHS3 Directive, we have implemented measures to manufacture equipment that is at least 98.5% composed of substances that meet the directive since 2006. As a result, nearly all of our products now comply with the directive. Furthermore, to become more effectively compliant with regulations, including the EU RoHS Directive, REACH, and the China RoHS, we started a survey with our suppliers in Japan on chemicals contained in products based on the JAMP AIS4 in April 2015. We will continue to promptly identify and appropriately respond to all laws and regulations in every country, thereby promoting our global efforts to reduce harmful chemical substances. 1 REACH: Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals. A regulation pertaining to the registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemicals. 2 GHS: Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals. 3 RoHS: Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment. The RoHS Directive restricts the presence of lead, mercury, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls (PBB), polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDE), and cadmium in electrical and electronic products exported to Europe. 4 JAMP AIS: Article Information Sheet (AIS) promoted by the Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium (JAMP). This sheet is used to deliver basic information on regulated chemical substances. Logistics initiatives CO2 emissions from logistics and the To reduce environmental impacts caused by the transportation of products, the TEL proportion of marine transportation Group is promoting modal shift5 for domestic and overseas transport and adopting (Thousand tons) 42.2 packaging methods with a smaller environmental footprint. In fiscal year 2015, we achieved 37.8 reduction in both CO2 emissions and costs by improving the load factor of trucks with 32.0 31.0 the introduction of shelved trolleys. The trolleys have been used for the shipment of FPD 25.9 73 production equipment, to the shipping of semiconductor production equipment. 70 4 66 5 3 60 In fiscal year 2015, CO2 emissions associated with domestic and international 2 54 3 product logistics increased to 73 kilotons, up about 35% from fiscal year 2014. The 68 66 63 58 share of marine transportation used for exports decreased by 11 points from fiscal year 51 2014 to 31%. This is because shipment of semiconductor production equipment by air increased from the fiscal year 2014 level. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) We are committed to continuing efforts to reduce environmental impacts. International logistics Domestic logistics Proportion of marine transportation among 5 Modal shift: A shift in the mode of transportation. Specifically, switching from conventional freight international logistics (%) transportation by truck or aircraft to means that have a lower impact on the environment, such as marine and rail. Topics <Global Cooperation with Industrial Organizations> Since the 1990s, the TEL Group has been proactive in its global cooperation with industrial organizations in the areas of EHS and CSR. At SEMI6, we serve as a member of a meeting that manages EHS activities and participate in commissions on environmental and safety laws and regulations to introduce energy-saving, resource-saving, and safety activities and promote standardization. At SEMICON Japan, an industrial exhibition, held in December 2014, we organized a sustainable forum as a central coordinator and introduced Japanese companies’ technologies and products related to environmental safety to representatives of SEMI Taiwan. 6 SEMI: A global industry association of companies that provide production equipment, materials and services for semiconductors, flat panel displays (FPDs), nano technology, micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS), photovoltaic power generation, and other related technologies. 25 Environment Electricity consumption (Million kWh) Plant and Office Initiatives 230.1 223.6 221.6 223.0 208.7 Initiatives to prevent global warming 72.2 65.6 At the TEL Group, each plant and office sets the goal of reducing energy consumption 40.5 20.5 27.8 by at least 1% year on year based on a metric of its own choosing. Initiatives to achieve the goals include energy-saving operation of clean rooms, optimum temperature 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) settings for office cooling and heating, and introduction of equipment with leading-edge Japan Overseas energy-saving efficiency. CO2 emissions from energy consumption (Tons) Photovoltaic power generation systems have been adopted at some plants and 117,396 120,913 113,454 offices in and outside Japan and the renewable energy they generated in fiscal year 2015 totaled 4,559 MWh, enough to power about 1,260 homes1. Meanwhile, Tokyo 84,847 87,124 Electron U.S. Holdings, Inc., which has purchased green electricity since 2001, purchased 2,405 MWh of green electricity in fiscal year 2015. 36,317 33,358 23,316 With these efforts, 11 of the 12 TEL plants in and outside Japan that set their goals 12,046 15,063 achieved them in fiscal year 2015. Group-wide power consumption in fiscal year 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) was 274 GWh, down 7% year on year, and CO2 emissions from energy consumption2 Japan Overseas was 147 kilotons, down about 6% year on year. Using the same emission factor * CO2 emissions in fiscal year 2012 totaled 87,124 tons for electricity consumption for fiscal year 2011, CO2 emissions per unit of energy minus a 50,000-ton reduction brought about through the use of a domestic clean development mechanism consumed in Japan in fiscal year 2015 decreased by 9.5% from fiscal year 2011. (the mechanism for CO2 emissions reduction that allows small and medium-sized businesses to receive funding 1 Based on the assumption that the electricity consumption of one home is 3,600 kWh/year and technology from large businesses and trade the 2 For the emission factor for electricity consumption in Japan in fiscal year 2015, we used adjusted emission reduced amount of emissions as emission credits) factors for individual electric power providers. For the emission factor for electricity consumption overseas, we used estimated factors calculated by the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan based on CO2 emissions in Japan with the same values published by the International Energy Agency (IEA). emission factor for electricity consumption for fiscal year 2011 (Tons) ● Example of initiatives 84,847 82,137 The Koshi Plant, one of our manufacturing sites, uses a turbo refrigerator to cool 81,067 81,592 76,791 water and a heat recovery chiller. In fiscal year 2015, the plant replaced these types of heat source equipment with high energy consumption with equipment with high energy efficiency, consequently halving its energy consumption. It is estimated that the replacement cost will be recovered within five years. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Initiatives to reduce water consumption Water consumption (Thousand m3) 1,122 The TEL Group has set a goal of keeping water consumption at the same level or below 1,026 1,078 1,058 1,043 that of fiscal year 2012 based on the basic metric set by each plant. In fiscal year 2015, 199 315 300 297 327 we achieved 10 out of the 15 goals set at our plants in Japan and overseas. Continued 613 efforts to achieve these goals include installing water-saving devices, watering grass 503 531 506 466 471 416 with rainwater, and ensuring intermittent operation of cafeteria faucets. Consequently, we reduced water consumption by approximately 1% year on year to 1,043,000 m3 296 104 290 in Japan. Outside Japan, water consumption totaled 503,000 m3 in fiscal year 2015, 64 301 70 312 300 down 18% from 613,000 m3 in fiscal year 2014, when water consumption at four newly 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) acquired companies was added. Industrial water in Japan Tap water in Japan Groundwater in Japan Overseas use ● Example of initiatives Combustion-type detoxifying apparatuses that render exhaust from semiconductor Exhaust from processing Usable water production equipment harmless use a large amount of water. The Hosaka Plant, which Exhaust from Water (recycled water) the unit used to treat all such water as effluent, put in place a mechanism to separate usable water Filtration/RO and return it to the apparatuses for reuse, reducing water consumption by 70%. Wastewater Wastewater from the facilities facilities Propane above TEL’s own effluent standard1, which is stricter than statutory standards, is properly Combustion unit gas Recovery Oxygen processed at effluent treatment facilities before being discharged to rivers. It is estimated Wastewater (above the standard) Scrubber Gas after Drain tank that the renovation cost will be recovered within one and a half years. combustion Wastewater (below the standard) 1 Own standard Fluoride pH Wastewater Fluorine ion/ Circulating water tank Water Pollution Control Act 8.0 mg/L or lower 5.8‒8.6 pH check Combustion-type Combustion-type Yamanashi Prefecture Pollution Control Ordinance 1.0 mg/L or lower 5.8‒8.6 detoxifying apparatus detoxifying wastewater recovery system Hosaka Plant’s Own Standard 0.8 mg/L or lower 6.0‒8.4 Effluent treatment facilities 26 Environment Initiatives to reduce waste The TEL Group is reducing waste, which includes collecting waste by type and Recycling rate and generation of changing production processes to those that do not generate waste, while recycling incinerated and landfill waste (Japan) as much generated waste as possible and disposing of the remaining non-recyclable 98.1 97.4 97.3 98.0 98.9 waste in an appropriate manner. In fiscal year 2015, the amount of incinerated and Target: Maintain recycling landfill waste generated by the TEL Group was 94 tons, down 45% from fiscal year rate of 97% or more 331 2014. Having defined a plant or office where incinerated and landfill waste makes up 245 less than 2% of its total waste as a zero emission plant/office, the TEL Group achieved 215 172 zero emissions at all Group plants in Japan in fiscal year 2015. With these initiatives, the 94 recycling rate1 at plants in Japan in fiscal year 2015 was 98.9%, achieving the goal of maintaining a recycling rate of 97% or more in Japan for nine consecutive years since 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) fiscal year 2007. Also, in fiscal year 2015, the recycling rate at TEL Group plants and Incineration and landfill (Tons) offices outside Japan improved from the previous year to 88.2%. 1 Recycling rate: Recycled amount / Amount of waste generated × 100 Volume of PRTR Class I designated chemical substances handled (Japan) Management of chemical substances (Kg) 13,709 14,361 At the TEL Group, we use chemical substances mainly in the development and 1,617 169 12,665 manufacturing phases of our products. We consistently monitor and manage the use 11,732 2,059 10,781 5,071 and discharge amounts of chemical substances regulated under the Japanese PRTR2 4,541 2,031 1,035 law. Additionally, whenever we introduce a new chemical substance or change how 4,144 2,408 3,787 an existing substance is used, we check for environmental, health and safety risks, and take the necessary measures before adopting the new substance or method. We 8,469 8,203 also make sure to properly dispose of hazardous substances after use through either 5,914 6,462 7,338 specialist waste disposal contractors or using our in-house processing equipment. 2 PRTR: Pollutant Release and Transfer Register. A system under which the use of chemical substances that 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) may be hazardous to human health and the ecosystem, their release into the environment, and their transfer (contained in waste) off the original business premises are identified, tabulated and disclosed. Hydrogen fluoride and its water-soluble salts Methylnaphthalene Other Green Procurement The TEL Group, in cooperation with our suppliers, is promoting initiatives to reduce Environmental impact by suppliers (Fiscal year 2015 survey results) its environmental impact. We developed the Guideline for Green Procurement in 2001 Use/emissions and revised it in 2012. In order to monitor and reduce environmental impacts of our suppliers, we have conducted green procurement surveys of our key suppliers since CO2 emissions 303 kilotons fiscal year 2014. Our questionnaire survey in fiscal year 2015 focused on the three Water consumption 3,029,000 m3 areas of environmental initiatives at plants and offices, environmental compliance of products, and environmental initiatives for products. We aggregated the survey data to Total waste generated 42 kilotons understand the various situations across our supply chains and analyzed the outcome of our efforts to reduce environmental impacts. We also evaluated the survey findings Recycled waste 22 kilotons on a six-point scale, finding improvement in 46% of the suppliers, and provided the suppliers with feedback accordingly. Based on these results, we will continue to work with our suppliers on environmental activities. Topics <Recognized as a Green Choice patron by Austin Energy> In April 2015, the Tokyo Electron US Holdings, Inc. (TEH) Austin site was recognized by Austin Energy as a Green Choice Program patron for purchasing wind-generated renewable energy that accounted for 20% of the total electricity consumption at TEH. In the photo, Austin Mayor, Steve Adler (right) presents the recognition plaque to Tom Campbell, Director of Support Services for TEH. 27 Social Contribution The TEL Group is proactively working on the development of a sustainable society and the growth of its business activities by contributing to society based on its Corporate Philosophy. About Social Contribution Cooperation between businesses and civil society is indispensable for the development of a society where everyone can live a better life and work in a healthy way. The TEL Group sets the environment, education, health and human services, and culture as the four areas of focus in our community investment for development of society. Examples of Social Contribution Activities Environment Education ■ The forest of Tokyo Electron ■ Nikkei Education Challenge Tokyo Electron is engaging in local tree-planting and afforestation In the fiscal year under review, as in the previous year, Tokyo activities with its employees and their families. The activities aim Electron supported the Nikkei Education Challenge sponsored to pass on beautiful nature to future generations, and to leave a by Nikkei Inc. Intended to provide high school students with an better global environment. In Hokuto City, Yamanashi Prefecture, inside perspective into business fields, the event consists of we have planted 3,000 trees and maintained the forest through presentations given by business leaders from diverse industries. weeding over the last seven years. The leaders share their experience and their achievements, as Meanwhile, a TEL Group company in Oshu City, Iwate well as stories of the difficulties and failures they had to overcome Prefecture has been planting oak trees (Quercus serrata) and on the road to success. cherry trees nearby its premises over the last five years as part In fiscal year 2015, Tokyo Electron sent an employee from its of a tree-planting development section, who provided the audience with tips on activity organized how to make it as under the Corporate a researcher. Many Afforestation Program. of the participating We help preserve and high school students nurture nature in commented that the the communities. presentation stirred their interest in the semiconductor industry. Health/Human Services Culture ■ Meals on Wheels and More ■ solaé art gallery (a project for supporting young artists) Tokyo Electron U.S. Holdings, Under the “solaé art Inc. (TEH) sponsors the Meals on gallery project,” Tokyo Wheels and More program, which Electron headquarters delivers meals to elderly people cafeteria “solaé” with mobility issues. TEH has provides young been committed to the activity for emerging artists with years. Serving as volunteers, TEH a venue to show their employees are volunteering to work free of charge. deliver nutritious meals to elderly Every three months, people during lunchtime from a new artist working on themes closely related to TEL’s business, Monday to Wednesday every week. such as “technology” and “global,” is invited to show his or her work. The project also organizes a reception event for each exhibition, which generally attracts nearly 100 attendees from in and outside of TEL. TEL employees benefit from the exposure to and inspiration provided by these creative outputs and the diverse values they represent. You can also read about Tokyo Electron’s social contribution activities on the TEL website: [http://www.tel.com/environment/corp_citizenship/index.htm] 28 Social Contribution Taking on a challenge to create an open intellectual community where people get together to study and create Tohoku University’s Tohoku Forum for Creativity Tokyo Electron is proactively supporting the Tohoku Forum for Creativity project. The Tohoku Forum for Creativity (TFC) is a program that brings Nobel laureates and other world-leading professors together with young researchers and students to carry out advanced research for solving universal social issues. Since the inauguration of the TFC, TEL has provided comprehensive support for this project, which embodies our aspirations to nurture the next generation of leaders. It also plays an important role in assisting in the promotion and revitalization of the Tohoku region, where our manufacturing base is located. In the 2014 school year, the TFC offered three programs, namely, “A Health Informatics Infrastructure for a New Era,” “Challenges for Big Data in our Society,” and “Future Strategies for Disaster Risk Reduction.” Nearly 1,000 students and researchers participated. In April 2015, the TFC organized an introductory event for the school year, titled “Spring School.” Leading researchers, including Prof. Gerard ‘t Hooft of Utrecht University in the Netherlands, who was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics, participated in the five-day program, along with a total of 60 students. The TOKYO ELECTRON House of Creativity, a visitor research institute and central facility of the program, was completed in May of the same year. In the 2015 school year, the TFC is planning four thematic programs titled, “Frontiers of Brain Science,” “The Effects of Technological Changes on Social Mobility and Income Distribution,” “Fundamental Problems in Quantum Physics,” and “Spintronics,” for which Tokyo Electron will provide continued support. [Related link: http://www.tfc.tohoku.ac.jp/ (External site) External Evaluation in fiscal year 2015 (main awards received) Category Awards received * Awards received in fiscal year 2016 Sponsor In appreciation of your continued contribution 2014 Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI) Business Top 100 Global Innovators 2014 Thomson Reuters Corporation 2013 PREFERRED QUALITY SUPPLIER AWARD (PQS award) Intel Corporation Spotlight Supplier Award GLOBALFOUNDRIES, Inc. Best Partner Award Sony Semiconductor Corporation 2014 Partner Award Fuji Electric Co., Ltd. Customer Best Partner Award, Good Partner Award, Partnership Award TOSHIBA Semiconductor & Storage Products Company Certificate of Appreciation Powerchip Technology Corporation Appreciation Award Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd. (TSMC) Excellent Performance Award Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd. (TSMC) Semiconductor of the Year Grand Prize in the semiconductor Equipment/production Sangyo Times, Inc. (Electronic Device Industry News) manufacturing equipment category (CELLESTATM-i MD) Minnesota Safety Council Governor’s Safety Award (Meritorious Minnesota Safety Council Achievement) Environment/safety Green Choice Program Patron* Austin Energy Semiconductor Environmental Safety and Health Association SESHA President’s Award (SESHA) Certificate of Appreciation (of support for areas affected by the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare Great East Japan Earthquake) Certificate of Appreciation (of support for areas affected by the Sendai City Social Welfare Council Communication/ Great East Japan Earthquake) society Certificate of Appreciation (of support for a community project Independent Administrative Institution Japan Student for global human resource development) Services Organization FTSE4 Good Global Index FTSE 2014 Internet IR Commendation Award Daiwa Investor Relations Co., Ltd. 29 Comments from a Third-Party Expert I present the following comments as a third-party on the employee healthcare, TEL has issued a health declaration and Environmental and Social Report 2015 (“the Report”) of Tokyo launched various initiatives to promote health. We hope TEL will Electron Limited (TEL), taking into account explanations from TEL continue to improve its health activities and to report the positive representatives in charge of the EHS and CSR on environmental effects on its management. and social initiatives, as well as my observations concerning last year’s report. Environmental initiatives in the value chain TEL has aimed to solve environmental issues through its business Identifying Materiality activities. As part of its efforts to prevent global warming, in fiscal Corporate social responsibility activities themselves cannot be a year 2014, TEL achieved its target of reducing energy consumption goal. They carry significance when they are performed as part of of its major models by 50% from fiscal year 2008. This fiscal a company’s pursuit of its main business goals. Responsibilities year, TEL set a new goal of reducing energy and pure water that society requires of businesses vary widely, so it is essential to consumption by 10%, from fiscal year 2014 through fiscal year identify those that are of particular importance and that should be 2019, and launched related initiatives accordingly. TEL measures and controls both its direct greenhouse gas prioritized by a company. TEL communicated with stakeholders to emissions and its CO2 emissions throughout the entire value chain. comprehensively identify their needs and reported the Materiality Since indirect emissions from product use make up 84% of total (important sustainability issues) and the process for choosing emissions, I expect future initiatives from TEL for reducing these them. By associating the issues with CSR goals, TEL covered the emissions, as well as reports on the progress of the initiatives. results of its CSR activities and details of the goals in the Report. With regard to key suppliers, it is commendable that TEL I recognize that these efforts made TEL’s report on CSR activities has conducted a supplier CSR survey on the labor environment, sufficiently convincing, although CSR reports generally tend to be a safety, environmental measures, and other areas, to help suppliers cluster of exhaustive explanations. Since I found that qualitative and improve their business. quantitative metrics coexisted in the fiscal year 2016 activity goals, I hope future goal-setting will be more objective and based on figures. TEL’s Management Policies stated at the beginning of the Report indicate that TEL aims to enhance its corporate value while Initiatives concerning employees pursuing profit at the same time. Therefore, if the relation between Employee skills development and growth are indispensable for the environmental and social activities and TEL’s corporate value, or sustainable growth of businesses. At the same time, it’s important the value itself is explained in figures, all of TEL’s stakeholders, for employees to strike a good balance between personal life and including shareholders, will have a greater understanding of its CSR work. In this respect, TEL is offering a wide variety of education management capabilities. programs for human resource development, while launching work(The preceding third-party comments do not constitute an opinion on the accuracy life balance programs to provide better working conditions. The or completeness of the information contained in this report.) Performance Summary at the end of the Report provides detailed data, such as the percentage and number of employees who took childcare leave and childcare support leave, respectively. That helped me to understand that TEL has effective measures in place for its employees. In reviewing the data, I also noticed that the use of annual paid leave had not improved much from the previous year, so I look for future improvement in this regard. Yoshito Nakamura Certified Public Accountant Today, an important social issue for businesses is promoting health management that emphasizes the maintenance of Adjunct Instructor of Toyo University employees’ mental and physical health. Effective health and the Open University of Japan Auditor of the Supporting Organization of JOCV management helps individuals develop their capabilities and Auditor of the Foundation for Accounting Research in Construction Industry motivation for effective business improvement. With regard to Auditor of Kawasaki City Council of Social Welfare Response to the Third-Party Comments We are deeply grateful to Mr. Nakamura for visiting us and providing us with many ways in which we can improve our initiatives more effectively. We are especially proud of receiving a favorable evaluation for revisiting the Materiality (important sustainability issues) for the first time and the reporting of the process. In response to suggestions regarding human resource last year, we further enhanced related quantitative data disclosure. Additionally, after all the effort we made in working with supply chain management, we were able to report initial progress results, which we believe allowed us to respond to increasing attention from society in this area. Suggestions we received this year include setting quantitative goals for CSR activities, verifying the effects of activities for employees’ mental and physical health care and health promotion, and continuing to report on environmental initiatives in the value chain. We recognize these as important issues that we should work on Tatsuya Nagakubo proactively on a group-wide basis, and we are committed to promoting them. Corporate Director Executive Officer, CSR Promotion Tokyo Electron Limited 30 Environmental Performance Summary Fiscal year 2014 Fiscal year 2015 Energy consumption In Japan 58,927 KL In Japan 54,973 KL 79,359 KL 73,421 KL (crude oil equivalent) Outside Japan 20,432 KL Outside Japan 18,448 KL In Japan 222,976 MWh In Japan 208,753 MWh Power consumption 295,215 MWh 274,368 MWh Outside Japan 72,239 MWh Outside Japan 65,615 MWh Energy consumption/ Gas consumption In Japan 2,027 KL In Japan 1,929 KL 3,877 KL 3,501 KL generation (crude oil equivalent) Outside Japan 1,850 KL Outside Japan 1,572 KL Fuel consumption In Japan 1,156 KL In Japan 870 KL 1,160 KL 871 KL (crude oil equivalent) Outside Japan 4 KL Outside Japan 1 KL Power generated by PV power In Japan 4,698 MWh In Japan 4,536 MWh 4,724 MWh 4,559 MWh generation systems Outside Japan 26 MWh Outside Japan 23 MWh CO 2 emissions from energy In Japan 120,913 tons In Japan 113,454 tons 157,230 tons 146,812 tons consumption Outside Japan 36,317 tons Outside Japan 33,358 tons In Japan 7,550 tons In Japan 6,620 tons Scope 1 CO 2 emissions 11,151 tons 9,686 tons Outside Japan 3,601 tons Outside Japan 3,066 tons In Japan 113,363 tons In Japan 106,834 tons Scope 2 CO 2 emissions 146,079 tons 137,126 tons Outside Japan 32,716 tons Outside Japan 30,292 tons Greenhouse gas consumption/emissions Non-energy-derived greenhouse 20,794 tons 21,795 tons gas emissions (in Japan) HFCs 2,610 tons 1,501 tons PFCs 7,416 tons 5,784 tons SF6 10,755 tons 14,499 tons Other 13 tons 11 tons In Japan 3,099 tons In Japan 5,348 tons CO 2 emissions from logistics 54,230 tons 73,589 tons Outside Japan 51,131 tons Outside Japan 68,241 tons Environmental impact of logistics Proportion of marine transportation among overseas 42.2 % 31.0 % transportation In Japan 1,058,000 m3 In Japan 1,043,000 m3 Water consumption 1,670,000 m3 1,546,000 m3 Outside Japan 612,000 m3 Outside Japan 503,000 m3 Groundwater (in Japan) 297,000 m3 327,000 m3 Resource consumption Tap water (in Japan) 471,000 m3 416,000 m3 Industrial water (in Japan) 290,000 m3 300,000 m3 Use of copier paper (in Japan) 116 tons 162 tons In Japan 8,780 tons In Japan 8,858 tons Amount of waste generated 9,965 tons 10,064 tons Outside Japan 1,185 tons Outside Japan 1,206 tons In Japan 8,608 tons In Japan 8,764 tons Waste generated Recycled amount 9,421 tons 9,828 tons Outside Japan 813 tons Outside Japan 1,064 tons Amount incinerated or put into In Japan 172 tons In Japan 94 tons 544 tons 236 tons landfill Outside Japan 372 tons Outside Japan 142 tons Volume of PRTR Class I designated chemical substances handled 12,665 kg 10,781 kg (in Japan) Emissions: Atmospheric release 21 kg 12 kg Chemical substances Transport: Waste 8,499 kg 8,254 kg consumption/emissions Transport: Sewerage 1 kg 114 kg Consumption 4,144 kg 2,401 kg NOx emissions 9.7 tons 12 tons SOx emissions 2.8 tons 2.7 tons Number of ISO 14001-certified In Japan 7 In Japan 4 10 8 companies Outside Japan 3 Outside Japan 4 Environmental Number of ecosystem tours management/ 16 13 (in Japan) biodiversity Number of ecosystem tour 42 69 participants (in Japan) Total product shipment 16,331 tons 13,596 tons Other (in Japan) Non-compliance 0 0 * For scope 3, see p. 22. 31 Social Performance Summary Fiscal year 2014 Fiscal year 2015 Male: 6,262 Male: 6,165 Regular employees Total: 7,271 Total: 7,166 Composition of Female: 1,009 Female: 1,001 employees Non-regular employees 1,570 1,455 (temporary, part-time) Tokyo Electron Limited Proportion of 1.8 % 2.0 % (unconsolidated) physically-challenged employees Group companies in Japan 1.9 % 1.9 % Proportion of female managers among managerial personnel 30 1.2 % 32 1.3 % Retention after three years of joining the company 94.3 % 93.6 % (average in recent five years) Male: 15 years and Male: 16 years and Employee retention 15 years and 9 months 16 years and 6 months Average service years 7 months Female: 14 years and 4 months Female: 15 years and 3 months 3 months Male: 1.4 % Male: 2.5 % Human Turnover 1.6 % 2.7% Female: 3.3 % Female: 3.4 % Resources/ Labor Use of annual paid leave 59.6 % 61.8 % Management Number and percentage of those who (at Group 70 95 % 52 95 % took childcare leave companies in Japan excluding Number and percentage of those who 53 93 % 46 88 % Tokyo Electron returned to work after childcare leave Device Limited) Number of those who took paternity 211 192 Childcare support leave system Number of those who used the Male: 8 Male: 11 159 183 shorter working hours system Female: 151 Female: 172 Number of those who took childcare Male: 240 Male: 246 435 460 leave to care for a sick/injured child Female: 195 Female: 214 Number of those who took childcare Male: 17 Male: 24 92 96 support leave Female: 75 Female: 72 Number of those who took nursing Male: 13 Male: 11 Nursing care support 22 20 care leave Female: 9 Female: 9 Number of those who took Special paid leave refreshment leave (special paid leave 772 1,285 system granted according to service years for physical and mental refreshment of employees) Retirees who used reemployment system 78 84 Users of second career support system (a system to provide time and financial assistance to employees who intend to 82 69 develop their professional skills outside the TEL Group) Number of occupational TCIR 0.37 0.24 accidents Safety Participation in basic safety 100 % 100 % introduction/update education Safety education Participation in advanced safety 100 % 100 % introduction/update education CSR management Participants in EICC ® Code of Total: approx. 130 Total: approx. 120 promotion Conduct seminars Participation in web-based testCSR/compliance format education on corporate 100 % 99.7 % Thorough compliance ethics/compliance Confirmed agreement to comply with 100 % 100 % information security regulations Improvement of Rate of improvement after CSR — 25 % supply chain CSR procurement survey* * Improvement: Percentage Rate of improvement after Supply chain of suppliers whose — 41 % procurement BCP survey management evaluation improved in this (at suppliers in year’s survey, excluding Rate of improvement after green Japan) those already having the — 46 % procurement survey highest ratings Conflict minerals Number of identified CFSP-certified — 117 survey smelters Spending on social contribution (million yen) 259 184 Charity donations (providing donations/relief materials 5% 2% to charity organizations) Social Community investment contribution Cash donations (charitable expenses for long-term 38 % 47 % breakdown cause for community) Commercial initiatives (charitable expenses for anticipated 57 % 51 % effects on business) 32 The Tokyo Electron Group CSR Policy Code of Ethics I. Principles 1. Compliance with Applicable Laws Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must comply at all times with the applicable laws and regulations of each country and region as well as with international regulations, in doing the global business activities, while abiding with corporate ethics and putting them into practice in a spirit of good faith. 2. Acting in Accordance with Social Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must act in accordance with social conscience based on a high ethical awareness. Conscience 3. Maintaining Harmonious Relationships Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must be aware that both themselves and the company are members of their local communities, with Local Communities and must strive to achieve mutually beneficial development while collaborating with these communities. II. Honest and Fair Business Activities II-1 Technology, Safety, and the Environment 4. Ensuring Safety and Pursuing Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must ensure safety and pursue quality in all their business activities including development, Quality manufacturing, sales, service, and administration. 5. Promoting Environmental Tokyo Electron Group must conduct its business activities while maintaining harmony with the global environment. Preservation Activities 6. Ethics in Manufacturing Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must engage in manufacturing with a high ethical awareness and a spirit of good faith. II-2 Fair Trade 7. Implementing Fair and Open Tokyo Electron Group must not engage in any conduct that hinders competition in fair and open markets. Competition 8. Fair Business with Suppliers Tokyo Electron Group selects suppliers based on fair standards. When conducting business with suppliers, we must not use our dominant bargaining position in a transaction to unfairly harm the interests of suppliers. 9. Handling of Confidential Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must strictly manage confidential information of the company with special care and must not Information disclose or improperly use confidential information during the term of their employment or after retirement from the company without following the proper procedures according to the company’s internal regulations and non-disclosure agreements. In addition, the confidential information of other companies must be respected and properly managed and must not be obtained by improper means. 10. Strict Export/Import Controls Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must comply with all applicable laws and the company’s regulations based thereon concerning the import and export of goods and transfers of technology. 11. Reasonable Exchanges of Gifts Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must not give gifts to, or receive them from, a company or individual based on a business and Entertainment within the relationship, beyond the bounds of common business practice in the relevant location. Giving or receiving gifts of cash or cash equivalents is prohibited, Bounds of Common Sense regardless of the amount (except for purposes recognized as appropriate in common practice, such as condolences or expressions of sympathy in some countries and regions). Furthermore, entertainment with companies or individuals with whom one has a work-based relationship must be carried out moderately within the bounds of common sense. II-3 Relationship between the Company and Individuals 12. Prohibition of Conduct Causing Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must not, without due cause, engage in conduct that is, or appears to be, to their own personal Conflicts of Interests benefit and contrary to the interests of the company (conduct causing conflicts of interests), or which runs the risk of leading to such conduct. In addition, Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must not use their position in their work for their own personal benefit. 13. Prohibition of the Improper Use of Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must not improperly use company assets for their own personal benefit. Company Assets 14. Prohibition of Conduct of Tokyo Electron Group does not allow any form of harassment in the workplace. Harassment III. Being a Good Corporate Citizen 15. Prohibition of Insider Trading Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must not engage in the purchase or sale of stocks on the basis of information not disclosed to the public that they obtained in connection to their work duties or business transactions (insider trading). 16. Prohibition of Political Activities Tokyo Electron Group board members and employees must not engage in political activities at the workplace. In addition, Tokyo Electron Group does and Contributions not make donations of money or company assets to politicians (including candidates) or political parties. 17. Prohibition of Involvement in Tokyo Electron Group must not have any relationship, including business relationships, whatsoever with antisocial forces that are likely to disrupt the Antisocial Forces public order, safety of the public, or corporate activities. In addition, Tokyo Electron Group must not provide any financial support or accommodation for any reason to antisocial forces. 18. Respect for Individuals Tokyo Electron Group prohibits discrimination on the basis of gender, nationality, age, race, creed, religion or any other reason, while respecting each person as an individual. Tokyo Electron Group does not use forced labor or child labor. Personnel Policy Respect for Human Rights We respect the character and individuality of each person and strive to create work environments without any infringement of human rights. Diverse Workforce We strive to respect and understand differences in values arising from gender, nationality, age, race, creed, religion, and other attributes and to be a corporation where a diverse range of employees can work to their full potential. Human Resource Development We believe that each employee is the source of value creation and support the development of skills by employees. Employee Assessment and We provide opportunities to those employees with the enthusiasm for personal growth and engage in fair evaluation of skills and employee treatment so Treatment that employees with significant results can be rewarded. Occupational Safety and Health We place the highest priority on ensuring the safety and health of employees and maintain environments such that employees can work safely at our workplaces and local residents feel a sense of reassurance. Work-Life Balance We implement measures to enable employees to achieve a good work-life balance. Safety Policy Safety First Based on the principle of “safety first,” we strive to create safer products and work to maintain and improve the safety of all people involved with our products and healthy workplace environments. Pursuit of Safe Technologies With an awareness of the factors that impair safety and health in our various business activities, we continuously strive to create safer and more secure workplaces by making improvements concerning those factors and through intrinsically-safe equipment designs and superior service capabilities. Management and Employees All employees maintain an awareness of potential problems and of the need for improvement concerning the maintenance and enhancement of safety Responsibility and health at all workplaces, and management and employees act in accordance with their respective responsibilities. Legal Compliance We comply with safety and health laws and regulations and international rules, take into consideration industry guidelines, and strive to promote safety and health. Collaboration and Cooperation with Based on common understanding with a broad range of stakeholders, we cooperate and collaborate with society and work to appropriately meet their Society expectations. Quality Policy Quality Always Quality is not only the foundation for customer satisfaction, but also the foundation for meeting expected production schedules and reducing downtime. We prioritize quality over temporary cost increases. Quality Design and Assurance We build quality into every TEL product during the design phase by focusing on leading-edge technology. By bringing quality into our processes early and focusing on quality throughout all processes, we succeed in providing high quality products and services. Quality and Trust When we find a quality problem, manufacturing, sales and service departments analyze the facts and complete a thorough investigation to determine the cause, resolving the problem as quickly as possible. Our customer can trust in our commitment to address identified quality problems. Continuous Improvement Activities We improve quality with an effective quality management system. This includes using quality measures, improving by applying the PDCA cycle, and practicing continuous improvement activities. Communication with Stakeholders In addition to providing product quality information in a timely manner, we understand and align to the expectations of our stakeholders. Environment Policy Environmental Goals and Continuous We continually enhance its knowledge of environmental issues to establish voluntary goals that are reviewed by Executive Management and drive Improvement continuous improvement and full regulatory compliance. Promotion of Environmental Technology We aim to invest in the development of leading-edge, high value products and services that directly contribute to a sustainable society. Environmental Contribution with We develop eco-friendly products through our leading-edge technology. Group cooperates with our customers and suppliers to strive for the prevention Product and improvement of a wide range of environmental concerns. Operational Environmental Impact We quantitatively analyze and reduce the environmental impact of its global operations with activity from all levels of employees and operations. Reduction and Preservation Collaboration and Cooperation with We actively promote collaboration and cooperation with all our stakeholders to achieve mutual understanding and conformance to expectations. Stakeholders and Society Procurement Policy Compliance with Applicable Laws We engage in procurement activities with integrity in compliance with the laws and regulations of each country and social norms based on our corporate ethics. and Social Norms Priority on the Environment We conduct procurement with full consideration for reduction of environmental impact and protection of the global environment. Fair Business Practices We continuously seek high-value technologies and create broad opportunities for their business transactions based on the precondition of open competition. Partnership We prioritize relationships of trust based on mutual understanding with suppliers and conduct activities in the pursuit of mutual continuous growth. Information Management We properly manage the confidential information of suppliers that we obtain in the course of business. 33 Tokyo Electron Group Environmental and Social Report 2015 GRI Guidelines Table 1. Strategy and Analysis Page found 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair or equivalent senior position) about the pp.4–5 relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. pp.4–9, 13, 18–22, 31–32 2. Organizational Profile Page found 2.1 Name of the organization. p.3 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services. p.3 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures. p.3 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. p.3 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically p.3 relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. p.3 2.7 Markets served. p.3 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. p.3 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership. p.3 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. pp.18, 27, 29 3. Report Parameters Page found 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. p.3 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. p.3 3.3 Reporting cycle. p.3 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. p.36 (back cover) 3.5 Process for defining report content. pp.6–7 3.6 Boundary of the report. p.3 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. p.3 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly p.2 affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations pp.19, 26–27, 31–32 applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement pp.19, 25–27 (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. p.3 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. p.34 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Page found 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, p.12, Annual Report such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. p.12, Annual Report 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body p.12, Annual Report that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. p.12, Annual Report Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives and the 4.5 p.12, Annual Report organization’s performance. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. p.12, Annual Report Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and 4.8 social performance and the status of their implementation. pp.8–9, 15, 33 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, 4.9 environmental and social performance. pp.12, 15 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental 4.10 and social performance. pp.12, 13 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. pp.12–14, 18, 23, 25 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization pp.4–5, 15 subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations. pp.4–5, 15, 25 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. p.7 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. pp.6–7 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. p.7 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to pp.6–30 those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators Page found Economic Management Approach pp.12, 15, 33, Annual Report EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and p.32 other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. p.22 EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at significant locations of operation. p.33 Environmental Management Approach pp.15, 22–23, 33 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. p.31 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. pp.22, 26, 31 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. pp.22, 26, 31 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. p.24 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable-energy-based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements EN6 as a result of these initiatives. p.24 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. pp.26, 31 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. pp.26, 31 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. p.23 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. pp.22, 26, 31 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. pp.22, 26, 31 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. pp.22, 24–26, 31 EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight. p.31 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. pp.27, 31 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. p.23 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. p.24 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. p.24 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and EN28 regulations. p.23 EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, pp.22, 25, 31 and transporting members of the workforce. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. p.26 34 Labor Practices and Decent Work Management Approach pp.15–16, 18, 33 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. pp.16, 32 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. p.32 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by LA7 p.19 gender. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in LA11 p.17 managing career endings. Human Rights Management Approach pp.15–16, 21, 33 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to HR6 p.21 contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures HR7 p.21 to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. p.14 Society Management Approach pp.8, 14–15, 33 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. p.14 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. p.14 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. p.14 Product Responsibility Management Approach pp.15, 18, 20–23, 33 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of PR1 p.18 significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of PR2 p.18 products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to PR3 p.24 such information requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information PR4 p.22 and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. p.20 UN Global Compact Table Page The Ten Principles Content detailed found Human Principle 1: • CSR goals pp.8–9 Rights Businesses should support and respect the • Business ethics and compliance p.14 protection of internationally proclaimed • Approach to CSR p.15 human rights. • Initiatives for globalization and diversification p.17 Principle 2: • Supply chain communication p.21 Businesses should make sure that they are • CSR policy p.33 not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: • CSR goals pp.8–9 Businesses should uphold the freedom of • Business ethics and compliance p.14 association and the effective recognition of • Approach to CSR p.15 the right to collective bargaining. • Worker-friendly environment p.16 Principle 4: • Procurement p.21 Businesses should uphold the elimination of • CSR policy p.33 all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: • Management Policies p.2 Businesses should support a precautionary • CSR goals pp.8–9 approach to environmental challenges. • Approach to CSR p.15 Principle 8: • Environment pp.22–27 Businesses should undertake initiatives to • Social contribution pp.28–29 promote greater environmental responsibility. • CSR policy p.33 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. AntiPrinciple 10: • Management Policies p.2 corruption Businesses should work against corruption in • CSR goals pp.8–9 all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • Corporate governance pp.12–14 • Approach to CSR p.15 • Procurement p.21 • CSR policy p.33 35 TEL Eco-Life Art Contest The Tokyo Electron Group holds the TEL Eco-Life Art Contest every year as part of its activities to raise environmental awareness. In the six years since 2009, the contest has received a total of 1,538 submissions. A selection of the winning entries for fiscal year 2015 can be found below. (Text in square brackets refers to the location of the employee who submitted the artwork.) Rainbow [Singapore] Chalk art by kids [Japan] Cherry trees in full bloom at [Japan] Enjoying the flowers [U.S.] Jisso-ji Temple and Mount and clean mountain air Kaikomagatake Clean Valley of Moraine [Korea] The world under [Korea] Hello my old friend [Taiwan] Flowers and creatures [Japan] lake at Canada the sea Yes, I am back! [Germany] Walking in autumn [Korea] A member of a family party [China] Gorgeous [Taiwan] TOKYO ELECTRON LIMITED CSR Promotion Department Akasaka Biz Tower, 3-1 Akasaka 5-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-6325, Japan Tel: +81-3-5561-7000 EHS Promotion Department 30-7 Sumiyoshi-cho 2-chome, Fuchu City, Tokyo 183-8705 Tel: +81-42-333-8050 http://www.tel.com/contactus/ PR53 -172 Published: August 2015
