Communication on Progress Participant: Victoria Group Published: 2015/06/03 Time period: 06/2014-06/2015 Format: Standalone document – Basic COP Template Differentiation Level: This COP qualifies for the Global Compact Active level Self-assessment  Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer  Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. To our stakeholders: Victoria Group supports and implements the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Sincerely yours, Claudio Scarrozza Chief Executive Officer Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals  Victoria Group’s goal is to influence that our employees and all our business partners respect the Universal Declaration of Human rights and environmental protection.  Based on our commitment we have set up a Code of Conduct, communicated to all our employees and published on our intranet, to make our position clear.  Apart from our internal policy and goals, our clients and partners have their requirements regarding respecting of human rights, therefore we implemented also their recommended Code of Conduct. Implementation  We have been actively informing all our employees about our Code of Conduct and encouraging them to commit as well.  We have produced the document on work mobbing prevention, which has been distributed to all the employees. Measurement of outcomes  We have a system in place that encourages employees, clients and partners to report back if they suspect any wrongful doing in regards to our Code of Conduct. No reports have been filed since the system has been implemented. Labour Assessment, policy and goals  Victoria Group supports the UNGC and BSCI principles on labour standards in addition to following local laws on labour rights.  The company is dedicated to providing suitable and motivating working environment for its employees.  The company respects its partners and supports local communities in which it operates.  Victoria Group promotes corporate culture in which all employees share this mutual policy. Implementation  Our recruitment policy follows the UNGC principles and secures equal opportunity employment platform for everyone.  Our written Code of Conduct additionally regulates our policies and it is compliant with UNGC principles. The document is published on our internal portal and has been distributed to all the employees.  We adopted and implemented EHS policy for 2014-2016, which includes work safety and working environment as one of top priorities  We’ve encouraged man to take paternity leave trough representing our policy trough company magazine and internal portal  Within the conclusions of the EBRD funded research on working environment satisfaction among employees, the scope for further improving the position of women in certain operating units was identified, and the corrective measures implemented. Measurement of outcomes  We have a system in place that encourages employees, clients and partners to report back if they suspect any wrongful doing in regards to our Code of Conduct. No reports have been filed since the system has been implemented.  We had two examples of paternity leave Environment Assessment, policy and goals  Victoria Group supports the UNGC principles on the Environment.  Environmental protection is among our key business principle  Energy saving is within Victoria Group’s core business Victoria Starch, VG member company is producing biomass pellets providing fuel for biomass boilers and Victoriaoil, Sojaprotein and Veterinarski zavod Subotica, are using biomass boilers which help reduce fossil fuel consumption and CO2 emission Implementation  Victoria Group strives to minimize the environmental impact of our activities.  By putting into operation new biomass boiler, Victoriaoil, our member company, has completely stopped using heavy fuel oil boilers in 2014  The company organizes paper and waste recycling  We do not use water for technological process in fertilizer production  Victoria Group, and every member company, has black&white double-side printing option set as default and printing within company is monitored  Victoria Group uses energy saving printers that use the least amount of electricity  Part of the induction of every new employee refers to environmental protection instructions, as defined by corporate procedures  The company has its representative in Working Group for Environment within Global Compact Serbia Measurement of outcomes  Our manufacturing facilities divert 93,13% of their waste away from landfills and into the recycling stream  Use of biomass boilers reduce annual CO2 emissions by about 13,000 tons, which is three times less than gas boilers  30% reduced the amount for printing paper Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals  Victoria Group supports the UNGC principles on anti-corruption. We work strongly against corruption in all its forms. Implementation  The company has its representative in Anti-Corruption Working Group within Global Compact Serbia.  We have Internal Audit department as independent body that monitors business conduct of all our employees and representatives. Measurement of outcomes  We have a system in place that encourages employees, clients and partners to report back if they suspect any wrongful doing. No incidents have been reported since the system has been implemented.
