Annual Report 2014 and Sustainability Report Focus on collaboration, sustainability and good business practice AboutOm Akademiska AkademiskaHus Hus Akademiska Hus is one Akademiska Husofärthe ettcountry’s av landetslargest störstaproperty companies. TogetherTillsammans fastighetsbolag. with universities and colleges med univers we are itet och seeking högskolor vill viSweden to reinforce stärka Sverige somof as a nation knowledge. We will kunskapsnation. achieve Det gör constructing, thisvibygenom att bygga, developing utveckla och managing andförvalta environmiljöer ments for education, för utbildning, research forskning ochand innovation. innovation. Cover photo Omslaget – section – en ofdelartav work at thepå konsten Skandionkliniken Skandion Clinic Uppförandet of The construction av Skandion Skandionkliniken har inneburit Clinic provided a unique unik möjlighet en opportunity to att use the genom ett samspel mellan arkitektur och konst sätta interaction between architecture and art to put the care environmentsjälva vårditselfmiljön i fokus. in focus. The Syftet aim was hartovarit skapa att an create en kreativ, imaginative, harmonisk and harmonious och inspirerande behandlingsoch arbetsmiljö, inspiring environment for treatment and care provision till nytta that både för patienter som vårdas för cancer på would beneﬁt patients who are treated for cancer at the kliniken för personalen och and clinic the staff who som arbetar work där. there. Akademiska Hus AB (publ), registration number 556459-9156 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 1 4 Contents C  ollaboration in the ­ development of future ­ 2014 in brief 2 knowledge environments Statement by the President Our mission 4 6 Drivers and challenges 7 As Sweden grows as a nation of knowledge, Swedish centres of education face Business foundations 8 increasing global competition. Outstanding campuses and knowledge environments can contribute to attracting researchers and students. The ability of Akademiska Market and demand 10 16 Hus to satisfy demands and deliver is becoming a key factor for our customers in Risk inventory 14 their endeavour to attract talented individuals from all over the world. Dialogue with stakeholders 16 Materiality analysis 18 Read more on pages 4–5 Fulfilment of objectives 20 Description of business In-depth dialogue Processes Property and campus planning 22 24 with stakeholders Management and leasing Construction process 27 36 Understanding the views of stakeholders and the challenges they face is fundaProperty valuation 44 mental if we are to realise our ambition to contribute to reinforcing Sweden as a Employees, the people involved 46 nation of knowledge. In autumn 2014 we conducted an in-depth dialogue 27 Regional overview 50 with a selection of stakeholders, focusing on sustainability. Read more on pages 16–17 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 52 Board of Directors 56 Executive Management 58 Halving the amount Board of Directors’ Internal Control Report Examination Report 62 of energy we buy ADMINISTRATION REPORT 63 Risks and risk management 64 Akademiska Hus has set itself the goal of halving the amount of energy that is bought Financing 66 in by the year 2025, taking 2000 as the comparison year. This goal has led to intensive Allocation of unappropriated earnings 71 efficiency improvement measures to save energy, and means that we now use around 42 25 per cent less energy per square metre annually than we did in 2000. Five-year summary 72 Read more on pages 27–30 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 74 Income Statements 74 Statement of Comprehensive Income 75 The construction process – Balance Sheets Changes in Equity 76 78 collaboration in action! Statements of Cash Flows Notes 80 81 The Akademiska Hus construction process takes place close to the customer. We Signatures of the Board of Directors 107 have a well-developed process and concrete programmes for integrated planning. Audit Report 108 The process varies depending on the type of project and contract. ­Construction of the Centre for Veterinary Medicine and Animal Science in Uppsala was based on a ABOUT THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 110 collaborative contract that involved greater cooperation between Akademiska Hus GRI data 111 and the contractor. GRI and COP index 112 Read more on pages 42–43 Signatures of the Board of Directors 114 Assurance Statement 115 Annual Report 2014 PROPERTY SPECIFICATION 116 The audited Annual Report comprises pages 63–107. This year our sustainability measures are incorporated in the Annual Report and presented in line with GRI G4 guidelines. The Sustainability DEFINITIONS AND ADDRESSES 132 Report comprises the pages listed on page 110 and has undergone a cursory audit. This is a translation of the original Swedish Annual Report. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 2 2014 IN BRIEF 2014 in brief More student accommodation. Akademiska Hus has received Net changes in property values had an impact clariﬁcation of its mission. It is now expressly stated in the on proﬁt of SEK 3,529 million (232), primarily due to reduced approved government budget for 2015 that the mission of yield requirements and cost of capital. Akademiska Hus also includes the ability to build and manage student accommodation. The proﬁt for the year was SEK 5,215 million (2,568). Rental revenue was SEK 5,495 million (5,359). The increase Investments in new construction, redevelopment and acquisican mainly be attributed to commissionings less the effects of tions during the year amounted to SEK 3,004 million (2,754). properties sold. Properties worth SEK 2,752 million (375) on the balance sheet were sold during the year. Net operating income amounted to SEK 3,717 million (3,506). Increased rental revenue and reduced costs, mainly for operaThe yield (excluding properties under construction) was 6.9 tion and maintenance, have resulted in an increase in net per cent (6.8). operating income. Total energy use has been reduced by 9 kWh per square metre Proﬁt before tax was 6,261 million (3,275). The increase can (2) which meant a reduction in energy costs of SEK 56 million. mainly be attributed to changes in property values. The Board proposes a dividend of SEK 676.81 (643.56) per share, a total of SEK 1,445,000,000. Aula Medica in Solna voted Skandion Clinic Building of the Year 2014 in Uppsala A prestigious award for a high-proﬁle building The ﬁrst clinic in Scandinavia to offer proton therapy for the created by Akademiska Hus for the Karolinska treatment of cancer was opened during the year. The clinic is Institute on Solna Campus. owned by Akademiska Hus and is operated by seven county Aula Medica lecture hall complex, which was councils through the Joint Authority for Advanced Radiodesigned by Wingårdhs Arkitektkontor, was therapy, KAS. selected by the jury from a total of 20 nomiThe construction of Skandion Clinic provided a unique oppornated projects. tunity to use the interaction between architecture and art to – It’s a great honour for us. It is a fantastic put the the care environment itself in focus. The aim was to crebuilding and a unique project. “This world-class ate an imaginative, harmonious and inspiring environment for building was made possible by an exceptional treatment and care provision that would beneﬁt patients who collaboration,” says Sten Wetterblad, Regional are treated for cancer at the clinic and the staff who work there. Director for Akademiska Hus Stockholm region. Skandion Clinic is nominated for Building of the Year 2015. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 2014 IN BRIEF 3 LUX in Lund Sustainable and – prize-winning centre now open effective in 2014 A new centre for humanities and theology has been created at Lund Prize for sustainable urban University. The new building provides many meeting spaces and has clear projects. The Albano district project in links with the main thoroughfare. The architects behind LUX, Mats White Stockholm, which includes plans for 1,000 new student accommodation and Jacob Peetre from Jais Arkitekter, won the Lund Urban Development units, was recognised by the Sweden Prize for 2014. Green Building Council as the most sus– As the property owners, we are tainable city district project in Sweden. very proud that the architects behind Nomination for Building of the LUX have received the Lund prize for Year. VHC – the Centre for Veterinary urban development. LUX is an importMedicine and Animal Science on Ultuna ant meeting place with many spaces Campus in southern Uppsala was that encourage contact, and it opened during the year and nominated enhances the attraction of the main as Building of the Year 2015. thoroughfare,” says Tomas Ringdahl, High-efﬁciency solar power Regional Director of Akademiska Hus installation. A unique installation, the Southern Region. largest of its kind, was ofﬁcially unveiled during the year. 850 square metres of high-efﬁciency solar panels have been installed on the roof of the Mechanical Engineering building at Lund University. Humanities Self-sufﬁcient in heating and cooling. A geothermal energy plant was commissioned at Karlstad University. Building, Umeå Karlstad now has the ﬁrst campus in Europe that is largely self-sufﬁcient in heating and cooling its buildings. With its inviting entrance and open-plan layout, the Humanities Building welMore efﬁcient routines. A series comes students, staff and the public. of measures aimed at improving our The 42-year-old Humanities Building has internal efﬁciency have yielded results. been extended by 580 square metres One example is the development of our purchasing procedures and our supplier and converted to serve as a better meetmanagement system. ing place and provide new educational opportunities. The new Humanities Building was opened on 20 October 2014. FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 INCOME STATEMENTS, SEK M Property management income 5,681 5,588 5,511 5,378 5,176 Net operating income 3,717 3,506 3,588 3,389 3,134 Change in fair value, investment property 3,529 232 –291 361 87 Proﬁt before ﬁnancial items 7,200 3,665 3,231 3,704 3,184 Net ﬁnancial income/expense –939 –390 –682 –452 –263 Proﬁt before tax 6,261 3,275 2,549 3,252 2,921 Proﬁt for the year 5,215 2,568 3,149 2,394 2,124 KEY FIGURES Return on operating capital, % 7.3 7.2 7.8 8.0 7.7 Direct yield, % 6.9 6.8 7.1 6.9 6.7 Net operating income in relation to administration income, % 65 63 65 63 61 Energy use kWh/m² 224 231 235 239 241 A more detailed ﬁve-year summary is given on page 72. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 4 STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT Collaboration in the development of future knowledge environments As Sweden grows as a nation of knowledge, Swedish centres of education face increasing global competition. Outstanding campuses and knowledge environments can contribute to attracting researchers and students. The ability of Akademiska Hus to meet demands and deliver is becoming a key factor for our customers in their endeavour to attract talented individuals from all over the world. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT 5 O ne of the key goals of AkadeSUSTAINABILITY IS A KEY ELEMENT jects were commissioned during the year, miska Hus is that we should IN OUR STRATEGY including the geothermal plant at Karlstad contribute to the long-term Sustainability issues are a clear and explicit University, which supplies a large propordevelopment of centres of part of our business strategy and control tion of the university’s heating and cooling education. As a state-owned company we procedures. Our sustainability policy and requirements. also have particular responsibility for concode of conduct clarify our position in these In January 2015 the Administrative ducting our operations in a manner that is areas and provide a well-deﬁned, level playCourt of Appeal in Sundsvall ruled that both efficient and sustainable in Akademiska Hus should be the long term. One issue that is “Our extended mission regarded as a contracting authorcrucial for centres of education ity, and is thus covered by the Puband for society at large is that of now includes the ability to lic Procurement Act (LOU). We student accommodation. We are already contributing to the conbuild and manage student have decided to lodge an appeal against this judgement with the struction of more than 6,000 stuaccommodation” Supreme Administrative Court. dent accommodation units, The reason is that the case law in through partnership projects such as Sthlm ing ﬁeld for partners, suppliers and employthe courts is still unclear and we want to get 6000+ and through our own property develees. We comply with international guideclariﬁcation from the Supreme Court on opment, by developing plans for accommodalines, such as the Global Compact, and we whether we should be covered by the Public tion on or close to campuses and by selling report on sustainability in line with the Procurement Act. or leasing land to facilitate construction. Global Reporting Initiative, GRI G4 Core. In autumn 2014 our mission was clariﬁed One area where we have a large inﬂuence OUTLOOK FOR 2015 to the effect that we now also have the abilas a property company is energy efficiency. Demand for knowledge environments and ity to build and manage student accommoWe have set up tough targets in this area and their development at universities and coldation. The ability to contribute even more are implementing measures on an ongoing leges remains high. In 2014 we invested to the production of student housing in varbasis. With wise management we can reduce approximately SEK 3 billion in new conious ways will allow us to make our camenergy use and maintain our premises in a struction and redevelopment, a level that is puses more attractive, which is of great way that provides high-quality environexpected to be sustained over the next few value to our customers. ments for many years. years. Our project portfolio, comprising During the year we set up an “accidentapproved and planned projects, now stands CLOSE DIALOGUE WITH CUSTOMERS free workplace” initiative that incorporates at SEK 21 billion. Another issue that is important to our cusclear requirements and goals in the action The Group has a current equity ratio of tomers is how we set our rents. During the plan. These, together with a more proactive 48 per cent. The owner’s objectives for capyear our rent-setting model was evaluated, approach to diversity, are some of the key ital structure indicate that the Group’s and the information was then passed on to sustainability issues that we will give special equity ratio should be in the range of 30 to our customers to ensure that we comply priority in the future. 40 percent. To allow for adjustment of the with requirements for transparency and capital structure to the owner’s equity marketability. NOMINATIONS FOR PROJECT OF THE YEAR objective, the Board of Directors proposes We also carried out a series of measures Several new buildings were opened in 2014, that the annual general meeting creates during the year to improve our internal effiincluding the Skandion Clinic in Uppsala additional free equity. ciency, which has yielded results. One examand the Centre for Veterinary Medicine and After a successful 2014, I now look forple is the improvement of our purchasing Animal Science (VHC) at Ultuna, both nomward to even closer collaboration with our process and supplier control procedures to inated for the 2015 Construction Project of customers to ensure that campuses become give us greater coordination and control. the Year. A number of other exciting promore vibrant, sustainable and attractive. Kerstin Lindberg Göransson, President AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 6 OUR MISSION Our mission – to contribute to reinforcing Sweden as a nation of knowledge Akademiska Hus creates modern knowledge environments for students across the country. Akademiska Hus Aktiebolag will own, develop Akademiska Hus will contriband manage properties for universities and ute to the creation of more colleges where the primary focus is on education and student accommodation by making clear research and it will carry on operations compatible therethat the company’s focus includes the with. Operations will be run on a commercial basis and construction and management of generate a yield that is in line with the market by setting student accommodation.” rents that take into account the operating risk. Akademiska ACCORDING TO THE BUDGET APPROVED BY Hus Aktiebolag will work to bring about long-term sustainPARLIAMENT FOR 2015 able development of university and college campuses.” AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 DRIVERS AND CHALLENGES 7 Driving forces and challenges A number of external factors affect the ability of Akademiska Hus to conduct its business, and these present challenges, as well as opportunities. By analysing developments in the world around us we can take advantage of the opportunities that arise. This allows us to contribute to the creation of attractive and modern knowledge environments for Swedish centres of education and to long-term sustainable development. Akademiska Hus – a key player in the growth of Sweden as a nation of knowledge Akademiska Hus has an important role in the developa state-owned company, we also have a special responsi1 ment of knowledge environments that provide good conbility to lead the way for exemple in efﬁciency and susditions for research and education. We will also contribtainability. Our stable ﬁnancial capacity enable us to ute to the construction of student accommodation close invest in order to meet the needs of our customers even to our campuses. Our size, unique skills and local presduring periods of recession and economic uncertainty. ence enable us to be a proactive, long-term partner to This provides security for our customers and a guarantee our largest customers – Swedish centres of education. As for the growth of Sweden as a nation of knowledge. Changing conditions for research and education Education and research are major contributors to the researchers also affect centres of education. We depend 2 success of a society. Conditions for higher education and on the activities of universities and colleges, so dialogue research are changing, and globalisation and new techand collaboration between centres of education, their nology are playing an important role. International comstaff, students and property owners are vital in enabling petition for research funds and talent is growing, but is us to deliver solutions that contribute to the success of accompanied by growth in international collaboration. centres of education in the long term. Demographic factors such as the number of students and Technological development leads to demand for new premises. Technological development opens up new opportunities stimulate education and development. The collective 3 for premises and campuses. It is increasingly common to expertise of Akademiska Hus in campus development, our combine distance learning with campus-based educaunderstanding of the needs of future knowledge environtion, which among other things leads to new ways of ments and awareness of global developments in this secusing premises. Changing education patterns mean there tor enable us to meet these future challenges alongside is a greater need for ﬂexible premises, while learning our customers. environments need to be inspiring, ﬁt for purpose, and Leading the way in sustainability Adapting our operations in response to changes in sociportion of the total energy use of society. By taking 4 ety is vital to sustainability efforts. Growing urbanization active steps to use resources more efﬁciently and reduce brings new challenges and imposes different demands on emissions from properties during construction and use, community development, in which ecosystem services Akademiska Hus is contributing to reduced climate can be part of the solution. Climate change also means impact. Achieving our ambitious sustainability goals that campuses will need to adapt to meet new climatic requires large investments and innovative measures, as conditions. Construction accounts for a signiﬁcant prowell as closer collaboration with customers. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 8 BUSINESS FOUNDATIONS The cornerstones of our business The foundation of operations at Akademiska Hus achieve our business goals and our vision; to work is the remit from our owner, the Swedish State. closely with our customers to create leading Guided by a forward-looking strategy, a ­customerknowledge environments. This enables us to make oriented business concept, clear values and a a significant contribution to the growth of Sweden clear code of conduct, we have the tools to as a nation of knowledge. Vision Values Leading knowledge environments. The values of Akademiska Hus serve as a professional compass for our employees. They help us to achieve our business goals and steer us towards the correct decisions and action in our daily business. ATTENTIVE Business concept Attentiveness and mutual understanding are essential for building strong, long-term relationships. At Akademiska Hus we Working in collaboration with our customers, we develop, build treat everyone with respect, humility, tolerance and curiosity. and manage knowledge environments that further Sweden’s success as a nation of knowledge. Through our experience, expertise and size, we contribute to COMMITTED effective, sustainable environments for education, research Wholeheartedness and commitment are reflected in everything and innovation. we do. The starting point is our genuine interest in service, learning and people. Our strong commitment leads to customer satisfaction, motivated employees, more attractive campuses, a strong economy and long-term sustainable development. VALUE-ADDING Code of Conduct Together we take overall responsibility for building lasting ­success for customers, shareholders and each other. By employing good business practice and decisiveness we As a state-owned company we should seek to be exemplary in find long-term solutions that are smarter, more sustainable the way we work. Our Code of Conduct offers guidance on how and more effective. This benefits everyone – our customers, we should work in order to act correctly in business and in ourselves and the environment around us. other relationships. A basic prerequisite for operations is that we act with due observance of international human rights principles, conventions and guidelines. The Code of Conduct applies to all Akademiska Hus employees and representatives. A dialogue on compliance with the Code of Conduct takes place each year between employees and managers. We also encourage our partners to act in comOwner objectives pliance with the Code, which is available on our website. ETHICAL COUNCIL – Return on operating capital, excluding changes in value, The Ethical Council provides support to our employees in situ­ should be at least 6.5 per cent. ations that are linked to our code of conduct and other policies. The assignment of the council include giving practical – The dividend should amount to between 40 and 60 per cent guidance in situations that employees find difficult from an of the net profit after tax after reversal of changes in fair ethical perspective, and in dealings that involve any suspicion value and related deferred tax. of irregularity. – The equity ratio should be between 30 and 40 per cent. The Ethical Council includes internal expertise in this field as well as an external lawyer. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 BUSINESS FOUNDATIONS 9 Our strategic model Strategy The primary focus of our strategy is increased cooperation Our strategic model comprises an operational platform, with our customers. We will continue to develop our dialogue which sets out the basic requirements for our business, as well with customers to promote insight and consensus on importas a ‘development wheel’ that will drive us forward towards our ant issues such as sustainability and campus development. We goals and vision. believe that this will consolidate our ability in the future to provide attractive, modern knowledge environments and by doing so contribute to the success of the centres of education. EMPLOYEES Deliverables Measure and improve our daily work. ce l an ve m De rfor op pe the re of su fe r ea M NICATION COMMU Development Dialogue INABILITY SUSTA Product and service Improve customer development in relations to cooperation with understand what the customers. our customers value. tter e Be ertis g in ex nd p ta nf or ce d Insight un de rs er Re i Cooperate with customers om to acquire insight into st cu knowledge environments and to develop our employees. AN E FFICIENT COMPANY OPERATING PLATFORM EMPLOYEES COMMUNICATION AN EFFICIENT COMPANY SUSTAINABILITY Our employees are our most We have an open and effective We improve the efﬁciency of We incorporate sustainability in important asset — we work communication with all stakeour working routines, we make everything we do — we aim to continuously to develop our holders — we communicate our processes and development work sustainably and cooperate expertise as an active, openly and frequently and we programmes as consistent as on sustainability with our cusfuture-oriented partner are also good at listening. possible and we quickly pass tomers, who also value it highly. and with a focus on constantly on our best practices and the improving customer value. lessons we have learned. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 10 MARKET AND DEMAND Increased demand for community properties The research and education sector shows continued strong demand for premises. Akademiska Hus retains a strong position in this market. T he Swedish economy is relaDemand for the development of new and than for older premises, the cost per worktively strong and the econexisting knowledge environments mirrors place is lower. In the metropolitan areas, omy will continue to the changing requirements of our custominvestments are being made in new propimprove, thanks to domestic ers. There is extensive new construction erty as well as the modernisation of existing demand and consumer spending. and redevelopment aimed at offering the holdings. best and most cost-effective ﬂoor space Despite good demand for premises, there THE SWEDISH PROPERTY MARKET solutions and knowledge environments. are no signs of signiﬁcant rent increases. In The Swedish property market has develUniversities and colleges are attractive regions where new development is taking oped positively in 2014. There has been tenants. They have good solvency margins place, however, rent levels for newly conwidespread demand, particularly in metroand a long-term need for premises. There is structed premises are rising, while there is politan areas. Yield targets have been cut strong interest in investing in community growing pressure on rents for existing holdback, especially for housing, but also for properties as well as good-quality properties ings. Vacant space is likely to decline as the modern corporate offices and properties with long leases. Capital is increasingly being economy gradually recovers. with reliable and consistent cash ﬂows. directed towards types of property that offer Growth in the community property secsafe and stable cash ﬂows, and thus low risk. STRONG MARKET POSITION tor has been strong, transaction activity has Akademiska Hus core operations are characincreased and thus led to an increase in DEVELOPMENTS IN THE RENTAL MARKET terised by relatively long leases with an averturnover. Good ﬁnance opportunities, low There is a steady trend towards property age duration of eleven years for newly signed interest rates and reduced yield targets have that can be operated more efficiently, which contracts, while the average remaining lease cut the time it takes to conclude deals. means that demand is highest for property term for all contracts at the end of 2014 was Transaction volumes in the community that is modern, ﬂexible and has a high sussix years. There is a good spread of renewal property sector amounted to approximately tainability proﬁle. Although the rent per dates on lease agreements. Akademiska Hus SEK 20 billion in 2014. square metre for such premises is higher has a market share of 61 per cent in this sector. YIELD TARGET SOME OF SWEDEN’S LARGEST PROPERTY COMPANIES 2014 – TREND 2007–2014 % SEK m % 10 100,000 12 80,000 10 8 8 6 60,000 6 4 40,000 4 2 20,000 2 0 0 0 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 s lu m be Hu Va Ca st el st äd er * Fa u ro n sk a Bo ge fv ak Sven Hu s ds t Housing Retail Ofﬁces Industry is ka ad em AB en Ak tn n gs in * ad Source: IPD Swedish Property Index. al de rv ti Fö ram F an Property value, SEK m Rental revenue, SEK m Value of vacant space, % Yield, % * refers to 2013 ﬁgures Source: Each company’s year-end report 2014. Umeå AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 MARKET AND DEMAND 11 Gävle Market share 2014 Akademiska Hus has a presence throughout ­Sweden. The market share of Akademiska Hus is Luleå 61 per cent, calculated as a proportion of the Uppsala floor space for university and college premises. Karlstad In the development of Sweden as a nation Stockholm of knowledge, the large, well-established univer­ Umeå Örebro sity locations are of particular importance because of their research. Akademiska Hus has a Norrköping Skövde stronger presence at these locations. The map shows the share of floor space leased out by Linköping Akademiska Hus to universities and colleges in Gothenburg our largest locations. Borås Gävle Uppsala Karlstad Kristianstad Stockholm Lomma Örebro Norrköping Skövde Lund Malmö Linköping Gothenburg Borås Akademiska Hus share Other property owners Kristianstad The size of the circle is equivalent to the floor space at Lomma the centre of education in the town/city in question. Malmö Lund MARKET SHARES BY REGION AND LARGER CENTRES OF EDUCATION, Akademiska% Hus share Other property owners Regions South 44 West 52 East 67 Uppsala 72 Stockholm 76 North 61 The size of the circle is equivalent to the floor space at the centre of education in the town/city in question. Lund University 62 University 50 Linköping 73 Uppsala ­University 73 Stockholm 78 Umeå University 67 of Gothenburg ­University ­University Malmö University 14 Chalmers 60 Örebro University 88 Swedish University 91 Karolinska 91 Luleå University 82 ­University of Agricultural ­Institute of Technology Market share, of Technology Sciences, Ultuna Univ. the largest University of 96 Karlstad 90 University ­College 90 Royal Institute 91 Swedish Univer­ 70 customers of Kristianstad ­University Gävle of Technology sity of Agricul­ Akademiska tural Sciences Hus Swedish University 87 University 78 of Agricultural of Borås Sciences, Alnarp University 47 of Skövde Source: Swedish National Financial Management Authority. LARGEST COMPETITORS Regions South West East Uppsala Stockholm North Videum AB Chalmers University Östergötland County National Property Clara Foundation Balticgruppen of Technology Council Board Design AB National Property HIGAB Akelius Fastighets AB Fysikhuset i A4 Vasallen AB Competitors 1) Board ­Hushagen Stockholm DIL Nordic Malmö Trollhättans Tomt AB Kungsleden Förv.bol Högskole­ National Property Gazette Camp AB fastigheter Board Utvecklings AB Kranen Alecta Hemsö Fastigheter AB Hemfosa Fastigheter AB Fastighets AB Polaris Kulturfastigheter i Gbg AB 1) Competitors according to region, with rented space in excess of 10,000 square metres, shown in descending order. Source: Swedish National Financial Management Authority. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 12 MARKET AND DEMAND Cutting edge education and research E ducation and research are STRONG FOCUS ON RESEARCH strong contributing factors to Research grant levels have gradually the success of a society. The increased in recent years. Sweden invests way in which research and education are pursued evolves to keep pace the equivalent of 4.1 per cent of GDP on research, of which around one quarter Sweden invests 4.1% with increased globalisation and technolocomes from the Swedish government. Other gical developments, which affects activities publicly funded research and industry at centres of education and thus market funded research accounts for the remaining conditions. share. The combined investment in Sweden The ﬁnancial turmoil of recent years has is among the highest in the world, per capita. resulted in lower employment and a greater The increase in research funding has had of GDP in research and interest in higher education. The number of a clear impact on Akademiska Hus condevelopment – giving us applicants to Swedish universities and colstruction projects. Current research is a world lead. leges has been record-high as a result of the dependent on advanced, expensive equipweak labour market and the large number of ment. Collaboration and co-funding for the young people in the 19–23 age group. The research infrastructure across regional and Swedish economy is relatively strong and national boundaries have become increaswill continue to improve, but the employingly important. Akademiska Hus has good increasing in all countries. Another trend is ment market has seen little change so far. potential to contribute to the development the rapid rise in student mobility, with more According to data from the centres of of these new knowledge environments choosing to study abroad. This means that education, the number of full-time students through our extensive experience of technouniversities and colleges from many differadmitted is expected to decline. An estilogically advanced premises. ent countries are competing with each mated 2,000 fewer full-time students other. enrolled in 2014 compared with 2013. ProGLOBAL COLLABORATIONS Greater mobility also entails more global jections show that the number of full-time The OECD regularly reports on developcollaborations in research and education. students will continue to decline, though ments in higher education in its member apparently at a slower rate. states. One clear trend is that education is EDUCATION AND RESEARCH REVENUE FOR CENTRES OF EDUCATION, APPLICANTS AND ADMISSIONS DURING THE AUTUMN TERM, BILLIONS OF SEK AT 2013 PRICE LEVELS STUDENTS WITHOUT PREVIOUS HIGHER EDUCATION SEK billion Number 40 150,000 125,000 30 100,000 20 75,000 50,000 10 25,000 0 0 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 Revenue, research and education at postgraduate level Applicants Revenue, education at undergraduate level and advanced level Admissions Source: Swedish Higher Education Authority Source: Swedish Higher Education Authority AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 MARKET AND DEMAND 13 NEW FORMS OF LEARNING As regards pedagogical approaches and forms of education, we are facing major changes that will in all probability have implications for the way premises are planned. It is becoming increasingly common to combine studies on campus with distance studies. A very clear trend is for the pedagogical approach used for distance education to also be used for education on campus. This means that education can be made more efficient and thus cheaper. This is crucial as costs, and in particular personnel costs, are rising more than funding. While we do not believe that there will be a decline in the popularity of campus-based studies, we feel that the environments for self-study and meeting points for intellectual exchange will be of growing signiﬁcance, thereby placing new demands to plan premises that meet these needs efficiently and attractively, with a ﬂexibility that meets changing needs. Creating knowledge environments with strong symbolic values and identity enhancement through architecture that offers a sense of belonging will become an important part of the offer and marketing of successful centres of education. Student mobility is increasing. 19–23-YEAR-OLDS IN THE POPULATION 2004–2013, PROPORTION OF COST OF PREMISES FOR SWEDEN’S FORECAST 2014–2027 CENTRES OF EDUCATION Thousands % 800 15 2014 600 12 9 400 6 200 3 0 0 2004 2010 2020 2027 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 Source: Statistics Sweden The proportion of total costs for centres of education that are attributable to premises has fallen steadily over the past ten years. Source: Swedish Higher Education Agency AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 14 RISK INVENTORY Risk management safeguards sustainable development Akademiska Hus works continuously with risk management to ensure effective implementation of our strategy and to achieve our short-term and long-term objectives. T he business activities of SUSTAINABILITY GOALS DEAL WITH RISKS Akademiska Hus involve a The sustainability goals that have been set out for the business are based on a number of risks that affect the number of previously deﬁned challenges and are formulated as follows: company to varying degrees. Risks are deﬁned as factors that affect the ability to achieve the mission and the set COLLABORATION WITH OUR TO HALVE THE AMOUNT OF goals. Risks also entail opportunities and CUSTOMERS ON SUSTAINABILITY ENERGY WE BUY BY 2025. when appropriately managed, can be conINITIATIVES. To secure a leading position we aim verted into a positive force. In consultation with customers we to reduce the amount of energy Controlled risk management is essential agree on joint sustainability initibought in 2025 by 50 per cent comfor maintaining a sustainable business. atives that engage both parties. The pared with the year 2000. The term Each year the Board of Directors addresses aim is to promote involvement and bought energy includes heating, the Company’s long-term strategy and visibility on sustainability issues cooling and electricity, but also decides on a new business plan. This work and to combine the knowledge of includes the electricity consumpincludes assessments of long-term trends, centres of education with our ambition of the tenants. the competitive situation and the overall tion to lead the way. risk exposure of the Company’s activities. Control documentation such as the sustainability policy, Code of Conduct, ﬁnancial policy and procurement policy are established annually by the Board with the aim of consolidating their relevance and validity. Financial, strategic and operational risks are described in the Administration Report on pages 64–66 and in Note 33. This section CO2 FOOTPRINT FOR OPERATION ACCIDENT-FREE WORKPLACES describes the risks that are linked to susTO BE ELIMINATED Job satisfaction and a safe and tainability. We will eliminate the CO2 footprint healthy workplace are factors for An internal risk inventory was carried out for energy use in the operation of success, and will be given high priin 2014 to ensure consensus on the major our buildings (heating, cooling and ority in all our operations and the risk areas for sustainability. This risk invenelectricity). Achieving this goal will projects we manage. Our goal is to tory then served as the basis for an in-depth require extensive improvements in achieve workplaces that are totally stakeholder dialogue, with the aim of alignenergy efficiency and collaboration free from accidents, which will ing our perceptions of the primary sustainwith energy suppliers to eliminate require collaboration and cooperaability challenges with those of stakeholders. the use of fossil fuels wherever postive agreements with all industry sible. Evaluating the potential for stakeholders. small-scale energy production with low CO2 emissions will also be an element in achieving this goal. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 RISK INVENTORY 15 Risk inventory as a basis for sustainability initiatives The primary sustainability risks that have been identiﬁed, in addition to those already covered by our sustainability goals, are: TRUST AND TRANSPARENCY CLEAR REQUIREMENTS IN DIALOGUE CLIMATE CHANGE ADAPTATION Akademiska Hus is a state-owned companWITH SUPPLIERS Today’s society is adapted to prevailing cliies operating on market terms. The ComA large part of the impact that Akademiska mate conditions. Climate change is already pany faces high demands for transparency Hus has on the surrounding community affecting our property holdings and further on matters such as rent setting, planning occurs indirectly by our suppliers of goods shifts in temperature, precipitation levels and development of campuses, as well as the and services. The suppliers’ initiatives and wind conditions are expected. Adapting Company’s sustainability efforts and the related to the environment, human rights and preparing the business based on the results of such efforts. and working conditions are therefore conditions resulting from climate change is Akademiska Hus conducts a continuous important for Akademiska Hus. By continua long-term major issue for Akademiska dialogue with its stakeholders, on many difously monitoring their work in these areas, Hus, which must be able to ensure operaferent levels, to identify and understand the we can avoid risk in the form of, for examtion of the Company’s premises. We do this needs and expectations placed on us and ple, violations of human rights or environby staying up to date regarding the scenthe projects we deliver, and to provide the mental requirements. Akademiska Hus arios painted by experts in the ﬁeld. Such information that is required in a clear and places demands on its suppliers and conknowledge in turn serves as a basis for credible way. ducts inspections and audits to ensure comdeveloping design guidelines and adapting pliance. Our ambition is to become even existing buildings. better in this area and we are currently By striving to reduce consumption of implementing changes aimed at more strucresources during both the construction and tured and efficient follow-up procedures, the management phases, Akademiska Hus while engaging in a more proactive developcan also help to counteract the climate ment dialogue with our suppliers. changes underway. SciLifeLab, Uppsala AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 16 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS In-depth dialogue with stakeholders Understanding the views of stakeholders and the challenges they face is fundamental if we are to realise our ambition to contribute to reinforcing Sweden as a nation of knowledge. This is vital if we are to assume long-term responsibility – ﬁnancial, social and environmental – that is in line with the expectations of the outside world. A kademiska Hus stakeholders are the organisations and individuals who are affected by our operations and who can inﬂuence our potential to successfully discharge the task assigned to us. We gather information about the views of our stakeholders through a variety of surveys and in open dialogue. This dialogue provides the opportunity for understanding and involvement, and creates added value for both parties. These insights enable us to prioritise correctly and thereby adapt our operations and develop our customer offer. GETTING FEEDBACK ON ISSUES We regularly meet with the Association of Dialogue with our customers and stakeholders gives us a better underSwedish Higher Education at different levstanding of the issues that are seen as particularly important. els and in different groups, and try to build up a collective picture of the needs of our customers through collaboration and diaEXTENDED DIALOGUE logue. We also meet representatives from In autumn 2014 we conducted an in-depth to air their views on other sustainability colleges and universities in partnership and dialogue with a selection of stakeholders, issues identiﬁed by Akademiska Hus in its strategy meetings, to pick up on issues that focusing on sustainability. The stakeholder risk inventory. are speciﬁc to a particular college or univergroup was chosen this year with the emphaThe conclusion from the in-depth stakesity. In parallel with this dialogue we keep sis on cooperation. This dialogue was qualiholder dialogue was that there is strong up to date with developments in general in tative in nature and took the form of motivation and willingness to cooperate the area of higher education. We are also in-depth interviews with representatives with Akademiska Hus among the consulted inspired by good examples from knowledge from customers, owners, suppliers, credistakeholders. Our sustainability goals are environments and campuses in other parts tors and our employees. All those invited seen as relevant, well-balanced and corof the world. agreed to take part, and the dialogues were rectly focused, but there are also other areas Personal meetings with ﬁnanciers, politiunanimously appreciated. The dialogues that were identiﬁed as relevant and urgent. cians and other decision-makers are followed a structured pattern and an agreed The handling of sustainability challenges in another vital element in our dialogue with interview guide, but also gave opportunity the supply chain, good transparency, clear stakeholders. for freer discussion. communication and the development of During the interviews we discussed cursocially and environmentally sustainable rent and future sustainability challenges campuses are all areas that were identiﬁed that stakeholders feel should be prioritised by our stakeholders as being especially by Akademiska Hus, and how relevant our important, in addition to the sustainability sustainability goals are. They were also able goals. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS 17 FEEDBACK table shows that expectations of Akademiska Hus vary between the Our stakeholders’ views and objectives have a major inﬂuence when various stakeholder groups, which gives us a broad insight. It will Akademiska Hus formulates the priorities for its business. The table probably not be possible to satisfy everyone’s desires in full, but we below shows our key stakeholders and the issues that are seen to see it as a challenge and our duty to try to reach agreement and have the highest priority in dialogue with each stakeholder. The understanding on the way we conduct our business. STAKEHOLDERS MAIN AREAS OF INTEREST AND EXPECTATIONS CUSTOMERS AND THEIR EMPLOYEES Plan and create attractive knowledge environments and campuses that support customers in national and international competition. Contribute to the customer’s long-term sustainability efforts. Contribute to increased construction of student accommodation. Clarity of the Akademiska Hus business model and rent setting. High resource efﬁciency and proactive sustainability efforts. THE SWEDISH STATE, OUR OWNER To contribute to the Government’s objective of reinforcing Sweden as a nation of knowledge. High degree of resource efﬁciency. Increased customer beneﬁt through collaboration with centres of education. Actively contribute to increased competition on campuses. Act as a forerunner in corporate social responsibility. FINANCIERS Financial stability. Stable, long-term operations with proﬁtability and yield in accordance with objectives and strategies. Corporate social responsibility in all processes. Clear ﬁnancial communication. EMPLOYEES An attractive employer that offers good working conditions. A safe and healthy working environment. Good opportunities for competence development. Understanding one’s own role in the operations of Akademiska Hus. SUPPLIERS Clear and relevant procurement terms and conditions. Clear and ambitious requirements for the environment, health and safety, quality and social responsibility. Long-term relationships. INDUSTRY Active role in dialogue on the development of society and the region. Possibility of establishing operations on campus. LOCAL COMMUNITY Active participation in dialogue on how society and the region can be developed, e.g. in urban development projects Active contribution to the construction of student accommodation. POLITICIANS Contribute to the development of Sweden as a nation of knowledge, both nationally and regionally. Contribute to the long-term sustainable development of knowledge environments. Contribute to increased construction of student accommodation. Contribute to increased competition on campus. This table is a summary of the stakeholder dialogue in 2014 and consultations from previous years. Industry, local community and politicians were not included in the in-depth stakeholder dialogue that took place during 2014. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 18 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Essential questions for the future Based on our customers’ needs, our ongoing external analysis and consideration of other drivers, challenges and risks that affect us, we have built up a picture of the areas that are strategically important for our business. The materiality analysis is an overall assessment of these factors and those issues that stakeholders have identiﬁed as most important to them. Owner guidelines External analysis Strategy Business plan Stakeholder Materiality Control Sustainability goals dialogues analysis documents Risk inventory In summary, Akademiska Hus deﬁnes the areas that are most essential to the company’s business as follows: Closer collaboration with Efﬁcient use of resources customers A safe working environment Exceptional ability to deliver premises and knowledge Good supplier management environments High transparency Maintaining excellence in Climate change adaptation campus development Student accommodation Diversity and equality AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS 19 Sustainability efforts strengthen customer relations By collaborating closely with customers, Akademiska Hus develops its operations and works towards its sustainability goals. Kerstin Lindberg Göransson, President, and Mia Edofsson, Sustainability Manager, discuss the key sustainability issues for Akademiska Hus. WHAT IS THE MOST IMPORTANT SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE FOR our strategic efforts to create campus plans. A jointly developed CUSTOMERS OF AKADEMISKA HUS RIGHT NOW? campus plan that covers different aspects of sustainability Kerstin Lindberg Göransson, President: “There are many guides us in the right direction when we plan future campuses.” aspects that are important in different ways, but the single biggest issue is improving energy efﬁciency. This comes up in AND THE NEXT BIG CHALLENGE? all the conversations we have with our customers. It is an issue Kerstin: “I would say that it is the diversity issue. I am that motivates people and leads to closer cooperation with convinced that strategic diversity efforts lead to proﬁtability tenants.” on several levels – in job satisfaction, efﬁciency and social Mia Edofsson, Sustainability Manager: “We believe in estabequity. This is an area where we have a lot to do, internally and lishing common goals with our customers. Through collaboraexternally.” tive projects we can pursue these issues together. Energy Mia: “I believe it is important to measure progress, but diveroptimisation solutions lead to a better indoor climate and sity is more than a strategic goal or numbers on paper. It is to savings in energy costs.” about our attitudes and conduct, and it is about valuing and Kerstin: “By collaborating closely with customers we can get a seeing the strengths of each individual based on his or her cirbetter understanding of their businesses and needs, and thus cumstances. Basically it is about what sort of society we want generate added value. This applies in other areas too, such as to build.” Kerstin Lindberg Göransson, President, and Mia Edofsson, Sustainability Manager. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 20 FULFILMENT OF OBJECTIVES Fulﬁlment of objectives During 2014 we monitored and measured our progress against the new strategic model that was adopted at the end of 2013. The goals were developed to lead the business towards our vision and to meet the high expectations of our owner, the outside world and ourselves. OBJECTIVE FULFILMENT OF OBJECTIVE 2014 OWNER OBJECTIVES Return on operating capital, excluding changes in value should be at Return was 7.3 per cent. The owner’s objective for return on operating least 6.5 per cent.* capital was reformulated during the year. The dividend should be between 40 and 60 per cent of the proﬁt for the The proposed dividend is SEK 1,445 million, 50 per cent of the proﬁt year after tax, after reversal of changes in value and with related available for the payment of a dividend. The owner’s dividend objective deferred tax. was reformulated during the year. The equity ratio should be between 30 and 40 per cent. The equity ratio was 48 per cent. PRIORITY BUSINESS GOALS Energy purchased each year, in kWh/m2, will decrease at such a rate that The amount of purchased energy fell by 3.9 per cent, which is in line with there will be a 50 per cent reduction by 2025 compared with 2000. the long-term reduction commitment. One of our four overall sustainability goals. The objective for the Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) is set at 70 per cent. The Customer Satisfaction Index was 66 per cent. The objective for initiating joint sustainability initiatives with customers A total of 14 sustainability initiatives were completed during the year. is set at 10. One of our four overall sustainability goals. The objective for the Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) is set at 70 per cent. The Employee Satisfaction Index was 66 per cent. Our campuses should have campus plans that are less than ﬁve years old. 80 per cent of Akademiska Hus campuses have plans that are complete or currently being drawn up. Accident-free workplaces. Objective is under development, read more on page 41. One of our four overall sustainability goals. Eliminated CO2 footprint from operations. Objective is under development, read more on page 29. One of our four overall sustainability goals. * Earnings before ﬁnancial items, excluding changes in value in relation to average operating capital. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 FULFILMENT OF OBJECTIVES 21 Satisﬁed customers – but we want to do better In 2014 we conducted a quantitative cuspersonal service and the availability of our survey, which indicates that we must protomer survey aimed at the property departmanagers and other staff being particularly vide clearer information on our efforts to ments in centres of education, a group of strong areas. One encouraging result is that improve sustainability. Among the customcustomers who are in close touch with manwe are seen as being responsive, open and ers who stated an opinion on this question, agement and construction operations. The interested in our customer’s activities. One a majority of 70 per cent reported that they response rate was 55 percent, which is lower area for improvement is our ability to take were satisﬁed on the whole with our susthan in previous surveys. the initiative in developing premises and tainability efforts. The result of the survey was a combined giving quick and clear answers. Out of the total number of respondents, Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) of 66 on The environment is the quality area 72 per cent are also satisﬁed with the way a scale of zero to 100, which is a good score where customers give us the highest rating, Akademiska Hus runs its construction operafor customer satisfaction in comparison with a score of 77 per cent. Akademiska Hus tions, particularly in the case of small conwith other government-owned companies, is seen as taking active steps to save energy versions and adaptations for tenants. The although we did not reach our goal, which is and showing care for the environment and results show, however, that we need to set at 70. the people who spend time on campus. On improve our performance in construction Customers are very satisﬁed with the way the subject of sustainability, which was and redevelopment projects by meeting we manage our properties (74 per cent gave introduced in this year’s survey, almost half promised deadlines and project costs more a rating of 4 or 5 on a 5-point scale), with the respondents reported no opinion in the closely. Personal service and high availability are key success factors. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 22 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS | PROCESSES Development processes Akademiska Hus conducts its business in close collaboration with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. Together, we create leading knowledge environments. Our size and ﬁnancial strength put us in a unique position to build and develop education and research environments that reinforce Sweden’s long-term innovative capacity and competitiveness regardless of ﬂuctuations in the economy. We have a stable owner and long-term customer relations, and we are an attractive borrower on the credit markets. Property Management and campus and leasing planning Construction process AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS | PROCESSES 23 Property and campus planning An appealing campus contributes to attracting researchers KEY ISSUES IN CAMPUS PLANNING INCLUDE: and students to centres of education. In our strategic property • Creating sustainable environments and vibrant development work, we analyse needs and have long-term ­campuses. plans in place for future campuses for education and research. • Overall choice of materials and construction techno­ Feedback from the development of previous campus plans logy from the perspective of long-term sustainability. ­provides valuable expertise. • Efficient energy solutions that help us to achieve our Read more on pages 24–26 long-term savings targets. Management and leasing Property management is pursued with a firm focus on ensurKEY ISSUES IN MANAGEMENT INCLUDE: ing a high level of quality, resource efficiency and long-term • Integrated sustainability efforts that lead to sustainable development. By having a carefully considered reductions in the use of energy and resources, a strategy that covers aspects such as the customer needs for good working environment and good relationships. premises and energy supply, in combination with expertise in • Efficiency improvements in operation and mainten­ knowledge environments, we can maintain our properties to ance that generate added value for our customers, ensure they maintain a high standard in the long term. Effecimmediately and in the long term. tive management contributes to the satisfaction of centres of • A good indoor environment for work, study and education and their employees, students and researchers. research. Read more on pages 27–35 Construction process Our construction projects vary in nature — from small-scale KEY ISSUES IN CONSTRUCTION INCLUDE: redevelopments through to new advanced research facilities • A clear sustainability focus throughout the process, and campus projects with a strong socio-ecological character. on aspects such as the working environment, We carry out surveys, planning and construction work effi­purchasing and selection of materials. ciently, based on our strategic property development plans. •T  he use of effective, resource-efficient and sustainable systems. Read more on pages 36–43 • We build for the long-term management of our ­properties. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 24 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS | PROPERTY AND CAMPUS PLANNING Developing the campus environments of the future Our university and college sites are more than places to work and study. During their study years, students today and in the future will spend a growing proportion of their waking hours at their chosen centre of eduction. T he facilities that are offered space for people with different circumon campus, aside from stances and life experiences, whether social, research and education, are ethnic or cultural. Openness to people from Campus important factors in attracting researchers and students. Our vision is different backgrounds, international contacts and the free exchange of ideas between development to develop leading knowledge environments cultures are strengths that a campus plan During 2014 Akademiska Hus developed a methodology to ensure that campus for current and future needs. This places should include. plans follow a well-deﬁned structure demands on long-term planning and the and thus ensure sustainable urban development. We were also involved in strategic development of properties and CAMPUS PLANS – A KEY ELEMENT the evaluation of a certiﬁcation system entire campuses. We continually develop campus plans with for districts under the framework of a our customers. Our work is always based on broad development project initiated by Sweden Green Building Council. AN ACTIVE ROLE IN NEIGHBOURHOOD the requirements of the individual centre of DEVELOPMENT education, and the goal is to create attractive Akademiska Hus has total landing holdings campuses that cater to the needs of the of 1.2 million square metres. Cities with uniwhole individual; environments which, in versities or colleges are attractive, and our addition to providing high-quality educaproperties are often in very good locations. tion and research, also offer access to serThe work of universities and colleges is vices such as food, culture and sport. This increasingly integrated and interacts with means that we welcome projects for which we the communities that surround them. This are not the main provider, but which are desiris reﬂected on our campuses, where develable for the overall good. As a consequence we opment is becoming more closely aligned sometimes sell or lease out land for purposes with the issues that apply in a wider urban that supplement the education buildings. development context. Akademiska Hus is Since 2011 it has been our goal that our strongly committed to developing built campuses should have a plan that is no more environments that encourage cooperation than ﬁve years old. The timing of this goal and the exchange of knowledge between has been chosen because we want to work academia, industry and society in general. more closely with tenants to beneﬁt the Bringing together tenants, authorities, common built environment. It is essential neighbouring businesses and other staketo maintain an ongoing dialogue on the holders as part of this process has proved to development of our campuses, and to jointly be a successful and much-valued approach. lead the way in adapting to new developWe invite stakeholders in to discuss and ments and new needs. share information about planned developAkademiska Hus has just over 40 camments and what is needed to make them a puses and there are currently plans in place success. The result is that many people feel or in progress for 33 of these. During the they are involved and working towards comyear we have continued working on the formon goals. mulation, renewal and updating of campus Together with centres of education we plans in all our regions, in close cooperation also want to develop campuses that provide with our customers. Umeå Campus AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS | PROPERTY AND CAMPUS PLANNING 25 NEW DEMANDS FOR FLEXIBLE PREMISES free education and lectures on the Internet. pation by students. When fully implemented There are clear changes in the way that This form of education is common in the USA, it requires signiﬁcant investments in techpremises are used by centres of education but also increasingly available in Sweden, nology, but it is also possible to use simpler and the demands they place on them. It is where a growing number of universities and solutions. becoming increasingly important to create colleges are offering distance learning. Dialogue and collaboration between cenplaces to meet, as well as shared workspaces Akademiska Hus is involved in discustres of education, personnel, students and for different groups. The ﬂexibility of premsions with centres of education about how property owners is vital for the success of ises is also important, and there are growing we can create attractive and efficient knowsuch changes. We have therefore set up a demands to develop common, functional ledge environments based on this growing “Learning Space” network where educators spaces that can be used around the clock. trend, and is also discussing concrete soluand planners can meet to discuss the design Campus-based education is facing new tions. One such solution is ALC – Active of premises for future education. competition in the form of various types of Learning Classrooms – which has been very distance learning. A new educational develsuccessful at universities in the USA. ALC opment in recent years is MOOC – Massive provides the opportunity for more effective Open Online Courses – which is generally teaching that involves more active particiAhrbom och Partner Arkitektkontor AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 26 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS | PROPERTY AND CAMPUS PLANNING Collaborating to create more student accommodation The issue of student accommodation is important for the whole of society. In order to build up Sweden as a nation of knowledge, students and researchers must be able to live near centres of education. F or some of Sweden’s universities CLEARER MISSION property owners, builders and other stakeand colleges, lack of accommoIn autumn 2014 our mission was clariﬁed as holders are working systematically to dation is a real threat to their follows: “Akademiska Hus will contribute to achieve solutions that deliver real results. core business. To help solve more student accommodation through clathis problem Akademiska Hus is contributriﬁcation that the company’s remit includes Kjellander och Sjöberg ing to the construction of more than 6,000 the construction and management of stustudent housing units on our own camdent accommodation.” We now look forpuses, through measures such as selling or ward to being able to take a more proactive leasing out land, assisting with detail planapproach, and in spring 2015 the Board of ning and incorporating accommodation for Directors of Akademiska Hus will decide on students and researchers in our campus its future direction and how it will contribplans. These efforts are mainly centred on ute to the creation of even more student the student cities of Stockholm, Uppsala, accommodation. Lund, Gothenburg, Umeå and Luleå, but In addition to the thousands of student also extend to other locations. As well as accommodation that are being planned and For students at Lund University’s helping to solve an accommodation probbuilt on our campuses we will take a driving Faculty of Engineering, the accomlem, student apartments that are close to role in other initiatives, such as modation shortage could soon be campus make the area more attractive and Sthlm6000+, which aims to increase the a thing of the past. The university, contribute to greater security and social number of student accommodation places municipality and Akademiska Hus have combined their resources in activity for large parts of the day. On-camin Stockholm by 50 per cent by the year a joint initiative that will provide pus accommodation also improves pro2017. Similar initiatives have now begun in 1,000 new accommodation units spects for establishing supermarkets, resseveral locations in Sweden and involve – and eliminate the accommodataurants and other services in the cooperation between a variety of stakeholdtion shortage completely by 2020. neighbourhood. ers; municipalities, centres of education, Utopia Arkitekter Utopia and Byggvesta are building student accommodation at KTH, the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm. A local plan for 600 new student accommodation units on KTH Campus was adopted in December 2014. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION | MANAGEMENT AND LEASING 27 Long-term management is the foundation of our business Property management is the core business of Akademiska Hus. We manage properties in a way that ensures high quality, resource efﬁciency and long-term sustainable development. M anagement can be seen ment is a process in which quality and contion is reduced through maintenance as an umbrella term that tent grow and change over time in line with measures and by optimising the operating covers all the technical customers’ changing needs, which places efficiency of existing buildings, in close conand ﬁnancial measures high demands on the ability of premises to sultation with the customers who use the carried out during the life of a building. By adapt. premises. Although we have a very large having a carefully considered strategy that investment portfolio of new buildings that covers aspects such as the need for premises PROPERTIES IN OPERATION are modern and efficient, achieving our and energy supply, in combination with The holdings of Akademiska Hus include energy goals also requires a strong commitexpertise in knowledge environments, we many different types of premises, from ment to install new and more energy-efficient can maintain our properties to ensure they offices to advanced laboratory environtechnical systems in existing buildings. maintain a high standard in the long term. ments with high energy demands and speVariations in operating cost structure can Akademiska Hus now manages almost cial requirements such as noise, vibration occur for a number of reasons: 3.2 million square metres of rentable space, and electromagnetic radiation. • Different degrees of passing on costs, parof which 45 per cent is education premises, Most of our energy use arises from existticularly for energy, which provide differ35 per cent laboratory premises and 20 per ing holdings. Knowledge of energy use in ent incentives for Akademiska Hus to cent are other premises. buildings is vital in order to improve efficarry out active efficiency improvement ciency and determine when technical sysmeasures. COLLABORATION IN FOCUS tems require upgrading. Energy consumpEach day our premises are used by around 300,000 people. It is during day-to-day management that we come into contact with our customers’ activities and meet Halving the amount their operating needs, which are both proactive and long-term. Property manageof energy we buy In 2008 Akademiska Hus set itself the goal of reducing energy consumption by 40 per cent by the year 2025, taking 2000 as the comparison year. This goal has led to ENERGY EFFICIENCY intensive efﬁciency improvement measures to save energy, and means that we now use around 25 per cent less energy per square metre annually than we did in 2000. % In 2013 this target was raised and the ambition is now a 80 reduction of 50 per cent against the same reference ﬁgure. The tougher goal corresponds to an average reduction rate 75 of around 3.3 per cent per year between 2014 and 2025. This goal has been broken down by region, divided on 70 the basis of current regional use, so that high consumption requires a high reduction rate. Allowances are also made 65 for the challenges that exist in each region, as well as the level of ambition and commitment shown by our customers. 60 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 As a result the annual regional targets range from two to four per cent annually. The annual reduction rate in purchased energy was Actual trend achieved in 2014. The actual reduction is however slightly Annual improvement needed for 40% energy reduction smaller than our results indicate, since the calculation model Annual improvement needed for stiffer target of 50% does not fully account for variations in weather. Progress energy reduction towards the long-term goal is however going according to plan. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 28 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION | MANAGEMENT AND LEASING • The age structure of building holdings is of some importance, as older buildings often Maintenance costs* are all the technical, administrative and operational require more energy due to inferior exterPackage of measures carried out during the lifetime of a unit with the aim of mainnal shells. • Locations with technical and medical measures gives taining the unit or restoring it to such a condition that it can perform research and development generally have energy savings the required function. Maintenance higher energy use due to the higher procosts are divided into: Södra Huset on Campus Frescati in portion of laboratories. Laboratories often Stockholm consists of a total of • Remedial maintenance. Maintenance 66,000 square metres divided require more ventilation and generally carried out after an operational between ofﬁces, lecture halls, comalso use more electricity than a typical puter rooms and convenience stores. fault has been discovered and with the aim of restoring the unit to a office building. During the year, a comprehensive condition in which it can carry out package of energy-saving measures the required function. An example for buildings was identiﬁed, with top of remedial maintenance is repairAn energy strategy is currently being develpriority assigned to air conditioning, ing a roof leak. heating and cooling systems. The oped to provide a common approach for exterior shell is also being upgraded • Preventive maintenance. Maintenance carried out at pre-set intervals Akademiska Hus and enable us to continue through investments in new entrance or in accordance with pre-set critedoors and windows. A total of around helping customers to reduce their energy use. 5,500 window frames will be replaced, ria with the aim of reducing the probability of a fault in a unit or leading to a considerable improvement in insulation performance. functional deterioration. An examCOLLABORATING TO REDUCE ENERGY USE ple of preventive maintenance is Our statistics and goals cover all the energy planned replacement of a ventilation unit. that is used in our buildings, including that • Project maintenance. Maintenance used by tenants. This varies greatly between The system is based on automated energy measures in conjunction with redevelopment projects. different buildings and activities, but on readings, allowing action to be taken on dif• Tenant adaptations. Measures caraverage it is estimated at one-third of the ferent levels and permitting the effect of ried out for a new tenant or the renewal of a lease. total energy consumption. investments to be measured. Day-to-day work on energy follow-up Close collaboration with our customers is *) Source: Property Management Information Association, Property Glossary 2008 provides a good basis for making decisions a prerequisite if we are to succeed in reducing regarding improved efficiency and optimisaenergy use. The aim is to split the energy tion. The Energy Portal is an IT system for cost between Akademiska Hus and customers collation, monitoring and analysis that proin a way that offers an incentive to both parvides a clear overview of energy use. ties to make energy savings. MAINTENANCE COSTS TOTAL ENERGY USE ENERGY CHARGES PASSED ON SEK m SEK/m2 kWh/m2 MWh 1,000 250 300 300 800 200 250 250 200 200 600 150 150 150 400 100 100 100 200 50 50 50 0 0 0 0 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 Maintenance costs, SEK m Electricity Heating Energy charges, not passed on Maintenance costs SEK/m2 Cooling Total Energy charges, passed onW AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION | MANAGEMENT AND LEASING 29 We believe that the most effective rentment measures have been taken. The plan is This allows us to ensure that as many setting approach to reduce energy use is to to use carbon offsets under the Clean Develas possible of the identiﬁed efficiency offer tenants rental agreements that include opment Mechanism (CDM), a CO2 reducimprovement measures are included, their individual operating costs, but where tion project that is deﬁned and regulated which is likely to be necessary to meet these costs are charged separate. This gives under the Kyoto Protocol. A CDM project our energy efficiency goal. tenants a clearer picture of the effect of entails investment in CO2 reduction projects reducing their consumption while giving us in a developing country and is regulated by as property owners the opportunity to make strict requirements relating to methodology, major investments in supply systems. transparency and traceability, etc. Operating costs* are costs incurred to keep a property, installation or similar facility functioning. Operating TECHNICAL SOLUTIONS THAT REDUCE COORDINATED ACTION PLANS costs are divided into: CLIMATE IMPACT Achieving the energy goals that Akademiska • Media provision. This covers the Akademiska Hus is ﬁrmly committed to the Hus has set up requires a combination of supply of electricity, water, fuel, development of technical solutions that will simple and more complex measures in gas, compressed air, district heating and cooling as well as televiincreasingly enable buildings to produce property management. Skilled property sion, radio, telecommunication and their own energy and thus become selftechnicians whose professional duties computer signals. • Monitoring. This covers monitoring sufficient. involve close contact and cooperation with the functioning of a managed buildOne of our sustainability goals is to reduce tenants make a major contribution to this ing as well as ﬁttings, equipment the carbon footprint from operating our work, for example by continually adjusting and reporting of possible deviations. Examples of supervision include buildings to zero in the long term. This work run times, temperatures and ﬂow rates. various forms of inspection or is based on using the full range of energy In addition to ongoing maintenance, patrols. • Service. Includes adjustment or care efficiency measures. We also encourage our energy efficiency improvements are impleof a managed building: ﬁttings, energy suppliers to eliminate fossil fuel use mented as special measures. One model for equipment and replacement or supply of consumables. Examples of to the full extent possible. Akademiska Hus ensuring the proﬁtability of our improveservice include changing drive-belts already buys guarantees of origin for all the ment measures is a portfolio study in which and air ﬁlters, cleaning and less complicated removal of grafﬁti. electricity used in our buildings and we a building or group of buildings is analysed require that these guarantees relate to collectively as a Total Measure Concept *) Source: Property Management Information Association, Property Glossary 2008 renewable resources. (TMC) project. To fully achieve a zero-carbon footprint This model means that the most proﬁtin our operations we may consider carbon able measures to some extent support the offsetting of any remaining emissions when cost of less proﬁtable measures, but the all ﬁnancially feasible efficiency improveportfolio as a whole meets the yield target. OPERATING COSTS SEK m South West East Uppsala Stockholm North Total Electricity 48 46 39 69 94 30 326 Heating 24 24 20 33 65 11 177 Water 4 4 2 7 6 3 26 Cooling 5 1 5 3 15 1 30 Steam 2 0 0 0 6 0 8 TOTAL MEDIA PROVISION 83 75 66 112 186 45 567 Supervision and service 38 43 19 46 88 22 241 TOTAL OPERATING COSTS 121 118 85 158 274 67 808 Operating costs in SEK/m2 253 235 237 264 300 189 252 of which media provision, SEK/m2 173 149 184 187 204 127 177 Proportion of energy cost passed on 35% 29% 38% 64% 49% 29% 45% Proportion of utility cost passed on 49% 45% 50% 89% 71% 40% 63% AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 30 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION | MANAGEMENT AND LEASING University of Gothenburg School of Business, Economics and Law AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION | MANAGEMENT AND LEASING 31 Setting rents on market terms Akademiska Hus want to be a long-term partner in the development of operations at Swedish centres of education by offering unique expertise, local presence and inspiring, functional campuses. Increased transparency A kademiska Hus follows the erty ownership. Increased operating and remit assigned to us by the maintenance costs as well as possible vacant Swedish Government, which space when a lease comes to an end are In 2014, Akademiska Hus carried out a review of rent levels, and means that we operate in a aspects that we take into account. among other things this has free market and must provide premises for We strive for openness in negotiations resulted in greater transparency universities and colleges in competition with customers, and thanks to long experiregarding rent setting. with other property companies, at market ence and effective collaboration we can Some elements in the rental rent levels. often help the customer to use premises as model were also reduced, including the standard costs for When setting rents, we therefore weigh in efficiently as possible. administration and operation, the risk and costs associated, for example We regularly review the variables on the standard risk assessment for with construction and management, in the which our rental model is based to ensure vacancy at the end of the rental same way as other property companies. We that we are in line with developments in the period and the cost of capital also take into account the counterparty risk local market and the outside world. during construction, while the and general market rent level for the city, This ensures quality and security for both standard cost for maintenance was raised. location, type of property, lease length and parties. similar factors, as well as the risks of propHow Akademiska Hus sets rents Internal rent Market rent level Market rent Akademiska Hus charges rent Akademiska Hus rents directly to the centres of educomprise a basic rent cation, which then divide this Market costs that is intended to rent between the various • Operation and cover operating, maindepartments. The departments maintenance tenance and capital are then charged an internal • Land Value costs, and sometimes rent that often also includes • Construction Cost a supplement for costs for central premises, such tenant adaptations. as communal spaces. Sometimes the internal rent also includes supplements for equipMarket risks ment, security and cleaning. • Financing The internal rent that depart• Property ments pay per square metre • Location can therefore be higher than • Counter-party the price per square metre that Akademiska Hus has agreed with the centre of education. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 32 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION | MANAGEMENT AND LEASING Rental revenue, leases and vacant space Rental revenue for 2014 totalled SEK 5,459 million compared with SEK 5,359 million in 2013. The increase is largely due to several new buildings being brought into use during the year. R ental revenue amounts to holm and the Forum property in Kista. The premises, has led to a very high leasing level 2 an average of SEK 1,715/m loss of rental revenue from these properties of 96.4 per cent of the ﬂoor space. However, (1 664). The rent level throughamounted to around SEK 80 million. with large property holdings, even a very out the country varied from low percentage of vacant space results in SEK 1,438/m2 (1,373) in the Northern Region LEASES considerable volumes without a tenant. to SEK 2,147/m2 (2,068) in the Stockholm A characteristic feature of Akademiska Hus Akademiska Hus is following developments Region. Market conditions and the compois long leases with universities and colleges. on the regional markets very closely in sition of the premises vary between the The average term of a newly signed lease is order to minimise vacant space. regions. A higher proportion of laboratories eleven years. At the end of 2014, the average Holdings at the end of 2014 totalled means higher rent levels. On average, the remaining lease term was 6.0 years (5.3). A 3,150,329 square metres, of which 3,037,454 proportion of laboratories is 35 per cent but large proportion of the leases are for spesquare metres have been leased. with regional variations. The Western cialist buildings for research and laboratory Vacant space has risen from 67,999 Region has 24 per cent laboratories whilst operations and the assessment is that the square metres to 112,875 square metres, the ﬁgure in the Uppsala Region is 49 per probability of lease renewal is higher at equivalent to 3.6 per cent, compared with cent. Akademiska Hus compared with other 2.1 per cent the year before. The loss of SEK 176/m2 (176) or around 10 per cent property companies. For complex specialist rental revenue resulting from vacant ﬂoor of the rent level can be attributed to the cusbuildings for laboratory and research operaspace is valued at SEK 70 million, giving a tomer’s speciﬁc requirements, i.e. a suppletions, a lease is normally required where a ﬁnancial level of vacant space of 1.2 per cent ment for either tenant adaptations or media large proportion of the investment is repaid (0.9). A large proportion of the vacant space provision. within the term of the lease, which means is in simpler premises with a lower than Renegotiation of existing leases during leases of ten years or more. In the case of average rental value. We believe that vacant the year has generally resulted in unchanged new construction and redevelopment, we space will remain at similar levels over the rent levels. Renegotiations refer essentially try in the main to build general premises – next few years. to specialist buildings where the initial lease premises that can be adapted easily to other has repaid a large proportion of the investactivities if the tenant chooses to move. VACANT SPACE PER REGION ment within the initial lease period. The region that has the highest proportion During the year, property holdings in LEASING AND VACANCY LEVELS of vacant ﬂoor space is Uppsala, with Sundsvall and Kiruna were disposed of, Expansion in recent decades at centres of approximately 11 per cent. On the Ultuna along with Konradsberg Campus in Stockeducation, with a subsequent need for campus, which accounts for the highest proRENTAL REVENUE LEVEL OF VACANT SPACE LEASE RENEWAL STRUCTURE, PROPORTION OF LEASE VALUE SEK m SEK/m2 % % 6,000 1,800 4 50 5,000 1,500 40 3 4,000 1,200 30 3,000 900 2 20 2,000 600 1 10 1,000 300 0 0 0 0 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 and later Rental revenue, SEK m Level of vacant space, area Rental revenue SEK/m2 Level of vacant space, rental cost AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION | MANAGEMENT AND LEASING 33 3.6% The level of vacant space is still low and reﬂects the high demand for knowledge environments. portion of this space, parts of the holdings are in poor condition and will be demolished as a new campus gradually emerges. In the Western and Stockholm regions, vacant space levels are less than two per cent. The Southern Region has a 3.5 per cent share of vacant space. The Eastern Region and Northern Region have the lowest levels of vacant space, at less than one per cent. Kåkenhus, Norrköping VACANT SPACE 31-12-2014 Property Location m2 Loss of rental revenue, SEK m Vacant since Ultuna By, Soil Science Uppsala 8,870 5.3 2014-08 Clinical Centre Building 2 Uppsala 7,639 1.5 2014-11 Clinical Centre Building 1 Uppsala 5,984 1.1 2014-11 Stora Institutionen Uppsala 5,351 0.0 2012-01 Tyskbackshagen SLU Infrastructure Uppsala 5,060 3.0 2014-09 Mathematical Sciences Centre Gothenburg 4,522 5.4 2006-01 SVA, Central Block Uppsala 4,328 2.3 2006-11 Clinical Centre Building 6 Uppsala 3,692 0.7 2014-11 Teologen Lund 3,588 3.6 2014-07 Clinical Centre Building 4 Uppsala 3,294 0.0 2006-07 Clinical Centre Building 5 Uppsala 2,780 0.5 2014-11 Clinical Centre Building 3 Uppsala 2,593 0.0 2004-07 Clinical Centre Building 7 Uppsala 2,551 0.5 2014-11 Other properties Other vacant space 52,623 45.8 TOTAL 112,875 (3.6%) 69.7 (1.2%) AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 34 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION | MANAGEMENT AND LEASING Proﬁtability and yield The yield from property management is stable. Akademiska Hus properties have a strong net operating income, stable cash ﬂows and a low rental risk, characterised by long leases and tenants with a good credit rating. T he geographically extensive ings, redevelopment projects and retroTotal yield for 2014 was 13.4 per cent portfolio offers a good risk active rent. The decrease in operating costs (7.2), where the difference compared with spread that can beneﬁt from is mainly attributable to lower costs for the direct yield is 6.5 percentage points (0.4) growth in strong regional snow removal and heating because of the and comprises the change in the fair value markets, such as university and college mild winter combined with our systematic of investment properties, which totalled towns and cities. The larger university energy reduction efforts, but is also an effect SEK 3,494 million (365) in 2014. The total centres are growing through investment in of properties sold. Maintenance costs have yield for 2014 according to the SFI Property research and development and the systemfallen, mainly due to lower maintenance costs Index was 8.1 per cent, of which the change atic upgrading of their use of premises. for projects. The net operating income ratio in value was 2.9 per cent and the yield 5.1 These properties are regarded as relatively has increased by two per cent to 65 per cent. per cent. secure investments with a stable yield Expressed in SEK/m2, the net operating over time. income was SEK 1,160/m2 (1,089) and varies RETURN ON OPERATING CAPITAL between the regions from SEK 827/m2 in One of the owner’s economic objectives is 2 NET OPERATING INCOME the Northern Region to SEK 1,562/m in the that return on operating capital excluding The net operating income, i.e. rental income Stockholm Region. The net operating income changes in fair value should be at least with a deduction for administrative costs, ratio varies from 56 per cent in the Northern 6.5 per cent. The yield on operating capital totalled SEK 3,717 million, compared with Region to 72 per cent in the Eastern Region in 2014 was 7.3 per cent (7.2). Net operating 3,506 the previous year. During 2014, propand Uppsala. income rose by SEK 211 million and contriberty management income increased by uted to a slightly increased return on operSEK 93 million compared with the previous YIELD AND TOTAL YIELD ating capital. year and at the same time property manageYield was 6.9 per cent (6.8) of the fair value. The owner’s objective for operating capiment costs decreased by SEK 118 million. The increase is explained by relatively tal was thus met in 2014. The increase in rental revenue can be attribstrong growth in net operating income relative uted mainly to the completion of new buildto the change in property value. NET OPERATING INCOME RETURN ON OPERATING CAPITAL TOTAL YIELD SEK m % % % 4,000 80 10 15 8 12 3,000 60 6 9 2,000 40 4 6 1,000 20 3 2 0 0 0 0 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 Net operating income, SEK m Return on operating capital, % Change in value Net operating income ratio, % Objective, % Total yield, investment property Yield, excluding properties under construction AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION | MANAGEMENT AND LEASING 35 Forecast for the next few years Akademiska Hus continues to invest in new and existing properties in order to develop its customers’ business. Investments during the past years have resulted in a signiﬁcant expansion in the property holdings. D emand for new premises is and vacant space compared with the comincreasingly efficient and it is expected that greatest in those centres of mercial property market. As the average economies of scale can be utilised. education that focus on lease length is considerably longer than in During the construction period, the large research. The investment the property market in general, changes in project portfolio will result in a charge on portfolio includes new construction, redevelyield targets will have an impact although the cash ﬂow in the form of interest expense opment and refurbishment of existing propwith a certain time lapse and a greater and interest charges. Despite this, the intererties. The bulk of the project portfolio is spread over time. One of the challenges is to est coverage ratio is strong and will increase therefore located in Uppsala and Stockholm, ﬁnd alternative uses for the more specialas the new properties begin generating and consists to a large extent of properties ised properties when the leases expire. rental revenue. that contain specially-adapted laboratory The table below shows the forecast for premises which require an initial lease term FORECAST the next three years. of 20–25 years. As the investment portfolio Akademiska Hus makes annual forecasts of is gradually completed, it is expected that long-term operating trends. The analysis is the average remaining lease term will an integral part of ensuring that our propincrease, since the properties added to our erty operations are pursued with a high property holdings have long leases. degree of efficiency and cost awareness. In In the project portfolio, it is the approved the forecast we take into account the proprojects, at a value of almost SEK 12 billion, jects that are gradually being completed. FORECAST ASSUMPTIONS that will affect the ﬁnancial statements in the No changes in the fair value of invest2014 2015 2016 2017 immediate future. At the end of the year just ment properties are forecasted and nor are Increase in cost 0% 2% 2% over SEK 5 billion had already been invested. acquisitions or sales. October index, CPI 314.02 0% 2% 2% The sector of the property market in Future yield is also expected to remain Salary increase 3% 3% 3% which Akademiska Hus operates is characstable at almost seven per cent. The develCost of capital 2.25% 2.50% 2.50% terised by limited variation in rent levels oped property holdings will become PROPERTY OPERATIONS FORECAST Forecast Forecast Forecast 2014 2015 2016 2017 SEK m SEK/m2 PROPERTY HOLDINGS 7,500 2,000 Average rentable ﬂoor space, 1,000 m2 3,204 3,150 3,200 3,250 Property values, SEK m 61,437 64,500 68,000 71,500 6,000 1,600 Net investment in properties, SEK m 252 3,500 3,500 3,000 4,500 1,200 KEY FIGURES 3,000 800 Net operating income, SEK/m² 1,160 1,238 1,266 1,292 1,500 400 Yield, properties, % 6.9 6.6 6.5 6.4 0 0 20 re Fo 17 20 ca st FINANCIAL KEY FIGURES 14 re Fo 16ca st 20 re Fo 15 20 ca st Rental revenue, SEK m 5,495 5,550 5,700 5,800 Net operating income, SEK m 3,717 3,900 4,050 4,200 Rental revenue, SEK m Proﬁt before tax, SEK m 6,261 3,500 3,600 3,650 Rental revenue, SEK/m2 Equity ratio, % 48 49 49 48 Net operating income, SEK m Return on operating capital, % 7.3 7.1 6.9 6.8 Net operating income, SEK/m 2 Interest coverage ratio, % 671 1,100 900 850 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 36 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS | CONSTRUCTION PROCESS Long-term investments in knowledge environments The project portfolio of Akademiska Hus is still large, although it has decreased since last year. We are continuing to develop premises for higher education and research in collaboration with our customers. Projects for the coming years are focused on Stockholm and Uppsala with several large new construction projects, although there are also major current or planned projects in Gothenburg and Lund. D uring 2014 we completed several large projects, including the Skandion Clinic, which is a new facility for the Association of Local Authorities Advanced Radiotherapy (KAS) in Uppsala, Sweden. At the end of the year, projects in progress totalled approximately SEK 5.4 billion. The Centre for Veterinary Medicine and Animal Science (VHC) in Ultuna, outside Uppsala, is included in ongoing projects, but is now in the ﬁnal stage and will be completed in 2015. The focus of investments is primarily in Stockholm, where new construction decision criteria. Investments exceeding concept projects that could possibly be projects for Karolinska Institute are the SEK 30 million are decided by the Board of completed within a ﬁve-year period. The largest element, totalling SEK 3.8 billion. Directors. project then progresses to a more concrete stage, during which an agreement is normally INVESTMENT PROCESS OUR CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS reached between Akademiska Hus and the Akademiska Hus investment operations are Many projects have a long planning horizon customer regarding the division of costs pursued in accordance with a systematic and extend over many years. The starting incurred if the project fails to materialise. evaluation process. From the point at which point in property development is normally The project is then classiﬁed as a planned a project is identiﬁed together with the custhe campus plans, where we have a systemproject. Approved projects are those that tomer it passes through different decision atic, future-oriented dialogue with the tenare under construction. gates. At each stage the project is analysed ants. One common approach, in consultain increasing detail according to established tion with the customer, is to identify PROJECT PORTFOLIO TOTAL PROJECT PORTFOLIO SEK m 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Stockholm, 58.0% Decided projects 11,800 12,400 of which already invested in current projects –5,400 –4,500 South, 17.1% Remainder for investment in decided projects 6,400 7,900 West, 9.5% Planned projects 9,200 8,800 Uppsala, 9.5% Remainder of decided and planned projects 15,600 16,700 North, 3.2% Concept projects 4,200 4,400 East, 2.7% Total remaining projects 19,800 21,100 The different investments are categorised as: • Decided projects are projects that have a project framework that has been decided using a delegation procedure. • Planned projects are projects with an inquiry or planning framework, where some form of arrangement or agreement exists between the Company and the tenant. • Concept projects are projects which, following a discussion with the customer or an analysis by the Company, are considered probable within a ﬁve-year period. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS | CONSTRUCTION PROCESS 37 The project Our largest projects ­portfolio has a value of 21 Listed below are our largest approved projects that are under ­construction, together with larger projects that were completed in 2014 and now form part of the property portfolio. SEK bn in approved and planned ­projects. APPROVED PROJECTS, DECEMBER 31, 2014 > SEK 100 M Annual New construction/ Total investLease, rent, Project name Location redevelopment ment, SEK m Customer years SEK m Biomedicum Solna New construction 2,822 Karolinska Institute 20 184 Centre for Veterinary Medicine and Uppsala Ultuna New construction 1,525 Swedish University of 20 104 Animal Science ­Agricultural Sciences Biomedicum Comparative Medicine Solna New construction 889 Karolinska Institute 20 50 Royal College of Music Stockholm New construction 834 Royal College of Music 20 44 and redevelopment Niagara Malmö New construction 745 Malmö University 10 52 Segersted Building Uppsala New construction 725 Uppsala University 20 42 Ull Building Uppsala Ultuna New construction 630 Swedish University of Agricul20 52 and redevelopment tural Sciences Arrhenius Buildings NPQ Stockholm New construction 517 Stockholm University 10 38 School of Architecture and the KTH Stockholm New construction 436 Royal Institute of Technology 20 26 Campus Entrance and redevelopment V-Building Lund New construction 326 Lund University 10 26 and redevelopment A-Building Luleå New construction 166 Luleå University of Technology 10 12 and redevelopment Vision Library Stockholm Redevelopment 153 Stockholm University 10 43 Education Building Stockholm New construction 130 Royal Institute of Technology 10 8 Civil and Architectural Design Stockholm Redevelopment 121 Royal Institute of Technology 10 8 Parking level, Solna Campus Solna New construction 117 Karolinska Institute — 6 Humanities Theatre Uppsala New construction 116 Uppsala University 20 8 APPROVED PROJECTS, DECEMBER 31, 2014 > SEK 50 M Annual New construction/ Total investLease, rent, Project name Location redevelopment ment, SEK m Customer years SEK m Skandion Clinic Uppsala New construction 704 Association of Local 25 45 ­Authorities, Advanced ­Radiation Treatment LUX Lund New construction 411 Lund University 10 32 ICT School Kista Redevelopment 205 Royal Institute of Technology 10 20 Wallenberg Laboratory Animal Facility Solna New construction 168 Karolinska Institute 10 16 and redevelopment BMC SciLifeLab Uppsala New construction 158 Uppsala University 10 6 Humanities Building Umeå New construction 117 Umeå University 10 7 and redevelopment ABE School Stockholm New construction 100 Royal Institute of Technology 10 9 and redevelopment KTH management Stockholm Redevelopment 84 Royal Institute of Technology 10 4 BMC energy optimisation Uppsala New construction 74 Uppsala University 20 7 and redevelopment Ångström district cooling Uppsala New construction 67 Uppsala University 10 6 and redevelopment Geothermal storage Karlstad New construction 51 Akademiska Hus — — AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 38 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS | CONSTRUCTION PROCESS One of Sweden’s largest property developers We see a continued steady demand for premises and currently we have a portfolio of SEK 21 billion, with ongoing, approved and planned projects. This makes us one of the biggest property developers in Sweden. A kademiska Hus is a key party ence, combined with technical and ecoEnvironmental assessment of materials in the development of the nomic analysis, solutions and materials can according to the BVB declarations is relacampuses and knowledge be chosen to achieve maximum efficiency, tively extensive and apart from chemical environments of the future, quality and material management in concontent, the system also covers the materwhere together with others we will contribstruction. ials and material components included as ute to dialogue and collaboration based on For a long time, we have been carrying well as information regarding manufacturour respective areas of expertise. The proout impact assessments in our construction ing, transport, packaging and handling of jects vary from car parks to high-tech facilities projects when choosing systems and materthe material at the user, waste disposal and and urban development projects with social ials. Each study includes a variety of assessdemolition states. and ecological overtones. All projects are ment criteria, including management This provides an overall picture of the total developed to permit long-term manageaspects, lifecycle cost analysis, design and environmental impact that a material or ment of Akademiska Hus’ buildings, which functionality. To achieve the best outcome, product generates during its life cycle. One gives us excellent opportunities to invest in the ﬁnal choice should be made at an early development potential to become more sustainable and innovative solutions. stage in the project and thus inﬂuence plancomprehensive is to allow the assessments We develop campuses with buildings that ning during the subsequent construction to encompass social responsibility among are competitive and usable in the long term. documentation stage. our suppliers. We began this project in 2014 The buildings are characterised by good Using the Building Information Modelunder the BVB system, along with other architecture, good construction techniques ling (BIM) process method, there is enormindustry players. and good installation technology. ous potential to establish a more efficient They have a high degree of generality and construction process, particularly by optiCERTIFICATION OF BUILDINGS AND they are energy and environmentally efficient. mising material use in projects. With simNEIGHBOURHOODS We work with technical solutions that are at pler, more efficient reporting of material Sustainability certiﬁcation is an assessment the very forefront in technology, but which volumes, the amount of waste and the numof how environmentally sustainable a buildhave been tried and tested sufficiently to ber of variants can be kept to a minimum. ing or neighbourhood is. The aim is to assure the function of the buildings and the Akademiska Hus is currently running a ensure planning and implementation that is indoor environment in the long term. number of projects based on BIM methodosustainable from several dimensions and By building multi-purpose environments logy, which includes analysing material that can also serve as a guarantee that the it will be possible to adapt premises to difquantities. building or neighbourhood meets the ferent activities. In recent years, Akademiska requirement levels agreed. Hus has followed a deliberate strategy to ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF CONensure that new buildings offer a variety of STRUCTION PRODUCTS potential uses and can generally be adapted Akademiska Hus uses what is known as the to provide good office environments. ‘Byggvarubedömning’ (BVB) system to evaluate construction products. The basic premAkademiska Hus SYSTEM SOLUTIONS AND MODELS THAT ise is that products that are assessed as ‘To is certiﬁed in PROVIDE SUPPORT be avoided’ must not be used unless there Akademiska Hus has developed a common are particular reasons or arguments for accordance with platform for choosing technical system doing so. We stipulate that sub-suppliers, ISO 14001. solutions and materials where focus is on including both consultants and contractors, effective, resource-efficient and sustainable use the BVB system. systems. Through feedback based on experiAKADEMISKA HUS 2014 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS | CONSTRUCTION PROCESS 39 Thermal energy storage solves Karlstad University heating and cooling needs Increasing production of renewable energy is fundamental to the development of the sustainable society of the future. Akademiska Hus is taking several measures in order to reach its sustainability target of reducing the volume of purchased energy per square metre by 50 per cent through to 2025 compared with 2000. For example, with each new project at least one alternative delivery system is studied, usually as an alternative to district heating and cooling. Taking advantage of bedrock to heat and cool buildings as needed is one of the energy solutions that Akademiska Hus is working on. In larger cohesive property areas we have the opportunity to create an effective energy solution using geotechnical engineering. We already obtain around 20,000 MWh of heat from the projects that have already been implemented or are in progress. Geothermal heat provides slightly more than ﬁve per cent of our total heating requirements, with the remainder coming from district heating. The same plants also provide free cooling equivalent to approximately 5,000 to 10,000 MWh. In 2014 the geothermal energy plant at Karlstad University went into operation. The new energy solution consists of 203 drill holes at a depth of 240 metres and covers a large proportion of the total cooling and heating needs for the entire university campus (100,000 m2). Positive effects of ecosystem services Ecosystem services are an important part of sustainable urban development. Since 2009 Akademiska Hus has worked with the Stockholm Resilience Centre to create a model that includes ecosystem services in the planning process, which has positioned us at the forefront of the ﬁeld. Knowledge of ecosystem services is a valuable asset and our ambition is to further integrate this issue in future projects. Ecosystem services encompass a variety of values, from environmental and economic to social and cultural. The theory of ecosystem services is based on the understanding that urban greenery and water quality have a strong positive impact on biodiversity and cliUniversity Library, Lund University mate regulation, which in turn lead to improvements in public health and quality of life. Ecosystem services also have a role in reducing the impact of expected climate changes. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 40 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS | CONSTRUCTION PROCESS CERTIFICATION OF BUILDINGS AND The certiﬁcation system also requires a needs to be integrated into the process in NEIGHBOURHOOODS high proportion of energy from renewable the long term. Sustainability certiﬁcation is an assessment sources. This alone has applied pressure on of how environmentally sustainable a buildseveral district energy suppliers to graduSUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT PROCESS ing or neighbourhood is. ally increase the proportion of renewables, Sustainable procurement is a challenge, but The aim is to ensure planning and implebecause otherwise entire communities and also an opportunity to achieve greater clarmentation that is sustainable from several cities would lose the potential to have buildity about expectations and objectives. At dimensions and that can also serve as a ings certiﬁed for sustainability. Akademiska Hus, we see development guarantee that the building or neighbourpotential in generating interest and comhood meets the requirement levels agreed. HIGH ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL mitment to sustainability issues in procureThere are several certiﬁcation systems REQUIREMENTS ment both internally and with our contracappropriate for different types of buildings During new construction Akademiska Hus tors, as well as other stakeholders and and property owners. All our new construcspeciﬁes, among other things, material proppartners. Akademiska Hus is a major proption projects, as well as major renovation erties and environmental requirements, erty developer and may therefore be a projects, must qualify for environmental which are presented in a way that very low model for the industry with respect to certiﬁcation according to the ‘Miljöbyggnad’ energy consumption is achieved during the accountable procurement. It is important to certiﬁcation system and achieve at least a Siloperating phase. Our basic speciﬁcations pursue an ongoing dialogue with suppliers ver rating. Eleven buildings were certiﬁed in apply the stipulations laid down in ‘Miljö2014, and Akademiska Hus now has a total of byggnad’ to secure silver level certiﬁcation, 20 certiﬁed buildings. Veriﬁcation of the ceralthough they can also be made stricter The new addition to the ABE tiﬁcate takes place approximately two years depending on the conditions that are present. School on the KTH Campus garafter the building has been brought into use. Energy consumption during the producnered the highest rating, Gold, in the Miljöbyggnad environmental The system rewards low energy contion phase is one aspect that remains to certiﬁcation system. Through sumption with low environmental impact, manage in the construction process. With close collaboration with KTH we a healthy indoor environment and good the low operating energies currently possible, were able to optimise energy material choices, as well as phasing out of relative energy consumption during the consumption, the indoor environhazardous substances. We gain the added construction phase is substantial, estimated ment and construction materials from a sustainability standpoint. value of good knowledge of what is built into at the energy needs equivalent to 10–15 the building, something that is very importyears of operation. Consequently energy ant for future adaptation and disposal. consumption during the production phase Ahrbom och Partner Arkitektkontor ABE School, KTH Campus, Stockholm AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS | CONSTRUCTION PROCESS 41 Photo: Lennart Johansson, photo montage: BSK Arkitekter Aerial photo of Albano, Stockholm on opportunities for improvement and not sustainability requirements, among other just verify that they meet the requirements. requirements. A process to monitor suppliers The Albano project, which is now The procurement policy of Akademiska more closely, based on more criteria, is at the planning stage, was Hus describes the fundamental values that under development. selected in 2014 by the National Board of Housing, Building and underlie purchasing and procurement. All Planning, the Swedish Research suppliers with whom we sign agreements AN ACCIDENT-FREE WORKPLACE Council Formas and Sweden have to meet requirements in a number of As one of Sweden’s largest property developGreen Building Council to repreareas, including the environment, quality ers, we have a responsibility to consider sent Sweden at the SB14 Barceand health and safety. Cross-functional coloccupational health and safety issues. One of lona conference as a project laboration makes it possible to encompass the objectives of Akademiska Hus is to prothat has high ambitions for sustainable construction and social requirements from several parts of the busivide an accident-free workplace for our own ecological planning, where econess. In the autumn of 2014 a Purchasing employees and for everyone we engage on system services represent an Council was established with representatour projects. The key to success in our view is essential component. ives from construction and management to to create a healthy safety culture in which promote a company-wide sourcing initiative. everyone understands the value of acting Akademiska Hus currently has a relatively responsibly and always putting safety ﬁrst. will be selected and a working approach will wide procurement portfolio that includes Incidents and accidents must be investibe developed over the coming year. many different types of services and suppliers. gated and analysed so that we can take the During the year Akademiska Hus has also Our largest procurement volumes are in outcorrect actions and improvement measures taken the initiative to develop this area sourcing, architectural and technical consultin order to learn lessons and prevent recurtogether with other players in the industry. ing services, and energy provision, and it is rence. Our construction projects represent The focus will be on issues such as risk manthese three areas that are the focus of our supa large share of our business and entail sigagement, cooperation initiatives, leadership plier monitoring and development. niﬁcant risks. Compliance with the requireand the speciﬁcation of requirements. In To monitor compliance with the requirement to report incidents and accidents, and 2014, we drafted an action plan that ments Akademiska Hus carries out random to take appropriate measures, is therefore addressed both internal and external perinternal environment and occupational important during these projects. Work has spectives. In 2015, we intend to continue safety audits. Suppliers are monitored for commenced on improving the process of working towards these clearer objectives compliance with established quality and incident reporting, and a suitable system and start measuring our progress. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 42 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS | CONSTRUCTION PROCESS Construction process that is close to the customer The Akademiska Hus construction process takes place close to the customer. We have a welldeveloped construction process and speciﬁc procedures for planning that bring in the right skills and are based on the customer’s requirements and the complexity and size of the buildings. We have developed this working approach together with our tenants over many years. T he process varies depending Nyréns Arkitektkontor AB on the type of project and contract. Collaborative contracts ensure greater cooperation between Akademiska Hus and the contractor. They improve the efficiency of projects and enable us to draw on the skills and experience of contractors. Centre for Veterinary Medicine and Animal Science (VHC), Uppsala. Phases in process: INITIAL PHASE PROGRAMME PHASE SYSTEM PHASE – Case preparation – Programme documents – System documents The initial stage of the construction Programme documents for the project This stage involves investigation into process involves managing and investiwere prepared during the programme which technical systems, materials, gating issues. This is initiated when a phase, where key decisions were etc., provide the best solutions to meet need for premises is identiﬁed. A needed on aspects such as the buildproject requirements. System docudescription of activities and a suming size, technical standard and design ments provide a picture of the planned mary of practical requirements are in general. The programme documents building, its construction and its techdrawn up for the new premises to give a summary of the requirements nical systems, and form the basis for deﬁne the type of premises needed for a project and provide collective costing the work involved. The environand to identify the needs of the cusinformation for reaching decisions on mental plan and health and safety plan tomer and the property owner. planning. for the project are also agreed at this stage. CASE | Centre for Veterinary Medicine and Animal Science (VHC): There had been extended discussions SLU began the planning process, and Preparation of the system documents between Akademiska Hus and the after about a year Akademiska Hus was relatively complicated since the Swedish University of Agricultural was brought in and the planning docubuildings are very special and house Sciences (SLU) on the need for new ments were completed. laboratories, stables and other specialpremises, the main question being ist premises. Staff were very much whether to renovate or build new involved in this process, which contribpremises. Eventually it was decided to uted to an excellent partnership build new premises. The project was between Akademiska Hus and SLU. The submitted to a number of architectural system documents were completed in agencies for proposals, and Nyréns March 2010. Arkitektkontor was judged to have the best proposal. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS | CONSTRUCTION PROCESS 43 A successful project in close collaboration Åke E:son Lindman VHC – the Centre for Veterinary Medicine and Animal Science on Ultuna Campus in southern Uppsala was opened in September 2014. VHC is an integrated centre that provides 53,000 square metres of space for world-class research, education and animal care. Key priorities throughout the project were compactness, closeness, openness and opportunities to meet, and these elements were frequently discussed during the design of the buildings. Many of the research and education spaces are located in a circular building, with high-tech equipment installed in the centre and surrounded by the research spaces. This ensures efﬁcient use of technology and space. CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTATION PHASE CONSTRUCTION PHASE HANDOVER PHASE – Construction documents, – Production – Follow-up, management procurement The system documents are then used The construction phase involves the When the project is completed the to prepare the construction docuphysical erection of the project buildpremises are handed over to the cusments, which are the execution ings and installations. Great emphasis tomer, and the building then moves instructions that contractors use to is placed on testing technical functions, into the management phase. Follow-up produce their tenders. Procurement of so called coordinated testing, before meetings are also held to deal with contractors then takes place. the ﬁnal inspection that concludes the any outstanding issues and take construction phase. advantage of opportunities for feedback into future projects. Because the project involved a complex During the production phase regular After the customer had completed building and construction process, the deconstruction meetings were held on ﬁtting out and installing equipment at cision was made to use a collaborative conaspects such as production planning, the start of the year, moving in took tract. An invitation was sent out, and foland regular committee meetings were place in May 2014. Evaluation of the lowing an evaluation process that consisted held with representatives of Akademiska project showed that all the parties mainly of interviews with prospective proHus and Skanska to discuss important were very satisﬁed. The main success ject partners, Skanska was contracted for issues such as quality, the environment, factors were excellent collaboration the project. A collaborative agreement was health and safety, and manning. A numbetween SLU, Akademiska Hus and signed and work began on negotiating and ber of changes were made during the Skanska, compliance with the schedule planning aspects such as the budget, course of the project, which were jointly and cost budget, and a completed schedule and ﬁnancial monitoring. handled by Akademiska Hus, Skanska building that sets a high standard of The construction documents were comand SLU. quality throughout. piled in a package that formed the basis for procurement of subcontractors and materials. Skanska submitted comments during the speciﬁcation process. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 44 PROPERTY VALUATION Property valuation The fair value of Akademiska Hus investment properties as at December 2014 was SEK 61,437 million (57,577). Investment in new construction and redevelopment totalled SEK 2,904 million (2,750) and acquisitions amounted to SEK 100 million (4). The value of properties sold at the time of sale amounted to SEK 2,752 million (375). T he fair value has been calcuIt is probable that transaction volumes RESIDUAL VALUE RISK lated by means of an internal for community properties will continue to Akademiska Hus operates in a speciﬁc segproperty valuation covering increase, partly thanks to a growing proporment of the property market, which means all the Company’s properties. tion of public sector sellers who need capthat our properties are more adapted to The unrealised change in value for the year ital. More property owners are contributing specialist uses and consequently they have a is SEK 3,494 million (365). The fair value to competition in the segment, which slightly more uncertain residual value than per square metre is SEK 17,471 (16,188). should lead to greater appreciation among for more general properties, such as office tenants and the market for the added value buildings and residential buildings. The MARKET DEVELOPMENT offered by professional management. risks are quantiﬁed mainly as charges in the The property market has experienced cash ﬂow rather than in the yield target. growth during 2014. There has been growth AKADEMISKA HUS MARKET SEGMENT in interest in the community property segThe properties fall into a market segment VALUATION METHODS ment, which has led to a corresponding that is normally designated community Akademiska Hus valuation models comply increase in the number of transactions and properties. with good market practice in the property turnover. A characteristic feature of Akademiska industry and the cash ﬂows and yield targets Demand remains high in the rental marHus is very long leases with stable customthat are used are justiﬁed based on both ket for modern, ﬂexible and efficient premers with a good credit rating. Around 90 per property-speciﬁc conditions and industryises with good environmental performance. cent of income comes from the dominant speciﬁc conditions. The properties have Large investments are being made in the customer group, universities and colleges, been valued individually without taking metropolitan areas in the new construction which are backed by the Swedish Governportfolio effects into account. and redevelopment of office properties. ment and therefore have high credit ratings. The estimated market value is composed Demand for premises is good, but no signiThe average remaining lease term is 6.0 of three parts consisting of: properties valued ﬁcant rent increases have occurred. In years (5.3). according to an internal cash ﬂow valuation metropolitan and growth regions the level (95%), valued expansion reserves (2%) of vacancies is likely to fall. INVESTMENT PROPERTY 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Change in property holdings, in SEK 1,000 South West East Uppsala Stockholm North Group Group Opening fair value 7,094 6,955 4,648 11,050 23,633 4,177 57,557 54,677 + Investment in new construction and redevelopment 597 161 12 591 1,470 73 2,904 2,750 + Acquisitions — — — — 100 — 100 4 + Capitalised interest expense 22 2 — 71 38 1 134 136 – Sales — — — — –2,193 –559 –2,752 –375 +/– Change in fair value, unrealised 177 335 273 746 1,490 473 3,494 365 Of which change in value due to a change in the cost of capital and yield requirement 186 403 309 407 1,446 319 3,070 105 Of which change in value due adjusted value index (valuation status, average remaining term, property type) –5 –18 3 — –158 6 –172 162 Of which capitalised interest expense –22 –2 — –71 –38 –1 –134 –136 Of which other change in value 18 –48 –39 410 240 149 730 234 Closing fair value 7,890 7,453 4,933 12,458 24,538 4,165 61,437 57,557 SEK 58,309 million (95 per cent) of the fair value has been set by means of an internal cash ﬂow valuation. Other properties have been valued individually using the most appropriate valuation method. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 PROPERTY VALUATION 45 and properties with uncertain future cash Yield requirements and cost of capital sellable units at a fair value of SEK 9,760 ﬂows (3%). Read Note 15 for more detailed declined by between 0.1 and 1.43 percentage million were valued externally, correspondinformation. points during the year, due to general ing to approximately 16 per cent of the All property valuation involves an eleprice-driving factors in the property market Akademiska Hus total fair value. The exterment of estimation, and the normal degree for community properties. Overall, the posnal valuations in 2014 were carried out by of uncertainty in property valuation is itive change in value attributable to changes DTZ as a benchmark for the internal cash between ﬁve and ten per cent, which in our in yield requirements and cost of capital in ﬂow valuations. DTZ’s valuers are authorcase would correspond to an increase or 2014 amounted to SEK 3,070 million. ised by the Swedish Society of Real Estate decrease of up to SEK 6,200 million. Economics. The external valuations conﬁrm EXTERNAL VALUATION the reliability of the internal valuation VALUATION CONDITIONS 2014 To assure the internal valuation, selected model. The average cost of capital was 8.1 per cent properties are also valued each year by (8.5) and the average yield target was 6.0 per external valuation companies. As at Sepcent (6.4) after adjustment for stamp duty. tember 30, 2014, 24 valuation buildings/ VALUATION ASSUMPTIONS CASH FLOW MODEL Division into town, city, location 25 towns, cities, locations Installation-intensive Special adaptation/ premises/non-installationtype of premises intensive premises > 10 years > 6 years Lease term =< 6 years Calculation period 10 years Inﬂation assumption, year 1 0.0% Year 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 Inﬂation assumption, years 2–10 2.0% Vacant space Actual and/or 5% Deduction for stamp duty 4.25% Total current value of cash ﬂows Property administration SEK 45/m² Maintenance costs, non-installationCurrent residual intensive premises SEK 100/m² + Cost of capital value Maintenance costs, installation= Fair value intensive premises SEK 140/m² The yield target is used to capitalise the cash ﬂow for the remaining periods. TOTAL YIELD PROPERTY VALUE AVERAGE YIELD TARGET AND COST OF CAPITAL % SEK m SEK/m2 % 15 60,000 18,000 10 50,000 15,000 9 12 40,000 12,000 8 9 30,000 9,000 7 6 20,000 6,000 10,000 3,000 6 3 0 0 5 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 0 10 11 12 13 14 Fair value, SEK m Cost of capital, % Fair value, SEK/m2 Akademiska Hus Swedish Property Index Yield target, % Yield Yield Change in value Change in value AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 46 EMPLOYEES | THE PEOPLE INVOLVED With a focus on future skills Talented and motivated employees are essential for the success of Akademiska Hus. We are constantly working to leverage and further develop the skills available internally, as well as to contribute to the development of the industry and ensure future skills. I n 2014, we carried out an extensive In 2015, we will focus on involving all Increased competition for skills also project to deﬁne a common set of employees in an initiative to embrace the requires us to attract future employees from values for Akademiska Hus. The core values throughout the organisation. outside the industry and to encourage project was designed to meet the young people to apply for training aimed at need to formulate a platform establishing SECURE FUTURE SKILLS property and the built environment. common values, processes and products for According to an analysis by the Property Akademiska Hus collaborates with sevall of the company’s regions and businesses. Industry’s education committee, the induseral vocational colleges in the country and is Our values serve as a professional comtry has a strong need for training moving engaged in training programmes. We accept pass, which will help us to achieve our busiforward. Demand is particularly strong for interns from vocational colleges and from ness goals. They will guide us towards the technical expertise, project management, ‘Tekniksprånget’ (Technology Leap), and correct decisions and action in our daily customer service and leadership. As a major are committed to student programmes and business. Through sensitivity, commitment player, Akademiska Hus has a responsibility trainee programmes. and by generating value, we contribute to to contribute to the development of the Akademiska Hus is also a member of varithe enduring success of our business to beneindustry, including through ensuring that ous industry advisory committees and parﬁt shareholders, customers and one future skills can be met. ticipates with seven mentors in Mitt Livs another. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 EMPLOYEES | THE PEOPLE INVOLVED 47 Chans (Chance of My Life), a mentor prohad appraisal discussions. The remaining many levels – in job satisfaction, efficiency gramme run by Mitt Liv (My Life), a social share consists largely of people who are and social capital – which ultimately can company that works with diversity and innewly hired or on long-term leave. The disalso be translated into ﬁnancial proﬁtability. tegration on the Swedish labour market. cussions are documented in an individual One key area for improvement is the action plan and contain clear, challenging, recruitment process, where great added EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT time-bound and measurable goals. Other value is created by paving the way for a more Ongoing competence development is vital if topics discussed include the Company’s inclusive culture and organisation. Deliberwe are to satisfy our customers’ needs. We business plan, Code of Conduct, manageate and structured work is necessary to leverhave an established leadership development ment and relationships at work, as well as age the potential inherent to diversity. Here programme for managers and project manhow the employee perceives the balance we see great potential for improvement in agers. Our core processes have ‘cross-funcbetween work and leisure. our business. tional fora’, which are aimed at developing and reﬁning our working methods. GOAL TO REFLECT SOCIETY SYSTEMATIC APPROACH TO OCCUPADuring the year we continued to focus on Equality and diversity are of great imporTIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY internal experience feedback to take adtance to Akademiska Hus, and the Company Occupational safety is integral to our daily vantage of the knowledge available interhas the goal of reﬂecting society. To do so, work at Akademiska Hus. Safety commitnally and learn from one another. For examwe need to increase the share of women and tees and work environment networks are ple, we launched learning projects in our employees with a foreign background. some examples of collaborative fora where internal fora. Akademiska Hus reviews its workforce prowe discuss and work on improvements, Akademiska Hus’ goal is for all employees ﬁle annually based on relevant diversity while creating consensus and commitment to conduct regular appraisal discussions indicators, which enables us to take proto health and safety issues. We have been with their immediate supervisors. During active measures. We believe that a strategic certiﬁed in systematic work environment the year, 88 per cent (90) of employees have diversity initiative generates proﬁtability on management, AFS 2001:1, for many years. SATISFIED EMPLOYEE INDEX (NMI) AND ATTENDANCE EDUCATION LEVEL MOTIVATED EMPLOYEE INDEX (MMI) % The majority of employees 75 100 belong to the operating 70 80 technician category with relevant vocational train65 60 ing or experience. Manage60 40 ment staff frequently have an academic education. 55 20 50 0 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 Secondary school, 3% NMI MMI Absenteeism due to illness during the High school/vocational college, 41% 2013 was the ﬁrst year for the MMI. year was 3.1 per cent (2.5), of which Vocational training/operations/ long-term absenteeism due to illness property technicians, 11% was 1.6 (0.8) percentage points. Academic education, more than 30 credits, 12% Akademiska Hus works actively with health issues. Academic qualiﬁcation, 34% AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 48 EMPLOYEES | THE PEOPLE INVOLVED with the programme offered by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. Absenteeism due to illness during the year was 3.1 per cent. Highly ranked Motivation is the Forty-six employees (11 per cent) are engaged in formal health and safety comemployer wellness theme mittees that exist within the company. Our consistent efforts to improve for the year EMPLOYEE SURVEY PROVIDES BASIS FOR our employer branding show results. Two years in a row we have been named newcomer of IMPROVEMENT In our AKAFrisk initiative, the year in surveys held by Creating a business in which employees employees use the app employer branding company thrive and evolve is paramount for Universum. In 2014, we climbed to record their physical Akademiska Hus. An annual employee into the top 100 list among activities, providing survey is conducted to monitor the situSweden’s most attractive motivation for exercise employers and we were also ation. The Employee Survey is an important and a healthier lifestyle. named this year’s ‘rocket’ in relameans for the Executive Management and tion to university students and other managers to monitor and develop young professionals. We were operations, especially the Company’s own also nominated as one of the Our construction projects receive continuworking group. The main issues are employEmployer Branding companies of ous feedback based on knowledge about the ers, duties, skills, leadership, employee the year. working environment obtained in manageempowerment communication, cooperation ment. For example, the management organand organisation. isation reviews construction documents Employees feel a high level of motivation and drawings with the project team to arrive in their work and many also welcome the experience frequent or constant stress that at the best solution. development work that is taking place and affects them negatively in their work, which Akademiska Hus works actively to inspire feel they are contributing to it. is in line with the previous year’s result. employees to pursue a healthier lifestyle. Employees rate their immediate manager The Employee Satisfaction Index for Each region has special wellness coaches. In more highly than in the 2013 survey and the 2014 was 66, compared with 68 for the preaddition, all employees have an annual wellleadership index has risen by two percentvious year. Despite the two-point fall we still ness allowance of SEK 3,000, which can be age points to 82. Conﬁdence in immediate have a higher score than the average for used for personal wellness activities. managers has also risen, while employees’ Swedish companies. We have a procedure for disability and conﬁdence in higher managers has fallen for rehabilitation management that is consistent the second year in succession. 27 per cent AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 EMPLOYEES | THE PEOPLE INVOLVED 49 A large proportion of Akademiska Hus employees feel pride in the company. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 50 REGIONAL OVERVIEW Regional overview In Sweden there are 51 centres of education in 29 towns and cities. Akademiska Hus is the single largest property owner in this customer segment, with about 61 per cent of the total ﬂoor space leased by universities and colleges. A kademiska Hus is divided into six regions and can be space, while the Northern Region is the smallest. Campuses in the found throughout Sweden, from our largest cusdifferent locations vary in appearance, from urban campuses intetomer, Lund University in the south, to Luleå Univergrated into the city, to more secluded campuses. Common to them sity of Technology in the north. Stockholm is our all is that we manage our buildings with high resource efficiency and largest region with approximately one third of our leasable ﬂoor we promote constant development in all our regions. Utopia Arkitekter Student accommondations Teknikringen, KTH Campus, Stockholm AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 REGIONAL OVERVIEW 51 Akademiska Hus’ operations are divided into six regions. An overview of the key ﬁgures for the different regions and the whole of Akademiska Hus can be found in the tables below. INCOME STATEMENT 2014 (SEK M) Other REGION South West East Uppsala Stockholm North operations 2014 2013 Change Rental revenue 717 753 539 1,019 1,958 509 5,495 5,359 136 Other property management income 28 50 10 19 61 17 1 186 229 -43 Total income 745 804 549 1,038 2,018 526 1 5,681 5,588 93 Costs –271 –270 –155 –291 –593 –233 –151 –1,964 –2,082 118 Net operating income 475 533 394 747 1,425 293 –150 3,717 3,506 211 Yield 7.1% 7.6% 8.5% 8.4% 6.4% 7.2% 6.9% 6.8% 0.1 Net operating income ratio 64% 66% 72% 72% 71% 56% 65% 63% 2 KEY DATA Fair value, SEK m 7,889 7,454 4,933 12,459 24,537 4,165 61,437 57,557 3,880 Fair value, SEK/m² 14,629 14,311 13,345 15,369 26,460 12,046 17,471 16,188 1,283 Rentable ﬂoor space, m² 481,836 503,202 358,413 626,062 843,692 337,124 3,150,329 3,220,294 –69,965 of which teaching premises 49% 65% 45% 30% 36% 57% 45% 47% –2 of which laboratory premises 32% 24% 36% 48% 37% 29% 35% 34% 1 Vacant space, area 3.5% 1.8% 0.9% 11.1% 1.4% 0.8% 3.6% 2.1% –1.5 Net investment, properties, SEK m 597 161 12 591 –623 –486 252 2,379 –1,517 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 52 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate Governance In the spirit of the Code, rules and routines are developed that ensure transparency, a clear allocation of responsibility between different Company bodies and that the Board discharges its duties efﬁciently. A kademiska Hus applies the Swedish Corporate This Corporate Governance Report, which was adopted by the Governance Code (the Code), including statements Board on March 16, 2015, describes the structure and processes for from the Swedish Corporate Governance Board Group management and control. (bolagstyrning.se) and the guidelines laid down by the Government in its ownership policy for state-owned companies OWNER OBJECTIVES (regeringen.se). Akademiska Hus is wholly owned by the Swedish The owner’s ﬁnancial objectives are as follows: State. The owner takes a long-term view of its ownership. Akademi• Return on operating capital excluding changes in value of at least ska Hus shall own, develop and manage properties for universities 6.5 per cent (see deﬁnition on page 132). and colleges, where the primary focus is on education and research, • The ordinary dividend should amount to between 40 and 60 per as well as activities compatible therewith. Operations will be run on cent of the net proﬁt after tax after and reversal of changes in a commercial basis and generate a yield that is in line with the marfair value and related deferred tax. When deciding on a dividend, ket by setting rents that take into account the operating risk. Akadeconsideration should be given to the Group’s capital structure miska Hus will work to assure the long-term, sustainable developand capital requirements. ment of university and college campuses. • The equity ratio should be between 30 and 40 per cent. State-owned companies are of considerable value and are owned ultimately by the people of Sweden, which requires open, profesReturn on operating capital was 7.3 per cent (7.2). The equity ratio as sional provision of information. The companies should act as a role at 31 December 2014 amounted to 48.0 per cent (46.8) for the Group model with regard to corporate social responsibility – state-owned and 27.0 per cent (24.0) for the Parent Company. Dividends paid to companies must carry on operations in a way that beneﬁts sustainashareholders in 2014 totalled SEK 1,374 million (1,355). ble development according to the Brundtland Commission’s deﬁnition of corporate social responsibility, which covers the environment, DEVIATIONS FROM THE CODE human rights, working conditions, anti-corruption and business The Code has been prepared for companies with a spread of ownerethics as well as equality and diversity. ship. At such companies, the election committee is in the ﬁrst instance a body for shareholders to prepare decisions regarding GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE External governance rules: Internal control: ANNUAL MEETING FINANCE COMMITTEE • Companies Act • Articles of Association REMUNERATION COMMITTEE • Accounting Act • Rules of procedure, BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of Directors • Annual Accounts Act AUDIT COMMITTEE • Instructions to the President • IFRS • Swedish Corporate Governance Code • Allocation of responsibility AKADEMISKA HUS AB and authority • Management system PRESIDENT AND Overall control: EXECUTIVE • Strategy documents Government Ownership Policy 2013 MANAGEMENT • Decisions by the President • Policies • Guidelines • Business Plan AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 53 appointments. For state-owned companies, the rules regarding an ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING election committee are replaced by principles governing a structured The Annual General Meeting must be held before April 30 each year. nomination process according to the Government’s ownership policy. The notice is published on the Company’s website. At the Annual General Meeting, the shareholders elect, among others, the Board of Appointment of a Board of Directors and auditors (Code rules 2.1–2.7) Directors and auditors and decide on discharge from liability for the Akademiska Hus does not apply the rules in the Code regarding the Board of Directors and the President. The Meeting decides on guideappointment of a Board of Directors and auditors. lines for remuneration to persons in leading positions and, where applicable, amendments to the Articles of Association. The Annual Reporting of the independence of Board members (Code rule 4.5) General Meeting was held on April 28, 2014. The meeting was Akademiska Hus does not apply the rules in the Code regarding the opened by Eva-Britt Gustafsson, who was appointed to chairman reporting of the independence of Board members. the proceedings. Also present were Erik Tranaeus (shareholder representative), President Kerstin Lindberg Göransson, Vice President Nomination process for Board members and auditors Michael Walmerud, authorised public accountant Harald Jagner The owner adopts a structured nomination process in conjunction and Carolin Åberg Sjöqvist, secretary, as well as other members of with the appointment of Board members and auditors. The nominathe Board. tion process is conducted and co-ordinated by the state ownership unit at the Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation. Members are Decisions at the 2014 Annual General Meeting selected from a broad recruitment base. • Adoption of the voting list. It was noted that the Meeting had been The nomination process is presented in the Government’s ownerduly convened. ship policy. Board membership requires a high level of expertise • Adoption of the Statement of Comprehensive Income and the within relevant current business operations, business development, Statement of Financial Position as well as the Consolidated Stateindustry know-how, ﬁnancial issues, or in other relevant areas. In ment of Comprehensive Income and Consolidated Statement of addition, there should be a strong sense of integrity and a capacity to Financial Position for the 2013 ﬁnancial year. act in the Company’s best interests. The composition of the Board • Decision regarding the payment of a dividend of SEK 1,374,000,000 should be such that the Board always has knowledge of the industry to the owner. or other know-how relevant to the Company. The composition • The Board of Directors and the President were granted discharge should also be such that a balance is achieved in terms of background, from liability for the 2013 ﬁnancial year. age and gender. The Articles of Association do not contain any stipu• Adoption of the principles presented for remuneration and other lations regarding appointment or dismissal of Board members. terms and conditions of employment for senior executives according to the ‘Guidelines for terms and conditions of employment for senior executives in state-owned companies’, passed by the Government on April 20, 2009. BOARD OF DIRECTORS – WORKING CYCLE • Decision on • Year-end Report Business Plan 4 Q Q1 • Approval of the Annual Report • Approval of the Remuneration Policy and • Interim Report, Q3 other terms of employment for presentation at the Annual General Meeting • Decision on convening of Annual General Meeting • Interim Report, Q1 Q 2 3 Q • Statutory meeting following the Annual General Meeting • Determination of the Board of Directors’ rules of procedure, President’s instructions and governing documents • Decision on EMTN prospectus • Interim Report, Q2 • External analysis and strategy meeting AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT • Amendment of the articles of association due to change in 1. Consideration of new economic objectives. corporate purpose. 2. Year-End Report 2013. Investments. Decision on remuneration to • Determination of changing economic objectives. senior executives. • Election of members of the Board of Directors up to the end 3. Annual Report 2013. Sustainability Report 2013. Investments. of the next Annual General Meeting. Election of an auditor. Proposed dividend. Decision regarding fees to the Board of Directors and the auditor. 4. Questions prior to the Annual General Meeting. • Decision to reduce the share capital by SEK 1,000,000,000 to 5. Interim Report January–March 2014. Investments. SEK 1,135,000,000. 6. Statutory meeting. Examination of the rules of procedure, • Decision to increase the share capital from SEK 1,000,000,000 to Instructions to the President and the Attestation and Delegation SEK 2,135,000,000 through a bonus issue. The decisions to reduce Procedure. Adoption of policy documents. or increase the share capital were prompted by the company’s need Election of committees. to create distributable funds. 7. International bond prospectus (EMTN prospectus). Internal audit plan 2014. BOARD OF DIRECTORS 8. Property sales. The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for the organisation 9. External analysis and strategy issues. Investments. Property of Akademiska Hus and management of its operations. The work of sales. the Board is governed by the rules of procedure adopted by the Board 10. Interim Report January–June 2014. of Directors each year. These rules dictate the Board’s own working 11. Investments. methods as well as providing instructions for its committees. The 12. Interim Report January–September 2014. Internal Audit Report. Board comprises eight members elected at the Annual General Investments. Meeting and two members who represent the employees in the 13. Business Plan. Investments. Mission statement, Ethical Council. Company. Visit to Ultuna campus. Two new members were elected to the Board and two members resigned at the annual general meeting on April 28, 2014. Other Evaluation of the work of the Board of Directors in 2014 members were re-elected. According to the Code, the Board of Directors evaluates the work of Of the eight members elected at the Annual General Meeting, the Board and the President using a structured, systematic process. one member is an employee at the Swedish Government Offices. Evaluation takes place once a year with the aim of developing the The other duties of the Board of Directors are presented on working forms and efficiency of the Board of Directors. The chairpages 56–57. man leads the evaluation, which is carried out by all members of the The Chairman of the Board leads the work of the Board and repreBoard. The owner, through the Government Offices, is informed sents the Board and the Company in dealings with the owner. The about the results of the evaluation. The work of the Government Chairman is also responsible for an evaluation of the work of the Offices related to the Board nomination process also includes an Board. ongoing evaluation of the boards of all Government-owned compaThe Board is required to meet at least ﬁve times a year, of which nies. There is continuous evaluation of the work, composition and one meeting should be devoted to matters of a long-term, strategic competence of the Board. nature. Extraordinary meetings are held as necessary. The Group’s auditors take part in at least one Board meeting during the year and Board committees on one occasion the Board meets the Company’s auditor without the The Board shall, without otherwise affecting the responsibility and President or other person from the Executive Management being duties of the Board Directors, appoint committees. The Board of present. Directors has appointed three committees. The work of the Board follows an annual cycle to ensure that • The tasks of the Finance Committee are to: the Board takes due account of all the areas of responsibility and – represent the Board of Directors in ongoing issues related to attaches sufficient importance to key, strategic issues. As a rule, ﬁnancing, the following factors are discussed and dealt with at an ordinary – support and follow up ﬁnancing activities, meeting of the Board of Directors, see ﬁgure on page 53. – annually evaluate and propose changes to the Finance Policy, – evaluate, prepare and report on matters to be decided by the WORK OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board. The Board held thirteen (13) meetings during the year at which • The Audit Committee will supervise the Company’s ﬁnancial minutes were taken. The attendance by the members of the Board reporting and: of Directors is presented in the tables on pages 56 and 57. The main – with regard to the ﬁnancial statements, monitor the efficiency items addressed during the year were: of the Company’s internal control systems, internal audit and risk management. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 55 – remain informed about the audit of the annual accounts and Auditors the consolidated accounts. Procurement of auditors took place in 2013/2014. At the 2014 – examine and monitor the impartiality and independence of the Annual General Meeting it was decided to elect KPMG AB as audiauditor and in doing so be particularly attentive if the auditor tors for the period up to the end of the 2015 Annual General Meetprovides the Company with services other than auditing services. ing, with authorised public accountant Björn Flink as auditor in – assist in the preparation of proposals for the election of auditors charge. The fee to the auditors for the year is payable as billed. at the Annual General Meeting. • The tasks of the Remuneration Committee are to: Internal auditor – prepare decisions regarding terms and conditions for salaries Akademiska Hus has an internal audit function comprising an and employment for the President and the Executive Manageemployed internal auditor. The internal auditor reports directly to ment. the Company’s Board of Directors. – monitor and evaluate the application of the guidelines for The work of the internal audit function is based on a risk analysis remuneration to senior executives, which will be decided at the that is made at least once a year and which is updated as necessary. Annual General Meeting, along with the applicable remuneraAn internal audit plan is adopted by the Board of Directors prior to tion structure and remuneration levels within the Company. each ﬁnancial year. The Group’s President, Vice President CFO, and Treasurer can REMUNERATION attend the meetings in the capacity of presenters. The Board Remuneration and other terms and conditions of employment for receives feedback on the work of the committees. At each Board persons in an executive position are in accordance with the Governmeeting there is an examination of the minutes from the meetings ment’s ‘Guidelines for terms and conditions of employment for senof each of the committees. ior executives’. COMPANY MANAGEMENT Principles for remuneration to the Board of Directors and senior executives The Akademiska Hus vision is implemented each year in the form of • A fee is paid to the members of the Board of Directors according to a Business Plan. The Business Plan, together with policy documents, a decision reached at the Annual General Meeting. The members comprises the overall basis for control of the Company. of the Board of Directors who are employed within Akademiska The Company is led by the President and the Executive ManageHus and the Government Offices do not receive any fee for this ment. The Regional Directors, Vice President, CFO, Human work. Resources Director, Corporate Communications Director, and • Remuneration for committee work was set at the 2014 Annual Senior Counsel report directly to the President. General Meeting. The Executive Management comprises the President, Vice • Payment to the President and other senior executives comprises a President, the six Regional Directors, the CFO, the Corporate basic salary and a pension. Pension expenses refer to the cost Communications Director and the Human Resources Director. charged to the proﬁt for the year. All amounts are stated excluding The Group Management is a forum for information, discussion social insurance charges and payroll tax. Payment to the President and decisions regarding joint strategic Company matters. The Execis decided by the Board of Directors following a recommendation utive Management is also the steering committee for the prioritised from the Remuneration Committee. Payments to other senior processes. executives are decided by the President following consultation The Company’s head office is responsible, among other things, for with the Remuneration Committee. Remuneration comprises a the ﬁnancial statements, ﬁnancing, property issues, communication, basic salary and a deﬁned contribution pension based on the ITP human resources, legal matters, planning and other matters of an premiums according to a collective agreement. To ensure complioverall nature. The property area includes IT, purchasing/procureance with the owner’s guidelines, an external enquiry was conment, sustainability and process responsibility for construction, ducted in 2011. The enquiry showed that Akademiska Hus is folproperty management and property development. lowing the guidelines. No variable or bonus-based remuneration is paid. Salary surveys are conducted to make a comparison with Regions other property companies. No changes will be proposed regarding Each region has a regional management team. Investment matters the principles for remuneration to the Board of Directors and are initiated and prepared by the regional management and are senior executives for 2015. then reviewed by the Executive Management. In the case of major investments, a matter, after receiving the support of the Executive For a detailed description of remuneration, pensions, periods of Management, passes to the Board of Directors for a decision. notice, severance pay and fees to auditors, see the administration report on page 70 and Notes 9 and 10. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of Directors Name and title EVA-BRITT BRITTA BURREAU OLOF EHRLÉN THOMAS JENNLINGER ANDERS LARSSON GUSTAFSSON Member since 2014 Member since 2011 Employee representative Employee representative Chairman since 2007 Born 1964 Chairman of the Audit (Ledarna) since 2008 (SEKO) since 2009. Chairman of the Finance Committee Born 1956 Born 1963 Committee and Born 1949 Remuneration Committee Born 1950 Position and other President of ApoteksgrupPresident of Nordea Liv Other positions: Operating manager Operating engineer assignments pen i Sverige Holding AB since 2004. Board member of WinAkademiska Hus Akademiska Hus and Apoteksgruppen i group AG; Chair of Faveo Uppsala. Stockholm. Sverige AB. Other positions: Management AS; Chair of Board member of Svensk the Town Planning Sector Other positions: Försäkring and Nordea Liv Ethics Committee and Member of the board of Fastighet Holding AB. Chairman of Svevia AB. Svenska Spel AB. Previous positions Bank Director, Accenture 1992–2004. President and CEO of Employee representative Nordbanken; President NCC AB. (SEKO) Akademiska Hus of Venantius AB; Stockholm AB President of Apoteket 1998–2009. Omstrukturering AB. Education MBA. MSc and MBA. MSc Eng. Production engineering studies. Attendance at 12 of 13 8 of 8 12 of 13 12 of 13 10 of 13 Board meetings Attendance at 3 of 3 2 of 2 Finance Committee Attendance at Audit 6 of 6 Committee Attendance at 3 of 3 Remuneration Committee AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | BOARD OF DIRECTORS 57 INGELA LINDH LEIF LJUNGQVIST PIA SANDVIK GUNNAR SVEDBERG INGEMAR ZIEGLER Member since 2014 Member since 2012 Member since 2011 Member since 2009 Member since 2007 Born 1959 Born 1971 Born 1964 Born 1947 Born 1947 Deputy city manager and Company manager at the President of LänsförsäkOther positions: Other positions: CEO of Stockholm StadsState Ownership Unit at ringar Jämtland. Board member of Kemakta Board member of hus AB. the Ministry of Enterprise Konsult AB Infranord AB, Stockholm and Innovation. Other positions: and Göran Gustafsson Concert Hall and the Clara Other positions: Chairman of RISE AB. Foundation for scientiﬁc Foundation. Board member of SustainaOther positions: Member of the board of the and medical research. ble Innovation, board Board member of Apoteket Strategic Research CounMember of the board of member of Royal College of AB and Samhall AB. cil, Länsförsäkringar AB IVA and KVVS Music, Chairman of Nordic and the IVA Industry in Gothenburg. Building Forum (Nordisk Council. Member of the Byggdag), Chairman of board of IVA. Stockholm Building Forum (Stockholms Byggnadsföreningen). Director of City Planning, Board member of AB Vice-Chancellor of Luleå President of Innventia AB, President of AB StorStockholm. President of AB Svensk Bilprovning, University of Technology Vice-Chancellor of Gothstockholms Lokaltraﬁk, Stockholmshem. Vasallen AB and AB and Pro ViceChancellor of enburg University and Mid Locum AB, DiösförvaltBostadsgaranti. Stock Mid Sweden University. Sweden University and ning, Stockholms Markmarket analyst Kaupthing Deputy Vice-Chancellor of och Lokaliseringsbolag. Bank, Nordiska Fondkomthe Royal Institute of TechFinance Secretary, City mission and Hagströmer & nology. of Stockholm. Qviberg. Architect MSA. MBA. PhD. PhD. Professor of Energy B.A. Technology. 6 of 8 13 of 13 11 of 13 12 of 13 12 of 13 1 of 3 6 of 6 6 of 6 3 of 3 3 of 3 AUDITORS KPMG AB BJÖRN FLINK, LEAD AUDITOR Born 1959 MBA. Lead auditor at Akademiska Hus since 2014. Directorships: Member of the board of KPMG AB, FAR, the trade Authorised public accountant. Other audit assignments, association for accounting consultants, auditors and advisers. selection: GE Capital Real Estate and AMF Fastigheter. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Executive Management Name and title KERSTIN LINDBERG MICHAEL WALMERUD PETER BOHMAN DAVID CARLSSON GÖRANSSON Vice President Regional Director, Uppsala Regional Director, North President since 2011 Employed 2012 Employed 2013 Employed 2003 Born 1956 Born 1967 Born 1972 Born 1976 Other assignments Chairman of AB Svensk Bilprovning, member of the board of Byggherrarna and SGBC. Previous positions Airport Director, Swedavia President, Projektgaranti AB; Terminal Manager and on-call Regional Director, Uppsala, Stockholm-Arlanda Airport; Head of transactions, Catella Airport Director, StockHead of Property ManageAccounting and Finance Swedebroker AB; Property holm-Arlanda Airport. Various ment and Property Manager, Director and Vice President of Manager, Postfastigheter AB; management positions within Akademiska Hus Uppsala; the Scandic Group. Project Manager, NCC Swedavia. Business developer/ Business Developer, SP Fastigheter AB. property developer. Production AB. Education MBA. MSc. BSc. in Business AdministraMSc and MBA tion with focus on real estate Name and title LARS HAGMAN BIRGITTA HOHLFÄLT VAN KRISTINA KORSGREN CECILIA NIELSEN Regional Director, East DALEN Human Resources Director Director of Communications Employed 2012 Regional Director, West Employed 2010 Employed 2012. Born 1953 Employed 2005 Born 1969 Born 1969 Born 1958 Other assignments Board Member of Linköpings Board member Almega Expo AB. Fastighetsarbetsgivarna. Previous positions Business developer, JM AB; Planning adviser, Akademiska HR positions within the Volvo Head of Corporate CommuniCompany coordinator, PresiHus Head Office; Head of Car Corporation and Volvo cations SP Sveriges Tekniska dent of a subsidiary of Vattenproperty supply and operating Truck Corporation. Forskningsinstitut AB. fall AB. Regional Manager, manager, Karlstad University; Partena Security AB. Planning Manager, Property Department, Karlstad Municipal Authority. Education MBA. BA Soc. Admin. Human resources specialist BA. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 59 Name and title JONAS RAGNARSSON TOMAS RINGDAHL STEN WETTERBLAD CAROLIN ÅBERG SJÖQVIST CFO Regional Director, South Regional Director, Stockholm General Counsel Employed 2014. Employed 2013 Employed 2008 (secretary for Executive Born 1962 Born 1960 Born 1957 Management and Board of Directors) Employed 2004. Born 1968 Other assignments Chair of Hagastadens fastighetsägarförening; Board member of the Stockholm Construction Association. Chair of Sthlm6000+ (Student Housing Fair 2017). Previous positions CFO at Tradedoubler, CFO at Division Director for ResidenProperty Director, City of Lawyer, Advokatﬁrman EQT Partners AB, acting CFO tial Construction, Skanska Stockholm; Market Hall Glimstedt; Associate Judge at Swedish Space Corporation Sverige AB; Vice President, Director, City of Stockholm; of Appeal, Court of Appeal (SSC). Accounting and Skanska Sverige AB; Chairman Vice President, Stockholm for Western Sweden. Finance Manager, Radisson of Myresjöhus, Chairman of Parkering; Property Manager, SAS Hotels & Resorts, AdminBoKlok AB, Head of DevelopKullenberg Fastigheter i istrative Manager and Vice ment, Nordic Region, Skanska Stockholm AB; Site Manager/ President, Grand Hotel HoldAB; President, LB Hus. Project Manager, Platzer ings AB. Bygg AB. Education MBA. MSc Eng. MSc Eng. LLM. COMPANY STRUCTURE BOARD OF DIRECTORS INTERNAL AUDIT PRESIDENT VICE PRESIDENT PURCHASING/PROCUREMENT ACCOUNTING AND FINANCE SUSTAINABILITY HUMAN RESOURCES PROPERTY CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS IT LAW SOUTHERN WESTERN EASTERN UPPSALA STOCKHOLM NORTHERN REGION REGION REGION REGION REGION REGION AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Internal control of ﬁnancial reporting The responsibility of the Board of Directors for internal control is governed by the Swedish Companies Act and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. T his report has been prepared in accordance with SecThe overall Business Plan describes the way Akademiska Hus tion 6, sub-section 6 of the Annual Accounts Act and is works, deals with customers, handles assets and addresses the thus limited to internal control of ﬁnancial reporting, future. The Business Plan contains the vision, business concept and which is a central component of corporate governance values. Using the Business Plan as a basis, a number of decisions, at Akademiska Hus. policies and guidelines are drawn up for certain areas within Akademiska Hus, such as property valuation, ﬁnancing, investment, INTERNAL CONTROL OF accounting and reporting. Manuals and descriptions of routines are FINANCIAL REPORTING available for each area. Guidelines for ﬁnancial reporting are The purpose of internal control of ﬁnancial reporting is to provide updated in the event of a change in legal requirements, stock reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of external ﬁnancial exchange listing requirements and/or accounting standards. reporting in the form of interim reports and annual reports, and to ensure that external ﬁnancial reporting complies with the relevant Akademiska Hus has a structured management system that contains laws, regulations, accounting standards and the speciﬁc guidelines strategy, planning and follow-up processes. for external reporting that apply to state-owned companies. The joint Business Plan includes the strategic objectives towards The description of internal control of ﬁnancial reporting at which the Group is guided. The strategy process includes an external Akademiska Hus is based on the ﬁve components of internal mananalysis, as well as an analysis of customers, locations, market segagement and control as deﬁned by the Committee of Sponsoring ments, ﬁnancing and so on. The Company has processes in place to Organisations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in its frameprevent and discover irregularities that could impact on the Compawork for internal management and control. ny’s ﬁnancial reporting. CONTROL ENVIRONMENT RISK ASSESSMENT The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for internal control Risk assessment aims to identify and evaluate the most material of ﬁnancial reporting. The Board of Directors has adopted rules of risks that affect ﬁnancial reporting. The risk assessment identiﬁes procedure that clarify the responsibility of the Board of Directors items for which the risk of signiﬁcant errors is highest. These are and govern the internal work allocation within the Board of Direcitems where the value of the transactions is high or where the protors and its committees. The basis for internal control comprises the cess is extremely complex and there is a need for strong internal control environment with the organisation, decision procedures and control. Identiﬁed risk areas are: responsibility as stated in control documents such as policies and • Property valuation guidelines. • Projects • Financing • IT operations AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 61 CONTROL ACTIVITIES FOLLOW-UP AND EVALUATION Control activities that are designed to prevent, detect and correct Internal management and control of ﬁnancial reporting are monierrors and deviations are incorporated in the ﬁnancial reporting tored and evaluated continuously by the Board of Directors, Presiprocess used by Akademiska Hus. These controls have been dent, Executive Management and the accounting and ﬁnance designed to deal with the most signiﬁcant identiﬁed risks that can department to ensure that procedures are appropriate and efficient. arise in ﬁnancial reporting, and include both general and detailed Shortcomings in the system must be reported to the relevant person checks. Control activities take place at several different levels in the to ensure that improvements can be made. company and include approval of transactions, account reconciliaAt each Board meeting, the Board receives ﬁnancial information tions and analytical follow-up. and an analysis, as well as a report from the most recent meetings of All IT systems that are used for ﬁnancial reporting include a numthe different committees. The Audit Committee follows up audit ber of built-in automatic controls to ensure reliable ﬁnancial reportmatters and more extensive matters of principle with regard to ing. Control measures also take place in the general IT environment, ﬁnancial reporting, including property valuation. in the form of well-developed regulations that govern system perThe internal audit unit is instructed by the Board of Directors to missions, system updates and backup procedures. independently review and evaluate the company’s internal management and control procedures, including internal control over ﬁnanINFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION cial reporting. External ﬁnancial information is published in direct association Akademiska Hus continuously reviews and updates internal manwith the Board meeting in question. In the case of interim reports, agement and control procedures within the company, for example, this takes place on the website and in the case of the Annual Report, to take into account and implement measures and recommendaa printed publication is also produced. Other information channels, tions by the internal auditor and the company’s external auditors. apart from the Board meetings, are committees appointed by the It is the opinion of the Board of Directors that the follow-up that Board, meetings of the Executive Management and other informais reported according to this document is sufficient to assure the tion meetings. efficiency of the internal control system with regard to ﬁnancial Financial reporting takes place through a common reporting sysreporting. tem with a common reporting package. Within the Company, established routines ensure that employees meet regularly at network meetings in order to develop a common view on different issues. Systems and routines are in place to provide the Board of Directors and the Executive Management with reports in relation to established objectives. The company’s governing documents are available to all employees on the intranet. Guidelines and other instructions relating to ﬁnal account events are distributed to all concerned employees through a shared ﬁles area. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Auditor’s report regarding the Corporate Governance Report To the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders of Akademiska Hus AB (publ), Reg. no. 556459-9156 The Board of Directors is responsible for the Corporate Governance different orientation and is signiﬁcantly more limited in scope Report for the year 2014 and for ensuring that it is prepared in compared with the orientation and scope of an audit according accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. to International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted We have read the Corporate Governance Report and based on this auditing standards in Sweden. reading and our knowledge of the Company and the Group, we feel We consider that a Corporate Governance Report has been that we have a sufficient basis for our opinions. This means that our prepared and that its statutory information is consistent with statutory examination of the Corporate Governance Report has a the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Gothenburg, 16 March 2015 KPMG AB Björn Flink Authorised Public Accountant AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 63 Administration Report The Board of Directors and the President of Akademiska Hus AB (publ) Reg. no: 556459–9156, hereby submit the annual accounts and consolidated accounts for ﬁnancial year 2014. GENERAL INFORMATION Proﬁt Akademiska Hus AB (publ) is a limited liability company registered • Net operating income was SEK 3,717 million (3,506) and the net in Sweden. The Company’s registered office is in Gothenburg. operating income ratio has increased to 65 per cent (63). Increased Akademiska Hus is wholly owned by the Swedish State. rental revenue and reduced costs, mainly for operation and mainThe Company is the parent company in the Akademiska Hus tenance, have resulted in an increase in net operating income. Group, the principal task of which is to own and manage university Property management income rose by SEK 93 million, while propand college properties. erty management expenses fell by SEK 119 million, mainly due to The Parent Company’s functional currency is SEK. lower costs for heating and snow removal, as well as reduced costs All amounts are in SEK 1,000 unless stated otherwise. Figures in for maintenance initiatives in projects. parentheses refer to the previous ﬁnancial year. A corporate gover• Proﬁt before ﬁnancial items totalled SEK 7,200 million (3,665). nance report has been prepared and can be found on pages 52–61. The improvement is mainly attributable to changes in property fair values, which had a positive impact on proﬁt of SEK 3,529 ADOPTION OF THE ANNUAL REPORT million compared with 2013, when the change in fair value was The Annual Report and consolidated accounts were adopted by the SEK 232 million. Board and approved for publication on March 16, 2015. The Income • Net ﬁnancial income and expense amounted to SEK –939 million Statement and Balance Sheet for the Parent Company and the Group (–390). This ﬁgure includes changes in fair value of ﬁnancial will be the subject of adoption at the Annual General Meeting on instruments totalling SEK –548 million (17). Most of the changes April 28, 2015. in fair value are unrealised. • Proﬁt before tax was SEK 6,261 million (3,275). The increase is YEAR IN BRIEF mainly attributable to changes in property fair values. GROUP Income Property values The Group’s turnover for 2014 was SEK 5,681 million (5,588). Of this The Group makes use of an internal valuation model, which forms the ﬁgure, rental revenue accounted for SEK 5,495 million (5,359). The basis for determining the fair value. This value was set at SEK 61,437 revenue level increased due to completion of new buildings and million (57,557). To assure the internal valuation, selected properretroactive rent. The sales of properties carried out during 2014 had ties are also valued each year by external valuation companies. a negative impact on rental revenue of just over SEK 80 million. Rental revenue per square metre increased primarily as a result Investments of completion of new buildings that contain a higher degree of Net investments in properties and new construction in progress in specialised premises. 2014 amounted to SEK 252 million (2,379). The decrease is attributable to the properties sold during the year. The major projects completed in 2014 included Skandion Clinic in Uppsala and Lux, which is a new construction and redevelopment project at Lund University. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 64 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Sales EVENTS AFTER THE YEAR-END Properties worth SEK 2,752 million (375) on the balance sheet were In late January we were notiﬁed that the Administrative Court of sold in 2014. All property holdings in Sundsvall and Kiruna, the Appeal in Sundsvall conﬁrmed that Akademiska Hus is considered Forum building in Kista and Campus Konradsberg in Stockholm to be contracting authority, and thus is covered by the Public Procurewere sold. The total ﬂoor space of these properties is 130,000 square ment Act (LOU). The ruling concerns a case in which the Swedish metres. These sales will have a negative impact on income of SEK Competition Authority has initiated proceedings requesting that 226 million on a full-year basis. Akademiska Hus be ordered to pay a public procurement ﬁne for a general construction project regarding the new Skogishuset on the Cash ﬂow Umeå Campus. Case law is unclear in this area since the AdministraThe Group’s cash ﬂow from current operations amounted to SEK tive Court of Appeal in Stockholm recently ruled that state-owned 3,161 million (3,061). Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing totalled SEK –439 Sveaskog is not a contracting authority, while the Administrative million (–2,460). The change is mainly attributed to property disCourt of Appeal in Sundsvall now, without any reported reasons, posals, which added a cash ﬂow of SEK 2,797 million (243). Investmade the opposite assessment of Akademiska Hus. Therefore there ments increased by SEK 250 million to SEK 3,004 million. Cash ﬂow is no uniform case law. Akademiska Hus has therefore decided to from ﬁnancing totalled SEK –853 million (–1,159). This includes a appeal the ruling of the Administrative Court of Appeal in order to dividend of SEK –1,374 million (–1,355) paid to the shareholder. get a ﬁnal ruling from the Supreme Court. Cash ﬂow for the year amounted to SEK 1,869 million (–558). The Group’s current equity ratio is 48 per cent. The owner’s capital structure objectives specify that the Group’s equity ratio should be PARENT COMPANY 30–40 per cent. To facilitate the future harmonisation of the capital Income and proﬁt structure with the owner’s equity ratio target, the Board proposes The Parent Company’s income for 2014 was SEK 7,227 million that resolutions be passed at the Annual Shareholder’s Meeting to (5,831). The proﬁt before ﬁnancial items was SEK 4,044 million reduce the share capital by SEK 5,000 million for allocation to (2,226). Net interest income and expense was SEK –1,073 million non-restricted equity. It is also proposed that bonus issues for the (–527). Proﬁt after ﬁnancial items was SEK 2,971 million (1,699). same amount are implemented to reinstate the share capital to its The gross investment in investment property totalled SEK 3,004 original level. The bonus issues will be implemented by means of a million (2,754) and investment in machinery and equipment revaluation of investment properties. totalled SEK 3 million (4). Following the proposed measures and the Board’s proposed diviEquity amounted to SEK 8,167 million compared to the ﬁgure dend, the Parent Company’s non-restricted equity will amount to of SEK 6,058 million at the previous year-end. SEK 7,457 million. Share capital comprises 2,135,000 shares at a par value of SEK 1,000 per share and with one (1) vote per share. FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS Demand for new premises is strong, especially at the major universiSUSTAINABILITY ties. Consequently, Akademiska Hus has a project portfolio with By taking active steps to use resources more efficiently and reduce approved investments of nearly SEK 12 billion. This means that the emissions from properties during construction and use, Akademiska property portfolio is expected to increase by 5 per cent annually over Hus is contributing to reduced climate impact. Achieving our ambithe next few years. Together with economies of scale and efficiency tious sustainability goals requires large investments and innovative work, net operating income will also increase. As new properties are measures, as well as closer collaboration with customers. completed, the interest coverage ratio will improve. HEALTH AND SAFETY RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Occupational safety is integral to our daily work at Akademiska Hus. All business activities are associated with risk. By creating awareSafety committees and work environment networks are some examness of operational risks they can be managed and the negative ples of collaborative forum where we discuss and work on improveeffects can be limited, while allowing opportunities to be seized. ments, while creating consensus and commitment to health and Akademiska Hus focuses on property ownership in the Swedish safety issues. We have been certiﬁed in systematic work environproperty market. According to its brief, operations are to be carried ment management, AFS 2001:1, for many years. out on market terms. The business will achieve its yield target over Akademiska Hus has a procedure for disability and rehabilitation time by taking advantage of and managing both opportunities and management that is in compliance with the Swedish Social Insurrisk exposure in accordance with risk policies and the business plan. ance Agency’s guidelines. Absenteeism due to illness during the year The risks are analyzed based on probability and impact, in both was 3.1 per cent. ﬁnancial and more qualitative terms. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 65 Risk management Income and Vacancy Risk The Company’s overall risk identiﬁcation is done in conjunction Major investments in knowledge environments have shaped with the annual business planning process, which is based on the Akademiska Hus campuses. The majority of Akademiska Hus leases Company’s operations together with past experience and current have long terms and the counterparties are customers who are intelligence. backed by the Swedish government. The risk of reduced income over Executive Management assesses risks based on the impact on time and non-payment is therefore low. ﬁnancial results and reputation, and the likelihood that they will Akademiska Hus strives to achieve generally designed facilities occur. The major risks are managed in the business plan through that can be redesigned for alternative usage for a broader customer objectives and activities. Implementation and outcomes are continbase. Specially adapted buildings for research and development uously monitored during the year. often have long lease terms with a high probability of renewal. Taken Each year the Board of Directors addresses the Company’s longtogether, this gives a low risk of vacancy. term strategy and decides on a new business plan. Tax risk Risks have different scope and character. Changes in tax laws and their interpretation may affect Akademiska Strategic risks entail external factors that cannot be controlled, Hus, both positively and negatively. Income tax, VAT, property tax but the negative impact may be limited; examples include economic and stamp duty are examples of taxation that can result in changed conditions and political governance. conditions. Operational risks are related to internal processes and include, for example, deﬁciencies in internal procedures and systems, as well as Facilities risk employees’ actions. This deﬁnition includes legal risk and risk Several of our customers have advanced and sensitive activities; within regulatory compliance. These risks can usually be managed consequently disruptions in operations, both temporary and longand limited through proactive risk management and clear proceterm, can have serious consequences. Akademiska Hus works dures and instructions to employees and other stakeholders. systematically with risk analysis to minimise and prevent risks while Financial risks arise from the Company’s ﬁnancial operations. ensuring high reliability. These risks are affected by both our internal processes and external factors. Brand risk Reputation affects the brand and can therefore have an impact on Risk areas ﬁnancial performance. Conﬁdence in Akademiska Hus relies heavily Akademiska Hus monitors global conditions to identify our areas of on the actions of its employees. To prevent and limit brand risk, we risk, a necessary prerequisite for preventing and responding to work proactively with our values and our corporate culture. changing conditions. Risk within compliance Political risks As a state-owned company we should seek to be exemplary in the Our operations are affected by the Government policies in general way we work. Our Code of Conduct offers guidance on how we and the education policy in particular, but also by other factors such should work in order to act correctly in business and in other relaas growth in the Swedish economy and the situation on the labour tionships. The Code of Conduct applies to all Akademiska Hus market. employees and representatives. A dialogue on compliance with the Akademiska Hus’ objective is to own, develop and manage properCode of Conduct takes place each year between employees and ties for universities and colleges with a primary focus on education managers. We also encourage our partners to act in compliance with and research. A change in this objective could entail both risks and the Code. opportunities for Akademiska Hus. Changes in domestic and international energy policy could have Electricity price risk an impact on Akademiska Hus ﬁnancial performance because the Electricity trading at Akademiska Hus is regulated in the guidelines Company is a major energy user. for purchasing electricity. To limit the risks, energy trading prices are hedged gradually over a four-year period to a ﬁnal price hedging level of 80 per cent. Price hedging is undertaken on the ﬁnancial electricity exchange Nord Pool via discretionary management. This strategy limits ﬂuctuations in Akademiska Hus electricity costs, while achieving good predictability regarding future costs. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 66 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Project risk Financial risks Each year Akademiska Hus invests billions of SEK to build new and In its capacity as a net borrower, Akademiska Hus is exposed to develop existing properties. Investments begin only after we have ﬁnancial risks. Financing operations are regulated by a ﬁnancial agreements with tenants that justify the investment. policy that is adopted annually by the Board of Directors. The policy Risks linked to the physical design and implementation are ministates the long-term strategic orientation, allocation of liability, mised by project brieﬁngs, thereby ensuring good governance and the Group’s approach to ﬁnancial risks and the mandates to handle monitoring of projects. A high level of expertise and structured these risks. sustainability initiatives ensure cost effectiveness and quality. The risk plan for managing ﬁnancial risks justiﬁes annual manConstruction cost risk is limited to the greatest extent possible dates for ﬁnancial risk management in the light of the risk scenario contractually in relation to both entrepreneur and tenant. and existing exposure. The Risk Plan also includes analysis of develIn order to further improve governance and control over contract opments in ﬁnancial markets, including both opportunities and negotiations and purchasing, an initiative is underway to develop challenges from the point of view of liability management. and strengthen the purchasing organisation. The Company’s ﬁnancial management is managed by a common Treasury Department, which facilitates effective and co-ordinated Sustainability risk ﬁnancial risk management. Akademiska Hus’ risk control departSustainability is a top priority and is an integral part of the Akademiska ment reviews outcomes and reporting of the Treasury Department Hus strategy. Akademiska Hus has conducted dialogues with its and monitors compliance with mandates. stakeholders and identiﬁed a number of key sustainability areas For a more detailed description of the Company’s ﬁnancial risk which, if not addressed, could be viewed as risks. Areas identiﬁed management, please see Note 33 on page 102. as particularly important include transparency, resource efficiency, A sensitivity analysis has been prepared to show how proﬁt before occupational health and safety, and supplier management, which tax, return on operating capital and fair value would be affected in are handled in the Company’s continuous improvement initiatives. the event of changes in different variables. The sensitivity analysis can be found in Note 2 on page 86. Skills supply risk One factor for success for Akademiska Hus is the ability to attract FINANCING and retain skilled and dedicated employees. Managing an increase in While the global economy does demonstrate growth, the outlook staff turnover as a result of retirements and greater mobility on the is negatively impacted by structural problems, geopolitical unrest, labour market is a challenge. Today there is strong competition and falling oil prices and problematic low inﬂation expectations. Central high demand for skills in property management as well as in conbanks have been forced to continue with extraordinary monetary struction and project management. To address this, we work to stimulus measures and interest rates have fallen to historic lows. ensure attractive working conditions and strengthen our brand. Financial market in 2014 Property valuation risk Developments in the ﬁnancial markets became diametrically differChanges in the fair value of the investment properties can have a ent from the picture drawn before 2014. Fixed income markets in major impact on the Group’s ﬁnancial performance, but such particular have been forced to reconsider earlier optimistic expectachanges represent unrealised proﬁt and therefore do not affect cash tions of increased economic growth, which in turn would have ﬂow. The property valuation process is based on following how the caused monetary tightening. The biggest challenge for central banks property market develops. Akademiska Hus checks frequently with has been the unusually low inﬂation, combined with expectations of external valuers. The valuation parameters that serve as the basis of continued low inﬂation. As the central banks’ efforts to stimulate the valuations are established by the President and CFO. inﬂation have failed, doubts about the effectiveness of monetary policy have increased, even though more and more extraordinary measures AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 67 have been introduced. The problems emanate from structural probdevelopment projects that were completed, totalling SEK 3,004 lems, global overcapacity, and increased geopolitical risks. There is million. In addition, cash ﬂow was good in the low interest rate also an imbalance between too high savings at the same time that environment, even if index-linked increases in rents were virtually the somewhat subdued growth is generating too low investment non-existent. As a result, reﬁnancing mainly occurred in the ECP demand. There are also elements in the course of development that market on competitive terms with short-term ﬁxed interest rates. could be called a currency war: each currency is expected to weaken Although strong demand was observed for Akademiska Hus bonds, through interest rate cuts and contribute to the recovery. The drano issues were implemented because access to liquidity was adematic fall in oil prices, especially during the fourth quarter, served as quate as a result of the property sales. Since no ﬁxed-interest bonds yet another disinﬂation effect. The hope so far has been that the US were issued, the ﬁxed interest period has been balanced with interwould be able to provide the counterforce of a good economic recovest rate derivatives to maintain the ﬁxed interest period during the ery. However, market expectations in the new year have shifted year. The declining interest rates have resulted in a substantial toward a delay in tightening monetary policy in the US due to develdecline in the value of the interest rate derivatives portfolio. opments abroad. Investors in this low interest rate environment face the dilemma Outlook for ﬁnancing activities in 2015 of achieving returns without increasing risk. As a result of the low Akademiska Hus’ assessment is that 2015 will be yet another year interest rate environment, investors seek out longer ﬁxed interest with many persistent challenges for ﬁnancial markets. Many factors periods, leading to a much ﬂatter yield curve. There is reason to must be considered. The most important for analysing interest rate believe that moving forward, interest rates will be established below trends involves identiﬁcation of both risks and opportunities in the what, according to previous frames of reference, was considered to form of inﬂationary tendencies and growth. However, as always the be “normal”. picture is multifaceted, where the attitudes of central banks towards The Riksbank’s recent repo rate cut to –0.1 per cent represented developments and the ability of markets to manage expectations the recognition that Swedish inﬂation is expected to be alarmingly about possible discontinuation of monetary stimulus measures low for a long period, which is problematic in combination with become critical. declining inﬂation expectations. In addition to the rate cut, in order In 2015, there is a reﬁnancing need for both maturing bonds of to further stimulate the economy, the Riksbank will buy government SEK 4,700 million as well as short-term ﬁnancing in the ECP market bonds in the secondary market. of SEK 3,000 million. Investments in the property projects portfolio are estimated at about SEK 3,500 million. Liability management in 2014 Developments in the ﬁxed income market have posed challenges Financing policy, strategies and objectives not only for ﬁxed income fund managers, but also for debt managers. Akademiska Hus carries on active liability management where the In response to the trend of falling market interest rates during most strategy is to weigh up the ﬁnancial risks against the desired low of the year, the focus has been on analysing the ﬁxed income market ﬁnancing cost over time. The two key policy documents adopted by and reviewing previous positions. Since interest rates could be the Board are: regarded as extremely low already at beginning of the year, the • Finance Policy: Describes the long-term strategic orientation, the decline in interest rates has been extraordinary. This decline has Group’s approach to ﬁnancial risks and the mandate to handle largely been without any backlash, with new “all-time lows” these risks, as well as the allocation of liability. recorded month after month. In addition to declining interest rates, • Plan for handling ﬁnancial risks (Risk Plan): Justiﬁes annual mancredit spreads on corporate bonds have also narrowed, which can be dates for ﬁnancial risk management in the light of the risk scenario attributed to solid demand in the low interest rate environment. and existing exposure. Also includes analysis of developments in Akademiska Hus has sold properties for SEK 2,797 million during ﬁnancial markets, including both opportunities and challenges the year. These sales roughly correspond to investments in property from the point of view of liability management. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 68 ADMINISTRATION REPORT RENEWAL STRUCTURE FOR FIXED INTEREST PERIODS AND NET DEBT The ﬁnancing objectives are: MATURITY AS AT 31-12-2014 • Use centralised ﬁnancial management to facilitate utilisation Year Maturity, SEK m Fixed interest, SEK m economies of scale and the efficient handling of exposure to 2015 6,579 7,984 ﬁnancial risks within the Group. 2016 2,418 1,714 2017 1,000 900 • Use the strong ﬁnancial position and good rating, within the 2018 2,608 1,300 framework of the risk mandate, to achieve as low a ﬁnancing cost 2019 120 1,120 as possible. 2020 650 650 • To maintain, through the public ﬁnancing programmes, stable and 2021 1,579 850 continuous access to cost-effective ﬁnancing in relevant markets. 2022 and later 3,769 4,205 TOTAL 18,723 18,723 Risk management ‘Risk’ in this case refers to a possible negative impact due to future Financial risks external events. Risk generally is not unequivocally negative with Exposure to the various ﬁnancial risks is managed within each mancost-driving effects, but rather is an expression of uncertainty. date adopted annually in the risk plan. The impact on net interest There is also a dimension of potential and opportunities that can income and expense is greatest through exercising of mandates for be exploited. the basic portfolio and through the long bond portfolio with ﬁxed The exposure to ﬁnancial risks derives from the capital structure; interest periods and maturities of more than 15 years. i.e., the distribution between loans and equity. Financing activities RISKS AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT mainly involve exposure to interest rate and reﬁnancing risk. The Financial risk Deﬁnition of risk Mandate ﬁnance policy clariﬁes that the important positions adopted for exposure interest rate and reﬁnancing risk ultimately address risk preferInterest risk Risk that the Group’s Fixed interest mandate proﬁt will vary because for the basic portfolio: ences and a propensity to assume the costs of eliminating uncerof changes in market 2–5 years. Long-term tainty. Financial markets generally trade long-term ﬁxed interest rates. bond portfolio: maximum of 20 per cent of periods and maturities at higher risk premiums than the short-term total portfolio equivalents. The objective of risk management is therefore to balReﬁnancing risk The risk that the cost A maximum of 50 per is higher or ﬁnancing cent of the total loan ance the additional costs of long-term ﬁxed interest periods and potential is limited volume may fall due for when loans are due to renewal within a maturities, and thus limited uncertainty, against savings of more be reﬁnanced. 12-month period. short-term ﬁxed interest periods and maturities, and accept greater Credit and The risk of a loss A limit is based on the counterparty risk because a counterrating and the term of uncertainty. The risk analysis also includes identifying and utilising party does not meet the commitment. ISDA its undertakings. agreements are always opportunities that arise on the market. signed before derivative transactions are carried out. CSA agreements are desirable. Currency exposure risk Risk that exchange When ﬁnancing in a rate changes affect foreign currency, the the Income Stateexchange rate risk ments and Balance must be eliminated. Sheets. INTEREST RATE TRENDS AND AKADEMISKA HUS’ FINANCING COST COMPARISONS, DIFFERENT CALCULATIONS OF FINANCING COST % % 6 6 5 5 5.04 4 4 3 3 2.54 2 2 1 1 0 0 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 Year 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 Year Period-allocated ﬁnancing cost, Akademiska Hus STIBOR 3 months Period-allocated ﬁnancing cost, rolling 12 months, % Mortgage bonds, 5 years Government bonds, 5 years Financing cost according to IFRS, rolling 12 months, % AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 69 Fixed interest period and maturity Financing cost The total interest rate risk of the debt portfolio is measured for both The net interest income/expense was SEK –939 million (–390), folloans and interest rate derivatives. According to market practices, lowing a deduction for capitalised interest expense of SEK 134 milrisk is expressed in terms of change in present value for an interest lion (136). This is equivalent to an interest cost, including changes in rate change of 0.01 per cent, or one basis point, with a parallel shift in the value of ﬁnancial derivatives, of 5.04 per cent (2.62) during the the yield curve. period. The increase can mainly be attributed to changes in fair value of ﬁnancial derivative instruments. The interest coverage ratio, calculated on the cash ﬂow impact of net interest income and FIXED INTEREST PERIOD AND MATURITY expense, amounted to a reassuring 671 per cent (647). Fixed interest, Fixed interMaturity, Maturity, SEK m years est, years years years Dec–14 Dec–13 Dec–14 Dec–13 FINANCING COST, BREAKDOWN Long-term 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 portfolio 3,155 25.6 26.5 25.6 26.5 Loan ﬁnancing cost, including Basic portfocharges, % 2.01 2.24 2.75 2.78 1.21 1.72 lio 14,800 3.4 3.4 1.6 2.9 Interest swaps, net interest, % 0.42 0.39 0.40 0.44 0.96 0.60 Total portfolio 7.1 7.5 5.8 6.8 Financing cost, % 2.43 2.63 3.15 3.22 2.17 2.32 Changes in value, ﬁnancial derivatives, % 2.61 –0.01 1.06 –0.23 –0.33 1.31 Forms of ﬁnancing and rating Total ﬁnancing cost, % 5.04 2.62 4.21 2.99 1.84 3.63 Since 1996, Akademiska Hus has had a long-term rating from Standard & Poor’s of AA with a stable outlook and a short-term rating Since derivative ﬁnancial instruments account for a signiﬁcant proof A1+/K1. In the midst of the uncertainty that has continued to portion of the ﬁxed interest period, variations in the outcome of net characterise the credit markets, the value of having highly diversiﬁed interest income and expense will become noticeable during periods ﬁnancing sources has been particularly obvious. The high proportion of major interest rate changes. Below is a comparative calculation in of long-term bond ﬁnancing reduces the need for committed credit which the present value effect of changes in value, both realised and lines with banks. unrealised, is placed against the remaining term of the instruments. FINANCING PROGRAMMES AND RATING NET INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE, BREAKDOWN Rating Utilised Standard & Framework nominal Financial 01-01-2014– 01-01-2013– Poor’s 31-12-2014 31-12-2014 covenants 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Commercial paper A1+/K1 SEK 4,000 m 0 — Interest cost, net loans and ﬁnancial assets –423 –457 ECP (Euro Commercial Net interest derivatives –89 –81 Paper) A1+ EUR 1,000 m EUR 533 m — Change in fair value, standalone ﬁnancial EMTN (Euro Medium Owner derivatives Term Note) AA/A1+ EUR 3,000 m EUR 1,469 m clause – unrealised –364 84 MTN (Medium Term Owner – realised –165 15 Note)1) AA SEK 8,000 m SEK 2,261 m clause Changes in fair value, fair value hedges –19 –82 Bank (conﬁrmed) SEK 2,000 m 0 — Other interest costs –13 –5 Bank (unconﬁrmed) SEK 1,200 m 0 — Capitalised interest expense, projects 134 136 1) Not updated since 2009. Reported net interest income and expense –939 –390 DEBT MATURITY INTEREST RISK, NET LOAN LIABILITY, SEK MILLION PER BASIS POINT SEK m SEK m 25,000 15 20,000 12 15,000 9 10,000 6 5,000 3 0 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2015 2019 2023 2027 2031 2035 2039 Year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Of which, interest rate risk on derivative Risk 0-3 years Risk 3-7 years Risk 7-10 years Risk 7-15 years Long portfolio risk AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 70 ADMINISTRATION REPORT PAYMENTS TO SENIOR EXECUTIVES Periods of notice and severance pay Principles for remuneration to the Board of Directors and senior executives An agreement has been reached with the President, Kerstin Lindberg Akademiska Hus follows the owner’s guidelines governing terms and Göransson, regarding a mutual period of notice of six months. In the conditions of employment for senior executives. Remuneration to event of notice being given by the Company, severance pay is payable the President and other senior executives comprises a basic salary for a further 18 months. The severance pay shall be considered to and a pension. Pension expenses refer to the cost charged to the include payment for holidays and pension beneﬁts. The severance proﬁt for the year. Remuneration to the President is decided by the pay is reduced by any amount Kerstin Lindberg Göransson may Board following a recommendation by the Remuneration Committee. receive from other employment or through other activities. Remuneration to other senior executives is decided by the President Other senior executives within the Group have an agreed period of the Parent Company following consultation with the Remuneraof notice of between six and twelve months depending on when the tion Committee. Remuneration comprises a basic salary and a agreements were signed. Agreements entered into after 2009 follow deﬁned contribution pension based on the ITP premiums according government guidelines with a period of notice of six months and in to a collective agreement. No changes are proposed regarding the the event of notice being given by the Company, severance pay is principles for remuneration to the Board of Directors and senior payable for a maximum of eighteen months. Agreements entered executives for 2015. into before 2009 stipulate a period of notice of twelve months and A fee is paid to the members of the Board of Directors according severance pay for twelve months. All agreements, however, fall to a decision reached at the Annual General Meeting. Board memwithin the framework of twenty-four months, including the period bers who are employed in the Akademiska Hus Group, or who work of notice. Salary payable or remuneration for work performed at the Government Offices, do not receive any fee for this work. during the time severance pay is received shall be set off on Remuneration for committee work was set at the 2014 Annual a krona-by-krona basis. General Meeting. Other information about salaries and remuneration can be seen in Note 9 on pages 89 and 90. Pensions Akademiska Hus has taken out an individual occupational pension PERMITS AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS solution for the President, Kerstin Lindberg Göransson, where the A number of facilities within the Group require a permit or need agreed retirement age is 65 years. Akademiska Hus allocates 30 per to be reported to a supervisory authority in order to be used. cent of Kerstin Lindberg Göransson’s ﬁxed monthly salary, which These facilities have been reported and applications for permits is paid into an occupational pension insurance plan according to (as required) were submitted to the supervisory authorities cona special agreement drawn up with a pension company. cerned and have been granted. The facilities in question are as The pension package includes a sickness and early retirement follows: pension, a retirement pension and optional survivor’s pension and/ Two boilers for combustion technology research, two boilers for or repayment cover. heating and power generation and a number of geoenergy facilities Other senior executives have similar deﬁned contribution agreeand sewage facilities. ments with a maximum allocation of 30 per cent, or what is termed a high-income earner solution with an opt-out premium that is costneutral compared with traditional, collectively agreed ITP. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 71 PROPOSED APPROPRIATION OF PROFITS STATEMENT BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS PURSUANT TO SECTION According to the owner’s financial targets for Akademiska Hus, 18, SUB-SECTION 4 OF THE COMPANIES ACT which were adopted at the Annual General Meeting on 28 April The Board of Directors is of the opinion that the Company’s liquidity 2014, the dividend should amount to between 40 and 60 per cent can be maintained securely. On observance of the relationship of the net profit after tax after reversal of changes in fair value and between the Company’s assets, liabilities and equity, and with due related deferred tax. When deciding on a dividend, consideration consideration given to profit forecasts and investment requirements should be given to the Group’s capital structure and capital requireas of this date, we believe that the proposed dividend is justifiable in ments (equity ratio 30 to 40 per cent). The other economic objecthe light of the demands that the nature, extent and risk of operations tives are that the return on operating capital should be at least 6.5 make on the level of equity. The proposed dividend is thus acceptper cent and the Group’s equity ratio should be 30 to 40 per cent. able in the light of the Company’s consolidation requirements, The average yield on operating capital over five years was 7.6 per liquidity and position in general. cent whilst the target was 6.5 per cent. Return on operating capital The dividend does not affect the Company’s capacity to discharge in 2014 was 7.3 per cent. At the end of 2014, the equity ratio was 48.0 its short-term and long-term obligations or to implement necessary per cent for the Group and 27.0 per cent for the Parent Company. investments. It is also the opinion of the Board of Directors that the After the proposed dividend, the equity ratio is 46.8 per cent for the Company’s financial position, in the light of the proposed dividend, Group and 24.3 per cent for the Parent Company. is secure for the creditors. Nor can the Board of Directors identify any other circumstances that indicate that the dividend ought not to Available for allocation at the Annual General Meeting: be paid in accordance with the proposal presented by the Board of Retained earnings SEK 1,439,714,005 Directors. The proposed value transfer can thus be justified in the Profit for the year SEK 2,457,426,209 light of what is stated in Section 17, sub-section 3, paragraphs 2–3 of Total SEK 3,897,140,214 the Companies Act. The Board of Directors propose that the profit be allocated in such a way that SEK 1,445,000,000 is paid to the shareholder and SEK 2,452,140,214 is carried forward. For details of the financial results and the financial position in general, reference can be made to the following financial statements. PROFIT USED FOR CALCULATION OF DIVIDEND Outcome consolidated Changes in value in Profit used for calculation results the Group of dividend Income from property management 5,681 5,681 Property management expenses –1,964 –1,964 Net operating income 3,717 3,717 Central administration costs –46 –46 Changes in fair value, investment property 3,529 –3,529 0 Profit before net financial income/expense 7,200 –3,529 3,671 Total, financial items –939 548 –391 Profit/loss before appropriations and taxes 6,261 –2,981 3,280 Tax/current tax –1,046 656 –390 Profit after tax 5,215 –2,325 2,890 Dividend, 50% of the profit available for the payment of a dividend. 1,445 The dividend as decided at the Annual General Meeting held on April 28, 2014 was SEK 1,374 million. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 72 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Five-year summary Graph 2014 2013 2012 4) 2011 2010 INCOME STATEMENTS, SEK M Property management income 5,681 5,588 5,511 5,378 5,176 Operating costs –808 –889 –870 –885 –939 Maintenance costs –621 –668 –564 –603 –657 Property administration –326 –272 –278 –268 –249 Net operating income 3,717 3,506 3,588 3,389 3,134 Change in fair value, investment property 3,529 232 –291 361 87 Central administration costs –46 –73 –66 –45 –37 Proﬁt before ﬁnancial items 1 7,200 3,665 3,231 3,704 3,184 Net ﬁnancial income/expense –939 –390 –682 –452 –263 Proﬁt before tax 1 6,261 3,275 2,549 3,252 2,921 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 5,215 2,568 3,149 2,394 2,124 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION, SEK M Fair value, investment property 2 61,437 57,557 54,677 52,071 49,497 Other assets 8,282 5,785 6,955 9,002 4,029 Equity 33,432 29,614 28,336 26,521 25,406 Interest-bearing liabilities 26,082 23,860 24,212 24,693 18,973 Other liabilities and provisions 3,828 9,868 9,084 9,859 9,147 CASH FLOW, SEK M Cash ﬂow from current operations 3,161 3,060 2,126 2,017 2,444 Cash ﬂow from investments 3 –439 –2,459 –2,388 –1,898 –1,459 Cash ﬂow before ﬁnancing 2,722 601 –262 119 985 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing –853 –1,159 –1,081 3,779 –1,175 Cash ﬂow for the year 3 1,869 –558 –1,343 3,898 –190 PROPERTY-RELATED KEY FIGURES Total yield, properties, % 13.4 7.2 6.8 7.8 7.0 of which direct yield, % (1) 6.9 6.8 7.1 6.9 6.7 of which change in value, % 6.5 0.4 –0.3 0.9 0.3 Rental revenue, SEK/m² 1,715 1,664 1,644 1,599 1,557 Operating costs, SEK/m² 252 276 272 277 293 Maintenance costs, SEK/m² (including tenant adaptations) 194 208 176 189 205 Net operating income in relation to administration income, % 65 63 65 63 61 Net operating income, SEK/m² 1,160 1,089 1,120 1,059 979 Level of vacant space, area, % 3.6 2.1 2.6 2.6 3.5 Level of vacant space, rent, % 1.2 0.9 1.0 1.2 2.0 Fair value, properties, sek/m² 2) 2 17,471 16,188 15,504 15,220 14,645 Energy use kWh/m² 4 224 231 235 239 241 CO2, kg/m² 4 11 12 12 9 9 FINANCIAL KEY FIGURES Return on equity after standard tax, % 15.5 8.8 6.9 9.2 8.6 Return on operating capital , % 3) 5 7.3 7.2 7.8 8.0 7.7 Return on total assets, % 10.9 6.1 5.6 7.0 6.5 Interest-bearing net loan liability, SEK m 18,871 19,278 18,528 16,778 15,726 Equity ratio, % 48.0 46.8 46.0 43.4 47.5 Interest coverage ratio, % 6 671 647 558 619 662 Interest cost in relation to average capital in interest-bearing liabilities, % 5.0 2.6 4.2 3.0 1.8 Loan-to-value ratio, % 6 30.7 33.5 33.9 32.2 31.8 Internal ﬁnancing level, % 278 124 93 112 151 Dividend, SEK m 1,445 1,374 1,355 1,245 1,207 PERSONNEL Average number of employees 408 407 403 396 401 Satisﬁed Employee Index (NMI) 66 68 69 70 67 1) Excluding properties under construction. 2) Excluding the value of properties under construction and expansion reserves. 3) The owner’s yield target is that the return on operating capital, excluding changes in value should be at least 6.5 per cent. 4) 2012 recalculated according to IAS 19R. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 73 COMMENTS The total sales sum for the year was SEK 2,797 million (243). Proﬁt 1. Proﬁt before tax amounted to SEK 6,261 million (3,275). Adjustments for Property management is developing positively and proﬁts are stable. items not included in the cash ﬂow in respect of, among other things, Rental revenue increased due to completion of new buildings and unrealised changes in property values, totalled SEK –3,222 million retroactive rent. Sales carried out during the year had a negative (–400). Following a decrease in current receivables and an increase impact on rental revenue of just over SEK 80 million in 2014. Net in current liabilities, cash ﬂow from current operations was SEK operating income amounted to SEK 3,717 million (3,506). The 3,161 million (3,061). increase is mainly due to reduced operating and maintenance costs. Investments had a negative impact on cash ﬂow to the amount Proﬁt before tax was SEK 6,261 million (3,275). The improved proﬁt of SEK –439 million (–2,460). The dividend for 2014 was SEK 1,374 is largely due to the fact that changes in the fair value of investment million (1,355) and reduced the cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing operations. property had a positive impact of SEK 3,529 million (232). Net interThe raising of interest-bearing debt changed the cash ﬂow from est income and expense amounted to SEK –939 million (–390). The ﬁnancing operations by SEK 521 million (196). Cash ﬂow for the proﬁt before tax, excluding the change in fair value of investment year amounted to SEK 1,869 million (–558). property, was SEK 2,732 million (3,043). Proﬁt for for the year amounted to SEK 5,215 million (2,568). 4. Energy use and CO2 Energy use per square metre fell during the year from 231 kWh to 2. Fair value, investment property 224 kWh. We are performing well in relation to our savings target. The fair value of the investment properties was SEK 61,437 m Carbon dioxide emissions are slightly lower than the previous year. (57,557). The unrealised change in fair value was positive and amounted to SEK 3,494 million (365). Reductions of between 5. Return on operating capital 0.25 and 1.95 percentage points were made in the yield target and Return on operating capital was 7.3 per cent (7.2). The owner’s objeccost of capital in all of our locations during the year. The market tive is that the return, excluding changes in fair value, should be at focus continues to be on properties with stable cash ﬂows and low least 6.5 per cent. rental risk (long leases, tenants with a good credit rating). These factors are to Akademiska Hus’s advantage. 6. Interest coverage ratio and loan-to-value ratio The interest coverage ratio was 671 per cent (647). The internal 3. Investments and cash ﬂow ﬁnancing ratio was 278 per cent for the year (124); the increase is Net investments for 2014 totalled SEK 254 million (2,383). Gross mainly due to the property sales. Net ﬁnancial income and expense investments in properties totalled SEK 3,004 million (2,754). amounted to SEK –939 million (–390), of which SEK –548 million Campus Konradsberg in Stockholm, Campus Sundsvall, Forum (2) referred to the change in the fair value of ﬁnancial derivatives not in Kista and the property in Kiruna were sold during the year. included in the computation basis for the interest coverage ratio. 1. PROFIT 3. INVESTMENTS AND CASH FLOW 5. RETURN ON OPERATING CAPITAL SEK m SEK m % 8,000 4,000 15 3,000 6,000 12 2,000 1,000 9 4,000 0 6 2,000 –1,000 3 –2,000 0 –3,000 0 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 Proﬁt before ﬁnancial items Cash ﬂow from investments Return on operating capital Proﬁt before tax Cash ﬂow for the year 2. FAIR VALUE, INVESTMENT PROPERTY 4. ENERGY USE AND CO2 6. INTEREST COVERAGE RATIO AND LOAN-TO-VALUE RATIO SEK m SEK/m2 kg/m2 kWh/m2 % 60,000 18,000 20 250 750 48,000 14,400 16 200 600 36,000 10,800 12 150 450 24,000 7,200 8 100 300 12,000 3,600 4 50 150 0 0 0 0 0 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 Fair value, properties, SEK m Energy use, kWh/m2 Interest coverage ratio Fair value properties, SEK/m2 CO2, kg/m2 Internal ﬁnancing ratio AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 74 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INCOME STATEMENTS Income Statements Group Parent Company Amounts in SEK 1,000 Note 2014 2013 2014 2013 INCOME FROM PROPERTY MANAGEMENT 3 Rental revenue 5 5,494,934 5,359,277 5,494,934 5,359,277 Other property management income 6 185,743 228,709 1,732,355 471,471 Total property management income 5,680,677 5,587,986 7,227,289 5,830,748 PROPERTY MANAGEMENT EXPENSES Operating costs 8 –807,816 –889,194 –808,788 –907,052 Maintenance costs –621,415 –668,331 –624,710 –668,331 Property administration 8 –325,430 –272,253 –312,050 –260,260 Other property management expenses 7 –209,395 –252,786 –215,305 –419,166 Total property management expenses 4 –1,964,056 –2,082,564 –1,960,853 –2,254,809 NET OPERATING INCOME 3,716,621 3,505,422 5,266,436 3,575,939 Central administration costs 4 –45,928 –72,828 –45,928 –72,828 Depreciation and impairments as well as reversed impairments in property management 8 — — –1,176,518 –1,277,421 Changes in property fair values, positive 4,147,532 1,891,916 — — Changes in property fair values, negative –618,564 –1,659,903 — — Total changes in property fair values 15 3,528,968 232,013 — — PROFIT BEFORE FINANCIAL ITEMS 9, 10, 28 7,199,661 3,664,607 4,043,990 2,225,690 Financial income 56,767 160,239 56,767 160,239 Financial expense –995,829 –550,351 –1,129,786 –686,767 Total, ﬁnancial items 11, 27, 28 –939,062 –390,112 –1,073,019 –526,528 PROFIT AFTER FINANCIAL ITEMS 6,260,599 3,274,495 2,970,971 1,699,162 Appropriations 12 — — –243,332 –203,477 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 6,260,599 3,274,495 2,727,639 1,495,685 Tax 13 –1,045,938 –706,982 –270,213 –315,162 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 14 5,214,661 2,567,513 2,457,426 1,180,523 Of which attributable to the shareholder in the Parent Company 5,214,661 2,567,513 EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share, SEK 2,442 1,203 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 2,442 1,203 Number of shares, average and at the year-end 2,135,000 2,135,000 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INCOME STATEMENTS 75 Statements of proﬁt or loss and other comprehensive income Group Parent Company Amounts in SEK 1,000 Note 2014 2013 2014 2013 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 5,214,661 2,567,513 2,457,426 1,180,523 RECLASSIFIABLE ITEMS Proﬁt/loss from cash ﬂow hedges 26 69,557 6,910 69,557 6,910 Tax attributable to cash ﬂow hedges 13 –7,276 3,001 –7,276 3,001 Cash ﬂow hedges, net after tax, dissolved against proﬁt or loss 26 –36,486 –20,552 –36,486 –20,552 NON-RECLASSIFIABLE ITEMS Remeasurement of deﬁned beneﬁt pensions 28 –62,637 97,241 — — Tax attributable to deﬁned beneﬁt pensions 13 13,780 –21,393 — — Total, other comprehensive income –23,062 65,207 25,795 –10,641 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 5,191,599 2,632,720 2,483,221 1,169,882 Of which attributable to the shareholder in the Parent Company 5,191,599 2,632,720 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 76 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | BALANCE SHEETS Balance Sheets Group Parent Company Amounts in SEK 1,000 Note 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Tangible non-current assets Investment property 15, 16 61,436,648 57,556,835 32,605,258 30,734,967 Equipment, ﬁxtures and ﬁttings 17 13,716 18,155 13,716 18,155 Total tangible, non-current assets 61,450,364 57,574,990 32,618,974 30,753,122 Financial assets Shares in Group companies 18 — — 700 650 Derivatives 19, 32 1,477,697 1,292,608 1,477,697 1,292,608 Other non-current receivables 20 471,158 386,527 471,158 386,527 Total ﬁnancial assets 24 1,948,855 1,679,135 1,949,555 1,679,785 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 63,399,219 59,254,125 34,568,529 32,432,907 CURRENT ASSETS Current receivables Rent receivables and accounts receivable 21 230,261 242,226 230,261 242,226 Current tax assets 13 74,114 — 74,177 — Other receivables 22 560,622 698,710 560,621 703,559 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 23 90,301 126,893 90,301 126,893 Derivatives 19, 32 806,787 330,814 806,787 330,814 Total current receivables 24 1,762,085 1,398,643 1,762,147 1,403,492 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Current investments 32 2,786,700 2,400,115 2,786,700 2,400,115 Cash and bank balances 1,771,393 288,885 1,771,182 288,836 Total cash and cash equivalents 25 4,558,093 2,689,000 4,557,882 2,688,951 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 6,320,178 4,087,643 6,320,029 4,092,443 TOTAL ASSETS 69,719,397 63,341,768 40,888,558 36,525,350 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | BALANCE SHEETS 77 Balance Sheets Group Parent Company Amounts in SEK 1,000 Note 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY (attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder) RESTRICTED EQUITY Share capital 2,135,000 2,135,000 2,135,000 2,135,000 Other contributed equity/Share premium reserve 2,134,950 2,134,950 — — Statutory reserve — — 2,134,950 2,134,950 NON-RESTRICTED EQUITY Hedge reserve 26 –18,858 –44,653 — — Fair value reserve 26 — — –18,858 –44,653 Remeasurements of deﬁned beneﬁt liability 22,849 71,706 — — Retained earnings, including proﬁt for the year 29,157,587 25,316,926 — — Retained earnings (in the Parent Company) — — 1,458,572 652,049 Proﬁt for the year (in the Parent Company) — — 2,457,426 1,180,523 TOTAL EQUITY 33,431,528 29,613,929 8,167,090 6,057,869 Untaxed reserves 12 — — 3,692,894 3,449,561 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Loans 27 13,032,159 17,502,919 13,032,159 17,502,919 Derivatives 19, 32 735,556 323,194 735,556 323,194 Deferred tax liability 13 7,752,579 7,008,724 627,410 363,450 Other liabilities 29 12,353 9,509 12,353 9,666 Provisions for pensions 28 407,140 327,909 270,208 262,147 Total non-current liabilities 21,939,787 25,172,255 14,677,686 18,461,376 Current liabilities Accounts payable 342,874 274,971 342,874 274,971 Liabilities to Group companies — — 2,205 2,217 Current income tax liabilities 13 — 262,774 — 262,710 Other liabilities 29 1,999,301 1,300,179 1,999,901 1,299,908 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 30 1,804,626 1,995,666 1,804,626 1,994,744 Loans 27 10,092,359 4,671,747 10,092,360 4,671,747 Derivatives 19, 32 108,922 50,247 108,922 50,247 Total current liabilities 14,348,082 8,555,584 14,350,888 8,556,544 TOTAL LIABILITIES 31 36,287,869 33,727,839 29,028,574 27,017,920 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 69,719,397 63,341,768 40,888,558 36,525,350 MEMORANDUM ITEMS Pledged assets 35 349,788 133,045 349,788 133,045 Contingent liabilities 36 3,934 3,668 3,934 3,668 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 78 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CHANGES IN EQUITY, GROUP Changes in equity, Group Attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder Other contributed Actuarial Retained Amounts in SEK 1,000 Note Share capital capital Hedge reserve proﬁt and loss earnings Total equity OPENING BALANCE AS AT JANUARY 1, 2013 2,135,000 2,134,950 –34,011 –4,142 24,104,419 28,336,216 Comprehensive income Proﬁt for the year — — — 2,567,513 2,567,513 Other comprehensive income Proﬁt/loss from cash ﬂow hedges 26 — — –10,641 — — –10,641 Remeasurement of deﬁned beneﬁt pensions — — — 75,848 — 75,848 Total comprehensive income — — –10,641 75,848 2,567,513 2,632,720 Transactions with the shareholder Dividend — — — — –1,355,000 –1,355,000 Total transactions with the shareholder — — — — –1,355,000 –1,355,000 CLOSING BALANCE AS AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 2,135,000 2,134,950 –44,653 71,706 25,316,926 29,613,929 Comprehensive income Proﬁt for the year — — — — 5,214,661 5,214,661 Other comprehensive income Proﬁt/loss from cash ﬂow hedges 26 — — 25,795 — — 25,795 Remeasurement of deﬁned beneﬁt pensions — — — –48,857 — –48,857 Total comprehensive income — — 25,795 –48,857 5,214,661 5,191,599 Transactions with the shareholder Reduction of share capital1) –1,000,000 — — — 1,000,000 0 Bonus issue1) 1,000,000 — — — –1,000,000 0 Dividend — — — — –1,374,000 –1,374,000 Total transactions with the shareholder — — — — –1,374,000 –1,374,000 CLOSING BALANCE AS AT DECEMBER 31, 2014 2,135,000 2,134,950 –18,858 22,849 29,157,587 33,431,528 1) On 28 April 2014 the Annual General Meeting reached a decision to reduce the Parent Company’s share capital by SEK 1,000,000,000 for allocation to a fund to be used by the general meeting. Furthermore, the Annual General Meeting approved a bonus issue of SEK 1,000,000,000 by raising the value of properties. Other contributed capital comprises a share premium reserve of KSEK 2,134,950 (applies to both the opening and closing balances for all the above reporting periods). AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | CHANGES IN EQUITY, PARENT COMPANY 79 Changes in equity, Parent Company Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Proﬁt for the year Total equity Amounts in SEK 1,000 Note Share capital Statutory reserve Fair value reserve brought forward OPENING BALANCE AS AT JANUARY 1, 2013 2,135,000 2,134,950 –34,011 2,007,048 6,242,987 Comprehensive income Proﬁt for the year — — — 1,180,523 1,180,523 Other comprehensive income Proﬁt/loss from cash ﬂow hedges 26 — — –10,641 — –10,641 Total comprehensive income — — –10,641 1,180,523 1,169,882 Transactions with the shareholder Dividend — — — –1,355,000 –1,355,000 Total transactions with the shareholder — — — –1,355,000 –1,355,000 CLOSING BALANCE AS AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 2,135,000 2,134,950 –44,653 1,832,572 6,057,869 Comprehensive income Proﬁt for the year — — — 2,457,426 2,457,426 Other comprehensive income Proﬁt/loss from cash ﬂow hedges 26 — — 25,795 — 25,795 Total comprehensive income — — 25,795 2,457,426 2,483,221 Transactions with the shareholder Reduction of share capital1) –1,000,000 — — 1,000,000 0 Bonus issue1) 1,000,000 — — 1,000,000 Dividend — — — –1,374,000 –1,374,000 Total transactions with the shareholder — — — –374,000 –374,000 CLOSING BALANCE AS AT DECEMBER 31, 2014 2,135,000 2,134,950 –18,858 3,915,998 8,167,090 1) On 28 April 2014 the Annual General Meeting reached a decision to reduce the Parent Company’s share capital by SEK 1,000,000,000 for allocation to a fund to be used by the general meeting. Furthermore, the Annual General Meeting approved a bonus issue of SEK 1,000,000,000 by raising the value of properties. Share capital is divided into 2,135,000 shares at a par value of SEK 1,000 with one (1) vote per share (applies to both the opening and closing number of shares for all the above reporting periods). AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 80 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Statements of Cash Flows Group Parent Company Amounts in SEK 1,000 Note 2014 2013 2014 2013 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Proﬁt after ﬁnancial items 37 6,260,599 3,274,495 2,970,971 1,699,162 Adjustment for items not included in the cash ﬂow 38 –3,222,416 –400,241 60,301 1,176,791 Tax paid –632,495 115,463 –632,493 115,462 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES BEFORE CHANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL 2,405,688 2,989,717 2,398,779 2,991,415 CASH FLOW FROM CHANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL Increase (–)/decrease (+) in current receivables 186,898 –208,930 191,495 –213,162 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in current liabilities 568,357 279,821 570,807 282,511 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 3,160,943 3,060,608 3,161,081 3,060,764 INVESTING ACTIVITIES 39 Investment in shares in Group companies — — –300 –50 Investment in investment property –3,003,659 –2,754,068 –3,003,659 –2,754,068 Sale of investment property 2,736,720 242,737 2,736,720 242,737 Sales of new construction in progress 60,354 — 60,354 — Investment in other non-current assets –2,784 –4,449 –2,784 –4,449 Increase in non-current receivables –229,978 — –229,978 — Decrease in non-current receivables — 56,212 — 56,212 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES –439,347 –2,459,568 –439,647 –2,459,618 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Raising of interest-bearing loans, excluding reﬁnancing 521,497 196,346 521,497 196,346 Dividend paid –1,374,000 –1,355,000 –1,374,000 –1,355,000 CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES –852,503 –1,158,654 –852,503 –1,158,654 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR 1,869,093 –557,614 1,868,931 –557,508 Opening cash and cash equivalents 2,689,000 3,246,614 2,688,951 3,246,459 Closing cash and cash equivalents 25 4,558,093 2,689,000 4,557,882 2,688,951 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 81 Contents notes Note 1 General accounting principles 82 Note 2 Estimates and assessments 86 Note 3 Segment report 87 Note 4 Categorised operating costs 88 Note 5 Lease agreements 88 Note 6 Other property management income 88 Note 7 Other property management expenses 88 Note 8 Depreciation in property management 89 Note 9 Employees and personnel costs 89 Note 10 Fees and disbursements to auditors 90 Note 11 Profit from financial income and expense 91 Note 12 Appropriations and untaxed reserves (Parent Company) 91 Note 13 Taxes 92 Note 14 Dividend 92 Note 15 Investment property (Group) 93 Note 16 Investment property (Parent Company) 95 Note 17 Equipment, fixtures and fittings 95 Note 18 Shares in Group companies 95 Note 19 Derivatives (Group) 96 Note 20 Other non-current receivables 97 Note 21 Rent receivables and accounts receivable 97 Note 22 Other receivables 98 Note 23 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 98 Note 24 Due date structure, receivables 98 Note 25 Cash and cash equivalents 98 Note 26 Hedge reserve/Fair value reserve 98 Note 27 Loans 98 Note 28 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 100 Note 29 Other liabilities 101 Note 30 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 101 Note 31 Due date structure, liabilities 101 Note 32 Financial instruments valued at fair value 102 Note 33 Financial risk management (Group) 102 Note 34 Asset management (Group) 105 Note 35 Pledged assets 105 Note 36 Contingent liabilities 105 Note 37 Interest received and paid 105 Note 38 Adjustment for items not included in the cash flow 105 Note 39 Purchase sum in conjunction with investments, acquisitions and disposals 105 Note 40 Change in interest-bearing net loan liabilities 106 Note 41 Events after the year-end 106 Note 42 Transactions with related parties 106 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 82 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES Notes 1 • • • • • 1 GENERAL ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES • IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Classiﬁcation – offsetting of ﬁnancial assets • The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the and liabilities EU-endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as at • The amendment to IAS 32 provides clariﬁcation that offsetting is only December 31, 2014. The Group also applies Swedish Financial Reporting • permitted when an entity has a legally enforceable right to offsetting not Board recommendation RFR 1, Supplementary Rules for Consolidated • only in the event of bankruptcy, but also under normal conditions. Financial Statements, which speciﬁes the supplements to IFRS disclo• sures required pursuant to the rules in the Annual Accounts Act. IFRIC 21 Levies • In the Annual Report, items have been valued at cost except with regard According to IFRIC 21, a liability is recognised for a levy (government or • to remeasurement of investment property, ﬁnancial assets that can be sold through legislation) when the entity has an obligation to pay the levy as • and ﬁnancial assets and liabilities (including derivatives) valued at fair a result of an event that has occurred. IFRIC 21 addresses only the credit • value in the Statement of Financial Position. The following is a description entry; in other words, recognition of the liability. • of the more material accounting principles that have been applied. The amended standards and interpretations have not had any signiﬁ• cant effect on the ﬁnancial position, performance or disclosures of the NEW AND AMENDED IFRS STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS 2014 • Group or the Parent Company. The following amended standards and new interpretations came into • effect in 2014: Other IFRS changes • • With the exception of the above, no other new or revised IFRS have been IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements • applied and nor has there been any material impact on the ﬁnancial posiBrieﬂy, IFRS 10 entails a change in the deﬁnition of control and provides • tion, ﬁnancial results or disclosures at the Group or Parent Company. comprehensive guidance for determining whether one company has • control over another company. IFRS 10 does not lead to any change in NEW AND AMENDED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS THAT HAVE • the consolidation of the Akademiska Hus Group. NOT YET COME INTO EFFECT • IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) has issued • the following new and amended standards, which had not yet come • IFRS 12 requires disclosure about subsidiaries, joint arrangements, into effect at the time of publication of this Annual Report: • associates and unconsolidated ‘structured entities’. The new disclosure • standard will entail increased disclosures such as: Will be applied for the Standard ﬁnancial year commencing: • • Nature and scope of the holding IFRS 9 Financial Instruments* January 1, 2018 or later • • Assumptions and judgements when classifying the type of holding IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers* January 1, 2017 or later • • Risks associated with the holding • • Impact of the holding on ﬁnancial position and performance * Not yet approved for application in the EU. • • Cash ﬂows • The Executive Management is currently investigating how other new and • The standard itself states that useful information must not be obscured amended standards and interpretations will affect the Group’s ﬁnancial • by the inclusion of a large amount of insigniﬁcant detail. statements during the period they are applied for the ﬁrst time. • IFRS 3 Business Combinations CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS • Changes have been made in IFRS 3 to clarify that an obligation to pay The consolidated accounts cover the Parent Company and companies • additional consideration that meets the deﬁnition of a ﬁnancial instruover which the Parent Company has a controlling inﬂuence. A conment must be classiﬁed either as a ﬁnancial liability or equity based on trolling inﬂuence means a right to formulate strategies for ﬁnancial the criteria of IAS 32. The reference to IAS 37 has thereby been deleted. activities with the aim of securing ﬁnancial advantages. The existence It is also clariﬁed in the standard that an additional consideration that and effect of potential voting rights that can currently be exercised or is not paid in the form of an equity instrument is reported at fair value. converted are taken into account when assessing whether the Group can exercise a controlling inﬂuence over another company. All subsidiaries IAS 40 Investment Property are wholly owned. The subsidiaries are included in the consolidated It has been clariﬁed that IAS 40 and IFRS 3 are not mutually exclusive. accounts with effect from the point at which the controlling inﬂuence is IAS 40 only includes guidance to distinguish between investment propachieved and they are not included at the point at which the controlling erties and owner-occupied properties. The change clariﬁes that guidance inﬂuence ceases. should be obtained in IFRS 3 to determine whether an acquisition of a The consolidated year-end accounts have been prepared according to property is an asset acquisition or a business combination that includes the acquisition method, which means that the Parent Company’s carryan investment property and therefore falls within the scope of IFRS 3. ing amount of shares in subsidiaries is eliminated against equity, including the capital share of untaxed reserves in the subsidiaries. IFRS 8 Operating Segments The amendment relates to additional disclosure requirements. The comSEGMENT REPORTING pany must disclose the judgements made in the aggregation of operating Operating segments are reported in a way that concurs with the internal segments. This includes a description of the operating segments that report presented to the highest-ranking executive decision-maker. The have been aggregated and similar ﬁnancial characteristics that led to the highest-ranking executive decision-maker is the function that is responjudgement. sible for allocating resources and assessing the results of operating segA reconciliation of segment assets and the assets of the entity must be ments. At Akademiska Hus, this function has been identiﬁed as the Presiprovided in the event that the segment’s assets are disclosed. dent of the Parent Company. The Group is organised and controlled based on a geographical division IAS 19 Employee Beneﬁts into markets/administration areas. The geographical areas (segments) The IASB has published a minor amendment to IAS 19 to clarify the appliare exposed to similar risks and opportunities, which differ compared to cation of the new pension standard, which came into force on 1 January other geographical areas (segments). Geographical areas concur with each 2013. The amendment relates to a clariﬁcation of how to report employee region and thus constitute the segments for which reports are presented. contributions. Contributions from employees are uncommon in Sweden; Segments are consolidated according to the same accounting principles the amendment will therefore have limited effect on Swedish entities. as for the Group as a whole. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 83 1 • • • • • REVENUE RECOGNITION TAX • In its capacity as property owner, the Group has signed operational lease The tax expense (income) for the period comprises current and deferred • agreements with customers and consequently the Group’s reported tax. Taxes are reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income with • income mainly comprises rental revenue. Where applicable, reported the exception of the underlying transaction, which is reported under • rental revenue has been reduced by the sum of the discounts granted to Other Comprehensive Income or directly against equity, whereupon the • tenants. In those cases where lease agreements result in reduced rent associated tax effect is reported under Other Comprehensive Income or • during a certain period, which is equivalent to a higher rent during against equity. • another (later) period, this higher or lower rent is allocated to a speciﬁc Current tax is the tax computed on the taxable proﬁt for a period. • period over the term of the lease. Rental revenue, lease revenue and The taxable proﬁt for the year differs from the reported proﬁt for the • parking revenue are reported in advance and the allocation of rents to year in the fact that an adjustment has been made for non-taxable and • speciﬁc periods therefore takes place so that only part of the rents that non-deductible items. The Group’s current tax liability is computed • accrue to the period are reported as revenue. Revenue recognition noraccording to the tax rates stipulated or notiﬁed as of the year-end. mally takes place linearly over the term of the lease agreement apart Deferred tax is reported in accordance with the Statement of Financial • from exceptional cases when another method better reﬂects how ﬁnanPosition method. According to this method, deferred tax liabilities are • cial advantages accrue to the Group. reported in the Statement of Financial Position for all taxable temporary • Interest income is reported as income divided across the term on differences between the carrying amounts and taxable values of assets • application of the annual equivalent rate method. and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are reported in the Statement of • Dividend income is reported when the right to receive payment has Financial Position with regard to deﬁcit deductions and all deductible • been conﬁrmed. temporary differences to the extent it is likely that the amounts can be • offset against future taxable surpluses. The reported value of deferred • REMUNERATION TO EMPLOYEES tax assets is examined at each year-end and reduced to the extent it is • Remuneration to employees in the form of salary, paid holiday, payment no longer probable that a sufficient taxable surplus will be available for utilisation. • while off sick etc., as well as pensions, are reported as they are earned. Deferred tax is computed using the tax rates that are expected to • As regards pensions and other remuneration following termination of employment, these are classiﬁed as deﬁned contribution pension plans apply for the period in which the asset is recovered or the liability settled. • or deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans. Tax receivables and tax liabilities are offset and reported at a net • amount in the Statement of Financial Position when there is a legal right • Deﬁned contribution plans to offset and when there is an intention to either receive or pay a net • In the case of deﬁned contribution plans, the Company pays ﬁxed contriamount or receive payment of a receivable and pay the liability at the • butions to a separate, independent legal entity and has no obligation to same time. • make further contributions. The Group’s proﬁt is charged with costs as • the beneﬁts are earned, which normally concurs with the point at which TRANSLATION OF ITEMS IN FOREIGN CURRENCY • premiums are paid. Financial assets and liabilities in foreign currency are translated at • the year-end rate, whereupon realised and unrealised translation differ• Deﬁned beneﬁt plans ences are capitalised. Translation differences in operating receivables and liabilities are reported under Other property management income • For deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans, the cost of the pension plan is based on or Other property management expense whilst translation differences • actuarial calculations according to what is termed the Projected Unit Credit Method. A calculation is made each year by an independent actuattributable to ﬁnancial assets and liabilities are reported under Net • ary. Remeasurements, including actuarial gains and losses, effects of interest income and expense. • changes in the asset ceiling and the yield on plan assets (excluding the interest component, which is reported in the Statement of ComprehenINVESTMENT PROPERTY sive Income) are reported directly in the Statement of Financial Position Investment property, i.e. properties that are held to generate rental as income or a cost equivalent to the change in the Statement of Total revenue or gains from an increase in value, are valued continuously at Comprehensive Income during the period in which they arise. Remeasfair value (assessed market value). The fair value is based on the assessed urements, which are reported under Other Comprehensive Income, market value at the year-end, which means the value at which a property affect the retained earnings and will not be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss. could be transferred between knowledgeable parties who are independent Service costs from previous periods are reported in the Statement of of each other and who have an interest in the transaction being impleComprehensive Income for the period in which the plan was changed. mented. Changes in fair value are reported in the Statement of CompreNet interest is calculated on application of the discount rate at the beginhensive Income under the heading Changes in fair value of the properties. ning of the period on the net deﬁned beneﬁt liability or asset. The deﬁned The term ‘properties’ includes buildings and land, land systems, buildbeneﬁt costs are divided into the following categories: ing and land equipment as well as properties under construction (new construction in progress). • Service costs (including service costs for the current period, service Property sales and property purchases are reported in conjunction costs for previous periods and proﬁts and losses in respect of reducwith the risks and beneﬁts linked to title being transferred to the purtions and/or adjustments) chaser or seller, which normally takes place on the completion date, • Net interest cost or net interest expense as long as this does not conﬂict with the terms and conditions in the • Remeasurements contract of sale. For property sales through companies, the sale is reported at the date of taking possession. The ﬁrst two categories are reported in the Statement of Comprehensive A proﬁt or loss that arises on the sale or disposal of properties comIncome as a personnel cost (service cost) or net interest income and prises the difference between the sales price and the most recent valuaexpense (net interest expense). Proﬁts and losses in respect of reductions tion (reported value based on the most recent remeasurement at fair and adjustments are reported as service costs from previous periods. value). The result in conjunction with sale or disposal is reported in Remeasurements are reported under Other Comprehensive Income. the Statement of Comprehensive Income under the heading Changes The deﬁned beneﬁt pension obligations reported in the Statement in the fair value of properties. of Financial Position are equivalent to the current surplus or deﬁcit In those cases where Akademiska Hus uses part of a building for its related to the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt obligations. A surplus is only own administration, the property is only classiﬁed as a property for reported to the extent that it is equivalent to the current value of future investment if an insigniﬁcant part is used for administrative purposes. repayments from each pension plan or future reductions in premium payments into the plan. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 84 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 1 CONTINUED 1 If a property is reclassiﬁed as a property held for resale or an inventory FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS • item, the property is reported at the assumed acquisition value, equivaThe general principles for the valuation of ﬁnancial instruments are that • lent to the fair value of the property at the time of reclassiﬁcation. ﬁnancial investment assets and all derivatives should be valued at fair • value whilst other ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are valued at FAIR VALUE, INVESTMENT PROPERTY the accrued acquisition value. • When valuing the investment properties at fair value (assessed market Financial instruments are reported initially at the acquisition cost, • value), an internal valuation model is used which is quality-assured corresponding to the fair value of the instrument with an addition for • through the checking of the conditions with external property valuers transaction costs for all ﬁnancial instruments apart from those that • and through externally performed valuations. The valuation is based on belong to the category Financial Assets, which are valued at fair value • each property’s expected cash ﬂow during the coming ten years and an through proﬁt or loss. Reporting subsequently takes place depending on • estimated residual value for year eleven. The yield target has been differhow they are classiﬁed, as stated below. • entiated for different types of property and the rental period as well as A ﬁnancial asset or ﬁnancial liability is recorded in the Statement • the town and location assessment. The rental revenue included in the of Financial Position when the Company becomes a party to the con• valuation has been assessed on market terms and in the model, normaltractual terms and conditions of the instrument or when applicable • ised operating costs have been used. Maintenance costs have been calcuaccording to ‘regular way purchase’ principles. Accounts receivable are lated on a standardised basis according to the use of the property. recorded in the Statement of Financial Position when an invoice has • been sent. A liability is recorded when the counter-party has performed • CARRYING AMOUNT, INVESTMENT PROPERTY and there is a contractual obligation to pay, even if an invoice has not yet • Depreciation according to plan is based on the original acquisition value been received. Accounts payable are recorded when an invoice has been • received. reduced by the estimated residual value and takes place on a linear basis • over the estimated useful life of the asset. A ﬁnancial asset is removed from the Statement of Financial Position • when the rights in the agreement are realised, fall due or the Company • Depreciation according to plan is normally carried out using the loses control over them. The same applies to part of the ﬁnancial asset. • following percentages of the acquisition value: A ﬁnancial liability is removed from the Statement of Financial Position • Land improvments 5% when the obligation in the agreement is discharged or is extinguished in • Buildings 2.5 % some other way. The same applies to part of a ﬁnancial liability. • Building equipment 10 % Land equipment 20 % The Group categorises its ﬁnancial instruments as: • • Assets valued at fair value in proﬁt or loss • EQUIPMENT, FIXTURES AND FITTINGS Assets in this category are reported initially at the acquisition cost, i.e. • fair value at the time of acquisition, and are subsequently valued continEquipment, ﬁxtures and ﬁttings mainly comprise IT equipment and • uously at fair value. The change in fair value is reported continuously office equipment. These are reported at the acquisition value reduced by • depreciation according to plan and possible impairment. through proﬁt or loss. All Akademiska Hus investment assets and out• Depreciation according to plan is based on the original acquisition standing derivatives (with a positive fair value) fall into this category. • value reduced by the estimated residual value and takes place on a linear • Loan receivables and accounts receivable • basis over the estimated useful life of the asset. Assets in this category are non-derivative ﬁnancial assets with estab• lished or establishable payment ﬂows that are not listed on an active • Depreciation according to plan is normally carried out using the market. These assets are reported and valued on a continuous basis at • following percentages of the acquisition value: the accrued acquisition cost. Akademiska Hus’s accounts receivable • Computer equipment 33% also fall into this category and are reported and valued continuously at Equipment, ﬁxtures and ﬁttings 20% the acquisition cost. At each period-end, an impairment examination is • made of this asset. Non-current security holdings fall into this category • Depreciation according to plan of equipment, ﬁxtures and ﬁttings is and are valued at the accrued acquisition value unless an impairment • reported as an operating cost or under property administration. requirement has been identiﬁed. • The proﬁt or loss that arises on scrapping or disposal of equipment, • Liabilities valued at fair value through proﬁt or loss • ﬁxtures and ﬁttings is reported as Other property management income These liabilities are reported initially at the acquisition cost and thereor Other property management expense. after on an ongoing basis at fair value. The change in fair value is reported on a continuous basis through proﬁt or loss. Akademiska IMPAIRMENT Hus’s outstanding derivatives with a negative fair value fall into this Impairment takes place in those cases where the reported value of the category. asset exceeds the recovery value. Reported values for the Company’s • Other ﬁnancial liabilities assets are checked at each period-end to determine if there is any indicaLiabilities in this category are reported and valued at the accrued tion of an impairment requirement. If there is such an indication, acquisition value according to the annual equivalent rate method. the recoverable value of the asset is calculated. The recoverable value Direct costs when loans are raised are included in the acquisition is the higher of the value in use and the net realisable value. value. All debt ﬁnancing is included in this category. Akademiska When computing the value in use, future cash ﬂows are discounted at Hus’s accounts payable and other liabilities are classiﬁed under this a rate of interest before tax that it is envisaged will take into account the category but are reported at the acquisition value. market’s assessment of risk-free interest and risk linked to the speciﬁc asset. For an asset which does not, independent of other assets, generate Offsetting of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities any cash ﬂow, the recoverable value of the cash-generating unit to which Financial assets and liabilities are offset and reported at a net amount in the asset belongs is calculated. the Statement of Financial Position when there is a legal right to offset Reversal of previous impairments takes place when the recoverable and when there is an intention to settle the items at a net amount or at value for a previously impaired asset exceeds the carrying amount the same time realise the asset and settle the debt. Information relating and the need for impairment made previously is no longer considered to offset ﬁnancial assets and liabilities under IFRS 7 can be seen in the necessary. The reversal is reported in the Statement of Comprehensive notes to the balance sheet. Income. An examination of past impairments takes place on an individual basis. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 85 Calculation of fair value, ﬁnancial instruments ments. In a hedging situation where the underlying Statement of Finan1 When establishing the fair value of current investments, derivatives and cial Position item is business-related, the changes in fair value of the • loan liabilities, the official market listing at the period-end is used and derivative are reported against operating proﬁt. Changes in fair value • calculation takes place according to generally accepted methods. In those attributable to the derivatives that comprise hedging instruments in a • cases where such listings are not available, a valuation is made through cash ﬂow hedge are reported under Other comprehensive income, are • discounting of future cash ﬂows at the listed market interest rate for each accumulated in equity and are reported against ﬁnancial or operating • term. Translation into Swedish kronor takes place at the listed rate at the proﬁt at the time the underlying exposure affects the proﬁt. Interest derivatives (interest future contracts, interest swap agree• period-end. Calculated and estimated fair values are indicative and will not necessarily be realised. ments, FRA contracts and interest options) are held mainly to secure the • The nominal value of accounts receivable and accounts payable, desired ﬁxed interest period in existing debt ﬁnancing. Interest deriva• reduced by possible estimated credits, is assumed to be equivalent to tives are valued on an ongoing basis at fair value and the effects attributa• their fair value. Information according to IFRS 13 about the level in ble to the changes in value are reported against net interest income and • the fair value hierarchy for different items can be found in Note 32. expense in conjunction with hedging of fair value and against Other com• prehensive income in conjunction with cash ﬂow hedging. The net of the • Rent receivables, accounts receivable and other receivables accrued interest income and interest expense is allocated to speciﬁc peri• Rent receivables and accounts receivable are reported initially at the fair ods and expensed over the term of the derivative. • value and are then reported at the invoiced amount following a deducIn conjunction with ﬁnancing in a foreign currency, all future payment ﬂows are hedged so that no currency risk remains. Currency risk • tion for any impairment (bad debts), which is equivalent to the accrued hedging takes place with the aid of currency derivatives (currency future • acquisition value. The estimated term of rent receivables and accounts receivable is short and consequently the value is reported at the nominal contracts, currency swap agreements or combined with an interest swap • amount without discounting. Doubtful receivables are assessed individuagreement). Currency derivatives are translated at the period-end • ally and any impairment is reported within operating costs. exchange rate and when hedge reporting is applied, the effects of the • currency translation of the derivative naturally meet the effects of the • Cash and cash equivalents currency translation of the debt in the ﬁnancial result. • Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and bank balances and current Independent derivatives, i.e. derivatives that are not included in any • investments with a term shorter than three months. These assets are hedging relationship, are valued at fair value and the change in fair value • regarded as being sellable immediately with a negligible risk of changes is recorded directly against the net interest income and expense. • in value, which means that the reported value (acquisition value plus With the aim of evening out price variations on the electricity market, and in doing so achieve an even trend for the Group’s electricity costs, • accrued coupon) is equivalent to the fair value. future electricity use is hedged with the aid of electricity futures. Elec• Current investments tricity futures are valued continuously at fair value and when hedge • reporting according to the cash ﬂow method is applied, the changes in • Current investments with a term in excess of three months comprise fair value are reported directly against Other comprehensive income. • interest-bearing securities and are reported and valued at fair value. The effects of price hedging, the difference between the electricity • Changes in fair value (unrealised proﬁts and losses) are reported on a future’s hedged price and the average spot price during the term of the • continuous basis through net interest income and expense. electricity future, are offset against proﬁt and are transferred on matuIn the Statement of Cash Flows, current investments with a term in • rity from equity and reported as an operating cost. Consequently, the excess of three months are not classiﬁed as cash and cash equivalents. • result of the electricity future and the Group’s physical electricity pur• Loan ﬁnancing chases constitute the actual electricity cost. In accordance with the currency mandate in the guidelines for pur• All loan ﬁnancing is reported initially at fair value, net after transaction • chasing electricity, currency risk exposure attributable to outstanding costs. Borrowing is subsequently reported at the accrued acquisition electricity futures is currency hedged with the aid of currency futures. • value and any difference between the amount received and the repayCurrency futures are valued on an ongoing basis at fair value and when • ment amount is reported in net interest income and expense divided hedge accounting according to the cash ﬂow method is applied, the • over the loan period on application of the annual equivalent rate method. changes in value are reported directly against Other comprehensive • Borrowing that constitutes a hedged item in conjunction with fair income. The effects are expensed on settlement, i.e. the effects are • value hedging is reported and valued on an ongoing basis after the acquitransferred from equity and reported as an operating cost. sition point at fair value with account taken of the hedged risk. Changes in fair value are reported in net interest income and expense. Hedge accounting Loan ﬁnancing in foreign currency is translated and the effects are Akademiska Hus’s hedge accounting takes place through a division into reported through proﬁt or loss. two different methods of hedging depending on the aim of the hedging: The Group applies IAS 23 Borrowing Costs. IAS 23 means that the fair value hedging and cash ﬂow hedging. Group capitalises interest expense attributable to properties under conIn the case of fair value hedging, both the hedged item/exposure and struction that take a signiﬁcant period of time to complete. Capitalised the hedging instrument are valued at fair value. The changes in fair value interest expense has a positive effect on net interest income and expense are reported continuously in proﬁt or loss. and a negative effect on the change in fair value of investment property to With cash ﬂow hedging, the hedging instrument is valued at the fair the equivalent amount. Financing costs for properties under construcvalue at the same time that the hedged item in conjunction with borrowtion that do not take a signiﬁcant period of time to complete are charged ing is valued according to the current valuation method (categorisation). in full to the ﬁnancial result for each year. According to the demands for cash ﬂow hedging, a change in fair value Accounts payable and other liabilities attributable to a derivative that qualiﬁes for hedge accounting is reported on an ongoing basis in other comprehensive income and is accumulated Accounts payable and other liabilities have a short expected term and in equity until the underlying transaction/exposure affects the Stateare valued at the nominal value without discounting. ment of Comprehensive Income. One of the criteria for hedge accounting to be applied is that the hedging Financial derivatives relationship is expected to be effective both at the time of entering into the Derivatives are held primarily with the aim of securing long-term, relationship as well as during the hedging period. The ineffective part of cost-effective debt ﬁnancing and handling the Group’s ﬁnancial risk the hedging, i.e. the difference between the changes in fair value in the exposure by hedging interest and currency exposure against ﬂuctuations exposure (interest, electricity price or exchange rate risk) which are in interest rates and exchange rates. hedged in the underlying transaction/ﬂow and the change in fair value in Derivatives are valued at fair value and changes in value are reported the hedging instrument’s (derivative’s) equivalent risk is expensed. on an ongoing basis against net ﬁnancial income and expense with the exception of the outstanding derivatives, which comprise hedging instruAKADEMISKA HUS 2014 86 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 1 CONTINUED 1 When a hedging measure is entered into, the relationship between Investment property 2 the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with the aim of the Properties are reported in a legal entity at the acquisition cost with • hedging measure and the method used to calculate the effectiveness, are a deduction for accumulated depreciation, impairments and reversed documented. impairments. The depreciation period is based on each property’s useful • life. • PROVISIONS During the year three properties were revised upwards. Depreciation • Provisions are reported in the Statement of Financial Position when the on the upwards remeasurement occurs linearly with such an amount • Company has a formal or informal undertaking because of an event that that the remeasurement is completely written off when the properties • has occurred and where it is probable that an outﬂow of resources is are otherwise fully depreciated. • required to settle the undertaking and a reliable estimate of the amount • can be made. Shares in subsidiaries • Shares in subsidiaries are reported at the acquisition cost. • PARENT COMPANY, ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES • The Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts according to Payments to employees • the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Accounting Standards Board The Parent Company’s pension undertakings have been calculated • recommendation RFR 2 Reporting for Legal Entities and applicable and reported based on the Safeguarding of Pension Commitments Act. • statements from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. Application of the Safeguarding of Pension Commitments Act is a preRFR 2 means that in the annual accounts for the legal entity, the Parent requisite for the right to make a tax deduction. • Company shall apply all EU-endorsed IFRS and statements as far as this • is possible within the framework of the Annual Accounts Act and the Deferred tax • Safeguarding of Pension Commitments Act and with consideration given The amounts that are allocated to untaxed reserves comprise taxable • to the link between accounting and taxation. The recommendation states temporary differences. Because of the link between accounting and taxa• the exceptions and addenda that are to be made to IFRS. The differences tion, the deferred tax liability that is attributable to the untaxed reserves • between the Group’s and the Parent Company’s accounting principles is not reported separately in a legal entity. These are thus reported at the • are stated below. gross amount in the Statement of Financial Position. The appropriations • are reported at the gross amount in the Statement of Comprehensive • Amended accounting principles Income. • No amendments to RFR 2 with a material impact on the Parent Company’s ﬁnancial statements were made during 2014. • • • • • • • 2 ESTIMATES AND ASSESSMENTS When calculating the Group’s pension liability in accordance with IAS • 19, a number of assumptions are made, including the discount rate in curWhen preparing reports in compliance with IFRS, the Executive • rent value assessment, expected salary increases, inﬂation, staff turnover, Management and the Board of Directors must make assessments • remaining period of service for those covered by the pension plan as well and assumptions that affect the reported asset and liability items and • as expected mortality assumptions. The levels of these parameters are income and cost items in the ﬁnal accounts as well as information proadapted to company-speciﬁc conditions and partly to normal external • vided generally, including contingent liabilities. These assessments are conditions (see also Note 28). • based on historical experience and different assumptions the Executive • Management and the Board of Directors have considered reasonable SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS, IMPACT ON PROFIT • under the prevailing circumstances. The conclusions drawn form the The sensitivity analysis shows how the proﬁt before tax, return on equity • basis for decisions regarding reported values of assets and liabilities and fair value of the investment property would be affected in the event in those cases where these cannot be established easily through inforof changes in different variables. The analysis shows the impact on an mation from other sources. The actual outcome could differ from these annual basis at full effect. assessments if other assumptions are made or if other conditions emerge. Changes in the cost of capital or yield target are factors that affect the Assessments could have a material impact on the Akademiska Hus proﬁt fair value most. The impact on proﬁt of a change in fair value, however, and ﬁnancial position, particularly within regard to valuation of investment would not affect the cash ﬂow as it is unrealised. In the sensitivity analysis, properties (see also Note 15). the current lease portfolio has been taken into account with regard to rental revenue and vacant space. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS, IMPACT ON PROFIT Impact on return on Impact on pre-tax operating capital, Impact on fair value, Impact on fair value, Change proﬁt, SEK m percentage points SEK m percentage points Rental revenue, +/– one percentage point 55 0.1 356 0.7 Vacant space, +/– one percentage point 51 0.1 370 0.3 Operating costs, +/– one percentage point 8 0.0 80 0.2 of which media provision 6 0.0 41 0.1 Cost of capital, + one percentage point –3,623 0.2 –3,623 –6.8 Cost of capital, – one percentage point 3,975 –0.2 3,975 7.5 Yield target, + one percentage point –4,295 0.2 –4,295 –8.1 Yield target, – one percentage point 6,094 –0.3 6,094 11.5 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 87 3 SEGMENT REPORT ‘Investments’ refer to gross investments in investment property, • construction of properties in progress and equipment, ﬁxtures and • The Group’s operations are controlled and reported on a regional basis. ﬁttings. ‘Other operations’ refer to operations that are not attributable 3 Segment reporting has been prepared using the same accounting printo the regions. ciples applied to the Group as a whole. Revenue per segment is based on • Net operating income is the most important measure of performance the tenant’s geographical location whilst assets and liabilities are based • and is reported and followed up on a regular basis by the Group’s on the tenant’s physical location. • supreme decision-maker. The proﬁt after net operating income is not All revenue is generated in Sweden and all regions carry on property • reported and is not followed up for each segment. Investment property is management. • the asset measurement that is reported internally and is followed up for For details of larger customers, see Note 5. each segment. Internal follow-up of other assets and liabilities only takes • No sales between the segments have taken place. place on the overall level for the Group. • • • Total, operating Other • Segment information 2014 South West East Uppsala Stockholm North segments operations Group • Rental revenue 717,241 753,183 539,311 1,018,370 1,957,517 509,312 5,494,934 — 5,494,934 • Other property management income 27,825 50,345 9,570 19,317 60,348 17,164 184,569 1,174 185,743 • Total income 745,066 803,528 548,881 1,037,687 2,017,865 526,476 5,679,503 1,174 5,680,677 • • Operating costs –119,455 –116,606 –84,606 –154,699 –269,357 –66,388 –811,111 3,295 –807,816 • Maintenance costs –103,019 –86,873 –51,846 –93,789 –162,778 –126,405 –624,710 3,295 –621,415 • Property administration –24,327 –24,097 –14,380 –24,922 –65,592 –13,655 –166,973 –158,457 –325,430 • Other property management expenses –23,247 –43,402 –4,085 –17,582 –95,692 –26,964 –210,972 1,577 –209,395 • Total costs, property management –270,048 –270,978 –154,917 –290,992 –593,419 –233,412 –1,813,766 –150,290 –1,964,056 • • NET OPERATING INCOME 475,018 532,550 393,964 746,695 1,424,446 293,064 3,865,737 –149,116 3,716,621 • • Central overheads –45,928 • Changes in fair value, investment property 3,528,968 • Proﬁt before ﬁnancial items 7,199,661 • • Proﬁt/loss from ﬁnancial items (net) –939,062 • PROFIT BEFORE TAX ACCORDING • TO THE INCOME STATEMENT 6,260,599 • • Investment property 7,889,166 7,454,342 4,933,064 12,458,510 24,536,646 4,164,920 61,436,648 — 61,436,648 • of which invested during the year 596,547 161,502 11,948 590,983 1,569,909 72,770 3,003,659 — 3,003,659 • • Total, • operating Other Segment information 2013 South West East Uppsala Stockholm North segments operations Group • • Rental revenue 725,397 761,219 535,086 899,916 1,919,261 519,398 5,360,277 –1,000 5,359,277 • Other property management income 29,667 57,060 9,251 35,764 81,435 15,532 228,709 228,709 • Total income 755,064 818,279 544,337 935,680 2,000,696 534,930 5,588,986 –1,000 5,587,986 Operating costs –130,939 –122,347 –89,567 –169,665 –296,479 –80,197 –889,194 –889,194 Maintenance costs –140,509 –95,701 –40,031 –104,122 –195,093 –92,875 –668,331 –668,331 Property administration –148,687 –25,153 –14,646 –24,652 –45,386 –13,729 –272,253 –272,253 Other property management expenses –18,473 –53,849 –4,704 –33,507 –89,599 –52,654 –252,786 –252,786 Total costs, property management –438,608 –297,050 –148,948 –331,946 –626,557 –239,455 –2,082,564 0 –2,082,564 NET OPERATING INCOME 316,456 521,229 395,389 603,734 1,374,139 295,475 3,506,422 –1,000 3,505,422 Central overheads –72,828 Changes in fair value, investment property 232,013 Proﬁt before ﬁnancial items 3,664,607 Proﬁt/loss from ﬁnancial items (net) –390,112 PROFIT BEFORE TAX ACCORDING TO THE INCOME STATEMENT 3,274,495 Investment property 7,093,610 6,954,996 4,648,219 11,050,272 23,632,979 4,176,759 57,556,835 — 57,556,835 of which investments 489,117 113,433 65,302 1,053,044 987,634 41,538 2,750,068 — 2,750,068 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 88 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES • 4 CATEGORISED OPERATING COSTS • Group Parent Company • 2014 2013 2014 2013 4 Functions reported in the Income Statements 5 Property management –1,964,056 –2,082,564 –1,960,853 –2,254,809 6 Central administration costs –45,928 –72,828 –45,928 –72,828 7 TOTAL OPERATING COSTS ACCORDING TO FUNCTION –2,009,984 –2,155,392 –2,006,781 –2,327,637 • • CATEGORISED FUNCTION COSTS • Energy, fuel and water –607,246 –673,751 –607,246 –673,751 • Property administration –98,526 –49,392 –85,145 –44,761 • Maintenance costs, material and services purchased –673,813 –738,211 –677,109 –756,070 • Site leasehold charges –57,168 –57,763 –57,168 –57,763 • Property tax –3,555 –3,166 –3,555 –3,166 • Personnel costs –348,022 –337,732 –348,022 –330,370 • Depreciation –7,169 –9,262 –7,169 –9,262 • Other costs –214,485 –286,115 –221,367 –452,494 • TOTAL CATEGORISED OPERATING COSTS –2,009,984 –2,155,392 –2,006,781 –2,327,637 • • • 5 LEASES • All investment property is leased under operational lease agreements • and generate rental revenue. The rental revenue during the period • amounted to KSEK 5,494,934 (5,359,277) and the direct costs for the • properties during the period totalled KSEK 1,964,056 (2,082,564). Proﬁt • for the year includes KSEK 565,152 (566,400) for variable supplements. • Lund University and Uppsala University account for 11 per cent and 9 per • cent of the rental revenue respectively. • • CONTRACTED RENTAL REVENUE AS AT 31-12-2014 ACCORDING LEASE TERMS AS AT 31-12-2014 TO THE SIZE OF THE LEASE • • Contracted Contracted Due date Number of leases annual rent Proportion, % Annual rent Number of leases annual rent Proportion, % • • Non-residential Non-residential premises premises • 2015 291 506,922 9 >70,000 3 388,401 7 • 2016 258 518,586 9 30,000–70,000 36 1,513,275 26 • 2017 219 640,805 11 10,000–30,000 134 2,265,605 38 • 2018 148 664,174 11 7,500–10,000 49 426,263 7 • 2019 69 327,286 6 5,000–7,500 76 472,922 8 • 2020 68 555,743 9 2,500–5,000 117 430,888 7 • 2021 and later 189 2,686,364 45 <2,500 827 402,526 7 • Other 246 36,118 0 Other 246 36,118 0 TOTAL 1,488 5,935,998 100 TOTAL 1,488 5,935,998 100 6 OTHER PROPERTY MANAGEMENT INCOME Group Parent Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 Parking revenue 57,690 57,864 57,690 57,864 Proﬁt on the sale of other non-current assets — 175 1,546,612 242,937 Income from external property management assignments and similar assignments 78,813 95,593 78,813 95,593 Income from services performed on behalf of tenants 45,343 45,876 45,343 45,876 Other 3,897 29,201 3,897 29,201 TOTAL 185,743 228,709 1,732,355 471,471 7 OTHER PROPERTY MANAGEMENT EXPENSES Group Parent Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 Site leasehold charges, property tax and other risk costs –78,525 –75,711 –78,525 –75,711 Loss on the sale and disposal of other noncurrent assets — — –32,257 –205,584 Costs for external property management assignments and similar assignments –48,025 –60,320 –48,025 –60,320 Costs for services performed on behalf of tenants –44,127 –44,600 –44,127 –44,600 Other –38,718 –72,155 –12,371 –32,951 TOTAL –209,395 –252,786 –215,305 –419,166 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 89 8 DEPRECIATION, IMPAIRMENTS AND REVERSED IMPAIRMENTS • IN PROPERTY MANAGEMENT • Group Parent Company • 2014 2013 2014 2013 • Investment property — — –1,169,349 –1,268,159 • Equipment, ﬁxtures • and ﬁttings –7,169 –9,262 –7,169 –9,262 • TOTAL –7,169 –9,262 –1,176,518 –1,277,421 8 9 In the Group and Parent Company, KSEK 3,585 (4,631) has been reported as property administration and KSEK 3,584 (4,631) as • operating costs. • • • • • 9 EMPLOYEES AND PERSONNEL COSTS SALARIES, OTHER REMUNERATION AND SOCIAL SECURITY COSTS • The average number of employees was as follows: 2014 2013 • 2014 2013 Parent Parent Group Company Group Company • AKADEMISKA HUS AB • SALARIES AND Head Ofﬁce, Gothenburg 78 69 • REMUNERATION Southern Region 49 48 • Board members, President Western Region 59 63 and Vice President 5,569 5,569 5,380 5,380 • Eastern Region 28 28 Other employees 217,734 217,734 207,216 207,216 • Uppsala Region 64 66 TOTAL 223,303 223,303 212,596 212,596 • Stockholm Region 96 102 • Northern Region 34 31 SOCIAL SECURITY COSTS • Board members, President • Subsidiaries — — and Vice President 3,231 3,231 2,997 2,997 • GROUP, TOTAL 408 407 (of which pension costs) (1,865) (1,865) (1,542) (1,542) • Other employees 103,964 103,964 104,073 104,073 • (of which pension costs) (57,287) (57,287) (60,483) (60,483) • The proportion of women (based on the average number of employees) in the Parent Company and the Group is 26 per cent (26). TOTAL 107,195 107,195 107,070 107,070 • (of which pension costs) (59,152) (59,152) (62,025) (62,025) • • GENDER DIVISION, BOARD, GROUP MANAGEMENT AND OTHER PERSONS The Group’s and Parent Company’s outstanding pension obligations • IN EXECUTIVE POSITIONS to the President, Regional Directors and other members of Executive • The Board comprises 8 (8) members elected at the Annual General MeetManagement total KSEK 2,839 (1,816). The subsidiaries do not have any • ing and 2 (2) members appointed by the employees. 4 (3) of the members employees and no salaries have been paid. • are women, i.e. 40 per cent (30). • Overall management of the Group rests with the Executive Manage• ment, which comprises 7 (6) men and 4 (4) women. The Executive Management comprises the President, Vice President, CFO, Human • Resources Director, Corporate Communications Director, and Regional • Directors. PAYMENTS TO THE BOARD 2014 2013 Director’s Remuneration Finance Audit Director’s Remuneration Finance Audit fees Committee Committee Committee fees Committee Committee Committee Chairman Eva-Britt Gustafsson 250 10 20 — 225 10 20 — Member Britta Burreau1) 62 — 10 — — — — — Member Olof Ehrlén 125 — — 20 112 — — 20 Member Per Granath1) 62 — 10 — 112 — 20 — Employee representative Thomas Jennlinger — — — — — — — — Employee representative Anders Larsson — — — — — — — — Member Ingela Lindh1) 62 — — — — — — — Member Leif Ljungqvist — — — — — — — — Member Pia Sandvik 125 — 20 — 112 — 20 — Member Gunnar Svedberg 125 10 — — 112 10 — — Member Maj-Charlotte Wallin1) 62 — — — 112 — — — Member Ingemar Ziegler 125 — — 20 112 — — 20 TOTAL 998 20 60 40 897 20 60 40 1) Member for part of 2014. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 90 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 9 CONTINUED PAYMENTS TO SENIOR EXECUTIVES • • 2014 2013 • Basic salary 7) Pension cost Basic salary 7) Pension cost • President Kerstin Lindberg Göransson 2,871 630 2,702 630 • Vice President Michael Walmerud 1,678 497 1,666 483 • Regional Director, South Tomas Ringdahl 1,468 341 1,466 319 • Regional Director, West Birgitta Hohlfält van Dalen 1,187 452 1,133 371 • Regional Director, East Lars Hagman 1,174 251 1,120 221 9 Regional Director, Uppsala Hans Antonsson 1) — — 941 318 10 Regional Director, Uppsala Peter Bohman2) 1,148 243 — — • Regional Director, Uppsala and North David Carlsson 3) 1,510 355 1,376 274 • Regional Director, Stockholm Sten Wetterblad 1,721 461 1,623 425 • CIO Cecilia Nielsen 991 166 880 143 • CFO Jonas Ragnarsson4) 480 120 — — • Director, Accounting and Financing Gunnar Oders5) — — 1,095 431 • Acting Director, Accounting and Financing Joakim Hugosson6) 1,121 326 — — • Human Resources Director Kristina Korsgren 997 243 964 254 • TOTAL 16,346 4,085 14,966 3,869 • 1) • Hans Antonsson stepped down from the position of Regional Director on August 31, 2013. 2) Peter Bohman took up the position of Regional Director in Uppsala on September 1, 2014. • 3) David Carlsson was Regional Director in Uppsala from September 1, 2013 to April 30, 2014. • 4) Jonas Ragnarsson took up the position of CFO October 1, 2014. 5) • Gunnar Oders did not serve as Director, Accounting and Financing in 2014. 6) • Joakim Hugosson was Acting Director, Accounting and Financing from January to September 2014. 7) No payments were made in addition to the above reported basic salary. • • • • • 10 FEES AND DISBURSEMENTS TO AUDITORS • • Group and Parent Company • 2014 2013 • KPMG AB • Audit engagement 1,165 — • Audit work in addition to the audit engagement 279 — • Tax consulting — — • Other services — — • TOTAL 1,444 0 • • Deloitte AB • Audit engagement 633 1,447 • Audit work in addition to the audit engagement 8 478 Tax consulting 301 300 Other services 4 497 TOTAL 946 2,722 KPMG AB was elected to serve as auditors at the Annual General Meeting on April 28, 2014. ‘Audit engagement’ refers to payment to the auditor for the statutory result of observations made in conjunction with such an examination or audit (work necessary to submit the audit report). ‘Audit work in addithe performance of other such duties. ‘Tax consulting’ is self-explanatory. tion to the audit assignment’ in effect refers to what can be designated ‘Other services’ refers mainly to fees for consultation in conjunction with quality assurance services (e.g. examination of a prospectus for an EMTN examination of tax returns and consultation regarding ﬁnancial instruprogramme) as well as the provision of advice or other assistance as a ments and the Sustainability Report. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 91 11 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSE • Group Parent Company • 2014 2013 2014 2013 • RESULT FROM OTHER SECURITIES AND RECEIVABLES RECORDED AS NON-CURRENT ASSETS • Interest income, other1) 24,239 86,969 24,239 86,969 • Changes in fair value, independent derivatives 13,428 7,759 13,428 137,759 • TOTAL 37,667 94,728 37,667 224,728 • • OTHER INTEREST INCOME AND SIMILAR PROFIT/LOSS ITEMS • Interest income, other1) 132 58,301 132 68,831 • Changes in fair value, independent derivatives 18,968 7,211 18,968 7,211 11 TOTAL 19,100 65,512 19,100 76,042 12 • RESULT, FINANCIAL INCOME 56,767 160,239 56,767 300,769 • • OTHER INTEREST EXPENSE AND SIMILAR PROFIT/LOSS ITEMS • Interest expense, other1) –373,498 –442,634 –507,455 –719,580 • Changes in fair value, independent derivatives –498,736 –2,590 –498,736 –2,590 • Changes in value, fair value hedges –123,595 –105,127 –123,595 –105,127 • RESULT, FINANCIAL EXPENSE –995,829 –550,351 –1,129,786 –827,297 • • RESULT, NET FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSE –939,062 –390,112 –1,073,019 –526,528 • 1) Of which interest income/interest expense deriving from ﬁnancial instruments • that are not valued at fair value in proﬁt or loss. –349,127 –193,323 –483,083 –329,738 • • Group Parent Company • Changes in fair value are as follows: 2014 2013 2014 2013 • • UNREALISED CHANGES IN FAIR VALUE • Independent derivatives –301,733 –2,688 –301,733 –2,688 • Fair value hedging, hedging instruments 247,714 –354,980 247,714 –354,980 • Fair value hedging, hedged item –371,309 249,853 –371,309 249,853 • Total –425,328 –107,815 –425,328 –107,815 • • REALISED CHANGES IN FAIR VALUE • Independent derivatives –164,607 15,068 –164,607 15,068 • Total –164,607 15,068 –164,607 15,068 • TOTAL CHANGES IN FAIR VALUE –589,935 –92,747 –589,935 –92,747 • • • • • 12 APPROPRIATIONS AND UNTAXED RESERVES (PARENT COMPANY) Parent Company 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 APPROPRIATIONS Change in tax allocation reserve –142,594 –177,091 Difference between recorded depreciation and depreciation according to plan –100,738 –26,386 TOTAL –243,332 –203,477 UNTAXED RESERVES Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2008 — 305,293 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2009 458,536 458,536 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2010 397,454 397,454 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2011 437,485 437,485 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2012 449,374 449,374 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2013 441,894 441,894 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2014 447,887 — Additional depreciation 1,060,264 959,525 TOTAL 3,692,894 3,449,561 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 92 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES • 13 TAXES The following deferred tax assets/liabilities refer to items where • a change has been reported in other comprehensive income. The following components are included in the Group and Parent • Company tax expense: Group Parent Company • 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Group Parent Company • 2014 2013 2014 2013 Cash ﬂow hedge • – cross currency interest • TAX ON PROFIT FOR THE YEAR rate swaps — — — — • Current tax – currency derivatives –4,426 5,925 –4,426 5,925 • Current tax on proﬁt – electricity derivatives –2,850 –2,924 –2,850 –2,924 • for the year –312,343 –291,800 –312,343 –291,737 – actuarial gains and losses 13,780 –21,393 — — • Total current tax –312,343 –291,800 –312,343 –291,737 TOTAL DEFERRED TAX • REPORTED IN OTHER 13 DEFERRED TAX COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 6,504 –18,392 –7,276 3,001 14 Deferred tax attributable to a change in temporary • differences –733,595 –415,182 42,130 –23,425 UNREPORTED DEFERRED TAX • Total deferred tax –733,595 –415,182 42,130 –23,425 No deferred tax in respect of untaxed reserves has been reported in the • TOTAL TAX ON PROFIT Parent Company. The deferred tax liability related to untaxed reserves • FOR THE YEAR –1,045,938 –706,982 –270,213 –315,162 totals KSEK 812,437 (758,903) and is included in these reserves. The con• solidated accounts do not include any material unreported temporary The difference between the reported tax expense and tax expense based on the differences between carrying amounts and tax values for assets and lia• current tax rate comprises the following components: bilities. All tax deﬁcit deductions within the Group can be utilised for an • unlimited period in the future. • Group Parent Company • 2014 2013 2014 2013 • 14 DIVIDEND Reported proﬁt before tax 6,260,599 3,274,495 2,727,639 1,495,685 • Tax at the current tax rate –1,377,332 –720,389 –600,081 –329,051 The dividend paid to the shareholder on May 8, 2014 totalled • Tax effect of expenses that SEK 1,374,000,000 (1,355,000,000). The dividend per share was • are not tax deductible/taxaSEK 643.56 (634.66). As regards the dividend for the year, the • ble (permanent differences): Board proposes a dividend of SEK 676.81 per share, for a total of SEK • Non-deductible expenses –39,362 –1,890 –39,362 –1,409 1,445,000,000, to be paid to the shareholder as instructed by the owner. • Non-taxable income1) 360,710 20,830 360,710 20,830 A decision regarding a dividend will be reached by the shareholder at • Taxable standard interest the Annual General Meeting. The dividend has not been recorded as a calculated on the tax liability in the Annual Report. • allocation reserve –8,217 –5,446 –8,217 –5,445 • Other 18,263 — 16,737 — • Adjustment of tax expense • for previous years — –87 — –87 • TOTAL REPORTED TAX • EXPENSE –1,045,938 –706,982 –270,213 –315,162 • 1) Non-taxable income includes disposal of trade-related shares with a tax amount • totalling KSEK 360,527 (18,630). • • Reported deferred tax assets/liability: • Group Parent Company 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Deferred tax assets attributable to temporary differences Financial instruments 94,986 27,080 94,986 27,080 Cash ﬂow hedge 5,949 13,224 5,949 13,224 Pension provisions 30,125 14,468 — — Total, reported deferred tax assets 131,060 54,772 100,935 40,304 Deferred tax liabilities attributable to temporary differences Tax allocation reserve –579,179 –547,808 — — Investment property –7,303,723 –6,504,877 –727,559 –392,970 Financial instruments –786 –10,811 –786 –10,811 Cash ﬂow hedges — — — — Other 49 — — 27 Total, reported deferred tax liability –7,883,639 –7,063,496 –728,345 –403,754 TOTAL, REPORTED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/ LIABILITY –7,752,579 –7,008,724 –627,410 –363,450 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 93 15 INVESTMENT PROPERTY (GROUP) • • The fair value of investment property has changed during the year as follows: • • 31-12-2014 Change in property holdings, in SEK 1,000 South West East Uppsala Stockholm North Group • • Opening fair value 7,093,610 6,954,996 4,648,219 11,050,272 23,632,979 4,176,759 57,556,835 • + Investment in new construction and redevelopment 596,547 161,502 11,948 590,983 1,420,106 72,770 2,853,856 • + Acquisitions — — — — 99,500 — 99,500 • + Capitalised interest expense 21,665 2,392 — 70,987 37,620 1,292 133,956 • – Sales — — — — –2,143,077 –558,849 –2,701,926 • +/– Change in fair value, unrealised 177,344 335,452 272,897 746,268 1,489,518 472,948 3,494,427 • Of which change in value due to a change in the cost of capital and yield requirement 186,282 402,467 309,469 407,260 1,445,767 318,964 3,070,209 • Of which change in value due to adjusted value • index (valuation status, average remaining term, 15 property type) –5,005 –17,817 3,457 –79 –158,599 6,185 –171,858 • Of which capitalised interest expense –21,665 –2,392 — –70,987 –37,620 –1,292 –133,956 • Of which other change in value 17,732 –46,806 –40,029 410,073 239,970 149,091 730,031 • CLOSING FAIR VALUE 7,889,166 7,454,342 4,933,064 12,458,510 24,536,646 4,164,920 61,436,648 • • • 31-12-2013 • Change in property holdings, in SEK 1,000 South West East Uppsala Stockholm North Group • Opening fair value 6,619,613 6,974,892 4,557,462 10,094,252 22,334,584 4,096,223 54,677,026 • + Investment in new construction and redevelopment 489,117 113,433 65,302 1,053,044 987,634 41,538 2,750,068 • + Acquisitions — 4,000 — — — — 4,000 • + Capitalised interest expense 8,892 4,860 2,486 68,777 49,677 1,724 136,416 • – Sales –191,444 — — –2,800 –181,256 — –375,500 • +/– Change in fair value, unrealised 167,431 –142,189 22,969 –163,000 442,339 37,275 364,825 • Of which change in value due to a change in the • cost of capital and yield requirement –15,802 44,734 11,225 10,802 — 53,903 104,862 • Of which change in value due to adjusted value • index (valuation status, average remaining term, property type) –3,510 16,133 –7,772 –68,354 211,749 13,952 162,198 • Of which capitalised interest expense –8,892 –4,860 –2,486 –68,777 –49,677 –1,724 –136,416 • Of which other change in value 195,635 –198,196 22,002 –36,671 280,267 –28,856 234,181 • CLOSING FAIR VALUE 7,093,609 6,954,996 4,648,219 11,050,273 23,632,978 4,176,760 57,556,835 • • • 2014 2013 • Changes in fair value, property holdings • Positive 4,074,190 1,843,473 • Negative –579,764 –1,478,647 • Result from sales and disposals Positive 73,342 48,443 Negative –38,800 –181,256 TOTAL CHANGES IN FAIR VALUE, INVESTMENT PROPERTY 3,528,968 232,013 VALUATION MODELS/METHODS SEK m Share, % Akademiska Hus has an internal property valuation process that is well Internal cash ﬂow valuation 58,309 95% developed and has been quality assured. Information regarding valuation Expansion reserves 990 2% principles as well as levels of input data, assumptions and prerequisites are produced by the Company’s valuation specialists. These are ﬁnally Other valuation (including properties under construction and development properties) 2,138 3% conﬁrmed by the President. TOTAL 61,437 100% Akademiska Hus valuation models comply with good market practice in the property industry and the cash ﬂows and yield targets that are used SEK 58,309 million (95 per cent) of the fair value has been set through an are justiﬁed based on both property-speciﬁc conditions and indusinternal cash ﬂow valuation, where the cash ﬂow ﬁgures used comprise try-speciﬁc conditions. The properties have been valued individually the revenue and costs for each property, i.e. the net operating income. without any account being taken of portfolio effects. Rent payments have been calculated based on current leases. If the rent The fair value of the Group’s investment properties as at December 31, level at the end of the lease is deemed to be in line with the market, it is 2014 has been set using an internal property valuation. The valuation has assumed that the agreement can be extended subject to the same terms been conducted using different valuation methods as follows: and conditions. In other cases, rents are adjusted to the market level. Operating costs are assessed based on historical outcome and forecasts. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 94 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 15 CONTINUED • Property administration costs are assessed based on the average cost Akademiska Hus operates in a speciﬁc segment of the property mar• level within Akademiska Hus and the maintenance costs are assessed ket, which means that our properties are more adapted to specialist uses • based on actual costs and key ﬁgures for the industry. and consequently they have a slightly more uncertain residual value than For an initial calculation period of 10 years, a current value is comfor more general properties, such as office buildings and residential • puted for the cash ﬂow generated each year using a nominal cost of capibuildings. This means that many of our properties are not available for • tal. In addition, the residual value from year 11 is calculated based on the new tenants or other purposes without substantial redevelopment. After • market’s actual yield targets. This residual value is in turn calculated at an initial calculation period, assessment of the residual value needs to • the current value using nominal cost of capital. The property’s fair value reﬂect the more property speciﬁc risks in more concrete terms. An assess• comprises the sum of the current cash ﬂows during the calculation ment of the uncertainty regarding modernity, standard/condition, techni• period and the current residual value. cal risk and redevelopment/adaptation requirements is made at the point • The starting point when choosing the cost of capital is the nominal at which residual value is calculated. These risks are quantiﬁed mainly in • interest rate on the secondary market for government bonds with a term the form of charges to cash ﬂow rather than the direct yield target. • equivalent to the length of the calculation period. A risk premium is The cost of capital for the cash ﬂow varies for different properties added to cover the market risk and the property-related risk. within the range 6.74–12.00 per cent depending on the town/city, loca• The yield targets are assessed, as far as possible, using the property tion, lease term and type of premises. The long-term yield target varies • transactions that have been completed on the market and, as far as between 4.65 per cent and 9.80 per cent depending on the town/city, 15 possible, using comparable properties. Each year, Akademiska Hus has location and type of premises. • the yield target, cost of capital and other valuation prerequisites veriﬁed The average yield target and cost of capital for each region are shown • by two independent valuation institutes, NAI Svefa and DTZ. in the table below. • Both the cost of capital for discounting the cash ﬂow as well as the • yield target have been differentiated for each property depending on the 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 • town, location, lease term and type of premises. The risks are thus anaCost of Cost of lysed in several dimensions and are generally assessed to be higher for Yield target, % capital, % Yield target, % capital, % • properties with shorter leases, installation-intensive premises and prop• South 6.3 8.5 6.5 8.7 erties in less attractive locations. • West 6.1 8.2 6.5 8.6 Expansion reserves, SEK 990 million (2 per cent) have been valued • using the location prices for construction rights with a deduction for East 6.5 8.6 7.0 9.1 • development costs, supplemented by developer calculations. In some Uppsala 6.2 8.3 6.6 8.7 • cases, the planning conditions for new construction are unclear and conStockholm 5.6 7.7 5.9 8.0 • sequently the pure land values have been used to establish the fair value. North 6.6 8.7 7.2 9.3 • The expansion reserves include construction rights covering a gross area Group 6.0 8.1 6.4 8.5 • of approximately 1.1 million square metres. • SEK 2,138 million (3 per cent) comprises mainly properties with Town/city and location uncertain future cash ﬂows. These have been valued individually using • In conjunction with an internal valuation, the property holdings have the valuation method that was most appropriate. • been grouped into the following 25 cities/towns/locations: The total fair value of investment property includes new construction • Inner-city Stockholm, inner-city Gothenburg, other parts of Stockholm, in progress amounting to SEK 5,407 million (4,491), which has also been • Solna, Lund, other parts of Gothenburg, Uppsala, Linköping, inner-city valued using the internal cash ﬂow valuation with a deduction for Malmö, other parts of Malmö, Kista, Huddinge, Umeå, Norrköping, Karl• remaining investment. stad, Borås, Luleå, Kristianstad, Skövde, Örebro, Grythyttan, Ultuna, • The investment property are on level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. Gävle, Alnarp and other smaller locations. • The division into different cities, towns and locations reﬂects the • External valuation demand on the market and the attractiveness of the properties. Inner• To assure the internal valuation, selected properties are valued each year city locations in Stockholm and Gothenburg are in greatest demand and • by external valuation companies. As at September 30, 2014, 24 valuation most attractive whilst demand is lowest in smaller, rural locations. • buildings/sellable units at a fair value of SEK 9,760 million were valued The city, town and location classiﬁcations have been based on the externally, corresponding to approximately 16 per cent of the Akademiska general division of the property market. Larger and important cities • Hus total fair value. The external valuations in 2014 were carried out by and towns have been assigned a higher degree of attractiveness from, for DTZ as a benchmark for the internal cash ﬂow valuations. DTZ’s valuers example, a demographic, employment and economic point of view. This are authorised by the Swedish Society of Real Estate Economics. The is also the case from the point of view of higher education and research, external valuations conﬁrm the reliability of the internal valuation where Sweden’s three largest cities, Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö, model. but also the classic university towns of Lund and Uppsala and to a certain extent Linköping and Umeå, are regarded as being more attractive and Valuation conditions 2014 are considered to be more stable and secure education and research locaYield requirements and cost of capital declined by between 0.1 and 1.43 tions in the long term. percentage points during the year, due to general price-driving factors in the property market for community properties. Overall, the positive Special adaptation and category of premises change in fair value attributable to changes in yield requirements and cost In the valuation, a division has been made into installation-intensive of capital in 2014 amounted to SEK 3,070 million. Well-located, efficient premises and non-installation-intensive premises. The proportion of properties with a strong customer base and good rental potential are in installation-intensive premises within Akademiska Hus is approximately greatest demand and are naturally less sensitive to external changes. 35 per cent. For these premises, there is a relatively higher risk in the rent ﬂow in the long term as they represent a signiﬁcant element of speCost of capital and yield targets cially adapted premises. To counter this risk, installationintensive premCharacteristic of Akademiska Hus are long leases with stable, creditworises have been assigned a generally higher yield target. thy customers. The tenants have a public principal and thus a very good credit rating, which means a low rent risk during the term of the lease. Lease term Around 90 per cent of income derives from the dominant customer From a valuation point of view, a division has been made into the average group, universities and colleges. All centres of education, apart from remaining lease term: six years or less, between six and 10 years and Chalmers University of Technology, have the Swedish state as principal more than 10 years. For valuation properties with an average remaining and thus have the highest credit rating. The average remaining lease lease term exceeding six years, the relative risk is lower as the cash ﬂow term is 6.0 years (5.3). valuation is based predominantly on hedged ﬂows. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 95 Other assumptions 16 INVESTMENT PROPERTY (PARENT COMPANY) • The following assumptions form the basis for the internal market valuation: • The carrying amount of investment property changed as follows during • Inﬂation is estimated at 0 per cent (0) for the ﬁrst year of the calcula• the year: tion period based on the views of different forecasters, such as the • Parent Company National Institute of Economic Research, the Swedish Central Bank 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 • and other banks. During the remainder of the calculation period, inﬂa• tion is estimated to be 2.0 per cent (2.0) per annum, which is equivalent Cost, opening balance 47,120,487 44,783,794 • to the long-term inﬂation target set by the Swedish Central Bank. Investment in new construction • The rent trend is estimated at a maximum of inﬂation (CPI). Consider• and redevelopment 2,853,857 2,750,068 ation has been given to the formulation of the lease agreements, which • Acquisitions 99,500 4,000 have an annual rent trend equal to an average of 70 per cent of the CPI. Sales and disposals –2,048,852 –417,375 • The rent is adapted to the assessed market rent at the end of the lease • CLOSING BALANCE, COST 48,024,992 47,120,487 term. • • For current lease agreements, the initial, actual level of vacant space • Opening impairments — — has been used. At the end of the current lease agreement, a general level • Remeasurements for the year 1,282,051 — of vacant space of 5 per cent (5) has been assumed. Depreciation for the year on remeasurements –32,051 — 15 • Operating costs are assessed according to historic outcome and forecast CLOSING ACCUMULATED REMEASUREMENTS 1,250,000 — 16 and normally follow inﬂation (CPI). 17 • Property administration costs have been set at a standard of SEK 45/m2 (75). Opening depreciation –15,754,922 –14,683,240 18 • Maintenance costs have been set at a standard of SEK 100/m2 (70) Reclassiﬁcations –37,472 –3,852 • for non-installation-intensive premises and SEK 140/m2 (110) for Sales and disposals 731,292 159,180 • installation-intensive premises. Depreciation for the year –1,247,403 –1,227,010 • CLOSING ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION • Sensitivity analysis ACCORDING TO PLAN –16,308,505 –15,754,922 • The sensitivity analysis shows how the fair value is affected in conjunc• tion with changes in different variables. The impact on proﬁt of a change Opening impairments –630,598 –648,058 • in fair value, however, would not affect the cash ﬂow as it is unrealised. Reclassiﬁcations 37,472 3,852 • Sales and disposals 121,793 54,363 • Impact on fair value, Impact on fair value, Reversed impairments 135,603 — • Change SEK m percentage points Impairments for the year –25,499 –40,755 • Rental revenue, +/– CLOSING ACCUMULATED IMPAIRMENTS –361,229 –630,598 • one percentage point 356 0.7 • Vacant space, +/– CARRYING AMOUNT 32,605,258 30,734,967 • one percentage point 370 0.3 Operating costs, +/– • one percentage point 80 0.2 • of which media provision 41 0.1 17 EQUIPMENT, FIXTURES AND FITTINGS • Maintenance costs, +/– SEK 10/m² 468 0.9 • Group Parent Company Property administration, • 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 +/– SEK 10/m² 468 0.9 • Cost of capital, Cost, opening balance 93,126 108,434 93,126 108,434 • + one percentage point –3,623 –6.8 Purchases 2,784 4,449 2,784 4,449 • Cost of capital, Sales and disposals –19,666 –19,757 –19,666 –19,757 – one percentage point 3,975 7.5 • CLOSING BALANCE, Yield target, • COST 76,244 93,126 76,244 93,126 + one percentage point –4,295 –8.1 Yield target, Opening depreciation –74,971 –85,345 –74,971 –85,345 – one percentage point 6,094 11.5 Sales and disposals 19,612 19,636 19,612 19,636 A change in the maintenance cost that affects the proﬁt and return on equity has Depreciation for the year –7,169 –9,262 –7,169 –9,262 been calculated based on actual maintenance costs. The impact on fair value has been calculated based on a standard maintenance cost and standard property CLOSING ACCUMULATED administration cost in the valuation model. DEPRICIATION –62,528 –74,971 –62,528 –74,971 Other CARRYING AMOUNT 13,716 18,155 13,716 18,155 There are no limits with regard to the right to sell the properties or use the rental revenue. All investment property are leased under operational lease agreements and generate rental revenue. The rental revenue during the period 18 SHARES IN GROUP COMPANIES amounted to KSEK 5,494,934 (5,359,277) and the direct costs for the Parent Company properties during the period totalled KSEK –1,964,056 (–2,082,564). 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Cost, opening balance 650 650 Acquisition of subsidiaries 300 50 Sale of subsidiaries –250 –50 CARRYING AMOUNT AT THE YEAR-END 700 650 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 96 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 18 CONTINUED • Speciﬁcation of the Parent Company’s shareholdings in Group companies: • Parent Company • Total number of Share of equity 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 • Subsidiaries Company reg. no. Registered ofﬁce shares in %1) Carrying amount Carrying amount • Akademiska Hus Utveckling och Support AB 556610-2975 Gothenburg 500 (500) 100 (100) 500 500 • Kunskapsmiljön 3 AB 556925-7818 Umeå 0 (500) 0 (100) — 50 • Kunskapsmiljön 6 AB 556966-0045 Gothenburg 500 (0) 100 (0) 50 — • Kunskapsmiljön 7 AB 556966-0037 Gothenburg 500 (0) 100 (0) 50 — • Akademiska Hus Holding AB 556981-6803 Gothenburg 100 (0) 100 (0) 100 — • Datja Fastighets AB 556745-5703 Stockholm 0 (1,000) 0 (100) — 100 • TOTAL 700 650 • 1) Corresponds to the number of votes. • • • 19 DERIVATIVES (GROUP) • Derivatives are used to handle interest risk exposure and to eliminate amounts and accrued interest. The Group’s risk management is • currency risks in conjunction with ﬁnancing in a foreign currency and presented in Note 33 Financial risk management. 18 for electricity price risk management. The fair value of interest and cross Carrying amounts, derivatives, are broken down as follows: 19 currency interest rate swap agreements includes the underlying capital • • 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 • Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities • NON-CURRENT Independent derivatives • • – interest rate derivatives 289,393 722,217 174,611 301,050 • – cross currency interest rate swap agreements — — 429,918 — • Hedging instruments, fair value hedging • – interest rate derivatives 153,679 — 175,882 — • – cross currency interest rate swap • agreements 1,031,134 — 512,197 — • Hedging instruments, cash ﬂow hedging • – currency derivatives 3,491 — — 2,853 • – electricity derivatives — 13,339 — 19,291 • TOTAL, NON-CURRENT 1,477,697 735,556 1,292,608 323,194 • • CURRENT Independent derivatives • – interest rate derivatives 30,687 84,787 858 13,638 • – currency derivatives 502,708 — — • Hedging instruments, fair value hedging • – cross currency interest rate swap • agreements 19,844 — 325,235 — • Hedging instruments, cash ﬂow hedging – currency derivatives 253,548 14 4,721 779 – electricity derivatives — 24,121 — 35,830 TOTAL, CURRENT 806,787 108,922 330,814 50,247 TOTAL, DERIVATIVES 2,284,484 844,478 1,623,422 373,441 Fair value is equivalent to the carrying amount in the table above. Derivatives and swap agreements are on level 2 in the fair value hierarchy, see Note 32. The maturity structure of the Group’s derivatives is as follows, SEK m: 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Independent Independent derivatives1) Fair value hedging2) Cash ﬂow hedging3) derivatives1) Fair value hedging2) Cash ﬂow hedging3) Nominal Nominal Nominal Nominal Nominal Nominal amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value 2014 — — — — — — 4,284 –16 –1,818 325 –281 –37 2015 2,955 727 –1,000 130 –135 –8 –454 393 –1,000 170 –175 –18 2016 –100 –37 –1,176 139 –77 –4 –3,350 –18 –1,091 55 –78 –4 2017 100 –29 — — –28 –1 100 –21 — — — — 2018 150 –69 –2,611 510 — — 150 –16 –2,432 299 — — 2019 1,000 –136 — — — — 1,174 –73 — — — — 2020 1,385 107 — — — — — –22 — — — — 2021 850 –34 –1,568 385 — — 850 9 –1,453 159 — — 2022 and later 1,420 –223 — — — — 900 53 — — — — TOTAL 7,760 306 –6,355 1,164 –240 –13 3,654 289 –7,794 1,008 –534 –59 1) Nominal amount, independent derivatives. A positive amount constitutes an extension of the portfolio’s ﬁxed interest. 2) Nominal amount, fair value hedging. A negative amount constitutes a purchase of foreign currency. 3) Nominal amount, cash ﬂow hedging. A negative amount constitutes a purchase of foreign currency and/or a purchase of electricity derivatives. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 97 The table below shows the due date structure for electricity and currency derivatives, SEK m, • which constitute hedging instruments in cash ﬂow hedging. • 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 • Currency derivatives1) Electricity derivatives2) Currency derivatives1) Electricity derivatives2) • Nominal Nominal Nominal Nominal • amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value • 2015 –123 –5 –12 –3 –86 –2 –89 –16 • 2016 –70 –3 –7 –1 –37 –1 –41 –3 • 2017 –25 –1 –3 — — — — — • TOTAL –218 –9 –22 –4 –123 –3 –130 –19 • 1) Nominal amount, currency derivatives. A negative amount constitutes a purchase of foreign currency. • 2) Nominal amount, electricity derivatives. A negative amount constitutes a purchase of electricity derivatives. • • • The following table shows the due date structure for forecast electricity • use together with electricity derivatives and currency derivatives • entered into with the aim of hedging the electricity price. All outstanding • currency hedgings are in EUR/SEK. • 19 Hedging level, price, Hedging level, Forecast use, MWh % currency, % 20 21 2015 440,000 70 66 • 2016 440,000 46 42 • 2017 440,000 24 21 • • • 20 OTHER NON-CURRENT RECEIVABLES • 21 RENT RECEIVABLES AND ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE • Group Parent Company Group Parent Company • 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 • Interest-bearing Rent receivables and • promissory note 192,911 188,892 192,911 188,892 accounts receivable 230,389 242,465 230,389 242,465 • Other non-interestProvision, doubtful rent • bearing receivables 278,247 197,635 278,247 197,635 receivables and • TOTAL 471,158 386,527 471,158 386,527 accounts receivable –128 –239 –128 –239 • TOTAL 230,261 242,226 230,261 242,226 • Other non-current receivables are reported and valued according to the • loan receivables and accounts receivable category. Fair value is equivaRent receivables and accounts receivable are reported and valued lent to the carrying amount of other non-current receivables. Promissory • according to the loan receivables and accounts receivable category. notes and other non-current receivables are on level 2 in the fair value • The fair value of rent receivables and accounts receivable concurs with hierarchy. the carrying amount as of the year-end and there is no impairment • Of the Group’s non-current receivables, KSEK 439,320 is expected to requirement. The Group’s rent receivables and accounts receivable • be realised within ﬁve years of the year-end and KSEK 31,822 later than are on level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. • ﬁve years. Of the rent receivables and accounts receivable that had fallen due as at December 31, 2014, KSEK 16,909 had fallen due by 1–5 days, The interest-bearing promissory note changed as follows: KSEK 3,563 had fallen due by 5–30 days, KSEK 593 had fallen due Group Parent Company by 30–60 days and KSEK 1,785 had fallen due by more than 60 days. Receivables falling due do not include impaired receivables. 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Opening balance 188,892 274,952 188,892 274,952 The provision for doubtful rent receivables and accounts receivable Provisions for the year 4,019 –86,060 4,019 –86,060 changed as follows: CLOSING BALANCE 192,911 188,892 192,911 188,892 Group Parent Company 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Other non-interest-bearing receivables changed as follows: Opening balance –239 –55 –239 –55 Group Parent Company Provisions for the year –258 –184 –258 –184 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Reversed provisions 108 — 108 — Established credit losses 261 — 261 — Opening balance 197,635 158,276 197,635 158,276 CLOSING BALANCE –128 –239 –128 –239 Reversed provisions 80,612 39,359 80,612 39,359 CLOSING BALANCE 278,247 197,635 278,247 197,635 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 98 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES • 22 OTHER RECEIVABLES 26 HEDGE RESERVE/FAIR VALUE RESERVE • Group Parent Company Group Parent Company • 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 • • VAT receivable 157,878 236,588 157,877 236,588 OPENING BALANCE –44,653 –34,011 –44,653 –34,011 • Settlement, Change in value, deriva• taxes and charges 281,341 278,705 281,341 278,705 tives (cash ﬂow hedging) Other current – currency derivatives 13,731 21,122 13,731 21,122 • receivables 121,403 183,417 121,403 188,266 – electricity derivatives 55,826 –14,213 55,826 –14,213 • TOTAL 560,622 698,710 560,621 703,559 Transferred to • operating proﬁt –36,486 –20,552 –36,486 –20,552 • Other current receivables are reported at cost. Tax effect –7,276 3,001 –7,276 3,001 • CLOSING BALANCE –18,858 –44,653 –18,858 –44,653 • • 23 PREPAID EXPENSES AND ACCRUED INCOME The tax effect, KSEK 7,276 (3,001) refers to the change for the year. The • closing deferred tax receivable/payable is reported in Note 13 Taxes. Group Parent Company • 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 • • Accrued rent 57,778 76,386 57,778 76,386 27 LOANS • Prepaid rent 272 14,681 272 14,681 The Group’s ﬁnancing takes place mainly through the public ﬁnancing • Accrued interest income 2,240 3,075 2,240 3,075 programmes. Through their standardised terms and conditions, these • Prepaid interest permit rational, cost-effective ﬁnancing. The Group has international 22 expense 115 290 115 290 ECP and EMTN programmes, as well as a domestic commercial paper Prepaid energy costs — 901 — 901 programme. The MTN programme has not been updated since 2009. 23 Other 29,896 31,560 29,896 31,560 Bank ﬁnancing is used to a limited extent. The average capital for bank 24 ﬁnancing during 2014 was SEK 218 million (117). 25 TOTAL 90,301 126,893 90,301 126,893 Loans in the Group are on level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. Fair value 26 for the ﬁnancial liabilities on level 2 has been set in accordance with gen27 erally accepted valuation techniques, with discounting of future cash • ﬂows, where the discount rate of interest that reﬂects the counterparty’s • 24 DUE DATE STRUCTURE, RECEIVABLES credit risk is the most essential input data. • The Group’s risk management is presented in Note 33 Financial risk Group Parent Company • management. 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 • • Due date structure FINANCING COST • Receivables expected to be Net interest income and expense amounted to SEK –939 million (–390) cleared within one year of and the average net liability portfolio was SEK 19,074 million (19,274). • the year-end 1,762,085 1,398,643 1,762,147 1,403,492 The ﬁnancing cost amounted to 5.04 per cent (2.62), calculated as inter• Receivables expected to be est expense in relation to average interest-bearing net loan liability, • cleared within 1–5 years of excluding cash and bank holdings. • the year-end 1,340,242 1,383,116 1,340,242 1,383,116 • Receivables expected to be Financing cost, % 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 cleared later than ﬁve • years after the year-end 608,613 296,019 608,613 296,019 Financing costs for loans, • TOTAL 3,710,940 3,077,778 3,711,002 3,082,627 incl. charges, % 2.01 2.24 2.75 2.78 1.21 • Interest swaps, net interest, % 0.42 0.39 0.40 0.44 0.96 Financing cost, % 2.43 2.63 3.15 3.22 2.17 Changes in value, ﬁnancial 25 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS derivatives, % 2.61 –0.01 1.06 –0.23 0.33 Current investments comprise temporary surplus liquidity, invested TOTAL FINANCING COST 5.04 2.62 4.21 2.99 1.84 in the short term, totalling KSEK 2,559,438 (2,399,935) and collateral granted attributable to Credit Support Annex (CSA) agreements totalling KSEK 227,262 (180,000). Blocked bank funds in respect of pledged assets for stock market-cleared derivatives are included to the amount of KSEK 122,527 (132,865) in the reported amount for cash and bank balances for the Group and the Parent Company. This is a buffer to cover expected daily collateral requirements. Cash and cash equivalents according to the Statement of Cash Flows concur with cash and cash equivalents in the Statement of Financial Position. Group Parent Company 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Current investments 2,786,700 2,400,115 2,786,700 2,400,115 Cash and bank balances 1,771,393 288,885 1,771,182 288,836 TOTAL 4,558,093 2,689,000 4,557,882 2,688,951 Cash and cash equivalents are reported and valued according to the category ‘assets valued at fair value in proﬁt or loss’. Fair value is equivalent to the carrying amount of cash and bank holdings and current investments. Cash and bank holdings are on level 1 and current investments are on level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 99 Borrowing can be broken down as follows, SEK m: • Group Parent Company • 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 • Carrying Carrying Carrying Carrying • amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value • NON-CURRENT LOANS • Category, other ﬁnancial liabilities • Bonds & MTN 1,120 1,224 1,319 1,375 1,120 1,224 1,319 1,375 • EMTN 5,761 6,717 9,211 9,287 5,761 6,717 9,211 9,287 • Other loans 387 459 402 427 387 459 402 427 • TOTAL 7,268 8,400 10,932 11,089 7,268 8,400 10,932 11,089 • • Category, ﬁnancial liabilities valued • at fair value in proﬁt or loss according • to the fair value hedging method • Bonds & MTN — — 1,309 1,291 — — 1,309 1,291 • EMTN 5,086 5,089 4,619 4,621 5,086 5,089 4,619 4,621 • Other loans 678 678 643 643 678 678 643 643 • TOTAL 5,764 5,767 6,571 6,555 5,764 5,767 6,571 6,555 • • TOTAL NON-CURRENT LOANS 13,032 14,167 17,503 17,644 13,032 14,167 17,503 17,644 • • CURRENT LOANS • Category, other ﬁnancial liabilities • ECP 5,099 5,089 2,835 2,824 5,099 5,089 2,835 2,824 • Bonds & MTN 141 141 — — 141 141 — — • EMTN 3,567 3,604 — — 3,567 3,604 — — 27 Other loans 14 14 14 12 14 14 14 12 TOTAL 8,821 8,848 2,849 2,836 8,821 8,848 2,849 2,836 • • Category, ﬁnancial liabilities valued • at fair value in proﬁt or loss according • to the fair value hedging method • Bonds & MTN 1,271 1,255 — — 1,271 1,255 — — • Other loans — — 1,823 1,820 — — 1,823 1,820 • TOTAL 1,271 1,255 1,823 1,820 1,271 1,255 1,823 1,820 • • TOTAL CURRENT LOANS 10,092 10,103 4,672 4,656 10,092 10,103 4,672 4,656 • • TOTAL LOANS 23,124 24,270 22,175 22,300 23,124 24,270 22,175 22,300 • • The above table shows nominal amounts excluding accrued coupon interest. • • DUE DATE STRUCTURE, LOANS, SEK M Fixed interest Variable interest ECP and comLoans Derivatives Total Loans mercial paper Derivatives Total Total 2015 4,209 –1,565 2,644 500 5,103 992 6,595 9,239 2016 2,026 –776 1,250 500 — 668 1,168 2,418 2017 500 400 900 500 — –400 100 1,000 2018 2,911 –1,611 1,300 — — 1,308 1,308 2,608 2019 120 1,000 1,120 — — –1,000 –1,000 120 2020 650 — 650 — — — — 650 2021 1,568 –718 850 200 — 529 729 1,579 2022 and later 3,576 900 4,476 131 — –900 –769 3,707 TOTAL 15,560 –2,370 13,190 1,831 5,103 1,197 8,131 21,321 The above table shows ﬁnancing (nominal amount) together with outprogrammes do not include any equivalent undertaking. Ever since the standing interest and currency derivatives. Loans and derivatives in forprogrammes were established, the Group’s policy has been not to accept eign currency have been translated at the year-end exchange rate. As all any terms and conditions that require, for example, that a certain rating, loans raised in a foreign currency are swapped to Swedish kronor, the equity ratio or interest coverage ratio be maintained. exchange rate effect is eliminated. A positive ﬁgure means that the Group pays interest and a negative ﬁgure means that the Group receives interest. HEDGE ACCOUNTING When ﬁnancing in a foreign currency, all future payment ﬂows are MATERIAL CONTRACTUAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS hedged so that the exchange risk is eliminated. Through cross currency The general terms and conditions for the EMTN and MTN programmes interest rate swap agreements, all interest payments, both ﬁxed and variinclude a clause which states that if the Swedish State ceases, directly or able, are hedged as well as future repayments. All the measures taken indirectly, to hold more than 50 per cent of the shares, equivalent to have the express purpose of hedging and eliminating an exchange rate more than 50 per cent of the shareholding and more than 50 per cent of risk so that all ﬁnancing is denominated in Swedish kronor. Effective the votes, the loans and any interest shall fall due for repayment immedihedging means that changes in the value of the hedged position and the ately. The contractual terms and conditions for the short-term ﬁnancing actual hedging transaction on balance counteract each other. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 100 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES • 28 PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS Assumptions regarding life expectancy are based on public statistics and • experience of mortality calculations in Sweden and have been adopted in The Group’s pension commitments include both deﬁned contribution • consultation with actuarial experts. These assumptions result in the foland deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans according to collective agreements. lowing average remaining life expectancy for a person who retires at the • age of 65: • DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PENSION PLANS • The Group’s deﬁned contribution pension plans, ITP 1 and Alternative Estimated average remaining • ITP (a pension for high-income earners) cover all Group employees. The life expectancy, years 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 • deﬁned contribution pension plans mainly comprise a retirement pension, sickness pension and family pension. The premiums are paid conRetirement at the year-end • tinuously throughout the year to different insurance companies. The Men 20.9 20.9 • premiums are based on salary. Women 23.5 23.5 • The total cost for the ﬁnancial year for deﬁned contribution pension Retirement 20 years after the year-end • plans excluding payroll tax (Group and Parent Company) amounted to Men 22.6 22.6 • KSEK 20,674 (20,005). Women 24.5 24.5 • • DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS • The following amounts regarding the deﬁned beneﬁt pension cost are All Group employees are covered by the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt pension reported in the Income Statement: • plan, ITP 2. According to this plan, the employees are entitled to pension • beneﬁts based on their pensionable income as well as the number of years of service. The pension plan mainly comprises a retirement penAmount reported in the Income Statement 2014 2013 • • sion, sickness pension and family pension. The pension commitments Beneﬁts earned during the year 19,756 26,343 • are secured through provisions in the FPG/PRI system as well as the ITP Interest on pension provision 12,133 8,784 plan family pension, sickness pension and occupational group life through • PARTS OF THE DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION insurance premiums. All pension commitments which the Akademiska COST REPORTED IN THE PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 31,889 35,127 • Hus Group took over from the National Board of Public Building when • the Company was formed on October 1, 1993 are deﬁned beneﬁt plans, • secured through provisions in the Statement of Financial Position, guarThe deﬁned beneﬁt costs have been reported as a personnel cost and • anteed by the National Debt Office and administered by the National interest cost respectively. • Government Employees’ Pension Board (SPV). All deﬁned beneﬁt pen28 sion commitments are credit-insured by PRI Pensionsgaranti. The following actuarial gains and losses have been reported under Total • The most recent actuarial calculation of the current value of the comprehensive income: • deﬁned beneﬁt commitment was carried out by an authorised actuary on • December 31, 2014. When calculating the current value of the deﬁned Total amount reported under other beneﬁt commitment and associated costs for employment during the comprehensive income 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 • current period and associated costs for employment during previous Remeasurement of the net deﬁned beneﬁt liability • periods, the Projected Unit Credit Method was used. Actuarial gains and losses that arise as a result • The ITP 2 plan exposes the Group to a number of actuarial risks, such of changes in ﬁnancial assumptions –71,558 90,535 • as an interest risk, risk regarding life expectancy and the increase in the Actuarial gains and losses that arise as a result • income base amount. of changes in experience 8,921 6,706 • Interest risk – A reduction in the bond rate of interest will increase the TOTAL AMOUNT REPORTED UNDER OTHER • pension liability. Possible future falls in the interest rate on ﬁrst-class COMPREHENSIVE INCOME –62,637 97,241 • corporate bonds in SEK could thus entail a risk that the Group’s pension • expense and undertakings could increase. The change for the period in the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation can be seen in • Life expectancy risk – The current value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligathe following table: tion is calculated with consideration given to the Group’s best assess• ment regarding mortality for members of the plan, both during and after employment. There is a risk that life expectancy will increase for the Change in the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation for the period 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 members of the plan, which would in that case increase both the pension costs and the Group’s commitment. Opening balance 327,909 406,877 Salary risk – The current value of the deﬁned beneﬁt commitment is Service costs during the period 19,756 26,343 calculated in the light of future salaries for members of the plan. Major Net interest cost 12,133 8,784 salary increases compared with what was included in the actuarial calcuActuarial gains (–)/losses (+) lations entail a risk that the Group’s liability could increase, as could Changes in ﬁnancial assumptions 71,558 –90,535 the Group’s pension expense. Experience-based adjustments –8,921 –6,706 Income base amount – The current value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligaPension payments –15,295 –16,854 tions is calculated in the light of future increases in the income base CLOSING BALANCE 407,140 327,909 amount. A larger increase than assumed in the actuarial calculations means a risk that the Group’s liability could increase, as could the Group’s pension expense. The estimated term of the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt pension commitment The actuarial computation of the pension commitments and pension can be seen in the following table: costs is based on the following assumptions: Estimated term for the pension commitment 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Assumptions 2014 2013 Fall due for payment within one year of the Discount rate, % 2.40 3.70 year-end 13,101 12,497 Salary increase, % 2.80 3.00 Fall due for payment 1–5 years after the year-end 54,534 69,258 Inﬂation, % 1.30 1.50 Fall due for payment later than ﬁve years after Income base amount, % 2.30 2.50 the year-end 339,505 246,154 Personnel turnover, % 2.00 2.00 TOTAL 407,140 327,909 Mortality DUS06 DUS06 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 101 FUTURE PAYMENTS 29 OTHER LIABILITIES • The Group is expected to pay KSEK 32,592 (31,889) in charges for the • deﬁned beneﬁt plan during the forthcoming ﬁnancial year. Group Parent Company • 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 • PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS AND SIMILAR COMMITMENTS IN THE Other interestbearing • PARENT COMPANY liabilities 1,743,625 1,042,345 1,743,625 1,042,345 • The reported pension liability in the Parent Company comprises: Other non-interest• bearing liabilities 268,029 267,343 268,629 267,229 • Parent Company TOTAL, OTHER • 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 LIABILITIES 2,011,654 1,309,688 2,012,254 1,309,574 • FPG/PRI pensions 196,679 183,417 • Other pensions 73,529 78,730 Other liabilities are reported and valued according to the Other ﬁnancial • TOTAL 270,208 262,147 liabilities category. The fair value is equivalent to the carrying amount of • other liabilities. The Group’s other liabilities are on level 2 in the fair • value hierarchy. Other pensions in the Parent Company refer mainly to the historical • The Parent Company has entered into a supplementary agreement, pension liability that was taken over from the National Board of Public a Credit Support Annex (CSA) to the ISDA agreement, with the aim of • Building when the Akademiska Hus Group was founded. handling exposure to counter-party risks in derivatives. The agreement • means that the parties mutually undertake to furnish collateral in the • Pension commitments and provisions for pension commitments for the form of cash and cash equivalents or securities with a good rating for • deﬁned beneﬁt plans in the Parent Company have changed as follows: undervalues in outstanding derivatives. The agreement in turn gives the • secured party right of disposal of collateral received. As of the year-end, • Pension commitments 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 the Group received collateral through the CSA agreements totalling • Opening balance 262,147 253,337 KSEK 1,743,625 (1,042,345). • Of the Group’s other liabilities, KSEK 1,999,301 falls due for payment • Pension costs, deﬁned beneﬁt plans 5,050 10,088 within one year of the year-end, KSEK 3,106 within one to ﬁve years of Interest expense 15,438 10,567 • the year-end, and KSEK 9,247 later than ﬁve years after the year-end. Payments –12,427 –11,845 • CLOSING BALANCE 270,208 262,147 • 30 ACCRUED EXPENSES AND PREPAID INCOME 28 29 The total pension cost in the Parent Company is broken down as follows: Group Parent Company 30 2014 2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31 Pension costs, deﬁned beneﬁt plans 5,050 10,088 • Prepaid rental revenue 1,387,209 1,395,725 1,387,209 1,395,725 Interest part of the pension cost 15,438 10,567 • Accrued salary and PENSION COSTS, DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS 20,488 20,655 • personnel costs 31,245 29,841 31,245 29,841 Accrued operating and • Pension costs, deﬁned contribution plans 20,674 20,005 maintenance costs 91,923 124,594 91,923 85,540 • Employer’s contribution and tax on the yield, Accrued investments 52,458 182,699 52,458 182,699 • other pension costs 9,691 9,648 Accrued interest 227,839 185,778 227,839 262,889 • TOTAL PENSION COSTS 50,853 50,308 Other interim liabilities 13,952 77,029 13,952 38,050 • TOTAL 1,804,626 1,995,666 1,804,626 1,994,744 • ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS • The actuarial calculation of pension commitments and pension costs in 31 DUE DATE STRUCTURE, LIABILITIES • the Parent Company is based on the actuarial assumptions laid down in the FPG/PRI system and by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. Group Parent Company 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 DUE DATE STRUCTURE Liabilities due for payment within one year of the year-end 14,348,082 8,555,584 14,350,888 8,556,544 Liabilities due for payment within 1–5 years of the year-end 7,618,570 11,678,233 7,618,570 11,678,233 Liabilities due for payment later than ﬁve years after the year-end 14,321,217 13,494,022 7,059,116 6,783,143 TOTAL 36,287,869 33,727,839 29,028,574 27,017,920 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 102 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES • 32 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS VALUED AT FAIR VALUE 33 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (GROUP) • The table below shows the ﬁnancial assets and liabilities that are valued Akademiska Hus carries on active liability management where the strat• at fair value. They are classiﬁed in a hierarchy, comprising three levels egy is to weigh up the ﬁnancial risks against the desired low ﬁnancing • and based on the information used to set their fair value. cost over time. The two key policy documents adopted by the Board are: • Level 1 refers to when fair value is set based on listed prices on active • Finance Policy: Describes the long-term strategic orientation, the • markets for identical assets and liabilities. Level 2 refers to when fair Group’s approach to ﬁnancial risks and the mandate to handle these • value is set based on observable data other than listed prices on active risks, as well as the allocation of liability. • markets. Level 3 refers to when the set fair value is essentially based on • Plan for handling ﬁnancial risks (Risk Plan): Justiﬁes annual mandates data that is not observable, i.e. the Company’s own assumptions. for ﬁnancial risk management in the light of the risk scenario and exist• The fair value of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities is set by using informaing exposure. Also includes analysis of developments in ﬁnancial mar• tion that is attributable to one or more of the above-mentioned levels. kets, including both opportunities and challenges from the point of • The classiﬁcation is determined by the lowest level in the hierarchy for view of liability management. • the information that has a material impact on the value. • The Group mainly holds derivatives that are on level 2. The valuation The Parent Company’s Treasury Department handles the Group’s ﬁnan• of the instruments is done according to the zero coupon method, which cial management. This arrangement fosters effective and co-ordinated • means that all the future cash ﬂows of the instrument are set at the curﬁnancial risk management that also allows utilisation of the opportuni• rent value. The zero coupon interest rates used to discount the cash ﬂows ties offered in the ﬁnancial markets. • are calculated with the aid of STIBOR/LIBOR for short-term interest • rates and swap notations for longer terms. The source of this information INTEREST RISK is real-time data from Thomson/Reuters. The term ‘interest risk’ refers to the risk that the Group’s net interest • income and expense may vary due to a change in market interest rates. • Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Exposure to interest rate risk is high due to the high net liability portfo• ASSETS lio, where one of the largest expenses is net interest income and expense. • INVESTMENTS A balance must be reached between saving and uncertainty on the one • hand and higher costs (risk premium) and predictability on the other. – current investment — 2,786,700 — 2,786,700 • The average ﬁxed interest period is a measure of the sensitivity in net • INDEPENDENT DERIVATIVES interest income and expense in conjunction with a change in the market • interest rates; the longer the ﬁxed interest period, the longer it takes for – interest rate • derivatives — 320,080 — 320,080 an interest rate change to be reﬂected in current cash ﬂow. Since it is not • – cross currency interest possible to achieve a desired ﬁxed interest on individual ﬁnancing occa• rate swap agreements — 502,708 — 502,708 sions, the Group uses interest derivatives as a means of adjusting and securing the desired ﬁxed interest period. • HEDGING INSTRUMENTS, According to the Finance Policy, there should be a mandate to manage • FAIR VALUE HEDGING interest rate risk in the two main sub-portfolios as follows: 32 – interest rate • The basic portfolio of SEK 14,800 million is managed within an average 33 derivatives — 153,679 — 153,679 ﬁxed interest period mandate. The current mandate is a ﬁxed interest • period of 2 to 5 years (2 to 5 years). The ﬁxed interest period at the year– cross currency interest • rate swap agreements — 1,050,978 — 1,050,978 end was 3.4 years (3.4), including interest derivatives. • • Long-term bond portfolio with ﬁxed interest and maturity terms in • HEDGING INSTRUMENTS, excess of 15 years. These bonds represent a signiﬁcant interest risk • CASH FLOW HEDGING exposure, which justiﬁes a separate mandate. The portfolio is therefore • – currency derivatives — 257,039 — 257,039 permitted to amount to a maximum of 20 per cent (30) of the total TOTAL ASSETS — 5,071,184 — 5,071,184 portfolio. At the turn of the year, long-term bonds totalling SEK 3,155 • million (3,155) were issued, equivalent to 14.8 per cent (15.1) of the total • portfolio. • LIABILITIES INDEPENDENT DERIVATIVES – interest rate DUE DATE STRUCTURE FOR FIXED INTEREST PERIODS derivatives — 807,004 — 807,004 AND LIABILITY MATURITY, SEK M – currency derivatives — 14 — 14 – electricity derivatives 37,460 — — 37,460 Year Fixed interest, SEK m Maturity, SEK m TOTAL LIABILITIES 37,460 807,018 — 844,478 2015 6,579 7,984 2016 2,418 1,714 2017 1,000 900 2018 2,608 1,300 2019 120 1,120 2020 650 650 2021 1,579 850 2022 and later 3,769 4,205 TOTAL 18,723 18,723 The table above shows the nominal amounts. The nominal amounts have been recalculated at the year-end rate. As all loans raised in a foreign currency are swapped to Swedish kronor, the exchange rate effect is neutralised. A positive ﬁgure means that the Group pays interest and a negative ﬁgure means that the Group receives interest. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 103 CURRENCY RISK The table below shows the remaining contractual term for the Group’s • A currency risk is the risk that exchange rate changes will have an impact ﬁnancial liabilities. The liquidity ﬂows are not discounted and foreign • on the Income Statements and Consolidated Balance Sheets. The policy ﬂows have been translated at the rate on the closing date. For those • is that all currency exposure risk in conjunction with ﬁnancing in foreign instruments where the future variable rate of interest is unknown, the • currency should be eliminated as the operation is denominated exclurate of interest has been calculated with the aid of the implicit forward • sively in Swedish kronor. All payment ﬂows in foreign currency attributinterest rates for the yield curve on the closing date. Use is made primarily of rental revenue to meet the obligations linked • able to ﬁnancing are exchange-hedged with the aid of forward rate agreeto the Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities presented in the table below. The • ments and cross currency swap agreements. In accordance with the currency mandate in the guidelines for purrental revenue falls due for payment quarterly and is subject to long • chasing electricity, currency risk exposure attributable to outstanding agreement terms. The credit risk associated with rental revenue is con• electricity futures is currency hedged with the aid of currency futures. sidered low. • • CURRENCY BREAKDOWN, LOANS AND DERIVATIVES, SEK M LIQUIDITY RISK, SEK M • Original currency Loans Derivatives Total • Current Hedged Derivative Derivainvest• CHF 6,273 –6,273 0 Loans loans insurance tives ments Total • JPY 650 –650 0 2015 –4,272 –6,269 –116 948 2,560 –7,149 • SEK 12,298 9,023 21,321 2016 –1,594 –1,283 –90 177 — –2,790 • USD 3,273 –3,273 0 2017 –1,210 –89 –76 45 — –1,330 • TOTAL 22,494 –1,173 21,321 2018 –497 –2,700 –64 345 — –2,916 • 2019 –305 –35 –10 5 — –345 • The table above shows the nominal amounts. The nominal amounts have 2020 –831 –35 48 — — –818 • been recalculated at the year-end rate. 2021 –356 –1,605 1 217 — –1,743 • LIQUIDITY AND REFINANCING RISK 2022 and • later –6,029 — –97 — — –6,126 Refers to the risk that the Group will be exposed to higher than expected • TOTAL –15,094 –12,016 –404 1,737 2,560 –23,217 expenses or that ﬁnancing potential is limited when loans are due to be • reﬁnanced. The aim is to limit the costs by seeking to strike a balance • Positive value = payments received, negative value = payments made. between short-term, medium-term and long-term ﬁnancing, and • endeavouring to achieve diversiﬁcation between different ﬁnancing • CREDIT RISK AND COUNTER-PARTY RISK arrangements and markets. The Group’s extremely high creditworthiThe risk of a loss if a counter-party does not meet its undertakings. The • ness allows a diversiﬁed supply of credit through the public ﬁnancing Group is exposed when surplus liquidity is placed in ﬁnancial assets and • programmes. According to the maturity mandate, a maximum of 50 per cent (40) in conjunction with changes in the value of derivatives. The risk plan • may fall due for reﬁnancing within a 12-month period. includes a limit system where permitted exposure depends on the coun• Unutilised credit facilities should be in place to guarantee good payter-party’s credit rating or ownership and the term of the involvement. 33 ment capacity. The limits are related to the Group’s risk capacity in the form of equity. • The Group’s liquid assets at the end of 2014 totalled SEK 4,558 million In addition, investments should be characterised by good liquidity in the • (2,689). At the year-end, bank facilities granted totalled SEK 3,100 milsecondary market. • lion (3,500), of which SEK 1,100 million (1,500) was unconﬁrmed. The Group’s policy is that internationally standardised netting agree• ments, ISDA agreements, should always be signed with a counter-party • FACILITIES AND RATING before uncleared derivative transactions take place. As at December 31, 2014, the total counter-party exposure in derivatives (calculated as the • Rating Utilised net claim per counter-party) stood at SEK 1,482 million (1,243). With the • Standard & Framework nominal Poor’s 31-12-2014 31-12-2014 aim of further reducing exposure to a counter-party risk, the Group has • entered into a number of supplementary agreements, Credit Support • Bank SEK 3,100 m 0 Annexes (CSA), to the ISDA agreements. The agreements mean that the Commercial paper A1+/K1 SEK 4,000 m 0 parties mutually undertake to make collateral available in the form of ECP (Euro Commercial Paper) A1+ EUR 1,000 m EUR 533 m cash and cash equivalents or bonds for the undervalues in outstanding MTN (Medium Term Note)1) AA SEK 8,000 m SEK 2,261 m derivative contracts. At the year-end, the Group had received SEK 1,516 EMTN (Euro Medium Term Note) AA/A1+ EUR 3,000 m EUR 1,469 m million (1,042) net. 1) Not updated since 2009. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 104 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 33 CONTINUED • The table below shows ﬁnancial assets and liabilities (derivatives) that • are not offset in the balance sheet, but are covered by master netting • agreements or similar agreements: • • Amounts that are not offset, but are covered by master netting Amounts that are not offset, but are covered by master netting agreements or similar agreements agreements or similar agreements • 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 • Reported ﬁnancial Cash collateral Reported ﬁnancial Cash collateral • assets/liabilities, gross received Net amount assets/liabilities, gross received Net amount • ASSETS • Derivatives 2,284,484 –1,743,625 540,859 1,623,422 –1,042,345 581,077 • TOTAL 2,284,484 –1,743,625 540,859 1,623,422 –1,042,345 581,077 • • LIABILITIES • Derivatives 844,478 –227,262 617,216 373,441 –180 373,261 • TOTAL 844,478 –227,262 617,216 373,441 –180 373,261 • • • • • The table below shows the Group’s exposure to counter-party risks CREDIT RISK ATTRIBUTABLE TO RENT RECEIVABLES • divided according to different rating categories: A large proportion of the Group’s receivables are rent receivables. • The maximum credit risk exposure for rent receivables and accounts • receivable is equal to their carrying amounts. However, the assessed COUNTER-PARTY RISKS, EXCLUDING RENT RECEIVABLES, SEK M credit risk in rent receivables is low in the light of the high credit rating • • Collateral of the tenants. • received/ Net • Receivable Liability granted exposure RISK CONTROL • INSTITUTES WITH Ongoing work is being done to improve the level of expertise, routines A LONG RATING and internal control. There is strict allocation of responsibility between • AAA/Aaa 300 — — 300 the Treasury and Risk Control. The unit handles accounting and admin• AA+/Aa1 100 — — 100 istration as well as compliance with the mandates. The task of developing • AA–/Aa3 5 –38 –33 –66 and reﬁning analytical support and risk control is ongoing. • A+/A1 118 –259 180 39 33 SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS, LIABILITY PORTFOLIO A/A2 1,519 — –1,480 39 • The interest-bearing liability portfolio is constantly exposed to interest BBB+ 192 –9 –183 0 • rate changes on the market. The analysis of the liability portfolio interest INSTITUTES WITH ONLY • A SHORT RATING sensitivity is divided into two parts: • • A change in value of interest derivatives (current values). A-2 100 — — 100 • • Cash ﬂow effects (net interest income/expense) over a calendar year for K-1 450 — — 450 • items with a short ﬁxed interest period, which are given a new shortCompanies wholly owned by • term rate of interest for the remainder of the year. the Swedish State 1,610 — — 1,610 • TOTAL 4,394 –306 –1,516 2,572 As the ﬁxed interest period is diversiﬁed and in accordance with the cur• rent risk mandate, a minimum of two years on average, the variations in Positive ﬁgure = Group receivable, negative ﬁgure = Group liability. the interest cost will ﬂuctuate to a lesser extent than if the ﬁxed interest period had been very short, e.g. three months. ELECTRICITY PRICE RISK The Company has ﬁxed interest periods both within and outside the BalThe risk approach and mandate for handling electricity price risk are ance Sheet in the form of interest derivatives. The aim of these derivatives regulated in the guidelines for purchasing electricity. The term ‘electricity is to facilitate a change in the liability portfolio’s ﬁxed interest period in price risk’ refers to the risk that the future price of electricity will affect addition to what is achieved directly in the ﬁnancing. the Group’s operating costs negatively. With the aim of reducing expoThe table shows the impact on proﬁt of a rise in interest of one sure to changes in the electricity price, different ﬁnancial price-hedging percentage point. The calculations are based on an unchanged liability instruments are used (electricity derivatives). The Group stipulates a amount. long-term price hedging strategy. Trade in physical electric power (spot) and ﬁnancial price-hedging instruments takes place through Nord Pool. To limit the counter-party risk, all ﬁnancial trading is cleared through Nord Pool. Change in value of Net interest income/expense Nominal Maturity, Interest risk, +100 interest with 100 interest points, amount, years, Fixed interest, one interest points, SEK m as of SEK m during the remainder SEK m average years, average point, SEK m Interest, % the year-end1) of the calendar year1) Fixed interest positions with a ﬁxed interest period longer than one year within the Statement of Financial Position2) 5,996 16.13 16.13 8.25 3.82 — — Interest derivatives, ﬁxed interest 5,800 0.00 3.90 2.43 2.48 240 — Interest derivatives, variable interest –5,800 0.00 0.14 –0.09 0.55 — 50 Variable interest within the Statement of Financial Position3) 15,325 1.80 0.23 0.39 0.86 — –118 TOTAL 21,321 5.83 5.73 10.98 2.02 240 –68 1) Refers to +100 interest points in a parallel displacement of the yield curve. 2) Fixed interest positions with a ﬁxed interest period in excess of one year within the Statement of Financial Position refer to issues in SEK that are not included in fair value hedges. 3) Variable interest within the Statement of Financial Position refers to the total effect of issues in a foreign currency which, via derivatives, have been swapped to variable interest in Swedish kronor and which are reported as hedges and FRN issues. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES 105 34 ASSET MANAGEMENT (GROUP) 36 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES • The Group strives to achieve good growth in proﬁt, ﬁnancial sustainabil• Group Parent Company • ity and ﬁnancial capacity. The ﬁnancial objectives are set to provide a combination of a high return on equity, high growth capacity and ﬁnan31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 • cial stability. Contingent liability, • According to the owner’s ﬁnancial targets for Akademiska Hus, the FPG/PRI 3,934 3,668 3,934 3,668 • dividend should amount to between 40 and 60 per cent of the net proﬁt TOTAL 3,934 3,668 3,934 3,668 • after tax after reversal of changes in fair value and related deferred tax. • When deciding on a dividend, consideration should be given to the • Group’s capital structure and capital requirements (equity ratio 30 per 37 INTEREST RECEIVED AND PAID • cent to 40 per cent). • The other ﬁnancial targets are that the equity ratio should be between Group Parent Company • 30 and 40 per cent and that the return on operating capital should be at 2014 2013 2014 2013 • least 6.5 per cent. In 2014, the equity ratio was 48.0 per cent for the Group and 27.0 per cent for the Parent Company. After the proposed diviInterest received 21,035 71,483 21,035 71,483 • dend, the equity ratio will be 46.8 per cent for the Group and 24.3 per Interest paid –589,329 –602,269 –589,329 –602,269 • cent for the Parent Company. TOTAL –568,294 –530,786 –568,294 –530,786 • Financing operations are described in the Financing section in the • Administration Report, Note 27 Loans and Note 33 Financial risk man• agement. 38 ADJUSTMENTS FOR ITEMS NOT INCLUDED IN THE CASH FLOW • The Group’s capital structure comprises an interest-bearing net loan • liability and equity attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder Group Parent Company • (share capital, other contributed capital, retained earnings, including 2014 2013 2014 2013 • proﬁt for the year). • Depreciation, etc 7,169 9,262 1,176,518 1,277,421 The Group’s capital is as follows: Change in fair value, • properties –3,628,384 –501,242 — — • 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 Capital gain (–) / loss (+) • on sale of tangible, • Loans from ﬁnancing programmes (Note 27) 23,124,518 22,174,666 non-current assets –34,543 132,813 –1,541,025 –46,288 • Collateral received for derivative transactions Change in fair value, entered into (Note 29) 1,743,625 1,042,165 • ﬁnancial instruments 383,678 –49,469 383,677 –49,469 Financial derivatives (Note 19) –1,440,006 –1,249,981 Cash ﬂow hedge 33,070 –13,645 33,070 –13,645 • Cash and cash equivalents (Note 25) –4,558,093 –2,689,000 Change in pension • INTEREST-BEARING NET LOAN LIABILITY 18,870,044 19,277,850 provisions and similar • commitments 16,594 22,078 8,061 8,810 • Other — –38 — –38 34 EQUITY 33,431,528 29,613,929 TOTAL –3,222,416 –400,241 60,301 1,176,791 35 36 35 PLEDGED ASSETS 37 39 PURCHASE SUM IN CONJUNCTION WITH INVESTMENTS, 38 ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS 39 Group Parent Company 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 For investments and acquisitions for the period, a total of • KSEK 3,006,443 (2,754,068) has been paid, of which KSEK 3,006,443 was • Blocked bank funds 122,526 132,865 122,526 132,865 paid in cash and cash equivalents. The Parent Company also invested • Current investments 227,262 180 227,262 180 KSEK 300 (50) in shares in subsidiaries. For disposals for the period, TOTAL 349,788 133,045 349,788 133,045 a total of KSEK 2,797,074 (242,737) has been received, of which KSEK 2,797,074 was received in cash and cash equivalents. Unsettled results from transactions as well as standardised computed safety margins using stock exchange-cleared derivatives have been secured through blocked bank funds. Pledged assets increased by SEK 217 million. The increase can be attributed to pledged assets for the Group’s liabilities resulting from an increase in the volume of CSA agreements. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 106 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | NOTES • 40 CHANGE IN INTEREST-BEARING NET LOAN LIABILITIES 42 TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES • In conjunction with intra-Group purchases and sales, the same pricing • Group Parent Company principles are applied as would have been the case in transactions with • 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 31-12-2014 31-12-2013 an external party. Intra-Group property purchases and sales take place • Opening amount 19,277,850 18,529,036 19,278,079 18,529,191 subject to a ﬁscal residual value. Purchases and sales of other current • Increase (–) / Decrease (+) assets take place at the carrying amount. There were no transactions • in interest-bearing with the President, Board of Directors or senior executives, apart from • receivables –661,043 –5,146 –661,043 –4,966 salary and other remuneration, see Note 9. Increase (–) / Decrease (+) Transactions with Group companies are shown in the table below. Reve• in current investments –386,585 296,987 –386,584 296,987 nues consist of the purchase price for the intragroup sale of properties. • Increase (–) / Decrease (+) • in cash and cash Group Parent Company • equivalents –1,482,347 260,627 –1,482,347 260,521 2014 2013 2014 2013 • Increase (+) / Decrease (–) • in interest-bearing Income liabilities 2,122,169 196,346 2,122,169 196,346 • Companies within the CHANGE IN INTERESTAkademiska Hus Group — — 934,913 137,557 • BEARING NET LOAN Total — — 934,913 137,557 • LIABILITIES –407,806 748,814 –407,805 748,888 • Liabilities • AMOUNT AT THE YEAR-END 18,870,044 19,277,850 18,870,274 19,278,079 Companies within the • Akademiska Hus Group — — 2,205 2,217 • Total — — 2,205 2,217 • • • 41 EVENTS AFTER THE YEAR-END • PUBLIC PROCUREMENT ACT • In late January we were notiﬁed that the Administrative Court of Appeal • in Sundsvall conﬁrmed that Akademiska Hus is considered as a contract• ing authority, and thus is covered by the Public Procurement Act (LOU). • The ruling concerns a case in which the Swedish Competition Authority • has initiated proceedings requesting that Akademiska Hus be ordered to • pay a public procurement ﬁne for a general construction project regard• ing the new Skogishuset on the Umeå Campus. Case law is unclear in this • area since the Administrative Court of Appeal in Stockholm recently ruled that state-owned Sveaskog is not a contracting authority, while the • Administrative Court of Appeal in Sundsvall now, without any reported • reasons, made the opposite assessment of Akademiska Hus. Therefore • there is no uniform case law. Akademiska Hus has therefore decided to • appeal the ruling of the Administrative Court of Appeal in order to get a • ﬁnal ruling from the Supreme Court. • 40 CAPITAL STRUCTURE 41 The Group’s current equity ratio is 48 per cent. The owner’s capital struc42 ture objectives specify that the Group’s equity ratio should be 30–40 per cent. To facilitate the future harmonisation of the capital structure with the owner’s equity ratio target, the Board proposes that resolutions be passed at the Annual Shareholder’s Meeting to reduce the share capital by SEK 5,000 million for allocation to non-restricted equity. It is also proposed that bonus issues for the same amount are implemented to reinstate the share capital to its original level. The bonus issues will be implemented by means of a revaluation of investment properties. Following the proposed measures and the Board’s proposed dividend, the Parent Company’s non-restricted equity will amount to SEK 7,457 million. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | BOARD SIGNATURES 107 Signing of the Annual Report The Board of Directors and the President hereby certify that the Annual The Board of Directors and the President hereby certify that the Report has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act Consolidated Accounts have been prepared in accordance with Interand RFR 2 and provides a fair picture of the Company’s position and national Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as endorsed by the EU, results and that the Administration Report provides a fair overview of and provide a fair picture of the Group’s position and results and that the development of the Group’s operations, position and results and the Administration Report for the Group provides a fair overview of describes material risks and uncertainties facing the Company. the development of the Group’s operations, position and results and describes material risks and uncertainties facing the companies that form part of the Group. Gothenburg, 16 March 2015 Eva–Britt Gustafsson Britta Burreau Olof Ehrlén Chairman Board member Board member Thomas Jennlinger Anders Larsson Ingela Lindh Employee representative Employee representative Board member Leif Ljungqvist Pia Sandvik Board member Board member Gunnar Svedberg Ingemar Ziegler Board member Board member Kerstin Lindberg Göransson, President Our Audit Report was submitted on March 16, 2015. KPMG AB Björn Flink Authorised Public Accountant AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 108 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | AUDIT REPORT Auditor’s report To the annual meeting of the shareholders of Akademiska Hus AB (publ), corp. id 556459-9156 REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated ­Akademiska Hus AB (publ) for the year 2014. The annual accounts and accounts, we have also audited the proposed appropriations of the comconsolidated accounts of the company are included in the printed pany’s profit or loss and the administration of the Board of Directors and ­version of this document on pages 63–107. the Managing Director of Akademiska Hus AB (publ) for the year 2014. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director for the Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director annual accounts and consolidated accounts The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for of the company’s profit or loss, and the Board of Directors and the Managthe preparation and fair presentation of these annual accounts in according Director are responsible for administration under the Companies Act. ance with the Annual Accounts Act and of the consolidated accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopt Auditor’s responsibility by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act, and for such internal control as Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance on the Board of Directors and the Managing Director determine is necessary the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and on the to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts administration based on our audit. We conducted the audit in accordance that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. As basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors proposed appropriAuditor’s responsibility ations of the company’s profit or loss we examined the Board of DirecOur responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts and tors’ reasoned statement and a selection of supporting evidence in order consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in to be able to assess whether the proposal is in accordance with the Comaccordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally panies Act. accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Those standards require that we As basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, in addicomply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to tion to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and examined significant decisions, actions taken and circumstances of the consolidated accounts are free from material misstatement. company in order to determine whether any member of the Board of An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence Directors or the Managing Director is liable to the company. We also about the amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts and consoliexamined whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managdated accounts. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judging Director has, in any other way, acted in contravention of the Compament, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of nies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. control relevant to the company’s preparation and fair presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts in order to design audit Opinions procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that the profit be purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory adminisinternal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of tration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates Managing Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. made by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. Göteborg 16 March 2015 Opinions In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act, and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 December 2014 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts KPMG AB have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and Björn Flink present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group Authorised Public Accountant as of 31 December 2014 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareholders adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. Other matters The audit of the annual accounts for year 2013 was performed by another auditor who submitted an auditor´s report dated 13 March 2014, with unmodified opinions in the Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 109 Semrén & Månsson Student accommodation, Osquldas väg, KTH Campus, Stockholm AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 110 ABOUT THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT About the Sustainability Report Akademiska Hus applies the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) framework for sustainability reporting, version G4 Core and GRI G4 Sector Supplement, Construction and Real Estate. The Sustainability Report is an integral part of Akademiska Hus’ 2014 Annual Report and is certiﬁed by KPMG. The report thus complies with the owner’s guidelines for external reporting. A kademiska Hus has supported the UN Global Compact initiative since 2013 and thus takes a stand on issues relating to human rights, social conditions, Contact environmental responsibility, the right to form trade unions and anti-corruption. The basis is the UN Declaration of Mia Edofsson Human Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles Sustainability Manager and Rights at Work, OECD principles and standards on how multimia.edofsson@akademiskahus.se national companies should conduct responsible business, as well as the Rio Declaration on the Precautionary Principle, which means that Akademiska Hus undertakes to work preventively and minimise risks due to environmental issues. The Annual Report and the period. The data presented covers the calendar year 2014, from Sustainability Report also serve as a Communication on Progress January 1 to December 31, and applies to Akademiska Hus as a Group. (COP) for reporting work in line with Global Compact principles. Akademiska Hus has conﬁned the scope of the Sustainability The Sustainability Report of Akademiska Hus covers the ﬁnancial Report to those areas covered by the GRI index. The following pages year and is published annually. The latest Sustainability Report was give a summary of the GRI indicators that are reported and the locapublished on March 31, 2014. Akademiska Hus presents its sustaintion of information on the GRI indicators and COP in Akademiska ability work based on the Company’s main processes, with the focus Hus reports. on those areas that are considered most important. No signiﬁcant A summary of the trade organisations of which the Company is a changes have taken place in the business during the accounting member can be found at akademiskahus.se AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 GRI DATA 111 GRI data The following information about the GRI indicators is not provided G4-EN3: ENERGY USE WITHIN THE ORGANISATION ­anywhere else in the Annual Report. MWh Total energy use, not renewable 265,236 G4-10: TOTAL WORKFORCE BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE, EMPLOYMENT Total energy use, renewable 587,236 ­CONTRACT, REGION AND GENDER Total Electricity 407,099 Akademiska Hus employs a total of 435 people, all of whom are perman­ Total Heating 337,662 ently employed, with the exception of three people who are on trial Total Cooling 93,249 ­contracts. 19 people have part-time jobs. Total Steam 14,462 Distribution of men and women, by region: Sold Electricity 264,422 Sold Heating 70,614 Gender Sold Cooling 65,360 Men Women Total Sold Steam 14,462 Akademiska Hus Head Office 44 39 83 Own electricity generation from renewables Akademiska Hus Southern Region 35 18 53 Solar electricity 130 Akademiska Hus Western Region 48 17 65 G4-EN6: REDUCTION IN ENERGY USE Akademiska Hus Eastern Region 24 4 28 MWh Akademiska Hus Uppsala 54 14 68 Total reduction 34,754 Akademiska Hus Stockholm 79 25 104 Reduction in Electricity 10,914 Akademiska Hus Northern Region 30 4 34 Reduction in Heating 28,157 Total 314 121 435 Reduction in Cooling –5,039 72% 28% 100% Reduction in Steam 722 G4-20-21: IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES WITHIN Saving 3,534 AND OUTSIDE THE ORGANISATION Invested SEK 11,580,494 Material aspect GRI aspect Boundary G4-EN16: INDIRECT EMISSIONS OF GREENHOUSE GASES Efficient use of resources Energy Own operations and supply Emissions into the air chain and customers. Total CO2 emissions in 2014 amounted to 44,192 tons.* A safe working environment Health and safety Own operations and supply chain G4-EN19: REDUCTION IN EMISSIONS OF GREENHOUSE GASES Good supplier management Environment Supply chain Total CO2 emissions in 2014 amounted to 3,301 tons.* Working conditions High transparency Anti-corruption Own operations and *All CO2 data in this summary is based on information from suppliers ­customers who report in accordance with current accounting standards. 2013 Climate change adaptation Environment Own operations and emission factors for heating were used since emission factors for Emissions into the air ­customers 2014 were not available at the time this report was prepared. Diversity and equality Diversity and equal Own operations opportunity G4-CRE3: GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION LEVELS FROM PROPERTIES In addition to these essential areas we see customer collaboration, Greenhouse gas emissions levels from Akademiska Hus properties are ­campus development and student accommodation as important issues 11.6 kg of CO2/m2. for our business. G4-LA6: WORK-RELATED INJURIES AND ILLNESSES G4-EC1: DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE AND DISTRIBUTION Accident statistics are recorded in our internal “AkaÄrende” system, Economic stakeholder relations which classifies them into the categories: own staff, construction opera­ tions and management. Retained by company excluding During the year, five injuries to our own staff were reported to the proposed dividend, SEK 3,770 m, 45% Swedish Social Insurance Agency, leading to a total of 378 hours of absence. Suppliers, SEK 1,679 m, 20% During the same period, 20 accidents involving our own staff were Shareholders’ dividend, SEK 1,374 m, 17% reported to the “AkaÄrende” system. Interest on loans, SEK 1,073 m, 13% The most frequently occurring types of work-related injury are acci­ dental falls, falling objects and injury during transport. Employees’ wages, SEK 218 m, 3% Employees’ social costs, SEK 104 m, 1% G4-LA12: DIVERSITY WITHIN THE ORGANISATION Reimbursements to Board of Directors, 72% of Akademiska Hus employees are men and 28% are women. President and Executive Management, SEK 9 m, 0% Age distribution: Up to 30 years, 5% Other key figures for the EC-1 indicator can be found in: Income Statements page 74 30 to 50 years, 52% Allocation of unappropriated 51 to 60 years, 31% earnings page 71 61 years and older, 12% Staff note Note 9, page 89 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 112 ABOUT THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | GRI AND COP INDEX GRI and COP index Global Compact Indicator Description Page Comment principles STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4–1 Statement from the President 4–5 ORGANISATION PROFILE G4–3 Organisation name Front cover G4–4 Brands, products, and services 6–7 G4–5 Location of head ofﬁce 132 G4–6 Number of countries in which the organisation operates 132 G4–7 Ownership structure and form of company 63 G4–8 Markets in which the organisation operates 10–11 G4–9 Size of the reporting organisation 59, 74, 77, 89, 117–131 G4–10 Total workforce by employment type, employment 111 Akademiska Hus reports number of employees by 6 contract, region and gender employment type, gender and region. Hired workers are not reported, although Akademiska Hus enlists a large number of hired staff. Data is not available. Akademiska Hus has no signiﬁcant variations in the number of employees over the year. G4–11 Proportion of the workforce covered by collective All employees are signed to the collective Almega 3 agreements Fastigheter Salary Agreement G4–12 Description of the organisation’s supply chain 16–18, 40–41 G4–13 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period No signiﬁcant changes during the ﬁnancial year G4–14 Description of whether and how the organisation follows 16–18, 38–41 the Precautionary Principle G4–15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social 110 declarations, principles or other initiatives that the organisation supports or is afﬁliated with G4–16 Membership of organisations and/or national/ www.akademiskahus.se international lobbying organisations (Sustainability/Sustainability partnerships) ESSENTIAL ASPECTS AND LIMITATIONS G4–17 Units that are included in the organisation’s ﬁnancial 95 reporting G4–18 Description of the process for deﬁning report content and 14–18 aspect boundaries G4–19 Statement of all essential aspects identiﬁed 14–18 G4–20 Identiﬁed material aspects and boundaries within the 111 organisation G4–21 Identiﬁed material aspects and boundaries outside the 111 organisation G4–22 Changes to the information provided in previous reports No signiﬁcant changes have been made to information and the reasons for such changes submitted in the 2013 report. G4–23 Signiﬁcant changes that have been made since the 110 previous reporting period COMMUNICATION AND STAKEHOLDERS G4–24 Stakeholder groups that the organisation has contact with 16–17, 21 G4–25 Principle for identifying and selecting stakeholders 16–17, 21 G4–26 Approach for communication with stakeholders 16–17, 21 G4–27 Important areas and issues that have been raised in 16–17, 21 communication with stakeholders INFORMATION ON ACCOUNTING AND CONTROL G4–28 Reporting period 110 G4–29 Publication date for latest report 110 G4–30 Reporting cycle 110 G4–31 Contact for questions regarding the report and its content 110 G4–32 Statement of contents in accordance with GRI Core 110, 112–113 reporting level and report for external attestation G4–33 Statement of the organisation’s policy and procedures 110, 115 for external attestation of reporting AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 ABOUT THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | GRI AND COP INDEX 113 Global Compact Indicator Description Page Comment principles INFORMATION ON ACCOUNTING AND CONTROL G4–34 Statement of the organisation’s corporate governance 52–62 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4–56 The organisation’s values, principles and ethical 8, 14 10 standards such as codes of conduct FINANCES FINANCIAL RESULTS DMA Information on control 6–7, 20, 22–23, 51 EC–1 Direct economic value and distribution 51, 70–71, 89, 111 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT DMA Information on control 6–7, 24–26 EC–7 Investments in infrastructure and services for 24–26, 37 public beneﬁt ENVIRONMENT ENERGY DMA Information on control 14–15, 20, 27–29 EN–3 Energy use within the organisation 27–29, 111 Akademiska Hus reports on electric heating and cooling 7, 8 because these are the areas that account for the dominant share of energy use. EN–6 Reduction in energy use 27–29, 111 Academic House reports on electric heating and 8, 9 cooling because these are the areas where the largest reductions are made. EMISSIONS INTO THE AIR DMA Information on control 14–15, 27–29, 38, 40 EN–16 Indirect emissions of greenhouse gases 27–29, 111 7, 8 EN–19 Reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases 27–29, 111 8, 9 CRE–3 Greenhouse gas emission levels from properties 111 ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING OF SUPPLIERS DMA Information on control 38, 40–41 EN–32 Number of new suppliers that have undergone 41 During the year, 149 contract partners were audited, 8 environmental inspection covering all the major contracts. HEALTH AND SAFETY DMA Information on control 41, 46–48 LA–5 Representation on health and safety committees 48 LA–6 Work-related injuries and illnesses 41, 111 Akademiska Hus reports total ﬁgures for absence through sickness and injuries at work for the company as a whole. Work-related injuries and illnesses for contractors cannot be reported due to unavailability of data. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY DMA Information on control 46–48 LA–12 Diversity within the organisation 47, 111 6 MONITORING OF SUPPLIERS’ WORKING CONDITIONS DMA Information on control 38, 40–41 LA–14 Number of new suppliers that have undergone 41 During the year, 149 contract partners were audited, inspection of working conditions covering all the major contracts. ANTI-CORRUPTION DMA Information on control 8, 60–61, 65–66 SO–5 Corruption incidents and action taken No reported cases of corruption 10 PRODUCT LABELLING DMA Information on control 20–21,39–40 PR–5 Results from customer satisfaction surveys 20–21 CRE–8 Type and number of sustainability certiﬁcates, 39–40 ratings and scores for new construction HUMAN RIGHTS Consistently important issue throughout the value 1, 2 chain. Given high priority in efforts to establish accident-free workplaces. CHILD LABOUR The Code of Conduct covers this principle, but this 5 area is not identiﬁed as one of the main risk areas for Akademiska Hus. FORCED LABOUR The Code of Conduct covers this principle, but this 4 area is not identiﬁed as one of the main risk areas for Akademiska Hus. AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 114 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SIGNATURES OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS Signatures of Board of Directors Sustainability Report The Sustainability Report for 2014 has been approved for publication by the Board of Directors and the President of Akademiska Hus AB. Gothenburg, 16 March 2015 Eva–Britt Gustafsson Britta Burreau Olof Ehrlén Chairman Board member Board member Thomas Jennlinger Anders Larsson Ingela Lindh Employee representative Employee representative Board member Leif Ljungqvist Pia Sandvik Board member Board member Gunnar Svedberg Ingemar Ziegler Board member Board member Kerstin Lindberg Göransson, President AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT| ASSURANCE REPORT 115 Assurance Report Auditor’s report on general review of Akademiska Hus AB’s ducting other general review procedures. A general review has a different Sustainability Report. focus and signiﬁcantly narrower scope than that of an audit conducted in accordance with IAASB standards for auditing and quality assurance, To Akademiska Hus AB and other generally accepted auditing practices. The review procedures that are followed during a general review do not enable us to achieve a INTRODUCTION sufficient level of assurance to guarantee that we identify all signiﬁcant We have been instructed by the Board of Directors of Akademiska Hus to circumstances that would have been identiﬁed by an audit. The conclucarry out a general review of the Company’s Sustainability Report for 2014. sion reached from a general review does not therefore carry the same Akademiska Hus has deﬁned the scope of the Sustainability Report on level of conﬁdence as a conclusion based on an audit. page 110. Our review is based on the selected criteria of the Board of Directors and Executive Management, as deﬁned above. We believe that these criRESPONSIBILITY OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE teria are appropriate for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. MANAGEMENT FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT. We believe that the evidence we have gained during our review is suffiThe Board of Directors and Executive Management are responsible for cient and appropriate in order to provide a basis for our opinion below. the preparation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with the relevant criteria, which are given on page 110 of the Sustainability Report, OPINIONS and consist of those parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Based on our general review, we have not identiﬁed any circumstances issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) that apply to sustainabilthat cause us to doubt that the Sustainability Report has, in all material ity reporting, as well as the Company’s own reporting and accounting respects, been prepared according to the criteria stated above by the principles. This responsibility also includes internal controls that are Board of Directors and Executive Management. deemed necessary for the preparation of a sustainability report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Gothenburg, 16 March 2015 AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY KPMG AB Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Sustainability Report based on our general review. We have conducted a general review in accordance with RevR 6 Attestation of Sustainability Reporting issued by FAR. A general review Björn Flink Torbjörn Westman involves making inquiries, mainly of individuals responsible for preparAuthorised Public Accountant Specialist member of FAR ing the Sustainability Report, carrying out an analytical review and conAKADEMISKA HUS 2014 116 PROPERTY SPECIFICATION Contents – Property speciﬁcation Southern Region, Lund (A) 117 Southern Region, Lund (B) 118 Southern Region, Kristianstad (C) 119 Western Region, Gothenburg (A) and Chalmers (B) 120 Western Region, Medicinareberget (C) and Karlstad (D) 121 Eastern Region, Linköping and Campus Valla (A) 122 Eastern Region, Örebro (B) and Norrköping (C) 123 Uppsala Region, Uppsala (A and B) 124 Uppsala Region, Ultuna Campus (C) and Gävle (D) 125 Stockholm Region, Stockholm (A) and the Solna Campus (B) 126 Stockholm Region, Huddinge Campus (C) and Frescati (D) 127 Stockholm Region, Royal Institute of Technology Campus (E) 128 Stockholm Region, Kista (F) 129 Northern Region, Umeå and Umeå Campus (A) 130 Northern Region, Luleå (B) 131 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 PROPERTY SPECIFICATION 117 Property speciﬁcation Southern Region Southern Region LUND (A) PÅLSJÖ E22 TUNA OLSHÖG RENTAL REVENUE, FAIR VALUE, KSEK RENTABLE FLOOR PROPERTY NAME YEAR OF REFERENCE NO. PROPERTY AVERAGE RENT LAND AREA, PRINCIPAL INCL. SUPPLEADDRESS LOCATION M²/REGISTER MAP DESIGNATION CONSTRUCTION CUSTOMER SPACE, TOTAL, M² VACANT MENTS, KSEK SEK/M² PROPERTY A 1 Bredgatan 13 Sankt Peter 33 Bredgatan 13 1958 Lund University Lund 943 0 1,237 1,312 849 13,477 A 2 Tapetserarverkstad Paradis 51 Paradisgatan 5 1916 Lund University Lund 236 0 266 1,127 35,029 1,964 A 3 Pedagogen Paradis 51 Allhelgona Kyrkogatan 16 1918 Lund University Lund 3,638 0 4,302 1,183 0 45,797 A 4 Teologen Paradis 51 Allhelgona Kyrkogata 8 1927 Vacant Lund 3,745 3,588 4,443 1,186 0 5,275 A 5 Tillämpad Psykologi Paradis 51 Allhelgona Kyrkogata 14 1882 Lund University Lund 784 0 1,006 1,283 0 9,841 A 6 Kirurgiska pav. Paradis 51 Sandgatan 3 1867 Lund University Lund 3,429 0 4,531 1,321 0 47,720 A 7 Sociologen Paradis 51 Paradisgatan 5 1850 Lund University Lund 3,401 0 4,094 1,204 0 40,884 A 8 Hud Kliniken Paradis 51 Paradisgatan 3 1824 Lund University Lund 1,053 0 1,819 1,727 0 18,399 A 9 Psykologen Paradis 51 Allhelgona Kyrkogata 14 1867 Lund University Lund 2,780 0 3,777 1,359 0 39,166 A 10 Juridicum Fd Paradis 51 Allhelgona Kyrkogata 14 1899 Lund University Lund 1,633 0 2,377 1,456 0 23,422 A 11 Byrålogen Paradis 51 Paradisgatan 5 1983 Lund University Lund 3,765 0 5,211 1,384 0 59,472 A 12 Eden Paradis 51 Allhelgona Kyrkogata 14 1984 Lund University Lund 4,678 0 9,306 1,989 0 117,426 A 13 Socialhögskolan Paradis 47 Bredgatan 26 1889 Lund University Lund 1,383 0 1,856 1,342 3,157 21,082 A 14 UB Absalon 5 Helgonabacken 1907 Lund University Lund 14,007 0 11,794 842 29,728 120,651 A 15 Humanisten Absalon 5 Helgonabacken 14 1959 Lund University Lund 16,431 0 26,277 1,599 0 332,577 A 16 Biskopsgatan 7 Hyphoff 5 Biskopsgatan 5 1893 Lund University Lund 1,358 0 1,978 1,457 19,751 15,351 A 17 Konst och Musik Hyphoff 5 Biskopsgatan 5 1965 Lund University Lund 1,087 283 1,585 1,458 0 13,083 A 18 Kulturanatomen Hyphoff 5 Biskopsgatan 7 1893 Procivitas Privata Lund 1,840 0 2,546 1,384 0 27,270 Gymnasium AB A 19 Vaktmästarhus Hyphoff 5 Pålsjövägen 1 1893 Lund University Lund 252 0 148 587 0 838 A 20 Finng 10 Hyphoff 5 Finngatan 10 1891 Lund University Lund 541 0 377 697 0 3,623 A 20 Finngatan 12 Hyphoff 5 Finngatan 12 1900 Axpertis AB Lund 297 0 465 1,566 0 4,447 A 20 Finngatan 14 Hyphoff 5 Finngatan 14 1907 — Lund 380 380 465 1,224 0 3,452 A 20 Finngatan 16 Hyphoff 5 Finngatan 16 1905 Lund University Lund 429 0 597 1,392 0 6,317 A 21 Geocentrum 1 Saxo 3 Sölvegatan 10 1924 Lund University Lund 3,328 0 135 41 4,943 –17,588 A 22 Geocentrum 2 Sölve 1 Helgonavägen 5 1936 Lund University Lund 8,184 0 20,572 2,514 46,999 239,486 A 23 Gerdagatan 9 Sölve 1 Gerdagatan 9 1936 Institute for Language Lund 552 0 642 1,163 0 6,337 and Folklore A 23 Gerdagatan 11 Sölve 1 Gerdagatan 11 1952 Lund University Lund 402 0 387 963 0 3,485 A 23 Gerdagatan 13 Sölve 1 Gerdagatan 13 1952 Lund University Lund 394 0 438 1,112 0 4,390 A 24 Fysik Sölve 1 Professorsgatan 1 1962 Lund University Lund 23,635 952 37,154 1,572 0 340,697 A 25 Innovationscentrum Sölve 1 Sölvegatan 16 1963 Lund University Lund 2,522 0 3,758 1,490 0 43,047 A 26 LUX Eskil 21 Helgonavägen 3 1962 Lund University Lund 14,336 0 15,830 1,104 43,397 398,395 A 27 BMC, Hus F–I Eskil 21 Sölvegatan 19 1955 Lund University Lund 9,062 0 21,618 2,386 0 211,032 A 28 BMC, Hus A–R Eskil 21 Sölvegatan 17 1995 Lund University Lund 33,823 0 98,746 2,919 0 881,462 A 29 Astronomi Eskil 21 Sölvegatan 27 2001 Lund University Lund 4,560 0 9,132 2,003 0 118,585 A 30 Genetik Helgona 6:16 Sölvegatan 29 1949 Lund University Lund 5,248 755 4,581 873 371,548 32,912 A 31 Biologicentrum Helgona 6:16 Sölvegatan 35 1962 Lund University Lund 9,802 0 31,930 3,257 0 365,641 A 32 Ekologi Helgona 6:16 Sölvegatan 37 1994 Lund University Lund 12,105 0 22,627 1,869 0 211,312 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 118 PROPERTY SPECIFICATION Property speciﬁcation Southern Region Southern Region LUND (B) 8 9 7 12 6 11 10 3 5 PÅLSJÖ 2 13 4 E22 14 TUNA 1 OLSHÖG RENTAL REVENUE, FAIR VALUE, KSEK RENTABLE FLOOR PROPERTY NAME YEAR OF REFERENCE NO. PROPERTY AVERAGE RENT LAND AREA, PRINCIPAL INCL. SUPPLEADDRESS LOCATION M²/REGISTER MAP DESIGNATION CONSTRUCTION CUSTOMER SPACE, TOTAL, M² VACANT MENTS, KSEK SEK/M² PROPERTY B 1 Tornavägen 13 Helgona 6:16 Tornavägen 13 1952 Red Apple apartsments Ltd Lund 1,030 0 610 592 0 7,266 B 2 Matematik Helgona 6:16 Sölvegatan 18 1964 Lund University Lund 10,387 1,238 11,398 1,097 0 106,879 B 3 Annexet Helgona 6:16 Sölvegatan 18 1964 Lund University Lund 4,098 0 8,281 2,021 0 109,200 B 4 Maskinteknik Helgona 6:16 Ole Römers v 1 1966 Lund University Lund 27,836 1,845 38,779 1,393 0 243,891 B 5 Elektroteknik Helgona 6:16 Ole Römers v 3 1968 Lund University Lund 19,017 0 25,507 1,341 0 262,499 B 6 Väg & vatten Helgona 6:16 John Ericssons v 1 1967 Lund University Lund 18,612 561 18,140 975 0 168,728 B 7 Arkitektur Helgona 6:16 Sölvegatan 24 1965 Lund University Lund 10,004 0 15,177 1,517 0 169,302 B 8 Kemicentrum Helgona 6:16 Getingevägen 60 1969 Lund University Lund 51,373 0 87,657 1,706 0 804,333 B 9 Designcentrum Helgona 6:16 Sölvegatan 26 2002 Lund University Lund 9,954 0 21,433 2,153 0 270,184 B 10 Lth Info och studie Helgona 6:16 John Ericssons v 4 1977 Lund University Lund 4,503 0 6,512 1,446 0 84,189 B 11 Kårhuset Helgona 6:16 John Ericssons v 3 1994 Lund University Lund 5,565 0 7,457 1,340 0 73,887 B 12 Navet Helgona 6:16 Sölvegatan 22 F 1986 Lund University Lund 1,672 1,534 917 0 14,476 B 13 AH Kontorsbyggnad Studentkåren 4 Ole Römers väg 2 1902 Akademiska Hus Lund 2,520 0 2,917 1,158 25,269 19,659 B 14 Tornavägen 11 Helgona 6:16 Tornavägen 11 1959 — Lund 1,507 1,507 199 132 0 12,734 Maria Magle Maria Magle 6 Magle St Kyrkog 12 1861 Lund University Lund 2,146 0 2,967 1,383 2,473 9,864 Utb.res. Lth-området Helgona 6:16 — — — Lund 0 0 0 0 0 51,613 Utb.res. Kuvösen Studentkåren 4 — — — Lund 0 0 0 0 0 31,088 Tandvårdshögskolan Klerken 4 Carl Gustavs väg 34 1948 Malmö University Malmö 15,459 0 22,440 1,452 7,643 210,737 Slottet Alnarp 1:60 Slottsvägen 5 1862 SLU Alnarp 3,314 0 4,007 1,209 933,117 29,343 Agricum Alnarp 1:60 Slottsvägen 2 1950 SLU Alnarp 4,414 65 4,086 926 0 25,741 Animalienborg Alnarp 1:60 Sundsvägen 3 1905 SLU Alnarp 3,391 1,072 3,276 966 0 21,684 Hovbeslagskolan Alnarp 1:60 Smedjevägen 2 1877 SLU Alnarp 2,867 141 1,696 592 0 5,643 Restaurang Alnarp 1:60 Sundsvägen 9 1876 SLU Alnarp 2,510 0 1,517 604 0 9,427 Södra elev Alnarp 1:60 Elevenborgsvägen 4 1951 Swedish Board of Alnarp 1,728 0 967 560 0 3,708 Agriculture Kärnhuset Alnarp 1:60 Smedjevägen 3 1971 Genetic Resource Centre Alnarp 2,621 19 2,086 796 0 10,629 Ekonomilokal Alnarp 1:60 Växthusvägen 14 1945 SLU Alnarp 2,096 64 372 177 0 –1,811 Horticum Alnarp 1:60 Sundsvägen 10 1974 SLU Alnarp 5,959 0 10,238 1,718 0 66,087 Stora logen Alnarp 1:60 F Meldahls väg 3 1890 SLU Alnarp 2,762 1,287 480 174 0 –4,054 Mejeriet Alnarp 1:60 Kungsgårdsvägen 8 1936 Akademiska Hus Alnarp 3,789 1,000 1,938 511 0 –1,814 Bostad Alnarp 1:60 Mejeristigen 1 1936 Private individual Alnarp 1,666 0 709 426 0 1,203 Elevenborg Alnarp 1:60 Elevenborgsvägen 2 1910 SLU Alnarp 3,604 58 1,745 484 0 4,063 Växtskyddscentrum Alnarp 1:60 Sundsvägen 16 1980 SLU Alnarp 10,427 174 12,456 1,195 0 60,469 Utb.res. Alnarp Alnarp 1:60 — — — Alnarp 0 0 0 0 0 1,430 Gamlegård Alnarp 1:60 Gamlegård 4 1750 SLU Alnarp 5,029 0 2,457 489 0 8,033 Alnarpsgården Alnarp 1:60 Sundsvägen 6 1869 SLU Alnarp 7,671 531 5,118 667 0 42,459 Smp Alnarp 1:60 Sundsvägen 8 A 1957 SMP AB Alnarp 2,801 0 1,635 584 0 6,653 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 PROPERTY SPECIFICATION 119 Property speciﬁcation Southern Region Southern Region KRISTIANSTAD (C) NÄSBY 4 5 8 3 9 2 1 7 6 FÄLADEN LYCKANS HÖJD RENTAL REVENUE, FAIR VALUE, KSEK RENTABLE FLOOR PROPERTY NAME YEAR OF REFERENCE NO. PROPERTY AVERAGE RENT LAND AREA, PRINCIPAL INCL. SUPPLEADDRESS LOCATION M²/REGISTER MAP DESIGNATION CONSTRUCTION CUSTOMER SPACE, TOTAL, M² VACANT MENTS, KSEK SEK/M² PROPERTY C 1 Admibyggnad Näsby 34:24 Elmetorpsvägen 1920 Kristianstad University K-stad 1,650 0 1,975 1,197 80,138 14,041 C 2 Administrationen Näsby 34:24 Elmetorpsvägen 1923 Kristianstad University K-stad 1,107 0 1,654 1,494 0 14,701 C 3 Bibliotek Näsby 34:24 Elmetorpsvägen 1920 Kristianstad University K-stad 5,371 0 7,046 1,312 0 59,347 C 4 Informationsteknik Näsby 34:24 Elmetorpsvägen 1920 Kristianstad University K-stad 545 0 1,304 2,393 0 18,392 C 5 Kontor Näsby 34:24 Elmetorpsvägen 1922 Kristianstad University K-stad 3,149 1,118 3,464 1,100 0 22,119 C 6 Pedagogen Näsby 34:24 Elmetorpsvägen 1922 Kristianstad University K-stad 7,223 0 8,491 1,176 0 83,729 C 7 Hälsohuset Näsby 34:24 Elmetorpsvägen 1920 Kristianstad University K-stad 7,440 0 9,048 1,216 0 77,262 C 8 Matte/Natur Näsby 34:24 Elmetorpsvägen 1922 Kristianstad University K-stad 3,719 0 4,832 1,299 0 38,778 C 9 PhD. Näsby 34:24 Elmetorpsvägen 1921 Kristianstad University K-stad 3,257 0 4,628 1,421 0 54,190 Properties under construction 756,458 TOTAL 481,836 16,638 726,240 1,507 1,604,041 7,889,166 Rent reductions and vacancies –18,982 Revenue, non-recurring rent payments 998 Rental revenue, net 717,241 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 120 PROPERTY SPECIFICATION Property speciﬁcation Western Region Western Region Western Region GÖTEBORG (A) CHALMERS (B) JOHANNEBERG GÅRDA 1 3 11 2 LORENSBERG HAGA 4 ANNEDAL 5 6 LISEBERGS NÖJESPARK OLIVEDAL 7 E20 JOHANNEBERG LANDALA E6 8 B 9 C 10 RENTAL REVENUE, FAIR VALUE, KSEK RENTABLE FLOOR PROPERTY NAME YEAR OF REFERENCE NO. PROPERTY AVERAGE RENT LAND AREA, PRINCIPAL INCL. SUPPLEADDRESS LOCATION M²/REGISTER MAP DESIGNATION CONSTRUCTION CUSTOMER SPACE, TOTAL, M² VACANT MENTS, KSEK SEK/M² PROPERTY A 1 Universitetsbiblioteket Lorensberg 21:1 Renströmsgatan 4 1953 Gothenburg University Gothenburg 13,338 0 16,460 1,234 0 181,828 A 1 Humanisten Lorensberg 21:1 Renströmsgatan 6 1966 Gothenburg University Gothenburg 15,906 0 21,574 1,356 0 254,954 A 2 Arkeologen Lorensberg 21:1 Olof Wijksgatan 6 1947 Gothenburg University Gothenburg 3,144 0 5,100 1,622 35,248 54,092 A 3 Artisten Lorensberg 24:3 Fågelsången 1 1935 Gothenburg University Gothenburg 14,645 0 25,039 1,710 9,605 308,865 A 4 Viktoriagatan 13 Vasastaden 12:19 Viktoriagatan 13 1952 Gothenburg University Gothenburg 4,150 0 5,626 1,356 7,654 76,868 A 5 Handelshögskolan Haga 22:1 Vasagatan 1 1952 Gothenburg University Gothenburg 26,621 0 39,572 1,486 25,210 460,982 A 6 Haga Haga 21:19 Sprängkullsgatan 25 1994 Gothenburg University Gothenburg 21,622 0 35,033 1,620 22,290 375,823 A 7 KK2 Annedal 20:2 Konstepidiminsväg 2 1924 Gothenburg University Gothenburg 5,514 0 8,825 1,600 10,428 93,096 A 8 Psykologen Annedal 21:11 Haraldsgatan 1 1995 Gothenburg University Gothenburg 6,169 0 9,332 1,513 3,125 111,921 A 9 Botanik Änggården 34:2 Carl Skottbergs g 22 B 1970 Gothenburg University Gothenburg 9,809 171 14,589 1,487 11,280 132,233 B 1 Fysik Origo Johanneberg 31:9 Kemigården 1 1926 Chalmersfastigheter AB Gothenburg 11,762 0 18,391 1,564 182,800 208,290 B 1 It-gymnasiet villan Johanneberg 31:9 Origovägen 2 1948 IT Gymnasiet Sverige AB Gothenburg 289 0 564 1,952 0 6,533 B 1 Fysik Soliden Johanneberg 31:9 Origovägen 6 B 1945 Chalmersfastigheter AB Gothenburg 2,422 0 3,558 1,469 0 34,837 B 1 It-gymnasiet Johanneberg 31:9 Origovägen 4 1926 IT Gymnasiet Sverige AB Gothenburg 1,855 0 2,583 1,392 0 26,714 B 2 Mathematical Sciences Johanneberg 31:9 Chalmers Tvärgata 3 1945 Chalmersfastigheter AB Gothenburg 6,737 0 13,990 2,077 0 157,279 Centre B 3 Chalmers bibliotek Johanneberg 31:9 Chalmers Tvärgata 1 1957 Chalmersfastigheter AB Gothenburg 5,925 0 7,490 1,264 0 67,427 B 4 Hörsalar HA Johanneberg 31:9 Hörsalsvägen 4 1962 Chalmersfastigheter AB Gothenburg 1,141 0 1,546 1,355 0 15,633 B 5 Maskinteknik Johanneberg 31:9 Hörsalsvägen 7 1968 Chalmersfastigheter AB Gothenburg 25,194 0 35,893 1,425 0 199,689 B 5 Kraftcentral Johanneberg 31:9 Chalmers tvärg. 6 1947 — Gothenburg 88 0 0 0 0 0 B 5 Lokalkontor AH Johanneberg 31:9 Chalmers tvärg. 6 1969 Akademiska Hus Gothenburg 1,045 0 959 918 0 6,553 B 6 Hörsalar HB Johanneberg 31:9 Hörsalsvägen 10 1962 Chalmersfastigheter AB Gothenburg 2,172 0 3,805 1,752 0 38,531 B 7 Hörsalar HC Johanneberg 31:9 Hörsalsvägen 14 1962 Chalmersfastigheter AB Gothenburg 1,441 0 2,448 1,699 0 18,092 B 8 Elkraftteknik Johanneberg 31:9 Hörsalsvägen 11 1955 Chalmersfastigheter AB Gothenburg 5,008 0 6,308 1,260 0 59,810 B 8 Idélära Johanneberg 31:9 Rännvägen 8 1959 Chalmersfastigheter AB Gothenburg 752 0 637 847 0 5,219 B 8 Edit Johanneberg 31:9 Maskingränd 2 1963 Chalmersfastigheter AB Gothenburg 19,603 0 32,111 1,638 0 336,309 B 8 Förråd och ställverk Johanneberg 31:9 Elektrovägen — Chalmersfastigheter AB Gothenburg 105 0 15 141 0 176 B 9 Väg och vatten 1 Johanneberg 31:9 Sven Hultins gata 6 1966 Chalmersfastigheter AB Gothenburg 6,592 0 8,089 1,227 0 66,373 B 9 Arkitektur Johanneberg 31:9 Sven Hultins gata 6 1968 Chalmersfastigheter AB Gothenburg 14,080 0 14,701 1,044 0 143,045 B 9 Väg och vatten 2 Johanneberg 31:9 Sven Hultins gata 8 1969 Chalmersfastigheter AB Gothenburg 18,151 0 18,391 1,013 0 143,410 B 10 Eklandagatan 86 Krokslätt 109:20, Eklandagatan 86 1993 SP Sveriges Tekniska Gothenburg 7,704 4,611 8,758 1,137 0 82,407 110:3 Forskningsinstitut AB B 11 Centrala admin. Johanneberg 31:9 Chalmersplatsen 4 1962 Chalmersfastigheter AB Gothenburg 3,378 0 4,534 1,342 0 48,916 Gibraltar herrgård Johanneberg 31:9 Gibraltargatan 17 1974 Hummingbird AB Gothenburg 334 0 645 1,931 0 7,815 Utb.res. Chalmers Johanneberg 31:9 — — — Gothenburg — — — — — 68,932 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 PROPERTY SPECIFICATION 121 Property speciﬁcation Western Region Western Region Western Region 9 MEDICINAREBERGET (C) KARLSTAD (D) 2 2 1 3 1 3 NORRA KROP4 PKÄRR 4 KRONOPARKEN 5 6 E18 SÖDRA KROPPKÄRR 7 8 RENTAL REVENUE, FAIR VALUE, KSEK RENTABLE FLOOR PROPERTY NAME YEAR OF REFERENCE NO. PROPERTY AVERAGE RENT LAND AREA, PRINCIPAL INCL. SUPPLEADDRESS LOCATION M²/REGISTER MAP DESIGNATION CONSTRUCTION CUSTOMER SPACE, TOTAL, M² VACANT MENTS, KSEK SEK/M² PROPERTY C 1 Lyktan Wallenbergssalen Änggården 718:138 Medicinaregatan 20 1971 Gothenburg University Gothenburg 4,799 0 8,622 1,797 0 78,354 C 2 Zoologi Änggården 718:138 Medicinaregatan 18 1971 Gothenburg University Gothenburg 7,669 863 9,929 1,295 0 74,976 C 3 Miljömedicin Änggården 718:138 Medicinaregatan 16 1970 Gothenburg University Gothenburg 4,458 0 6,712 1,506 0 53,899 C 4 Lokalkontor AH Änggården 718:138 Medicinaregatan 14 1981 Akademiska Hus Gothenburg 351 0 636 1,812 0 4,284 C 5 Medicinarelängan Änggården 718:138 Medicinaregatan 3–11 1968 Gothenburg University Gothenburg 28,814 636 49,113 1,704 0 410,584 C 5 Experimentell Biomedicin Änggården 718:138 Medicinaregatan 15 1998 Gothenburg University Gothenburg 9,081 0 26,393 2,906 0 138,087 C 5 Hasselbladslaboratoriet Änggården 718:138 Medicinaregatan 5 C 1997 Gothenburg University Gothenburg 1,240 0 1,595 1,286 0 11,174 C 5 Läkemedelscentrum Änggården 718:138 Medicinaregatan 13 A–C 2008 Gothenburg University Gothenburg 2,759 0 9,970 3,614 0 87,259 C 5 Academicum Änggården 718:138 Medicinaregatan 3 2004 Gothenburg University Gothenburg 1,765 0 4,546 2,576 0 51,894 C 6 Lundbergslaboratoriet Änggården 718:138 Medicinaregatan 9C 1993 Gothenburg University Gothenburg 6,047 0 18,158 3,003 0 150,312 C 7 Änggården Änggården 718:138 Medicinaregatan 8 1910, Sahlgrenska Science Gothenburg 5,962 463 7,426 1,246 0 69,506 1962 Park C 8 Biomedicinska biblioteket Änggården 718:138 Medicinaregatan 4 1959 Gothenburg University Gothenburg 3,160 0 3,321 1,051 194,253 28,973 C 9 Medicinaregatan 18 C–G Änggården 718:138 Medicinaregatan 18 C–G 2013 Regionkansliet Gothenburg 4,205 0 10,363 2,464 0 146,898 Gångbro Änggården 718:138 Medicinaregatan 4 B 2003 Gothenburg University Gothenburg 305 0 1,696 5,561 0 24,835 Utb.res. Medicinarberget Änggården 718:138 — — — Gothenburg 0 0 0 0 0 24,970 P-Däck, Medicinareberget Änggården 718:138 — — Gothenburg University Gothenburg 5,666 0 0 0 0 5,077 D 1 Universitetsbiblioteket Universitetet 1 Universitetsgatan 2 2002 Karlstad University Karlstad 10,429 0 18,417 1,766 0 177,855 D 2 Hus 11–12 Universitetet 1 Universitetsgatan 6 2000 Karlstad University Karlstad 12,281 0 22,265 1,813 0 157,137 D 3 Hus 1-9 Universitetet 1 Universitetsgatan 6 1993 Karlstad University Karlstad 44,676 0 55,888 1,251 139,892 539,046 D 4 Hus Vänern Universitetet 1 Sommargatan 2008 Karlstad University Karlstad 12,803 0 27,049 2,113 0 299,987 Studenternas Hus Universitetet 1 Sommargatan 110 2003 Karlstad University Karlstad 2,876 1,248 3,785 1,316 0 26,875 Driftcentral Universitetet 1 Universitetsgatan 2 2014 — Karlstad 0 0 0 0 0 0 Tjärnö Korsnäs 1:16 Tjärnö — Gothenburg University Tjärnö 5,985 0 10,594 1,770 24,936 57,662 Kristineberg Skaftö-Fi 1:500 Fiskebäckskil 1994 Gothenburg University Kristine2,731 0 5,370 1,966 1,932 30,316 berg Forskningsstation Skaftö-Fi 1:194, Fiskebäckskil 1905 Gothenburg University Kristine2,445 0 2,043 836 0 16,062 1:224 berg Föreståndarbostaden Lysekil SkaftöFiskebäckskil 1827 — Kristine233 0 0 0 768 4,000 Fiskebäck 1:556 berg Skövde University Göta 1 Högskolevägen 1 — Skövde University Skövde 8,355 1,082 8,994 1,076 34,015 55,938 Hus G Göta 1 Högskolevägen 1999 Skövde University Skövde 11,454 0 16,527 1,443 0 167,873 Balder Balder 7 Allégatan 1 1982 Borås University Borås 32,228 0 36,134 1,121 7,454 330,488 Sandgärdet Sandgärdet 6 m.ﬂ. Järnvägsgatan 5 2001 Borås University Borås 13,729 0 26,536 1,933 12,256 282,932 Utb.res. Sandgärdet Sandgärdet 6 m.ﬂ. — — — Borås 0 0 0 0 0 3,912 Properties under construction 154,664 TOTAL 503,202 9,074 758,648 1,508 723,146 7,454,342 Rent reductions and vacancies –14,275 Revenue, non-recurring rent payments 8,810 Rental revenue, net 753,183 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 122 PROPERTY SPECIFICATION Property speciﬁcation Eastern Region Eastern Region Eastern Region LINKÖPING CAMPUS VALLA (A) ÖSTRA VALLA VASASTADEN GOTTFRIDSBERG INNERSTADEN TANNEFORS ÖSTRA VALLA RAMSHÄLL VÄSTRA VALLA A EKKÄLLAN VÄSTRA VALLA BERGA RENTAL REVENUE, FAIR VALUE, KSEK REFERENCE NO. RENTABLE FLOOR YEAR OF AVERAGE RENT PROPERTY LAND AREA, PRINCIPAL INCL. SUPPLEADDRESS LOCATION M²/REGISTER MAP PROPERTY NAME DESIGNATION CONSTRUCTION CUSTOMER SPACE, TOTAL, M² VACANT MENTS, KSEK SEK/M² PROPERTY Intellektet 1 Intellektet 1 Campus Valla — — Linköping 0 0 0 0 1,032,112 0 A 1 A-Building Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 1990 Linköping University Linköping 30,886 0 43,576 1,411 0 403,913 A 2 B-huset Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 1972 Linköping University Linköping 35,357 0 46,608 1,318 0 431,483 A 3 C-Building Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 1972 Linköping University Linköping 11,188 0 10,774 963 0 93,742 A 4 D-Building Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 1980 Linköping University Linköping 12,947 0 15,459 1,194 0 149,440 A 5 Temahuset Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 1987 Linköping University Linköping 5,882 0 7,423 1,262 0 64,871 A 6 E-Building Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 1985 Linköping University Linköping 4,229 0 4,946 1,170 0 43,688 A 7 Kårallen Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 1987 Linköping University Linköping 5,647 0 3,651 647 0 20,134 A 8 Akademiska Hus, Adm Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 1987 Akademiska Hus Linköping 1,211 0 1,071 1,103 0 9,148 A 9 Nova Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 1975 ALcontrol AB Linköping 6,172 0 8,457 1,370 0 59,826 A 10 Vallfarten Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 1975 Linköping University Linköping 1,274 0 3,166 2,485 0 10,334 A 11 Terra Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 1975 VTI Linköping 21,941 1,817 23,427 1,068 0 204,223 A 12 Provhall Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 1973 Peab Drift & Underhåll Linköping 397 0 240 604 0 1,876 Mellansverige A 13 Förråd Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 1975 Linköping University Linköping 704 0 28 39 0 0 A 14 Provvägshall/vti Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 1973 VTI Linköping 1,287 0 748 581 0 2,476 A 15 Origo Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 1992 Linköping University Linköping 4,065 0 4,768 1,173 0 42,425 A 16 Fysikhuset Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 1995 Linköping University Linköping 16,919 0 30,971 1,831 0 267,404 A 17 Hus Ett Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 1987 Linköping University Linköping 637 0 529 831 0 4,858 A 18 Galaxen Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 1978 FOI Linköping 31,209 977 39,221 1,257 0 384,921 A 19 NSC Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 1978 Linköping University Linköping 948 350 5,812 6,131 0 26,800 A 20 Mjärdevi Västergård Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 1780 Kårservice Östergötland AB Linköping 113 0 63 562 0 416 A 21 Zenit Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 1998 Linköping University Linköping 1,957 0 2,480 1,267 0 21,630 A 22 I-Building Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 1990 Linköping University Linköping 2,762 0 2,948 1,067 0 27,309 A 23 I-Building 3 Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 1996 Linköping University Linköping 1,373 0 1,651 1,203 0 17,338 A 24 KEY Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 2000 Linköping University Linköping 11,139 0 17,857 1,603 0 181,391 A 25 Idrottshall Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 2007 Linköping Municipal Authority Linköping 5,553 0 4,786 862 0 54,345 A 26 Friidrottsarena Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 2013 Linköping Municipal Authority Linköping 581 0 6,203 10,676 0 97,871 A 27 L-huset Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 2011 Linköping University Linköping 377 0 1,367 3,626 0 13,022 A 28 Ångströmhuset Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 2011 Linköping University Linköping 237 0 3,575 15,082 0 33,257 A 29 TMC Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 2012 Linköping University Linköping 1,869 0 5,667 3,032 0 52,944 A 30 KMC Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 2013 Linköping University Linköping 2,329 0 6,281 2,697 0 90,246 A 31 Kärnhuset NSC Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 2013 Linköping University Linköping 3,040 0 10,177 3,348 0 89,449 Cbr5 Intellektet 1 Campus Valla 2011 Linköping University Linköping 312 0 934 2,994 0 0 Utbyggnadsreserv Intellektet 1 Intellektet 1 Campus Valla — — Linköping 0 0 0 0 0 124,340 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 PROPERTY SPECIFICATION 123 Property speciﬁcation Eastern Region Eastern Region Eastern Region ÖREBRO (B) NORRKÖPING (C) Assi Domän NORDAN TILL NÄSBY 2 ALMBY 1 3 SÖRBY GAMLA STADEN TYBBLE BERGET 5 7 2 STRÖMBACKEN 1 8 SÖRBYÄNGEN 6 4 3 RENTAL REVENUE, FAIR VALUE, KSEK REFERENCE NO. RENTABLE FLOOR YEAR OF AVERAGE RENT PROPERTY LAND AREA, PRINCIPAL INCL. SUPPLEADDRESS LOCATION M²/REGISTER MAP PROPERTY NAME DESIGNATION CONSTRUCTION CUSTOMER SPACE, TOTAL, M² VACANT MENTS, KSEK SEK/M² PROPERTY Universitetet 1 Örebro Universitetet 1 Fakultetsgatan 1 — — Örebro 0 0 0 0 244,185 0 B 1 Ioh Gymnastikhuset Örebro Universitetet 1 Fakultetsgatan 1 1969 Örebro University Örebro 5,157 0 5,597 1,085 0 46,617 B 1 Ioh Idrottshallen Örebro Universitetet 1 Fakultetsgatan 1 1970 Örebro University Örebro 2,410 0 2,077 862 0 13,688 B 1 Idrottsplaner Örebro Universitetet 1 Fakultetsgatan 1 — Örebro University Örebro 0 0 94 0 0 0 B 2 Långhuset Örebro Universitetet 1 Fakultetsgatan 1 1975 Örebro University Örebro 18,524 0 23,322 1,259 0 201,706 B 3 Östra Mark Örebro Universitetet 1 Fakultetsgatan 1 1984 Örebro University Örebro 577 0 593 1,029 0 5,525 Mangårdsbyggnad B 3 Östra Mark Västra Örebro Universitetet 1 Fakultetsgatan 1 1996 Örebro University Örebro 320 0 570 1,782 0 3,487 Flygeln B 4 Teknikhuset Örebro Universitetet 1 Fakultetsgatan 1 1992 Örebro University Örebro 13,361 0 16,993 1,272 0 159,981 B 5 Prismahuset Örebro Universitetet 1 Fakultetsgatan 1 1995 Örebro University Örebro 14,519 0 18,267 1,258 0 160,602 B 5 Forum Örebro Universitetet 1 Fakultetsgatan 1 2001 Örebro University Örebro 8,513 0 11,091 1,303 0 108,217 B 6 Bibliotek Örebro Universitetet 1 Fakultetsgatan 1 1996 Örebro University Örebro 6,797 0 8,892 1,308 0 88,725 B 7 Musikhögskola Örebro Universitetet 1 Fakultetsgatan 1 2004 Örebro University Örebro 9,237 0 18,951 2,052 0 164,835 B 7 Bilbergska Örebro Universitetet 1 Fakultetsgatan 1 2008 Örebro University Örebro 5,413 0 16,551 3,058 0 136,242 B 8 Entrehuset Örebro Universitetet 1 Fakultetsgatan 1 1998 Örebro University Örebro 4,713 0 6,976 1,480 0 64,140 B 8 Kårhuset Örebro Universitetet 1 Fakultetsgatan 1 1990 Örebro University Örebro 1,360 0 1,487 1,094 0 8,420 Röda Paviljongen Örebro Universitetet 1 Fakultetsgatan 1 — Örebro University Örebro 282 0 108 382 0 844 Utbyggnadsres. Örebro Universitetet 1 Campus Örebro — — Örebro 0 0 0 0 0 17,301 Universitetet 1 Måltidens Hus Grythyttan 6:419 Sörälgsvägen 4 1993 Örebro University Grythyttan 3,117 0 4,141 1,328 15,651 21,126 Kärnhuset Grythyttan 6:419 Sörälgsvägen 1 1993 Örebro University Grythyttan 1,679 0 1,987 1,183 14,710 12,401 C 1 Kåkenhus Kåkenhus 11 Bredgatan 33 1830, Linköping University Norrköping 19,080 0 45,937 2,408 7,167 333,266 2008 C 2 Täppan Täppan 23 Bredgatan 34 1999 Linköping University Norrköping 16,274 0 30,883 1,898 1,429 284,861 C 3 Kopparhammaren Kopparhammaren 6 Kungsgatan 52 1891, Linköping University Norrköping 2,538 0 8,517 3,354 946 68,210 2010 Properties under construction 7,749 TOTAL 358,413 3,144 537,898 1,501 1,316,200 4,933,064 Rent reductions and vacancies –3,122 Revenue, non-recurring rent payments 2,495 Rental revenue, net 535,086 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 124 PROPERTY SPECIFICATION Property speciﬁcation Uppsala Region FJÄRDINGEN Uppsala Region Uppsala Region 1 UPPSALA (A) UPPSALA (B) 3 1 2 2 KUNGS4 GÄRDET FJÄRDINGEN KUNGSÄN6 GEN 5 B 7 11 KÅBO 6 3 5 8 4 ULLERÅKER NORBY 9 KÅBO VALSÄTRA 10 ST. DJURULTUNA C GÅRDEN RENTAL REVENUE, FAIR VALUE, KSEK RENTABLE FLOOR REFERENCE NO. PROPERTY NAME PROPERTY YEAR OF CONAVERAGE RENT LAND AREA, PRINCIPAL INCL. SUPPLEADDRESS LOCATION M²/REGISTER MAP DESIGNATION STRUCTION CUSTOMER SPACE, TOTAL, M² VACANT MENTS, KSEK SEK/M² PROPERTY A 1 Ekonomikum Luthagen 62:7 Kyrkogårdsgatan 10 1975 Uppsala University Uppsala 21,838 0 30,219 1,384 43,620 311,392 A 2 Engelska parken 1 Kåbo 14:3 Thunbergsvägen 3 A–B 1859 Uppsala University Uppsala 2,719 0 3,933 1,446 34,191 39,328 A 2 Engelska parken 2 Kåbo 14:3 Thunbergsvägen 3 E 1904 Uppsala University Uppsala 30,508 0 43,800 1,436 0 402,575 A 2 Engelska parken 3 Kåbo 14:3 Thunbergsvägen 3 D 1954 Uppsala University Uppsala 3,862 0 5,705 1,477 0 57,458 A 2 Engelska parken 4 Kåbo 14:3 Thunbergsvägen 5 A 1986 Uppsala University Uppsala 2,701 0 4,844 1,793 0 25,881 A 2 Engelska parken 5 Kåbo 14:3 Thunbergsvägen 5 A 1947 Uppsala University Uppsala 1,103 0 3,610 3,273 0 5,163 A 2 Utb.res. Engelska parken Kåbo 14:3 — — — Uppsala 0 0 0 0 0 654 A Utb.res. Rosendal Kåbo 1:20 — — — Uppsala 0 0 0 0 0 157,671 A 3 Rosendalsgymnasiet Kåbo 1:20 Husargatan 8 1976 Uppsala Municipal Uppsala 9,062 0 14,553 1,606 19,172 164,490 Authority A 4 Fyrkanten Kåbo 1:20 Leo Fenders väg — — Uppsala 1,103 1,103 0 0 2,970 0 A 5 Ångströmlab Kronåsen 7:1 Lägerhyddsvägen 1 1994 Uppsala University Uppsala 50,105 0 100,347 2,003 82,442 1,033,307 A 5 Frejahallen, Ångström lab 2 Kronåsen 7:1 Lägerhyddsvägen 1 2013 Uppsala University Uppsala 1,143 0 4,618 4,040 0 40,612 A 5 Utb.res. Ångström Kronåsen 7:1 — — — Uppsala 0 0 0 0 0 21,743 A 6 ITC 1 Kronåsen 1:15 Lägerhyddsvägen 2 1909 Uppsala University Uppsala 21,473 0 34,200 1,593 68,695 352,268 A 6 ITC 2 Kronåsen 1:15 Lägerhyddsvägen 2 1916 Svensk Markservice AB Uppsala 3,190 362 3,110 975 0 17,366 A 6 ITC 3 Kronåsen 1:15 Lägerhyddsvägen 2 1903 Science Students Union Uppsala 2,545 1,907 646 254 0 0 A 6 ITC 4 Kronåsen 7:1 Lägerhyddsvägen 3 1879 Uppsala University Uppsala 1,976 0 2,410 1,220 0 28,568 A 6 Utb.res. ITC Kronåsen 1:15 — — — Uppsala 0 0 0 0 0 3,826 B 1 Blåsenhus 1 Kåbo 5:1 von Kraemers Allé 1 2009 Uppsala University Uppsala 20,736 0 49,880 2,405 137,808 714,129 B 2 Idrottshuset Kåbo 5:1 von Kraemers Allé 5 2009 Uppsala University Uppsala 2,986 0 6,540 2,190 0 90,877 B 3 Stora Lugnet Kåbo 5:4 Dag Hammarskjölds väg 11 A–B 1955 Uppsala University Uppsala 2,133 376 3,103 1,455 4,090 26,221 B 3 Lugnet Kåbo 5:1 von Kraemers Allé 8 1750 Uppsala Municipal Uppsala 358 0 311 869 0 1,567 Authority B 4 EBC 1, Zoologen Kåbo 34:12 Villavägen 9 1916 Uppsala University Uppsala 7,560 0 9,318 1,233 53,794 106,212 B 4 EBC 2 Kåbo 34:12 Norbyvägen 14 1999 Uppsala University Uppsala 2,401 0 4,019 1,674 0 47,123 B 4 EBC 4 Lab Kåbo 34:12 Norbyvägen 18 A 1962 Uppsala University Uppsala 14,511 0 25,165 1,734 0 239,880 B 4 EBC 5, Paleontologen Kåbo 34:12 Norbyvägen 22 1933 Uppsala University Uppsala 2,738 0 1,952 713 0 14,120 B 4 EBC 7 Kåbo 34:12 Norbyvägen 18 E 2009 Uppsala University Uppsala 2,405 0 11,630 4,836 0 117,217 B 4 Utb.res. Lagerträdet Kåbo 34:12 — — — Uppsala 0 0 0 0 0 1,353 B 5 Västra Lugnet Kåbo 5:1 Villavägen 1912 — Uppsala 1,722 1,722 693 402 0 7,000 B 5 Geocentrum Kåbo 5:1 Villavägen 18 1979 Uppsala University Uppsala 18,906 0 25,458 1,347 0 273,160 B 6 Kunskapsgymnasiet Kåbo 5:1 von Kraemers Allé 24 1967 Kunskapsskolan Uppsala 2,881 0 7,547 2,620 0 93,078 B 11 Skandion Clinic Kåbo 5:9 von Kraemers Allé 26 2014 Kommunalförb. AvanUppsala 10,236 0 25,861 4,548 6,115 806,798 cerad Strålbehandling B 7 Arkivcentrum Kåbo 5:1 von Kraemers Allé 19 1953 Landsarkivet i Uppsala Uppsala 13,503 0 14,597 1,081 0 153,450 B 8 Kontor Akademiska Hus Kåbo 5:1 Artillerigatan 7 2003 Akademiska Hus Uppsala 2,237 0 7,659 3,424 8,300 50,136 B 9 Magistern Kåbo 01:10 Dag Hammarskjölds v 31 1943 Kunskapsskolan Uppsala 4,401 0 9,797 2,226 0 121,482 B 9 Utb.res. Magistern Kåbo 01:10 — — — Uppsala 0 0 0 0 0 47,485 B 10 Biomedicinskt centrum Kåbo 1:10 Husargatan 3 1997 Uppsala University Uppsala 80,833 0 185,757 2,298 98,732 1,705,322 B Utb.res. Blåsenhus Kåbo 5:1 — — — Uppsala 0 0 0 0 0 49,985 B Kv Blåsenhus Kåbo 5:1 Norbyvägen 6 — — Uppsala 0 0 0 0 0 41,000 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 PROPERTY SPECIFICATION 125 Property speciﬁcation Uppsala Region Uppsala Region Uppsala Region 1 ULTUNA CAMPUS GÄVLE (D) NORRTULL 2 ULTUNA VÄSTER 3 NORR 6 14 5 13 7 11 4 8 VILLASTAVALLBACK10 SÖDER 15 DEN EN 9 1 12 RENTAL REVENUE, FAIR VALUE, KSEK RENTABLE FLOOR REFERENCE NO. PROPERTY NAME PROPERTY YEAR OF CONAVERAGE RENT LAND AREA, PRINCIPAL INCL. SUPPLEADDRESS LOCATION M²/REGISTER MAP DESIGNATION STRUCTION CUSTOMER SPACE, TOTAL, M² VACANT MENTS, KSEK SEK/M² PROPERTY C 1 SVA 1 Ultuna 2:23 Ulls väg 4 1976 Matverkstan i Uppsala AB Uppsala 735 0 1,005 1,367 1,202,551 958 C 1 SVA 2, Säkerhetslab Ultuna 2:23 Travvägen 23 2003 SVA Uppsala 2,981 0 7,505 2,518 0 66,514 C 1 SVA 3, Patologen Ultuna 2:23 Ulls väg 2 1999 SVA Uppsala 25,150 7,592 35,701 1,420 0 141,416 C 2 Klinikcentrum Ultuna 2:23 Ulls väg 12 1976 — Uppsala 30,255 29,740 21,169 700 0 0 C 3 Ekologihuset Ultuna 2:23 Ulls väg 16 1971 SLU Uppsala 9,306 413 13,549 1,456 0 82,080 C 4 Södra Gärdet 2 Ultuna 2:23 C Barthelsväg 6 1967 SLU Uppsala 4,821 1,513 2,359 489 0 4,170 C 4 Södra Gärdet 3 Ultuna 2:23 Ulls väg 28 A 1950 SLU Uppsala 2,862 0 3,155 1,102 0 18,325 C 5 Södra Gärdet 4, Friskis & Svettis Ultuna 2:23 Ulls väg 22 B 2008 SLU Uppsala 3,557 0 5,903 1,660 0 54,242 C 15 Södra gärdet 5, VHC Ultuna 2:23 Ulls väg 26 2014 SLU Uppsala 41,563 0 69,103 2,719 0 271,000 C 6 Markvetenskap Ultuna By 1 Ultuna 2:23 Gerda Nilsson väg 2 1973 SLU Uppsala 8,870 8,870 6,223 702 0 10,100 C 7 Rektorsvillan – Ultuna By 2 Ultuna 2:23 Undervisningsplan 7 C 1923 SLU Uppsala 1,602 0 2,641 1,649 0 16,061 C 8 Tyskbackshagen 1 Ultuna 2:23 Ulls väg 27–29 – Almas allé 8 1974 SLU Uppsala 11,055 5,060 13,603 1,230 0 18,400 C 8 Tyskbackshagen 2 Ultuna 2:23 Undervisningsplan 1973 SLU Uppsala 735 0 1,241 1,688 0 15,200 C 8 Tyskbackshagen 3 Ultuna 2:23 Duhrevägen 8 1862 SLU Uppsala 5,394 61 4,903 909 0 30,680 C 8 Tyskbackshagen 4 Ultuna 2:23 Undervisningsplan 8–10 1974 SLU Uppsala 8,727 0 15,147 1,736 0 154,379 C 9 Dekanhuset, Ultuna hamn 2 Ultuna 2:23 Arrheniusplan 12 2000 SLU Uppsala 3,710 0 3,082 831 0 20,523 C 10 Herrgården, Ultuna hamn 1 Ultuna 2:23 Arrheniusplan 2 B–D 1700 UPSYS Uppsala 1,511 498 1,637 1,083 0 11,982 C 11 Ultuna Hamn 3 Ultuna 2:23 Arrheniusplan 8 1876 SLU Uppsala 7,809 5,351 1,858 238 0 11,000 C 11 Ultuna Hamn 4 Ultuna 2:23, 2:15 Hampus von Posts väg 8 1913 SLU Uppsala 6,974 330 4,331 621 0 32,000 C 12 Tyskbacken 1, Teknikpark Ultuna 2:23 Vallv. 2–6, Ulls v. 37–41 1977 Shimano Nordic Cycle AB Uppsala 7,221 1,488 5,827 807 0 30,192 C 12 Tyskbacken 2, Teknikhuset Ultuna 2:23 Ultunaallén 4 1941 JTI Uppsala 5,453 494 4,302 789 0 27,185 C 12 Tyskbacken 3, Silvikum Ultuna 2:23 Vallvägen 9 A–D 1935 SLU Uppsala 2,531 0 3,294 1,301 0 14,208 C 12 Tyskbacken 4, Miljöanalys Ultuna 2:23 Ulls väg 31 A–B 1967 SLU Uppsala 4,951 0 4,104 829 0 1,200 C 12 Tyskbacken 5, Silvikum Ultuna 2:23 Ulltunaallén 2 1949 ScandiNova Systems AB Uppsala 2,061 110 2,178 1,057 0 13,537 C 12 Tyskbacken 6, Silvikum Ultuna 2:23 Vallvägen 5 2007 Solibro Research AB Uppsala 1,238 0 3,085 2,492 0 19,878 C 12 Tyskbacken 7 Ultuna 2:23 Vallvägen 1997 Uppsala Municipal Uppsala 1,648 356 1,650 1,001 0 4,000 Authority C 12 Tyskbacken 8 Ultuna 2:23 Ultunaallén 4 1949 JTI Uppsala 1,782 0 710 398 0 3,100 C Naturicum (Bäcklösa) Ultuna 2:23 Bäcklösavägen 13 A 1945 SLU Uppsala 5,136 809 4,090 796 0 18,800 C Utb.res. Ultuna Ultuna 2:23 — — — Uppsala 0 0 0 0 0 169,154 C 13 BioCentrum, Ultuna By 3 Ultuna 2:23 Almas allé 5 2011 SLU Uppsala 16,285 0 57,816 1,597 0 512,000 C 14 Mark Vatten Miljö, Ultuna By 4 Ultuna 2:23 Lennart Hjelms väg 9 2011 SLU Uppsala 11,641 0 28,666 1,289 0 308,000 D 1 Kungsbäck 1 Kungsbäck 2:8 Kungsbäcksvägen 47 1908 Gävle University Gävle 29,838 0 49,994 1,676 108,563 482,111 D 1 Kungsbäck 2 Kungsbäck 2:8 Stenhammarsvägen 9 1908 Gävle University Gävle 8,831 1,420 9,055 1,025 0 38,669 D 1 Kungsbäck 3 Kungsbäck 2:8 Stenhammarsväg 11 1908 KoK Bygg AB Gävle 701 194 199 284 0 0 D 1 Kungsbäck 4 Kungsbäck 2:8 Kungsbäcksvägen 47 1999 Gävle University Gävle 5,253 0 9,033 1,720 0 102,562 Properties under construction 2,384,987 TOTAL 626,062 69,769 1,039,400 1,660 1,871,043 12,458,510 Rent reductions and vacancies –21,031 Rental revenue, net 1,018,369 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 126 PROPERTY SPECIFICATION Property speciﬁcation Stockholm Region Stockholm Region Stockholm Region D STOCKHOLM (A) CAMPUS SOLNA (B) 1 2 HAGA 29 5 3 7 6 4 10 9 28 8 E 13 E VASASTA12 DEN 24 B 25 11 27 14 26 23 17 15 22 NORRMALM 16 18 21 20 19 RENTAL REVENUE, FAIR VALUE, KSEK REFERENCE NO. PRINCIPAL CUSRENTABLE FLOOR YEAR OF AVERAGE RENT PROPERTY LAND AREA, INCL. SUPPLEADDRESS LOCATION M²/REGISTER MAP PROPERTY NAME DESIGNATION CONSTRUCTION TOMER SPACE, TOTAL, M² VACANT MENTS, KSEK SEK/M² PROPERTY A 1 Botanicum N Djurgården 1:46 Lilla Frescativägen 5 1973 Stockholm University Stockholm 8,839 0 13,813 1,563 0 111,484 A 2 Psyk. Inst. N Djurgården 01:45 Frescati Hagväg 8 1916 Stockholm University Stockholm 6,308 138 8,197 1,299 53,364 83,823 A 2 Psyk. Inst. N Djurgården 01:45 Frescati Hagväg 14 1944 Stockholm University Stockholm 2,823 0 3,245 1,150 0 26,633 A 2 Stressforskninginst. N Djurgården 01:45 Frescati Hagväg 16 A 1955 Stockholm University Stockholm 3,562 64 5,568 1,563 0 35,908 A 2 Fytotronen N Djurgården 01:45 Frescati Hagväg 9 1965 Stockholm University Stockholm 1,012 0 2,239 2,213 0 25,242 A 2 Trädgårdsvillan N Djurgården 01:45 Frescati Hagväg 7 1800 Stockholm University Stockholm 489 209 402 822 0 759 A 2 Psyk. Inst. N Djurgården 01:45 Frescati Hagväg 12 1948 MUM Projektbyggarna Stockholm 720 0 1,027 1,425 0 9,518 A 3 Inst. Orientaliska språk N Djurgården 01:44 Kräftriket 1 A 1911 Stockholm University Stockholm 315 0 342 1,084 70,540 2,274 A 3 Företagsekon. Inst. N Djurgården 01:44 Kräftriket 2 A–C 1911 Stockholm University Stockholm 9,501 1,004 17,043 1,794 0 180,899 A 3 Inst. Orientaliska språk N Djurgården 01:44 Kräftriket 4 A–B 1911 Stockholm University Stockholm 2,165 50 2,229 1,030 0 14,924 A 3 Matematiska Inst. N Djurgården 01:44 Kräftriket 5 A–B 1911 Stockholm University Stockholm 2,474 0 4,329 1,750 0 47,433 A 3 Matematiska Inst. N Djurgården 01:44 Kräftriket 6 A–B 1911 Stockholm University Stockholm 2,651 0 4,728 1,784 0 52,242 A 3 Score N Djurgården 01:44 Kräftriket 7 A–C 1911 Stockholm University Stockholm 1,343 21 1,995 1,486 0 18,206 A 3 Värdshuset N Djurgården 01:44 Kräftriket 9 A–C 1911 Kräftan AB Stockholm 723 0 1,028 1,421 0 7,066 A 3 Stlm Resilience Center N Djurgården 01:44 Kräftriket 10 A–C 1911 Stockholm University Stockholm 631 0 1,030 1,632 0 11,682 A 3 Centraltvätt N Djurgården 01:44 Kräftriket 11 A 1911 Arcimboldo AB Stockholm 500 125 438 876 0 0 A 3 Kontorsbyggnad N Djurgården 01:44 Kräftriket 16 A–D 1944 Boomerang Int. Stockholm 1,176 0 2,254 1,917 0 25,547 A 3 Butik & garagebyggnad N Djurgården 01:44 Kräftriket 14 A 1930 Akademiska Hus Stockholm 244 240 233 954 0 1,580 A 3 Naprapathögskolan N Djurgården 01:44 Kräftriket 24 A–C 1952 Midbacken AB Stockholm 3,334 235 7,407 2,222 0 87,835 A 3 Inst. Orientaliska språk N Djurgården 01:44 Kräftriket 22 1957 Stockholm University Stockholm 1,582 398 1,484 938 0 1,178 A 4 Albano — — — Hochtief Solutions AG Stockholm 0 0 0 0 48,692 74,000 A 5 Studenspalatset Bergsmannen S. 8 Norrtullsgatan 2 1920 Stockholm University Stockholm 3,147 0 5,023 1,596 1,232 61,632 A 6 Spökslottet Kungstenen 4 Drottninggatan 116 1700 Stockholm University Stockholm 1,350 0 3,154 2,337 1,211 45,533 A 7 Arkitektur Domherren 1 Östermalmsgatan 26 1970 Royal Institute of Technology Stockholm 12,021 136 15,016 1,249 5,294 100,000 B 1 Hagaskolan Haga 04:35 Fogdevreten 2 A–D 1942 Karolinska Institute Solna 2,671 2,014 3,948 1,478 0 40,764 B 2 KI Science Park Haga 04:35 Tomtebodavägen 23 1960 Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB Solna 24,747 0 99,386 4,016 0 1,301,474 B 3 SMI säk.lab. Haga 04:35 Nobelsväg 23 2000 Swedish Institute for Solna 1,068 0 10,621 9,944 0 62,527 Infectious Disease Control B 4 Vir. Lab. SMI Haga 04:35 Nobels väg 21 2005 Swedish Institute for Solna 2,979 0 11,163 3,747 0 141,116 Infectious Disease Control B 5 Swedish Institute for Haga 04:35 Nobels väg 18 1952 Karolinska Institute Solna 13,342 0 52,576 3,941 0 507,588 Infectious Disease Control B 6 Bakteriologiska Inst. Haga 04:35 Theorells väg 3 1957 DEMOLISHED in 2013 Solna 0 0 0 0 0 0 B 7 Röda Villan Haga 04:35 Theorellsväg 5 2007 DEMOLISHED in 2013 Solna 0 0 0 0 0 0 B 8 Rättsmedicin Haga 04:35 Retzius väg 5 1951 Rättsmedicinalverket Solna 4,619 0 9,873 2,137 0 123,522 B 9 Wargentinhuset Haga 04:35 Nobels väg 12 A–B 1948 Karolinska Institute Solna 7,723 0 23,114 2,993 0 292,735 B 10 KI bibl., Friskis & Svettis Haga 04:35 Theorellsväg 8A 1947 Solna 2,050 0 1,331 649 0 13,470 B 10 KI aula och kontor Haga 04:35 Nobelsväg 6 B 2013 Karolinska Institute Solna 9,967 0 39,275 3,940 563,352 B 11 Farmakologiska Inst. Haga 04:35 Nanna Svartz väg 2 1950 Karolinska Institute Solna 4,559 0 11,849 2,599 0 103,173 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 PROPERTY SPECIFICATION 127 Property speciﬁcation Stockholm Region Stockholm Region Stockholm Region CAMPUS HUDDINGE (C) FRESCATI (D) 1 4 2 3 6 5 7 9 FLEMINGSBERG 8 11 10 12 1 2 13 3 4 RENTAL REVENUE, FAIR VALUE, KSEK REFERENCE NO. PRINCIPAL CUSRENTABLE FLOOR YEAR OF AVERAGE RENT PROPERTY LAND AREA, INCL. SUPPLEADDRESS LOCATION M²/REGISTER MAP PROPERTY NAME DESIGNATION CONSTRUCTION TOMER SPACE, TOTAL, M² VACANT MENTS, KSEK SEK/M² PROPERTY B 12 KI administration Haga 04:35 Nobels väg 5 1951 Karolinska Institute Solna 5,347 0 11,155 2,086 0 152,543 B 13 Gammelgården Haga 04:35 Nobels väg 2 1750 Karolinska Institute Solna 345 0 442 1,281 0 4,903 B 14 Ludwiginstitutet Haga 04:35 Nobels väg 3 1948 Karolinska Institute Solna 5,918 0 11,927 2,015 0 106,696 B 15 CGB laboratoriet Haga 04:35 Berzelius väg 37 1950 Karolinska Institute Solna 4,451 0 16,174 3,634 0 184,622 B 16 Cell & molekylärbiologi Haga 04:35 von Eulers väg 5 1960 Karolinska Institute Solna 4,521 0 31,339 6,932 0 213,320 B 17 Fysiologiska Inst. Haga 04:35 von Eulers väg 4 A–B 1948 Karolinska Institute Solna 7,747 772 21,859 2,822 0 232,534 B 18 Inst. för Tumörbiologi Haga 04:35 Berzelius väg 8 1983 Akademiska Hus Solna 2,158 0 4,049 1,876 0 51,751 B 19 Astrid Fagreuslab. Haga 04:35 Tomtebodavägen 2 2003 Karolinska Institute Solna 4,693 0 28,822 6,142 0 189,280 B 20 Hyresbostäder Haga 04:35 Berzeliusväg 2 A–G 1949 Karolinska Institute Solna 646 0 438 677 0 1,428 B 21 Jernhusmark Haga 04:35 Tomtebodavägen 3 D — Akademiska Hus Solna 1,313 157 1,524 1,161 0 0 B 22 Berzeliuslaboratoriet Haga 04:35 Berzelius väg 3 1972 Karolinska Institute Solna 13,368 0 38,712 2,896 0 379,386 B 23 Restaurang Jöns Jacob Haga 04:35 Retzius väg 24 1978 Karolinska Institute Solna 2,978 0 4,332 1,455 0 32,225 B 24 ICHAR Haga 04:35 Nobels väg 9 1942 Karolinska Institute Solna 4,747 0 12,116 2,552 0 127,876 B 25 Scheelelaboratoriet Haga 04:35 Tomtebodavägen 6 1997 Karolinska Institute Solna 18,990 0 54,554 2,873 0 794,961 B 26 P-hus KI söder Haga 04:35 Tomtebodavägen 7–9 2003 Swedish Institute for Solna 4,956 0 0 0 0 0 Infectious Disease Control B 27 Retziuslab Haga 04:35 Retzius väg 8 2001 Karolinska Institute Solna 14,526 0 60,467 4,163 0 664,206 B 28 Tomteboda, ECDC Haga 04:35 Tomtebodavägen 11 A 1888 ECDC Solna 11,545 575 21,688 1,879 319,319 285,983 B 29 Widerströmska huset Haga 04:35 Tomtebodavägen 18A 2012 Karolinska Institute Solna 14,759 0 35,692 2,418 0 596,840 C 1 Ki-Syd huvudbyggnad Medicinaren 4 Alfred Nobels Allé 8 — Karolinska Institute Flemingsberg 35,773 0 66,160 1,849 26,941 623,852 C 2 Bipontus Medicinaren 4 Alfred Nobels Allé 10 1998 Karolinska Institute Flemingsberg 6,557 0 14,417 2,199 0 70,835 C 3 Pontus Medicinaren 4 Alfred Nobels Allé 12 1998 Karolinska Institute Flemingsberg 5,927 0 11,918 2,011 0 98,104 C 4 Zanderska huset Embryot 1 Alfred Nobels Allé 23 2002 Karolinska Institute Flemingsberg 16,819 0 40,256 2,393 36,119 463,873 D 1 Manne Sieghbahnhusen N Djurgården 01:48 Frescativ 24 A m ﬂ — Stockholm University Stockholm 6,762 0 10,715 1,585 0 117,617 D 2 Geovetenskapens hus N Djurgården 01:48 S. Arrhenius v 6 A 1997 Stockholm University Stockholm 18,143 0 49,586 2,733 0 563,591 D 3 Arrheniuslab. N Djurgården 01:48 S. Arrhenius v 16 C–D 1973 Stockholm University Stockholm 46,409 19 108,167 2,331 0 1,187,919 D 4 Frescatibackehusen N Djurgården 01:48 S. Arrhenius väg 21 A 1944 Stockholm University Stockholm 8,961 151 15,173 1,693 0 127,721 D 5 Nobelhusen N Djurgården 01:48 Frescativ 14 A–B — Stockholm University Stockholm 1,362 0 1,549 1,137 0 11,707 Student Union D 6 Pic-Nic restaurang N Djurgården 01:48 Lilla Frescativägen 18 — Restaurang Universitetet Stockholm 287 0 448 1,560 0 2,822 D 7 Aula magna N Djurgården 01:48 Lilla Frescativägen 6 1997 Stockholm University Stockholm 6,480 0 19,065 2,942 0 269,101 D 8 Allhuset Lantis N Djurgården 01:48 Universitetsvägen 7 1994 Stockholm University Stockholm 9,332 51 11,237 1,204 291,895 95,186 D 9 Vaktm.bost Skära villan N Djurgården 01:48 S. Arrhenius väg 30 1800 Stockholm University Stockholm 1,911 0 2,101 1,100 0 17,288 D 10 Rektorsämb. Bloms hus N Djurgården 01:48 Universitetsvägen 16 1850 Stockholm University Stockholm 1,420 0 1,873 1,319 0 18,081 D 11 Universitetsbibl. N Djurgården 01:48 S. Arrhenius v 28 1982 Stockholm University Stockholm 21,581 0 41,377 1,917 0 446,704 D 12 Södra Huset N Djurgården 01:48 Universitetsv 10 A m ﬂ 1971 Stockholm University Stockholm 53,916 0 91,515 1,697 0 1,046,874 D 13 Studenthuset N Djurgården 01:48 Universitetsvägen 2 A–F 2013 Stockholm University Stockholm 5,205 0 15,296 2,939 0 199,986 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 128 PROPERTY SPECIFICATION Property speciﬁcation Stockholm Region Stockholm Region 1 KTH CAMPUS (E) 3 2 4 31 5 30 6 8 29 7 10 27 9 28 32 E20 11 277 14 13 26 25 VASASTADEN 12 15 24 16 23 17 18 19 33 20 22 21 RENTAL REVENUE, FAIR VALUE, KSEK REFERENCE NO. RENTABLE FLOOR PROPERTY YEAR OF CONAVERAGE RENT LAND AREA, PRINCIPAL INCL. SUPPLEADDRESS LOCATION M²/REGISTER MAP PROPERTY NAME DESIGNATION STRUCTION CUSTOMER SPACE, TOTAL, M² VACANT MENTS, KSEK SEK/M² PROPERTY E 1 KTH & Danshögskolan Maskining. 1 Brinellvägen 58 1966 Royal Institute of Technology Stockholm 23,849 1,420 53,585 2,247 24,383 741,250 E 2 Byggnad för KTH N Djurgården 01:49 Drn Kristinas v 48 1946 Royal Institute of Technology Stockholm 4,313 0 8,997 2,086 0 163,504 E 3 Bergsvetenskap N Djurgården 01:49 Brinellvägen 23 1967 Royal Institute of Technology Stockholm 10,829 0 22,163 2,047 0 283,786 E 4 Väg& vatten N Djurgården 01:49 Brinellvägen 30–36 1972 Dans och Cirkushögskolan Stockholm 6,492 241 9,135 1,407 0 116,997 E 5 Väg& vatten N Djurgården 01:49 Teknikringen 72–76 1957 Royal Institute of Technology Stockholm 9,269 0 19,821 2,138 0 277,824 E 6 Byggkonstruktion N Djurgården 01:49 Teknikringen 78 1957 Royal Institute of Technology Stockholm 3,411 0 4,740 1,390 0 86,906 E 7 Lantmäteriet N Djurgården 01:49 Drn Kristinas v 30 1958 Royal Institute of Technology Stockholm 7,678 0 13,538 1,763 0 175,031 E 8 Hyresbostäder N Djurgården 01:49 Teknikringen 60, 62 1947 Private individual Stockholm 2,262 0 1,698 751 0 3,263 E 9 Alfvèn och Opera N Djurgården 01:49 Teknikringen 31–35 1953 Royal Institute of Technology Stockholm 12,892 0 17,655 1,369 0 188,841 E 10 Röda Korset N Djurgården 1:1 Brinellvägen 2 1927 Royal Institute of Technology Stockholm 6,420 0 20,538 3,199 0 361,047 E 11 Traﬁkstudier N Djurgården 01:49 Teknikringen 10 1931 Royal Institute of Technology Stockholm 1,276 0 3,039 2,381 0 56,114 E 12 Rest Syster & Bror N Djurgården 01:49 Drn Kristinas v 22–24 1964 Festvåningen Muren AB Stockholm 902 0 1,673 1,855 0 13,350 E 13 Farkostteknik N Djurgården 01:49 Teknikringen 6 1931 Royal Institute of Technology Stockholm 10,231 0 24,836 2,428 0 397,981 E 14 Byggnad för kemi N Djurgården 01:49 Teknikringen 26–36 1922 Royal Institute of Technology Stockholm 19,831 0 52,023 2,623 0 690,375 E 15 Teknisk fysik N Djurgården 01:49 Teknikringen 14 1962 Royal Institute of Technology Stockholm 4,313 0 20,665 4,791 0 145,127 E 16 Sing Sing N Djurgården 01:49 Lindstedtsvägen 30 1948 Royal Institute of Technology Stockholm 10,841 0 23,661 2,183 0 326,503 E 17 Värmeoch kraft N Djurgården 01:49 Drn Kristinas v 14–18 1952 HI3G Access AB Stockholm 32 0 0 0 0 -92 E 18 KTH Bibliotek N Djurgården 01:49 Osquars backe 31 1917 Royal Institute of Technology Stockholm 9,350 0 22,681 2,426 0 322,040 E 19 Hållfasthetslära N Djurgården 01:49 Drn Kristinas v 4-8 1943 Royal Institute of Technology Stockholm 4,346 0 7,372 1,696 0 211,170 E 20 KTH huvudbyggnad N Djurgården 01:49 Lindstedtvägen 1917 Royal Institute of Technology Stockholm 22,117 0 54,302 2,455 0 705,209 E 21 IVL N Djurgården 01:49 Valhallavägen 81 1930 Swedish Environmental Stockholm 3,313 0 7,872 2,376 0 102,076 Research Institute E 22 KTH adm.byggnad N Djurgården 01:49 Valhallavägen 79 1935 Royal Institute of Technology Stockholm 2,915 0 4,374 1,501 161,507 98,123 E 23 Huvudbyggnad Forskningen 1 Drn Kristinas v 25 1939 Akademiska Hus Stockholm 2,443 237 3,068 1,256 63,747 47,004 E 24 Provningsanstalt Forskningen 1 Drn Kristinas v 33 A–D 1920 Swedish National Defence Stockholm 2,870 0 3,787 1,319 0 29,155 College E 25 Swedish National Forskningen 1 Drn Kristinas v 31 1920 Swedish National Defence Stockholm 16,400 0 44,033 2,685 0 701,545 Defence College College E 26 Fd Hovjägarbostället Forskningen 1 Drn Kristinas v 41 1886 Swedish National Defence Stockholm 263 0 359 1,365 0 4,115 College E 27 Ytkemiska Inst. Forskningen 1 Drn Kristinas v 47–51 1943 SP Technical Research Stockholm 6,680 0 9,741 1,458 0 89,323 Institute of Sweden E 28 Q-Buildinga Forskningen 1 Osquldas väg 10–12 1991 Royal Institute of Technology Stockholm 13,554 0 30,637 2,260 0 407,964 E 29 KTH-byggnad Forskningen 1 Drn Kristinas v 53 1958 Stockholm 1,752 0 1,748 998 0 12,267 E 30 Huvudbyggnad STFI Forskningen 1 Drn Kristinas v 55–63 1946 Innventia AB Stockholm 10,457 0 17,322 1,656 0 238,767 E 31 Trätek Forskningen 1 Drn Kristinas v 65–67 1946 SP Technical Research Stockholm 3,013 0 3,354 1,113 0 32,827 Institute of Sweden E 32 Röda Korsets högskola N Djurgården 1:1 Teknikringen 1 1927 Röda Korsets högskola Stockholm 4,164 0 6,960 1,671 0 117,982 E 33 GIH Idrottshögskolan 1 Lidingövägen 1 1940 College of Physical Education Stockholm 14,869 0 25,048 1,685 32,030 273,255 and Sports AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 PROPERTY SPECIFICATION 129 Property speciﬁcation Stockholm Region Stockholm Region KISTA (F) 2 1 KISTA RENTAL REVENUE, FAIR VALUE, KSEK REFERENCE NO. RENTABLE FLOOR PROPERTY YEAR OF CONAVERAGE RENT LAND AREA, PRINCIPAL INCL. SUPPLEADDRESS LOCATION M²/REGISTER MAP PROPERTY NAME DESIGNATION STRUCTION CUSTOMER SPACE, TOTAL, M² VACANT MENTS, KSEK SEK/M² PROPERTY F 1 Electrum 3 Keﬂavik 2 Isafjordsgatan 28 1998 Swerea KIMAB AB Kista 15,738 1,000 21,261 1,351 0 296,237 F 2 Electrum 1 Keﬂavik 2 Isafjordsgatan 18–26 1987 Royal Institute of Technology Kista 46,058 1,338 61,508 1,335 22,929 667,547 Utbyggnadsreserv KI Haga 04:35 — — Solna 0 0 0 0 0 50,139 Utbyggnadsreserv Flemingsberg — — — Flemingsberg 0 0 0 0 0 49,237 Utbyggnadsreserv Forskningen — — — Stockholm 0 0 0 0 0 0 Swartlings Svea Artilleri 12 — — Stockholm 1,656 0 0 0 16,783 28,879 Dramatiska Inst. Tre Vapen 7 Valhallavägen 185–189 2004 University College of Film, Stockholm 13,948 1,095 28,589 2,050 6,968 412,713 Radio, Television and Theatre Askölaboratoriet Askö 1:4 Trosa skärgård — Stockholm University Stockholm 2,402 0 3,100 1,291 324,270 16,327 Trosa mätstation Nynäs 5:1 — — Stockholm University Nyköping 52 0 43 825 0 0 Properties under construction 2,040,003 TOTAL 843,692 11,690 1,876,430 2,224 1,507,224 24,536,646 Rent reductions and vacancies –57,845 Rent supplements and non-recurring rent payments 5,533 Revenue, disposed properties 133,399 Rental revenue, net 1,957,517 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 130 PROPERTY SPECIFICATION Property speciﬁcation Northern Region Northern Region Northern Region UMEÅ UMEÅ CAMPUS (A) GAMMLIA CENTRE EAST OF CITY A HOSPITAL SITE ÖST-TEG ÅLIDHEM RENTAL REVENUE, FAIR VALUE, KSEK REFERENCE NO. RENTABLE FLOOR YEAR OF AVERAGE RENT PROPERTY LAND AREA, PRINCIPAL INCL. SUPPLEADDRESS LOCATION M²/REGISTER MAP PROPERTY NAME DESIGNATION CONSTRUCTION CUSTOMER SPACE, TOTAL, M² VACANT MENTS, KSEK SEK/M² PROPERTY A 1 Humanistpaviljong Stadsliden 6:6 Humanioragränd 4 1992 Umeå University Umeå 595 0 569 956 0 4,686 A 2 Norra BVH Stadsliden 6:6 Humanioragränd 5 2003 Umeå University Umeå 4,751 0 5,761 1,213 0 57,395 A 3 Humanities Building Stadsliden 6:6 Biblioteksgränd 3 1972 Umeå University Umeå 13,535 0 14,134 1,044 0 191,256 A 4 BVH Stadsliden 6:6 Mediagränd 14 1992 Umeå University Umeå 7,092 0 8,412 1,186 0 84,223 A 5 Bibliotek Stadsliden 6:6 Biblioteksgränd 12 1968 Umeå University Umeå 19,708 0 17,989 913 0 228,850 A 6 Samhällsvetarhuset Stadsliden 6:6 Hörsalstorget 4 1968 Umeå University Umeå 20,978 0 22,068 1,052 0 218,020 A 7 Lärarutbildningshuset Stadsliden 6:6 Universitetstorget 30 1996 Umeå University Umeå 8,899 0 10,010 1,125 0 99,133 A 8 Förvaltningshuset Stadsliden 6:6 Universitetstorget 18 1983 Umeå University Umeå 7,896 0 8,616 1,091 0 79,157 A 9 Hus för samverkan Stadsliden 6:6 Universitetstorget 14 2004 Umeå University Umeå 2,841 0 5,101 1,795 0 45,097 A 10 UCCB Stadsliden 6:6 Johan Bures väg 5 1980 Umeå University Umeå 6,802 0 21,147 3,109 0 251,559 A 11 Aula Nordica Stadsliden 6:6 Universums gränd 4 1987 Umeå University Umeå 2,696 0 2,321 861 0 21,477 A 12 Universum Stadsliden 6:6 Universums gränd 8–10 1970 Umeå University Umeå 8,953 265 8,276 924 0 59,115 A 13 MIT Stadsliden 6:6 Campustorget 5 1992 Umeå University Umeå 12,846 0 21,833 1,700 0 176,757 A 14 Naturvetarhuset Stadsliden 6:6 Johan Bures väg 14 1970 Umeå University Umeå 23,354 0 26,822 1,148 0 290,423 A 15 Biologihuset Stadsliden 6:6 Johan Bures väg 12 1963 Umeå University Umeå 9,819 0 9,097 926 0 48,847 A 16 Fysiologihuset Stadsliden 6:6 Artedigränd 7 1969 Umeå University Umeå 10,891 1,051 14,467 1,328 0 89,325 A 17 KBC Stadsliden 6:6 Linnaeus väg 6 1999 Umeå University Umeå 11,369 0 18,541 1,631 0 155,806 A 18 Kemihuset Stadsliden 6:6 Linnaeus väg 10 1963 Umeå University Umeå 11,417 0 12,699 1,112 0 113,545 A 19 Teknikhuset Stadsliden 6:6 Håken Gullesons väg 20 1992 Umeå University Umeå 6,446 0 8,651 1,342 0 96,967 A 20 Fysikhuset Stadsliden 6:6 Linnaeus väg 20 1980 Umeå University Umeå 3,200 0 3,912 1,223 0 47,125 A 21 Kemiskt säkerhetshus Stadsliden 6:6 Håkan Gullesons väg 11 1985 Umeå University Umeå 462 0 589 1,275 0 5,076 A 22 Akademiska Hus ofﬁces Stadsliden 6:6 Artedigränd 2 1977 Akademiska Hus Umeå 1,682 0 1,810 1,076 0 16,996 A 23 Wallenberglab Stadsliden 6:6 Artedigränd 14 1973 SLU Umeå 1,000 89 1,614 1,614 0 9,821 A 24 Swedish University of Stadsliden 6:6 Skogsmarksgränd 17 1978 SLU Umeå 23,722 324 41,007 1,729 0 371,258 Agricultural Sciences A 25 NTK Kårhus Stadsliden 6:6 Gösta Skoglunds väg 25 2007 Umeå University Umeå 440 0 677 1,539 0 5,680 A 26 Iksu Sportcenter Stadsliden 6:6 Sportgränd 5 2006 Universitetshallen Umeå 5,307 0 6,862 1,293 0 75,542 Foundation A 27 Umeå Campus Friidrottsarena Stadsliden 6:6 Petrus Lestadius väg 15 2010 Umeå Municipal Authority Umeå 393 0 3,149 n/a 0 34,380 A Land and expansion reserves Stadsliden 6:6 P-områden & vägar — Umeå University Umeå 0 0 85 878,392 63,854 Umeå Campus B 1 D-Building Porsön 1:405 Laboratorievägen D2 1971 Luleå University of Luleå 15,292 0 20,312 1,328 0 96,067 Technology B 1 Centekhuset Porsön 1:405 Tekniktorget 3 1987 Luleå University of Luleå 1,576 0 1,830 1,161 0 17,324 Technology B 2 E-Building Porsön 1:405 Laboratorievägen E12 1974 Luleå University of Luleå 18,166 0 27,879 1,535 0 214,540 Technology AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 PROPERTY SPECIFICATION 131 Property speciﬁcation Northern Region Northern Region LULEÅ (B) 3 2 1 6 5 4 7 RENTAL REVENUE, FAIR VALUE, KSEK REFERENCE NO. RENTABLE FLOOR YEAR OF AVERAGE RENT PROPERTY LAND AREA, PRINCIPAL INCL. SUPPLEADDRESS LOCATION M²/REGISTER MAP PROPERTY NAME DESIGNATION CONSTRUCTION CUSTOMER SPACE, TOTAL, M² VACANT MENTS, KSEK SEK/M² PROPERTY B 3 K-Building Porsön 1:405 Laboratorievägen 14 1976 Luleå University of Luleå 1,014 0 852 840 0 6,256 Technology B 3 F-Building Porsön 1:405 Laboratorievägen 1976 Luleå University of Luleå 25,689 0 31,806 1,238 0 331,649 Technology B 4 A-Building Porsön 1:405 Regnbågsallén 2 1977 Luleå University of Luleå 13,613 831 14,272 1,048 0 121,512 Technology B 4 Alfahuset Porsön 1:405 Universitetsvägen A1 1993 Luleå University of Luleå 4,631 0 5,399 1,166 0 49,039 Technology B 5 B-Building Porsön 1:405 Regnbågsallén B8, B10 1978 Luleå University of Luleå 6,152 0 7,915 1,287 0 67,252 Technology B 5 Bibliotek Porsön 1:405 Vintergatan 2 1994 Luleå University of Luleå 6,355 0 7,829 1,232 0 72,525 Technology B 6 C-Building Porsön 1:405 Universitetsvägen C 1 1975 Luleå University of Luleå 12,596 0 18,368 1,458 0 137,853 Technology B 7 Idrottshall Porsön 1:405 Universitetsvägen C 11 1976 Luleå University of Luleå 2,457 0 1,756 715 0 9,298 Technology B Porsön Porsön 1:405 Laboratorievägen D2 1998 Luleå University of Luleå 0 0 129 0 322,072 2,661 Technology B Utbyggnadsreserv Porsön 1:405 — — — Luleå 0 0 0 0 0 9,653 Campus Luleå Norrbyn fältstation Norrbyn 2:122 Norrbyn 1984 Umeå University Norrbyn 2,489 0 4,484 1,802 9,504 24,552 Properties under construction 63,370 TOTAL 337,124 2,560 439,050 1,302 1,209,968 4,164,921 Rent reductions and vacancies –4,386 Non-recurring rent payments 52,737 Rental revenue, disposed properties 519,398 Rental revenue, net 21,911 509,312 AKADEMISKA HUS 2014 132 DEFINITIONS Definitions PROPERTY-RELATED KEY FIGURES Financing cost according to IFRS DEFINITIONS Net financial income/expense in the form of the Gross investments Operating costs financing cost for loans, net interest for financial This year’s investments in non-current investments. Costs for measures taken at an expected interval of derivatives and the change in fair value of financial less than one year with the aim of maintaining the derivatives, in relation to average interest-bearing Yield function of a managed object. Operating costs are capital. Operating surplus in relation to the average fair value, divided into energy and water supply as well as other excluding buildings under construction. operating costs. Operating capital Equity plus interest-bearing net loan liability. Net operating income ratio Property administration Net operating income in relation to management Cost of management, day-to-day accounting adminisPeriod-allocated financing cost income. tration, leasing, contact with tenants, handling of regNet interest income and expense in the form of the isters, contracts and drawings, technical planning and financing cost for loans, net interest for financial Net investments follow-up and human resource administration. derivatives and period allocation of realised profits on Closing balance minus the opening balance for financial derivatives over the remaining term of the non-current assets plus depreciation and impairments Rental revenue underlying instrument, in relation to average, interminus remeasurements. The basic rent, index-linked, and estimated rent for est-bearing capital. vacant rentable floor space and supplements, with a Rental and vacancy levels deduction for vacancies and rent reductions. Interest-bearing net loan liability Leased or vacant floor space in relation to the total Interest-bearing loans, financial derivatives and curfloor space. Financial leasing or vacant space levels Floor space, m², gross rent interest-bearing investments. Pension provisions are rental revenue for space leased and estimated Gross floor space of building. Comprises rentable floor and similar items are not included. rental revenue for vacant space in relation to the total space as well as common areas and the areas surrental revenue. rounding the building. Interest coverage ratio Profit before financial items, excluding changes in Floor space, m² FINANCIAL KEY FIGURES fair value of investment property in relation to net Rentable floor space in square metres. financial income/expense, excluding changes in value, Return on equity after standard tax financial derivatives, including period allocation of Earnings after financial items with a deduction for full Interest-bearing liabilities realised profits from derivatives and including capitaltax in relation to average equity. Interest-bearing loans, including pension provisions ised interest in projects. and similar items. Return on operating capital Internal financing ratio Earnings before financial items, excluding changes in Maintenance costs The part of the tangible, non-current assets procured fair value in relation to average operating capital. Costs for measures taken aimed at reinstating the during the year that could be financed using funds original standard and function of worn or damaged earned internally during the year. Return on total assets parts of a building. The operating profit plus financial income in relation Equity ratio to the average total assets. Reported equity (for Parent Company including equity share in untaxed reserves) in relation to total assets Loan-to-value ratio carried forward. Interest-bearing net loan debt in relation to the closing value of investment property. Total yield Direct yield from investment property and their change in value, expressed in per cent. ADDRESSES HEAD OFFICE REGIONS Akademiska Hus Akademiska Hus Southern Akademiska Hus Eastern Region Akademiska Hus Uppsala Region Box 483 Region Olaus Magnus road 34 Box 185 Stampgatan 14 Ole Römers väg 2 SE-583 30 Linköping Artillerigatan 7 SE-401 27 Göteborg SE-223 63 Lund Telephone: +46 13 36 45 00 SE-751 04 Uppsala Telephone: +46 31 63 24 00 Telephone: +46 46 31 13 00 Telephone: +46 18 68 32 00 akademiskahus.se info@akademiskahus.se Akademiska Hus Western Region Akademiska Hus Stockholm Region Akademiska Hus Northern Region Box 476 Box 1394 Box 7985 Stampgatan 14 Berzelius väg 8, vån 3–5 Artedigränd 2 SE-401 27 Göteborg SE-171 27 Solna SE-907 19 Umeå Telephone: +46 31 63 25 00 Telephone: +46 8 685 75 00 Telephone: +46 90 17 62 00 Company registration number 556459-9156 INFORMATION SCHEDULE FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, PLEASE CONTACT: April 28, 2015 Annual General Meeting Kerstin Lindberg Göransson, President April 28, 2015 Interim Report, January–March 2015 Telephone: +46 31 63 24 60 E-mail: Kerstin.LindbergGoransson@akademiskahus.se July 15, 2015 Interim Report, April–June 2015 October 28, 2015 Interim Report, July–September 2015 Jonas Ragnarsson, CFO February 2016 Year-End Report 2015 Telephone: +46 31 63 24 81 March 2016 Annual Report 2015 E-mail: jonas.ragnarsson@akademiskahus.se akademiskahus.se Communication agency: Solberg Photos: Alex & Martin (Page: Cover, 2), Anders Bryngel (Page: Inside cover, 6, 13, 16, 19, 21, 22, 36, 46, 49, 110), Jean-Baptiste Béranger (Page: 2, 81), Peter Jönsson (Page: 2, 4), Tim Meier (Page: 15), Ola Kjelbye (Page: 22, 30, 39, 116), Brita Nordholm (Page: 33), Rasmus Norlander (Page: 39), Ahrbom and Partner Arkitektkontor (Page: 40), Lenart Johansson (Page: 41), Åke E:son Lindman (Page: 43), Semrén & Månsson (Page: 109). Illustrations: Jais Arkitekter, Sweco, Ahrbom och Partner Arkitektkontor, Kjellander + Sjöberg, Utopia Arkitekter, Nyréns Arkitektkontor AB. Print: Göteborgstryckeriet. www.akademiskahus.se | info@akademiskahus.se
