The Chairman of the Management Board Global Agreement Progress Report 2014 IRenewed commitment by the Managing Director. By the very nature of its logistics activity, the GEFCO Group helps shape territories and strengthen local economies. Because it acts on the everyday life of numerous men and women in the world, GEFCO includes the respect for the fundamental rights into its international growth strategy. Convinced that sustainable development must generate shared values, the Group has implemented a program of corporate social responsibility aiming at improving ways of working with its employees, customers and partners, in accordance with the regulations prevailing in each of the countries where it is present. Since the signature of the UNO Global Compact in December 2009, GEFCO has committed to respecting the ten founding principles related to human rights, working standards, fight against corruption and environmental protection. This approach is also reflected in the values of the Group : commitment, passion for service, solidarity, innovation and transparency On behalf of the GEFCO Group, I thus wish to express by this letter the will of GEFCO and its teams to renew our commitment to respect and to promote the Principles of the Global Pact. Luc NADAL -2IISteps taken by the Group in 2014 In this document, we have voluntarily chosen not to present a comprehensive outlook of actions that have been completed, but instead to describe those we consider to be significant. We would also like to emphasise that we were able to complete these actions thanks to the involvement of the Group's employees alongside the Sustainable Development and Employee Relations and Prevention Teams. These teams are in charge respectively of tracking actions and progress on commitments concerning the environment and employee relations set out in the Global Framework Agreement on Social Responsibility applied to GEFCO. In 2014, the Group included 29 subsidiaries (Germany, South Africa, Argentina, Austria, Benelux Belgium and the Netherlands-, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile, China, Croatia, Spain, France, Hungary, Hong Kong, Italy, Morocco, Mexico, the Baltic states, Poland, Portugal, the Czech Republic, the United Kingdom, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine) and 2 jointventures (JV ALGAI in Russia et GEFCO Tunisia) that are concerned by the Global Framework Agreement on Social Responsibility. As all subsidiaries must progressively integrate the scheme, the managers of these entities were all made aware of the company's social responsibility during the integration process. We had scheduled the implementation of 96 new actions in 2014. At the end of 2014, 92% of them had been completed; the others will be completed in 2015. 1. Human rights Example of non-complicity in fundamental human rights violations Intending to reaffirm sentencing guidelines on harassment of any kind as well as on conducts that violate employees' dignity, GEFCO is in favour of implementing actions or schemes to prevent such situations. • Implementation of internal regulations Amongst the actions undertaken, the provision of internal regulations to all employees when they begin work for GEFCO is a reminder of these principles. Thus, of the Group's 36 subsidiaries, 27 have this type of document available. In 2014, GEFCO Mexico published its internal regulations, Germany and Belgium worked with staff representative bodies trained in the implementation or updating of their internal regulations. GEFCO Bulgaria, GEFCO Croatia and GEFCO Slovenia should finalise their projects in 2015. • Implementation of effective alert procedures Of the 29 subsidiaries and the 2 JVs undertaken within the Global Framework Agreement on Social Responsibility, 21 of them have implemented complementary schemes like email addresses, boxes or procedures designed specifically for employees to be able to call upon the Management and report any infringement of individual rights. In this capacity, the subsidiaries established in Germany, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Spain, Hungary, Morocco, the Baltic states, Poland, Portugal, the Czech Republic, the United Kingdom, Russia, Slovakia, Switzerland, Turkey, and Ukraine, allow employees to report cases of bad treatment or harassment by simply sending an email or directly through a formal request made to the Human Resources department that then handles the file in complete confidentiality. Management Board – 25/03/2015 …/… -3On 13 March 2014 GEFCO Brazil opened the ethical channel OUVIDORIA hosted by an external service provider to allow employees to sound an alert, either anonymously or otherwise. Thus, employees can report any cases or any people who put the company's activity or reputation in danger through their actions (misconduct, theft, fraud, endangering others, disclosure of information, harassment, discrimination). The alerts and sensitive cases received by the legal department can then be collected by the ethics committee, which is made up of the subsidiary Director, the Human Resources manager, the administration and finance manager and a business line manager. In order to ensure the file is handled as quickly as possible, the tool automatically renews the requests. • Implementation of a telephone assistance service for employees Concerned about their employees' well-being in the workplace, some subsidiaries have made anonymous and confidential telephone counselling services available for their employees so they can talk with a professional about work or personal issues (death, family problems, divorce, etc.) that could bring about feelings or a situation of psychological unease. To inform employees of this type of telephone service, individual and/or group memos were created. The schemes are in place in the following countries: Germany, Argentina, Spain, France, Portugal, the United Kingdom and Russia were maintained in 2014. 2. Working conditions GEFCO places particular importance on the social dialogue, sees that freedom of association is respected, and complies with the rights of union organisations and staff representative bodies working in economic and safety areas or on working conditions. Social dialogue The GEFCO Group, which operates in several countries, undertakes to create conditions that encourage social dialogue everywhere the Group is established. Social dialogue is one of the ways of preserving the Group's stability and development. It is a preferred tool on all levels to improve working conditions, especially in terms of remuneration, employees' social protection, improving complementary pension, health, and safety schemes in the workplace, and even training. In order to encourage social dialogue, the GEFCO Group sees that it conforms with legislation in force in terms of appointing members of union organisations and in terms of implementing staff representative bodies as soon as the required conditions are met. After proceeding with the renewal of the Kaluga health and safety committee at the start of the year, a new body of this type was created in Saint Petersburg, Russia in November 2014. Elections to renew the Works Councils of GEFCO Germany were held throughout the year. Management Board – 25/03/2015 …/… -4In Argentina, elections took place on 10 November 2014 in order to ensure that GEFCO employees working for FORD and affiliated with the SMATA (Mechanics and Automotive Transport Union) union were represented. Three delegates and three deputies were elected. Voting went smoothly with a very high level of participation of 90%. In Italy, the trade union presence was reinforced at the site in Florence. The Italian Trade Union Confederation(CISL) and the Italian General Confederation of Labour(CGIL) carried out the nomination of union representatives at this site. In Spain, the election of a staff representative at the site of GEFCO Spain in Valencia in November 2014 put the General Workers' Union in the ranks of those present in Spain amongst the independent trade unions FSI and Grupo de Trabajadores, CIG (Galician Trade Union confederation), CC OO (Workers' Commissions), USO (Worker's Trade Union) and UGT (General Workers' Union). Over the course of 2014, the GEFCO Group revamped its social dialogue structures. Due to the implementation as of 1 January 2015 of a subsidiary specific to France, named GEFCO France SAS, separate from GEFCO SA, negotiations were undertaken with French trade union organisations in order to establish a Group Council uniting the following three French companies: GEFCO SA, GEFCO France SAS and MERCURIO France SAS. On 30 December 2014 an agreement was signed by French trade union organisations FO/UNCP and CFE/CGS. In preparation for the implemantation of a European Works Council bringing together the GEFCO Group companies present within the European Union and the European Economic Union, negotiations began with the 23 representatives of the European subsidiaries assembled in a Special Negotiating Body (SNB) in September 2014. At the end of the five meetings, on 18 February 2015, an agreement defining the implementation and operating procedures of the European Works Council was signed unanimously by the 23 representatives within the SNB. Finally, 38 agreements were signed within the GEFCO Group, mainly concerning wage trends, organisation of work, reorganisation, as well as the deployment of the global Human Resources system. Diversity and equal opportunities Disability The GEFCO Group is continuing its work in favour of integration and retention in employment of disabled workers. Acting in favour of the integration of disabled people in the Group means acting for recruitment diversity in the company as well. Various initiatives have also been conducted in several of the Group's subsidiaries. The desire expressed in France, in the agreement on the integration and retention in employment of disabled workers signed on 23 June 2011, was to reach an employment rate close to the legal objective of 6% for 2014. With an employment rate of 6.22% at the end of 2014, compared to 5.5% Management Board – 25/03/2015 …/… -5in 2013, the objective has been reached. For that matter, various initiatives have been carried out to support disabled people and raise awareness amongst employees on this subject. • GEFCO France has signed a contract with the CED and the Hanploi.com website, which is a reference tool to support organisations in their recruiting procedures for the professional integration of disabled people. • Specially adapted equipment was installed to adapt workstations (forklift trucks were rented for two forklift handlers, ergonomic chairs, dock levellers and hearing aid devices were purchased). • Employment of Disabled Persons Week (17 to 23 November 2014) provided the occasion to publish testimonials on the Intranet that were broadcast on the channel HandiChat (Web TV on the recruitment of disabled people): The example of a disabled GEFCO employee who was able to benefit from financial assistance for equipment to adapt the work environment through our partner COPIVER. The introduction of a management platform set up by the Disability Initiatives unit to follow up on the implementation of the employment and disability policy in the company (direct hiring, job retention and directing purchases towards the protected sector) by publishing monthly follow-up indicators to easily keep a record of the D.O.E.T.H (mandatory declaration of employment of disabled workers). Negotiations will be held in 2015 with trade union organisations in order to renew the agreement on integration and retention in employment of disabled workers signed on 23 June 2011 for a new three-year period (2015-2017). Poland has scheduled awareness-raising sessions for the subsidiary's management on the subject of disability for early 2015. Brazil has retained 12 of its 13 disabled employees who were initially hired at the end of 2013. Slovakia has renewed cooperation with sheltered workshops receiving disabled people during the holiday season for the creation of various promotional objects. Mexico, a subsidiary that applies these non-discrimination policies, hired a disabled person in its Overseas division as part of the recruitment operations. Non-discrimination In the GEFCO recruitment processes, one principle is clearly defined: equal opportunities and diversity. On the theme of diversity, France organised a week around the theme of stereotypes from 3 to 7 March 2014. The subjects addressed included stereotypes related to disabilities, gender and age, sexual orientation and ethno-cultural differences. Around 150 people participated in these conferences led voluntarily by an association (FACE foundation for action against exclusion, discrimination and poverty, Force Femmes, SOS homophobie, etc.) and the documents presented during the Management Board – 25/03/2015 …/… -6conferences were published on the France Intranet page. This event was well received by employees. More than any other stakeholders in the company, managers safeguard and support the Group's values. In order to meet the challenges of the company, they must act ethically and responsibly toward their teams. Several initiatives have thus been deployed within our network: In October 2014 GEFCO Hong Kong became a member of the Equal Opportunities Commission EOC, set up in 1996 by the government. The Commission works towards the elimination of discrimination on the grounds of sex, marital status, pregnancy, disability, family status and race. The Equal Opportunities Commission (EOC) was set up to implement a series of ordinances (Sex Discrimination Ordinance, Disability Discrimination Ordinance, the Family Status Discrimination Ordinance and the Race Discrimination ordinance) aiming to abolish all forms of discrimination. In particular it aims to eliminate sexual harassment and vilification on the grounds of disability and race. By joining this Commission, GEFCO Hong Kong can raise awareness of this programme, remain informed of the developments and disseminate this information to its teams. In December GEFCO Portugal produced a brochure on gender equality and on the eradication of violence against women, an important subject in Portugal. A brochure that was distributed to all employees. GEFCO South Africa launched a detailed analysis of the composition of the working population in order to identify potential barriers to equal and fair treatment within the subsidiary. Following this analysis, the draft of an Employment Equity Plan will be presented to all employees. GEFCO Czech Republic wanted to question employees on how diversity is managed. This survey, carried out in partnership with an external agency, Top Vision , was financed using European funds. The objective of the survey was the find out if employees had ever had felt like they were the victims of discrimination. It allowed employees to give their opinion on various subjects like the recruiting process, performance and salary appraisal, access to development opportunities in the company, benefits, maternity or parental leave, the company and the work environment, and access to training. To collect employees' opinions, the external agency Top Vision , financed using European funds, implemented an online 25-point questionnaire for employees with Internet access (i.e. around a third of staff). The survey showed that none of the employees had been a victim, nor had felt they had been the victim of discrimination or harassment. Additionally, the results concerning the work environment and company culture were particularly positive for GEFCO, as according to the Top Vision agency none of the other participating companies had obtained similar results for those points. To maintain this work environment, training sessions have been organised for managers to help them handle and prevent difficult situations. Management Board – 25/03/2015 …/… -73. Combating corruption Because the way a result is achieved counts just as much as the result itself, the GEFCO Group builds its development on the grounds of values, action principles and exemplary conduct shared by its leaders and employees. GEFCO's five values are a fundamental component. They guide staff's activities on a day-to-day basis and convey a positive image that sets the company apart. They help to make GEFCO a prominent high-performance player: Commitment: Meet ambitious challenges all while respecting our values and principles Passion for service: Offer our customers the best while complying with standards and norms Solidarity: Protect the environment, develop team spirit and foster employee fulfilment. Innovation: Be curious and open-minded in order to never stop improving Transparency: Build in trust. Because ethics are subject to substantial developments, the GEFCO Group Management distributed a new corpus of operating rules in December 2013. They are not exhaustive, but combined with everyone's sense of responsibility they make up a common reference that each employee must refer to under all circumstances. This document explains the action principles and the rules and values that lead the company in practical terms: Comply with laws and regulations; Under all circumstances, each employee must follow the professional integrity laws and regulations in force in the country where he/she works. This principle also applies to decisions made in the name of the Group. Each employee is responsible for applying and complying with these operating rules on a day-today basis so that GEFCO may be a major international logistics player that is global, efficient and responsible. In practical terms, each employee: Refrains from any practice constituting a breach of the competition law: price fixing, abuse of economic dependency, etc.; Refrains from engaging in any relations with companies, organisations or States known or suspected by international authorities for their involvement or support of terrorist acts or subject to embargoes. To a wider extent, these restrictions apply to all requests concerning the transport of weapons. Ensures the GEFCO Group does not take part, directly or indirectly, in illicit financial flows promoting money laundering or the funding of terrorism; Refrains from paying directly or indirectly or accepting bribes, facilitating payments or consenting to undue advantages to a public agency or private individual. Refrains from all gathering of information concerning a customer, supplier, partner or individual through illegal or dubious means: theft, invasion of premises, false declarations, etc.; Ensures that international or local tax and customs regulations are obeyed, as well as those concerning the transport of goods; Complies with the laws and regulations applicable to the Group's companies, especially social, economic and environmental regulations; Management Board – 25/03/2015 …/… -8Ensures the truthfulness of accounting data, information and indicators; Complies with fundamental human rights; Complies with occupational health and safety; Avoids conflicts of interest and ensures independence of action; Respects the customers; Respects the suppliers; Preserves the environment; Does not interfere with political activities; The operating rules also create a framework for the responsibilities of employees whose acts engage GEFCO in the legal and financial responsibility with regard to third parties. All rules stated in this document therefore apply to all employees upon their arrival into the company wherever they are and whatever their duties may be. As previously stated, on 13 March 2014 GEFCO Brazil opened the ethical channel OUVIDORIA , similar to the approach taken by GEFCO United Kingdom with regard to the Whistle Blowing policy to combat fraud and corruption in particular. This channel should be open to suppliers and subcontractors in 2015. Management Board – 25/03/2015 …/… -9Protection of the environment I. General environmental policy The March 2014 Quality and Environment Management Review reaffirmed the Management's commitment. The GEFCO Management System (GMS) framework note on quality/environment management explains this commitment and indicates a willingness to develop an environmental culture based on long-term indicators linked to economic performance . GEFCO is deploying a Group Environmental Management System (EMS). It establishes a reliable environmental policy and objectives, with the aim of ensuring its entities: conformity with local legislation and regulation, control of environmental impacts, a drive towards continuous improvement. Whether or not they take part in an environmental certification approach, all the GEFCO sites can limit their ecological footprint thanks to the tools deployed by the GMS division: eco-friendly practices guide to prevent waste production and energy consumption thanks to eco-responsible conduct. the Group Environmental Management Programme (EMP), for more complex actions that require subsidiary/region or site management for their implementation. Sites with ISO 14001 certification are going even further in controlling their environmental impact. Establishment of a local EMS allows them to: measure their environmental impact through the definition and scoring of their Significant Environmental Aspects (SEA: discharges into the atmosphere, soil and water, waste management), set out and manage an action plan aiming for regulatory conformity and control of these SEAs. initiate an approach for continuous improvement. The GEFCO approach for increasing sites with ISO 14001 certification is part of a willingness to meet customers' expectations. Today, 61 sites (59 GEFCO sites, 2 Mercurio sites) are certified, and 3 (2 in Turkey, 1 in Spain) are in the process of certification for 2015. Management Board – 25/03/2015 …/… -10II. Pollution and waste management GEFCO manages the diversity of local legislations. It is the physical characteristics of the environment in which the site is located and, therefore, the regulations that govern it, that influence the environmental approach. A. Regulatory conformity 1. Commitments concerning compliance with local legislations The GEFCO operating rules require employees to know and accept their responsibilities in terms of compliance with environmental requirements. 2. Checking for compliance with the Group's legal requirements Self-inspection on site It is the manager's responsibility to confirm that his/her business is operating well . He/she ensures completion of: regular verification of the application of standards and of service conformity, regular supervision of installations, resources and risk identification, supervision and analysis of activity indicators. Subsidiary auditing Quality management and environment audits help to confirm the application and effectiveness of the Quality and Environment system, consistent with the requirements defined by the Group, with the level of quality expected by customers and stakeholders' expectations. They are carried out by qualified auditors at least once every 18 months. They take into account the key points of applicable regulations. Group auditing The annual internal auditing campaign questions the sites on their regulatory conformity. B. Risk prevention and control As at 31 December 2014, the GEFCO Group has not been required to establish any provision or guarantee concerning a risk to the environment. 1. Identifying environmental impacts Sites with ISO 14001 certification A group procedure defines the method of environmental analysis carried out by each site to be certified in order to: identify the environmental aspects and impacts of its activities, products and services, determine the significant environmental impacts by implementing a Group prioritisation methodology. Sites classified as presenting a particular risk for the environment It is recommended to identify and index environmental impacts as soon as the premises are brought into service. The entire classified premises must be clearly identified, formalised, tracked and updated periodically. Each site is tracked individually with a standardised documentation file. 2. Building follow-up and maintenance Management Board – 25/03/2015 …/… -11Following a building maintenance programme prevents the spreading of pollution, by planning and managing the different controls on installations that could present a risk of discharge into the soil, air or water. 3. Waste management Concerning waste management, GEFCO aims to: reduce the quantities produced, ensure the regulatory conformity of its practices, rationalise costs, implement selective sorting, control dangerous waste. Prevention To reduce the amount of waste produced by the sites, GEFCO wants to take action on: the purchasing processes: to purchase products and materials that generate less waste, employees' conduct: with the distribution of an eco-friendly practices guide, the maintenance of equipment and devices: by following the maintenance plans for installations and vehicles. Identification Each site knows how much waste is produced by its activity and identifies its nature and volume. Selective sorting Each type of waste is subject to regulatory constraints determining the best or the only legal treatment that must be carried out. For each type of waste, the sites are responsible for: knowing the corresponding national, community and international laws and regulations, identifying the sorting and collection procedures, standardising the sorting scheme (instructions, procedures), informing/raising awareness amongst staff using visual management and standards. Treatment Each year, the operational sites state their waste treatment method: elimination (high-temperature incineration, chemical treatment, landfill, long-term controlled storage), recycling (obtaining raw materials from waste for the production of new products), other kinds of waste repurposing (incineration with energy recuperation, waste-tocombustibles conversion, infilling operations). C. Management of environmental incidents 1. Prevention Inventory of chemical products The safety data sheet is a source of essential information for identifying pollution risks on a site. The document is written by the manufacturer, importer or seller of a dangerous substance or preparation so that the user can utilise the product in a way that ensures his/her safety and that of the environment. It makes it possible to: select the least dangerous product according to the desired application, evaluate the risks presented to employees and the environment, set out protection rules for company staff present on the site. Signage In order to clearly indicate the risks associated with a product, a safety signage system labels products according to a Group reference system that is recognisable for everyone. Identification of emergency situations Management Board – 25/03/2015 …/… -12For sites with ISO 14001 certification, risk situations are identified during the environmental analysis. The associated procedures are established, implemented and updated by each of the sites included in the scope of certification. When periodic tests must be carried out, they are a subject to recording, their effectiveness is checked and they are followed by action plans. 2. Reporting In 2014, 11 sites (7%) stated they experienced at least Sites ayant déclaré des incidents environnementaux one environmental incident, with a total of 82 incidents. 7% Non 93% Oui III. Sustainable use of resources: consumption of water, electricity and other types of energy. 1. Group Environmental Reporting Principle At GEFCO, the environmental data required by article 225 of the Grenelle 2 law (2010) are collected each year via the REG.REG. GEFCO assesses itself on 5 themes imposed by the article: general environmental policy, pollution and waste management, sustainable use of resources, climate change, protection of biodiversity. Scope The scope chosen for the environmental report represents represents the Group's environmental impacts. Once the questionnaire has been completed, the consolidation excludes the sites with incomplete or incoherent data. 2. Application of results Group environmental aspects Inspired by the environmental analysis of the ISO 14001 standard, the analysis of the REG results aims to identify the Group's environmental aspects in order to set goals with regard to control or reduction.. Concerning water and electricity consumption, it consists in detecting the activities, processes or entities that are the biggest consumers, in order to define appropriate action plans. Environmental Aspect 2013 2014 Trend Examples of use Water consumption 206,355 178,304 -14 % Washing stations (tests in m^3) RPS / FVL Electricity consumption 60,038 49,914 -17 % Site lighting: (consumption for buildings in MWh_PCI) Consumption of other forms of 51,431 48,018 -7 % Site heating: energy (in MWh_PCI) Local eco-initiatives initiatives Management Board – 25/03/2015 …/… -13The sites also declare the eco-initiatives implemented during the year, especially on the following subjects: reduction of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions, protection of biodiversity, use of eco-labelled products, reduction or elimination of noise pollution, reduction of discharges into the water, soil and air. In 2014, 77 sites organised awareness-raising and/or training for a total of 3,220 people trained and 3,678 hours of training. IV. Climate change A. Greenhouse gas emissions 1. GEFCO overall emissions Carbon measurement differentiates between CO2 emissions that can be directly attributed to the company's activity and emissions that are indirectly linked to it through three scopes . 2014 results 2. Customer emissions A commercial and strategic issue By informing its customers of the amount of CO2 emissions generated by actions carried out on their behalf, GEFCO is improving its image and its competitiveness. A Group tool GEFCO is developing a Web portal for calculating and posting CO2 emissions. It generates personalised reports for the customer. For each segment the calculation method depends on the transportation method used (air, sea, rail, road). It uses: distance calculation tools and emission factors to calculate the quantity of CO2 released from the consumption of fuel. Management Board – 25/03/2015 …/… -14To better respond to existing calls for tenders and anticipate customer requests, there is a function that will also allow the research and engineering departments to simulate transport plans to estimate their CO2 emissions. B. Evolution of conduct and techniques 1. Conduct Eco-driving A training programme in eco-driving will allow managers to choose a training course that conforms to standardised specifications for their employees: in line with the Objective CO2: Carriers make commitments charter created by ADEME, the Ministry of Ecology, Sustainable Development & Energy and professional organisations, combining training and restrictive measures to lower fuel consumption/CO2 emissions on the long term (between 3% and 6% on average), which can be adapted for subsidiaries. The implementation procedures (external training / internal monitor, group / individual sessions) must be defined for each country. These elements are included in the transport subcontractors reference database. 2. Techniques Equipment / renewal of GEFCO's own fleet The specifications concerning renewal and equipment for motor vehicle fleets include environmental criteria: reduction of consumption and emissions through the standards (Euro 6 since 1 January 2014), choosing tyres based on the type of traffic (green tyres), choosing aerodynamic equipment (jet deflectors automatically added), double-deck articulated lorries to reduce the number of disputes on transported goods, all while maximising the loadable volume, use of articulated lorries with height-adjustable roofs, to increase the loadable volume. 3. Management practices Purchasing process for subcontracted transport We are currently reconsidering responsible purchasing on the whole, especially concerning the environment. selection and referencing of transport providers, GEFCO expects its carriers to fill in the Sustainable development questionnaire based on: the division of the truck fleet into Euro 1 to Euro 5 standards. the percentage of the truck fleet equipped with diesel particle filters, the percentage of the truck fleet equipped with catalytic systems to reduce NOx emissions, the percentage of the truck fleet equipped with noise-reducing devices, the percentage of drivers trained in eco-driving, compliance with all laws and regulations concerning environmental protection. GEFCO regularly carries out audits and evaluations of its subcontractors. Follow-up of driver performance In order to ensure reliable evaluations and simplified follow-ups of driver performance, GEFCO has invested in embedded telematics. 4. Engineering Optimising loads and flows Management Board – 25/03/2015 …/… -15Making full use of transport resources and limiting empty mileage are all in line with the achievement of both an economic and environmental objective. Equipping the whole of GEFCO's own fleet with geolocation equipment means better operational control of vehicles. Multimodal In July, GEFCO also put a multimodal structure in place in order to further develop Rail and multimodal products that are competitive in terms of cost and quality. Management Board – 25/03/2015 …/…
