United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) Sixth Swedish National Pension Fund 2014 Gothenburg 24 April 2015 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Dear stakeholder, I am pleased to confirm that The Sixth Swedish National Pension Fund reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Karl Swartling Chief Executive Officer General information Sixth Swedish National Pension Fund The Sixth Swedish National Pension Fund (AP6) is a pension fund with the mission to invest in unlisted companies i.e. companies that are not quoted on the stock market. Investments are made directly in companies and indirectly through funds. On 31 December 2014, total asset under management amounted to SEK 23.6 billion. The number of employees were 35. AP6 is a signatory of the UN Global Compact and the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). AP6 has a Code of Conduct describing the fund’s approach to environmental-, socialand business ethics aspects. The Code is aimed at employees, business partners and investments and is communicated actively to these groups. As a responsible investor, AP6 integrates consideration of human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption into the investmentand ownership processes. Starting with the accounting year 2013, AP6 annually issues a Sustainability Report using the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Guidelines. The 2014 Sustainability Report is integrated in the Annual Report (http://www.apfond6.se/Global/Engelsk%20Webbsida/Annual%20reports/AP6_AR_2014_ENG.pdf). Human Rights Assessment, Policy and Goals AP6’s Code of Conduct covers support of and respect for internationally recognized human rights and aims to ensure that neither the fund nor the fund’s investments are complicit in human rights violations. Implementation AP6 respects human rights in the daily operations and integrates human rights consideration in its processes for due diligence and active ownership. The fund promotes human rights in dialogue with companies and funds in AP6’s private equity portfolio in order to increase awareness of human rights related risk and mitigate human rights violations. AP6 also encourages portfolio companies and funds to support the UN Global Compact and PRI. Measurements of outcome AP6 has not received any complaints from employees, business partners or any other external parties in relation to potential human rights violations. AP6 has not been involved in any human rights incidences during the reporting period. Labour Assessment, Policy and Goals AP6’s Code of Conduct covers support of and respect for internationally recognized labour standards, including freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, freedom from forced labour and child labour, non-discrimination and equal opportunities. Implementation AP6 works actively to recruit and keep skilled personnel. In order to provide an attractive workplace, AP6 upholds the highest labour standards. Gender equality, equal opportunities and skills management are key in this respect. AP6 continues to support “Mitt Liv” (My Life), an organisation focused on increased diversity and integration in the Swedish labour market (www.mittliv.com). AP6 integrates labour standards consideration in its processes for due diligence and active ownership. Specific attention is brought to gender balance on the boards and in senior executive positions of AP6’s portfolio companies. The fund promotes labour standards in dialogue with companies and funds in AP6’s private equity portfolio. AP6 encourages portfolio companies and funds to support the UN Global Compact and PRI. Measurements of outcome AP6 has received no grievances or complaints from employees or others in relation to potential labour rights violation, nor was the organization involved in any labour rights incidences during the reporting period. Environment Assessment, Policy and Goals AP6’s Code of Conduct covers internationally recognized environmental standards. Due to the office based nature of AP6’s administration, the fund’s direct environmental impact is limited. Business travel is the factor with highest environmental impact and most potential to influence. Implementation AP6 aims to reduce its direct environmental footprint. Specific attention is brought to business travel. AP6 aims to increase travel by rail as an alternative to national flight travel as well as increase the level of video conferencing as an alternative to in-person meetings. AP6 integrates environmental consideration in its processes for due diligence and active ownership. Specific attention during 2014 has been brought to climate change related aspects of AP6’s private equity portfolio. The fund will during 2015 bring climate change related aspects to the attention of AP6’s portfolio companies and funds. The fund promotes environmental standards in dialogue with companies and funds in AP6’s private equity portfolio. AP6 encourages portfolio companies and funds to support the UN Global Compact and PRI. Measurements of outcome AP6 has received no grievances or complaints from employees or others in relation to potential violations of environmental standards, nor was the organization involved in any environmental incidences during the reporting period. The ratio of rail travel to total travel increased during 2014, however not meeting the target of a 10 % increase. Increased international travel, in line with AP6’s investment strategy, has been identified as the main reason. During 2014, the use of AP6’s video conferencing system increased with 30 %, exceeding the target of a 10 % increase. Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy and Goals AP6’s Code of Conduct covers internationally recognized standards for anti-corruption. AP6 is state owned and accountable to the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry’s guidelines on gifts, avoidance of corruption and conflict of interests have been presented to all employees. AP6 has also adopted specific guidelines relating to external representation and business travel. In line with these guidelines, invitations to individual employees must have a clear and relevant professional connection. AP6 does not allow secondary occupations that conflict with the requirements of loyalty to the employer. Implementation AP6 emphasizes the importance of personal responsibility and ability to make informed decisions based on AP6’s Code of Conduct and other relevant guidelines. AP6 has an internal ethical committee and also a whistle blowing system where potential incidents of bribery or corruption are reported. An external audit is also performed annually. AP6 integrates consideration of anti-corruption standards in its processes for due diligence and active ownership. The fund promotes anti-corruption standards in dialogue with companies and funds in AP6’s private equity portfolio. AP6 encourages portfolio companies and funds to support the UN Global Compact and PRI. Measurements of outcome AP6 has received no grievances or complaints from employees or others in relation to potential incidents of bribery or corruption during the reporting period, nor has any controversies been highlighted in the external audit.
