United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 www.arup.com United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 Contents −− A. Introduction −− B. Human Rights −− C. Labour −− D. Environment −− E. Anti-Corruption −− F. Community Engagement, Arup International Development and Partnerships Attachments −− 1. Annual Report −− 2. Global Human Rights Code of Practice −− 3. Key Speech −− 4. Global Harassment Code of Practice & UK Local Procedure −− 5. Global Health & Safety Policy & OHSAS 18001:2007 −− 6. UKMEA Regional Diversity Strategy −− 7. Global Conduct and Performance Code of Practice −− 8. Global Grievance Code of Practice & UK Grievance Procedure −− 9. Global Diversity & Inclusion Code of Practice & UK Equal Opportunities Procedure −− 10. Sustainability Policy Statement −− 11. Sustainable Procurement Vision Statement −− 12. Regional Sustainability Plan −− 13. Business Backs Low Carbon Britain Letter to 10 Downing Street −− 14. Ethical Standards Policy, Ethics Global Code of Practice / Procedure & Ethical Decision Process United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 A A: Introduction 6 Arup Communication on Progress 2015 Arup Communication on Progress 2015 7 A Introduction Our independent ownership structure allows the needs of our clients, our commercial imperatives, and our conviction to influence all our decision-making, resulting in thoughtful contributions to society. Introduction to Arup Putting sustainability at the heart of our work is one of the ways in which we exert a positive influence on the wider world. Put simply, Arup people are driven to find a better Arup is a global company and the creative force at the heart way. of many of the world’s most prominent projects in the built environment. Accomplishments 2015 We have: Arup’s application for formal accreditation as a Living Wage Employer was recently approved by the Living Wage −− approximately 13,000 people Foundation, making us one of the first 1,000 UK employers to make the pledge. −− over 60 years experience −− projects completed in 170 countries Our approach to addressing gender diversity in South Africa was recognised through winning the Top Gender −− over 10,000 concurrent projects Empowered Company: Chemicals & Construction at the −− over £1m turnover 11th annual Top Women’s Awards. This considered gender balance (30% female staff, 10% and above female senior −− trust ownership management), and investment made in skills development Please see attachment 1 for our Annual Report which for women. contains financial statements for 2014. We hosted an event to celebrate Connect Cultures network, We view our challenge as ‘Shaping a Better World’. At the set-up as part of our diversity approach, to promote heart of this is a deep understanding of the issues driving awareness and to understand the benefits of cultural, the world’s growing urban environments – from the effects religious and ethnic diversity in the workplace. Our guest, of climate change to meeting the needs of a growing David Lammy, MP for Tottenham, shared some personal population. experiences, and provided thoughts on how companies can encourage greater diversity in the workplace. Arup is owned in trust for the benefit of our employees, giving us all a genuine share in our success. Each year In recognising our diversity, Arup employees took part in we set aside 40% of profits to share with our staff – an a range of events to help celebrate Heritage Day in South employee’s share allocation is based on their grade and Africa (24th September). This celebrated the diverse length of service. Profit share is paid twice a year in cultures, beliefs and customs that exist within South Africa. addition to salary. Environment and Sustainability Our independent ownership structure allows the needs of our clients, our commercial imperatives, and our conviction Our approach to the environment and sustainability to influence all our decision-making, resulting in thoughtful continues to be recognised, e.g. through industry awards: contributions to society. • Institution of Civil Engineers Believe in Better “…our lives are inextricably mixed up with those of Building – award for innovation and sustainability – our fellow human beings, and that there can be no real the UK’s first medium-rise commercial office to be happiness in isolation…” Sir Ove Arup, November 1970. built with an engineered timber frame. • Institution of Civil Engineers Designed in London Many of Arup’s projects leave a legacy to subsequent – award for an inspirational suspension bridge generations: a legacy that outlasts any one individual. With in Panama, a project the judges recognised as over 10,000 projects at any one time, Arup is doing the best transforming the lives of a community. possible job for current and future generations. The power to influence the future of the built environment carries with it a weighty responsibility. Arup Communication on Progress 2015 1 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 B B: Human Rights This section relates to the UNGC principles: −− Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights −− Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses B Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Commitment We have a written Global Human Rights Code of Practice. Please see attachment 2. This code states that: • Arup is founded on the principles of ensuring that our people’s work is interesting, rewarding and stimulated by a drive for excellence in an environment where people’s lives are inextricably linked with those of other human beings. • A guiding principle of the firm is that everyone accords to others the rights that individuals claim for themselves and accept the moral and humanitarian values that this embraces. A person cannot be treated just as a link in a chain of command but as someone whose happiness and prosperity is a concern of all. Our approach to human rights covers the following areas: • Diversity • Self esteem • Life balance • Fair reward • Effective workplace Arup supports and respects the protection of internationally • Integrity proclaimed human rights, such as United Nations Universal • Personal development Declaration of Human Rights, and ensures that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. • Acting honourably • Social responsibility Our founder, Sir Ove Arup, believed that our work should be both sensitive to the environment and also have a • Respect social purpose. His early commitment to the principles of sustainability continues to influence us today, not only in the way we conduct our business, but in how we treat our people and the way in which we interact with our communities and society at large. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 4 Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 All employees receive a copy of the key speech as part of Our Mission Statement their induction. Please see attachment 3. Global Human Rights Code of Practice “ To shape a better world” Arup’s written Global Human Rights Code of Practice sets out the firm’s expectation and approach on human rights. It • To enhance prosperity and quality of life is available to all staff via the company intranet. Please see attachment 2. • To deliver real value • To have the freedom to be creative and learn A better world is one that provides improved living conditions for its inhabitants while addressing fundamental environmental, social and economic concerns. Through our projects, we seek to create places where people are safer, healthier, enjoy greater amenity, are inspired by their environments and find new opportunity and prosperity. By creating sustainable and equitable environments, each and every one of us can positively influence the future of the communities where we live and work. Our Approach Our Business Key Speech A speech written and delivered by our founder Sir Ove Arup in 1970, that defines who we are, and sets out our core values and guiding principles. The Key Speech is the high-level framework that guides appropriate behaviour within the firm. The speech sets out the firm’s humanitarian Global Harassment Code of Practice attitude which “leads to the creation of an organisation which is human and friendly in spite of being large and Arup believes that all employees have a right to be efficient...this attitude also dictates that we should act treated with dignity and respect while at work and when honourably in our dealings with our own and other people... representing the company outside work. The Global Humanitarianism also implies a social conscience, a wish Harassment Code of Practice informs employees of the type to do socially useful work, and to join hands with others of behaviour that is not acceptable and provides employees fighting for the same values.” who are subjected to harassment with a means of redress without fear of reprisal. We also have a local Harassment and Bullying UK Policy which describes unacceptable conduct and provides additional guidance on resolving any incidents. Please see attachment 4. Global Health & Safety Policy Arup promotes the health and safety at work of all employees including temporary and contract staff, and of other persons affected by our actions. The firm has set objectives to provide health and safety training, specialist advice, information instruction and supervision, as may be necessary, to personnel at all levels. The firm operates within a management system that is registered as meeting the requirements of OHSAS 18001 or equivalent. Please see attachment 5. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 5 Disciplinary Procedure Activities and Implementation The disciplinary procedure is designed to be supportive and to encourage improvements in individual conduct and Our People performance. Disciplinary action follows for individuals who abuse Arup’s policies and procedures, including Communication of Policies and Procedures the Global Human Rights Code of Practice, and for any All employees are made aware of our strategies, policies “actions which undermine working relationships with and procedures with respect to human rights, equal colleagues and / or other organisations, or which may opportunities, diversity and inclusion, sustainability, compromise our integrity as a firm and our honourable performance, and harassment. These are also made available dealings with people. to all staff via our intranet and our human resources team. Our Facilities As a humane organisation we aim for zero incidents of harassment, bullying and grievance. Sustainable Procurement Arup’s commitment to Human Rights in its procurement is In the event of a breach of our policies or a reason for managed through the sustainable procurement plan which grievance, we provide guidance for informal and formal feeds into Arup’s sustainability strategies. The plan is built resolution in our Local Harassment and Bullying UK on six themes which are: Policy. This also identifies the roles and responsibilities of our managers, our human resources team, and our staff. • Environmental management Please see attachment 4. • Supplier equality and diversity Guidance for staff on how to resolve human rights issues • Support of fair practices in our supply base is provided within our harassment, bullying, grievance and other Arup Management System (AMS) policies and • Ethical trading procedures, and from our human resources team. The AMS • Promoting fair employment practices is compliant with ISO 9001:2008, OHSAS 18001:2007 and ISO 14001: 2004. • Community benefits Each supplier’s sustainability ethos is a key feature within Training and Support Arup’s tendering process to select responsible suppliers. We provide training in Health and Safety, sustainability, Furthermore, Arup works to engage its suppliers in working and diversity and gender bias awareness for leaders and together to deliver improved sustainability performance recruiters. Our employee support includes networks, forums, and events for female and LGB staff, and staff from We embed all aspects of our sustainable procurement minority groups and all religions and cultures. vision, and category specific deliverables into our request for proposal (RfP) processes. In 2015, Arup tendered our contract for supply of photocopier/printers. The delivery Our Facilities of improved energy consumption technology to prevent Sustainable Procurement wasted prints and unnecessary colour prints was integral to the schedule of requirements. The sustainable procurement plan contains specific categories of goods and services that are defined as Power consumption changes will help reduce power usage priority areas through a sustainability risk assessment by half compared with the old fleet, and environmentally incorporating these themes. These priority areas are then sustainable waste management ensures Arup remains managed through individual category plans developed to committed to its environmental values. solely focus on improving the sustainable procurement of the goods and services. The category plans are used to embed our sustainability requirements in our processes for We are also revisiting our cleaning and catering provision supplier selection, goods /services specifications, contracts in which reflecting our commitment to Living Wage (across and contract management. Sustainable procurement the UK) for outsourced staff is a key requirement. implementation varies depending on the particular features of the goods and/or services purchased within each category. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 6 Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 Outcomes and Progress • Accident Incident Rate for 2014 2015: 0 per 1000 employees. Our Business • Accident Frequency Rate for 2014 2015: 0.04 per 100,000 employee hours. Arup is working in partnership with the Global Program for Safer Schools, where the development objective is to • LA6: We have a pro-active UKMEA Health & Safety protect children and their families, reduce the physical Committee which meets every three months with 21 impact of disasters on school infrastructures, and minimise representatives from across the region and business the negative educational outcomes resulting from disaster. groups. • LA8: We have provided asbestos awareness training We are providing technical support to various World Bank in the UK to 290 people in the last year. teams during the preparation and implementation of Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery (GFDRR) financed activities in the education sector. Arup is registered with the following construction industry Health and Safety Accreditation schemes: This support will focus on engineering, capacity BuildingConfidence (number 301148), CHAS, RISQS assessments of contractors and builders, procurement and (number 060548), Safecontractor (number TM3454), contract management, quality assurance environment, and SMAS (number 20464) and UDBV Verify (number 060548) other aspects of school infrastructure delivery. Furthermore, and OHSAS 18001 certification (LRQ 4003789). Arup is working with the Global Program for Safer Schools (GPSS) on developing a guidance note for the preparation Our Facilities of safer school technical assistance (TA) projects, and supporting the development of a global handbook on Sustainable Procurement community based construction. Examples of our activities include: SHARPER is an Arup Global Research Challenge 2014 and • Working with our catering supplier to source and Natural Environment Research Council (NERC) funded purchase fair trade and rain forest alliance certified research project. This will address the health impacts of products such as coffee, tea, sugar and bananas, and extreme weather events for ageing and elderly populations verifying the authenticity of the stated certification. in three cities: London, New York and Shanghai. The project will establish a network of collaborators in each • Ensuring the application of the London Living Wage city, collect relevant datasets, and develop vulnerability for contracts with our suppliers of on-site services indices relating to the location and characteristics of people, such as catering, cleaning, security and reception properties and neighbourhoods. The aim of this project • Ensuring all disposable packaging is biodegradble is to inform policies and practices relating to healthy and and/or recyclable resilient cities in response to the global trends of ageing urban populations and climate change. Arup is leading the • Reviewing our supply base to ensure that there are no project, working collaboratively with a multidisciplinary and will be no anti-competitive inctances. team of health and climate change experts from academia, the private sector, local government and non-governmental Our Awards organisations, including University College London, King’s In March 2015 our Hong Kong office was presented with College, ClimateUK, HelpAge International, and Satellite the Caring Company Award for the tenth consecutive year Applications Catapult. by the Hong Kong Council of Social Service, to recognise our continued commitment to corporate social responsibility Our People and our demonstration of our caring concerns for the community, employees, and the environment. We confirm that in the last three years we have not been the subject of a formal investigation by the Equality and Human Rights Commission or an equivalent body, on the grounds of unlawful discrimination, and no findings have been made against us. Health and Safety Our Global Sustainability Strategy defines measures of success which includes the health and safety of our staff (e.g. lost time accidents). • Lost time accidents for 2013 2014: 1 per 100,000 employee hours. Arup Hong Kong staff receiving their Caring Company award Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 7 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 C C: Labour This section relates to the UNGC principles: −− Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining −− Principle 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour −− Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour −− Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation C Labour Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Commitment We do not employ individuals that are younger than the legal school leaving age. Arup is committed to the principles listed above. We We ensure that Arup people work in an environment that is recognise that to produce work of high quality, to maintain free from all forms of discrimination gender, race, origin, our reputation for innovation and creativity and to background, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, understand and delight our clients we need to fully embrace disability or age, and that they are valued as individuals and the skills, talents and knowledge that only a diverse treated with dignity and respect. workforce can offer. Addressing gender imbalance in Arup is our priority in a We work to ensure that everyone feels that their wider diversity drive. We believe improving gender balance contribution is valued and their successes are celebrated will help us to nurture creativity and innovation, tap hidden through our process and through our training and capacity for growth and improved competitiveness, and development, which encourages knowledge sharing, positively impact financial performance. The proportion of intellectual growth and stimulation. women employees at all grades, and the number of women in management positions has continued to rise annually We are committed to the ILO’s fundamental principles and since we commenced measurements in 2008. rights at work including: • freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory Our Mission Statement labour; • the effective abolition of child labour; and • the elimination of discrimination in respect of “ To shape a better world”. employment and occupation. • To enhance prosperity and quality of life Subject to the relevant laws in the countries where we operate, we fully respect the right of our people to freedom • To deliver real value of association and representation. • To have the freedom to be creative and learn We aim to ensure that our people have satisfactory wages and working conditions and that there is no exploitation of labour. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 10 Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 Our Approach We set global and regional targets for the numbers of women on our Boards in management positions, and regional targets for the numbers of women in our overall Our Business regional workforce. We also set targets for numbers of staff in management positions to have completed diversity and Key Speech inclusion training. A speech written and delivered by our founder Sir Ove Arup in 1970, that defines who we are, and sets out our UKMEA Regional Diversity Strategy core values and guiding principles. The Key Speech is the Arup has a global commitment to being an ‘employer of high-level framework that guides appropriate behaviour choice’ manifested in our Global Diversity Policy, Action within the firm. One of the six core principles is a “humane Plan and associated training. Diversity is championed at organisation” which should result in satisfied members. All Group Board level by Dervilla Mitchell and Region Chair employees receive a copy of the Key Speech as part of their Alan Belfield who are supported by Diversity and Inclusion induction. Please see attachment 3. Champion Martin Radley, and Diversity and Inclusion Programme Manager Vicky Evans. Our vision is “to create Ove Arup also said “If we can reach a stage where each a work environment based on fairness, respect and merit man or woman is respected for the job they do, and is doing which embraces difference and enables talented people his or her best because the atmosphere is right, because to flourish.” Our UKMEA region 2015-2017 Diversity they are proud of what we are and do and share in the Strategy was formulated to deliver this vision, and is based general enthusiasm, then we are home.” on seven key principles which will shape our activities going forward. Please see attachment 6. Freedom of Association and Representation Arup’s terms and conditions are not governed by a Annual Report collective agreement. Arup’s Annual Report 2013-2014 contains our Corporate Report. Page 12 relates to Arup being an employer of Arup is a 13,000 strong employee owned organisation. In choice. We aim to have staff with the best skills, but also 1977, the founder of the firm, Sir Ove Arup, gifted the firm from diverse cultural backgrounds. The firm creates space to itself, creating a visionary arrangement based on trusts, for staff members to make their own mark on society on which are responsible for the long-term custodianship of the their own terms, encouraging them to meet personal and firm for the benefit of past, present and future employees. professional goals. Attracting, developing and retaining the Membership of the trusts includes past and current skills of people who share our values is key to the Arup employees. As a self-owning organisation, we have no business model. Please see attachment 1. external shareholders, which is fundamental to the way we are organised and how we operate. Our People We have developed peer communications channels and we Equal Opportunities Procedure have effective formal (‘Airtime’) and informal channels between management and staff. Global and regional equal opportunities procedures exist to ensure that employment practices are applied fairly and Global Sustainability Strategy equally. These procedures cover: recruitment, training, career development and promotion, pay, selection for In 2013 we launched our 2013-2015 global strategy, which redundancy, grievance and monitoring. Every member of delivers our policy and provides a framework, setting Arup has a responsibility to uphold our equal opportunities out our sustainability expectations from the top levels codes of practice in order to ensure that everyone with of the firm. It defines our approach and responsibilities, whom we work is treated equally and honourably. and it enables us to maintain our position of leadership in The leaders have a particular responsibility to ensure this area. It states that “We remain committed to placing that grievances are investigated, that confidentiality is sustainability at the heart of all that we do, helping us in maintained and that appropriate action is taken. All senior our mission to shape a better world.” Responses from leaders are trained in the legal obligations surrounding the staff sustainability survey, conducted in September equal opportunities and we have an inclusive leadership 2012, were instrumental in shaping this strategy and its programme to equip leaders to act as role models and focus on our business, our people, our facilities and our challenge the status quo. external relationships. These areas cover our projects, client engagement, staff training, sustainable operations and community engagement. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 11 Conduct, Performance and Disciplinary Procedure and acknowledges the ideas, opinions and concerns of those at the early stage of their careers for betterment of the firm, Our global Conduct and Performance Code of Practice to make a difference from the bottom-up. provides guidance on the standards expected from all our members. The firm takes its commitment to equal Apprentices opportunities very seriously. Any acts of discrimination by its members will result in disciplinary action, including Arup recruits apprentices every October. In October 2014, termination of employment if appropriate, in accordance we recruited 35 new apprentices and trainee technicians, with the firm’s disciplinary procedures. please see and plan to recruit 50 in October 2015. We have set up a attachment 7 for our global Conduct and Performance Code dedicated apprentice area on our intranet, which includes of Practice. presentations and tips from previous apprentices. We have also set up an apprentice forum, an internal network where Harassment Procedure apprentices can discuss issues, and exchange ideas and news. Global and local harassment procedures are in place. Any complaint of harassment will be taken seriously and the Flexible Benefits necessary resources deployed to investigate and resolve the matter and take appropriate action. Please see attachment 4. To retain the best staff we offer a strong remuneration and benefits package with competitive salaries, profit share Grievance: Code of Practice payments and a flexible benefits fund to spend on the benefits that suit individuals’ requirements. Some of the Arup believes that all its members should have the inclusions in that package are: 25 days holiday plus public opportunity to discuss any matter of concern with the holidays; interest free travel season ticket loan or bicycle person to whom they report. In most cases employment loan; free eye-tests; private medical insurance and life and related matters are likely to be resolved informally in this accident insurance. The flexible benefits fund can be used way. If, however, the outcome of informal discussions is to buy benefits that suit each employee, or can be taken as unsatisfactory then the issue can be addressed through the cash on top of their salary. Our occupational health service grievance procedure. For a copy of our global Grievance is an important part of our integrated health programme Code of Practice please see attachment 8. and helps us to minimise health risks at work and ensure fast, effective help with any health problems that affect Diversity and Inclusion: Code of Practice and UKMEA staff well-being. These services are designed to provide a Diversity Strategy more comprehensive, responsive and integrated proposition Arup’s Global Diversity and Inclusion Code of Practice which will help us to deliver on our new occupational sets out our aim to “recognise and respect each others’ healthcare vision. differences and strive to build a working environment where our different values and perspectives are actively harnessed Arup has been shortlisted for the Employee Benefits Awards to create the best solutions for our equally diverse client 2015 in four categories: base”. Our Diversity Strategy is built into our operating budget, and discussed at every Board meeting. The −− ‘Benefits team of the year’, diversity and inclusiveness of our workforce is supported −− ‘Best alignment of benefits to business strategy’ (for our by our ethics on sustainability and human rights. Arup’s UK benefits review: We Shape a Better World), principles of diversity and inclusion extend to our clients, our suppliers and all those with whom we choose to work. −− ‘Best flexible benefits plan’ for our UK flexible benefits Our UKMEA region 2015-2017 diversity strategy sets scheme, and measurable diversity improvement actions for this period which are described below. Please see attachment 9 for our −− ‘Best healthcare and wellbeing benefits’ for our UK Global Diversity and Inclusion Code of Practice. health and wellbeing programme. Flexible Working Young and Early Career Staff We offer enhanced maternity and flexible working benefits There are special UK laws to protect the employment rights above the statutory requirements. We have a flexible of young workers (aged 16 to 18) which Arup adheres to. working policy that encourages anyone wishing to work These concern health and safety, what jobs they can do, flexibly to make a request to their line manager and find a when they can work, and how many hours they work. Arup solution that works for them. In April 2015, we introduced does not employ young people under the age of 16, in line a new shared parental leave policy, recognising the with legislation. importance of supporting working parents in balancing their home and working life. An enhanced shared parental leave The Early Career Group was formed in 2012 by the pay, in addition to the statutory pay provisions, allows staff UKMEA Board. It offers a forum to discuss issues and the opportunity to plan and manage the care of children in a share best practice internally, and promote collaboration way that suits their family circumstances. both in Arup and externally for early career staff. It captures Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 12 Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 Activities and Implementation appoint and promote the best people to new roles. Leaders will be accountable for implementing positive action and involving their teams to ensure a culture that Our Business celebrates diversity. Global Sustainability Strategy 6. Industry leading recruiter and employer: We want Specific performance targets are established against KPIs, to attract and recruit the widest range of talent available to gauge our progress relating to diversity and inclusion. and positively influence the career choices of the next We gather data on these metrics on a regional level, generation – particularly those who may not traditionally enabling us to review progress and adjust our actions for apply to work at Arup. We want to lead by example by ongoing performance improvement. We report our global promoting an increased focus and adoption of diversity performance publicly in our corporate report which forms and inclusion to the wider industry. part of our Annual Report. For example we have set global target of 99% for staff working in offices with management 7. No nonsense communication: We want to use effective system to ISO14001. These KPIs are cascaded to our five communication to articulate the importance of diversity regional sustainability plans. and inclusion at Arup, to both staff and clients. We must provide access to the latest thinking around the diversity UKMEA Regional Diversity and Inclusion Strategy and inclusion agenda and debunk myths. This strategy has been communicated internally through a variety of channels, including: film, intranet, Our People internal publications, and Airtime (our staff forum for Communication of Policies and Procedures communications and consultation). Staff can also send emails to diversity@arup.com which are published All employees are made aware of our strategies, policies anonymously, to encourage further communication. The and procedureswith respect to equal opportunities, diversity seven key principles are: and inclusion, sustainability, performance, and harassment. These are also made available to all staff via our intranet 1. Informed and measured: We will ensure our people are and our human resources team. informed about the importance of diversity and inclusion at Arup, empowering people to lead in an inclusive In the event of a breach of our policies or a reason for way. We will also ensure all of our people are informed complaint or grievance, we provide guidance for informal about their own unconscious biases. We will collect and formal resolution in our local Harassment and Bullying and measure baseline diversity data to understand the UK Policy. This also identifies the roles and responsibilities characteristics of our workforce – this will allow us to of our managers, our human resources team, and our staff. measure improvement and showcase our successes. We will undertake a benchmarking exercise and adapt an Airtime appropriate quality standard to measure our performance We have in place ‘Airtime’ a UK forum for staff and provide an objective view of our progress. communication and consultation. Airtime encourages us to influence our internal world, and enables us to work 2. Flexible: We will showcase and celebrate Arup’s flexible together to provide an environment which addresses our working policies which enable our people to seek personal and professional aspirations. different working arrangements during their careers. Airtime meetings are held twice yearly as a forum for 3. Connected and engaged: We will promote an inclusive elected staff representatives to discuss internal changes. A and fair culture where people feel respected, engaged, record of each meeting is issued to all staff in the form of an can be themselves and can speak out. This way, we will Airtime Broadcast. The broadcasts are intended to engage retain talent. We will provide staff with the opportunity staff and show them what issues are being considered. Staff to be connected and engaged with networks and can raise any concerns or issues they have with their elected form relationships that support them as individuals in regional representative. A regular (every other month) contributing to Arup’s success. Airtime broadcast to UK staff helps to keep staff engaged with the Airtime team and feedback loop. 4. Balanced: We will work toward a balanced allocation of opportunities for all staff. We must ‘level the playing Airtime has a number of key principles: field’ and target support towards those groups who are currently underrepresented in leadership. • Enable leadership and elected staff representatives to exchange information and consult on possible 5. Transparent and accountable: We will apply changes and draft policies of significance transparent and merit-based processes to advertise, Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 13 • Enable ideas to be harvested from the body of Number of women employed at all grades the firm through the staff representatives for the The number of women employed by Arup has consistently leadership to consider in making decisions on issues increased over the last five years. The percentage of female that significantly affect our professional lives staff for 2015 is currently 32% which is slightly lower • Improve the flow of information between all members compared to 2014, but this is due to the fact that we’re of staff part way Percentage through the year. We Female Staff expect the upward(alltrend to continue once the 2015 figuresGrades) have been collated. Training and Support 33.5 We provide in house training via a full and varied programme of courses, with information available to all 33 staff on our employee intranet. Specific individual training 32.5 needs are identified as part of employees’ annual appraisals, and then included in their development plans. In addition 32 our graduates and apprentices participate in formal training 31.5 programmes to achieve professional qualifications. Courses include: technical skills, diversity awareness training such 31 as ‘Inclusive Leaders and Leadership’ and Gender Bias 30.5 Awareness Training for recruiters. Mentoring and guidance is available for all staff. In particular a successful womens’ 30 mentoring programme pilot, completed in our midlands Campus, is now being rolled out across our North East UK 29.5 offices. 29 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Female Leaders Percentage of Arup female staff since 2009 We hold a series of lunches with women who show high potential, to encourage networking, familiarity and support. Connect Women To celebrate the promotion of women to Director level, we hold lunch and career talks for staff to hear about female Connect Women is our internal network, set up in 2009, leaders’ successes. for improving the opportunities for women in Arup, to enable them to maximise their valued contribution to the Women on the UKMEA Board of Directors firm, our clients and our industry. The Connect Women Network is open to all Arup employees (regardless of Out of 17 UKMEA board members, we currently have profession, position or sex) who support our aim of three who are female, and two women serving as officers. improving opportunities for women within our industry. In We continue to strive for greater equality and diversity June 2015, the network hosted a talk entitled ‘Taking a lead throughout our business and believe that our new Diversity in the politics of sustainability a woman’s perspective’ and Inclusion Strategy will help us to achieve this. to discuss the politics of sustainability. The guest speaker was Baroness Parminter, and the panel was made up of two women and two men, from Arup, Crossrail and The Crown Estate. Connect Out Connect Out is the firm’s lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) network and forum, set up in 2012, and is open to all employees (regardless of profession, position or sex). Connect Out advocates a work environment that respects, welcomes and supports LGBT professionals, and empowers them to perform to their fullest potential and contribute to the greater goals of the firm. Connect Out is supported by the UKMEA Board diversity champion, Alan Belfield and the UKMEA diversity and inclusion steering group and managed by a committee of Number of females on the UKMEA Board of Directors since 2009 volunteers who represent different areas of the firm and meet regularly to plan activities and initiatives. Connect Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 14 Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 Out has also set up a diversity and inclusion forum to host We made improvements to our occupational health employees’ ongoing discussions, which is available to service during this year by changing our provider to staff in an open or closed (confidential membership name) Axa PP Healthcare, with a new internet based wellbeing format. information and management self service Health Gateway, and a new UK contract with Medical Express to undertake Connect Cultures staff medicals. This is the newest strand in our family of diversity networks (set up in 2013). This network aims to celebrate Our Facilities and promote the benefits of cultural, ethnic and religious Sustainable Procurement Vision diversity in our workplace and foster an inclusive and equal opportunity work environment that respects our individual Our sustainable procurement vision includes increasing differences and the value they can bring to the firm. diversity as an objective. We communicate this to new suppliers at tendering stage and have revised our sourcing Young Engineers, Apprentices and Graduates practices, supplier questionnaires, tender scoring criteria and supplier contracts. We hold supplier conferences to Our Young Engineers Site (YES) forum is an intranet inform SMEs and BMEs about Arup’s sustainability vision network hosting young engineers’ discussions, and is and objectives, and to share best practice. used for asking questions and sharing experiences and opportunities. In October 2014, we recruited 35 new apprentices and Outcomes and Progress trainee technicians based in 11 offices across the UK. The majority of the apprentices are undertaking a two Our Business year, level three qualification in either building services or civil engineering. This will lead to them achieving an Arup, together with leaders of major science, technology, apprenticeship in their relevant discipline and also the engineering and manufacturing companies, are partners of EngTech professional qualification. In 2014 we offered the WISE (women in science, technology and engineering) school work experience placements to 68 pupils, and have campaign and share a determination to promote diversity. 37 pupils lined up for placements in 2015 so far, and plan to Arup’s ambition is to convert commitment into practical have recruited a total of 50 apprentices by October 2015. action which makes a difference to women already working in the engineering industry. It is not simply a matter of Arup had six apprentices shortlisted for the ICE Quest fairness, but a business imperative as we look to maintain Scholarship award 2014, with four being awarded the and enhance the UK’s competitive edge. scholarship. The scholarships are awarded to those who are commited to civil engineering and have the potential to To address this challenge, Arup is one of 20 major UK excel. companies which have committed to a ten point plan (September 2014), based on actions which have proved to make the most difference within a science, technology or engineering environment. The ten steps have been developed by industry members and partners of the Royal Academy of Engineering and the WISE Campaign. The ten point plan is a pledge to: • understand the starting point and put plans in place to improve performance and monitor progress • educate leaders and give them accountability for change • change mind-sets by challenging bias and sexism New apprentices and and trainee techniciams in our London office • be creative in job design • make flexible working a reality for all Flexible Benefits • increase transparency of opportunities for progression Arup recognises that pay and benefits are important tangible elements of our total reward approach, and aims to provide • sponsor talented women, giving the same exposure as a package which attracts, retains and motivates our talented men and support to develop their career people. A range of flexible benefits is offered to staff, that can be adapted to suit their lifestlye. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 15 • demonstrate to women that we want to retain them Answer options Response percent Response count through career breaks and beyond 16-24 10.7% 295 • treat the retention of women as we would any other 25-34 38.8% 1073 issue affecting our core business 35-44 27.2% 751 • share learning and good practice with our industry partners 45-54 14.5% 400 55+ 7.9% 219 Prefer not to say 1.0% 27 Our People answered question 2765 Arup does not pay below the minimum wage. skipped question 6 Arup is a Living Wage employer, and was one of the Diversity and Inclusion Survey, response to the question “please indicate the first 1,000 employers to become fully accredited. This is category that includes your current age in years”. consistent with our commitment to provide ‘reasonable prosperity’ to all our employees, which featured in Arup was the first engineering firm to sign up to the our founder’s Key Speech. That means we pay all our Stonewall programme. We have been working closely with permanent employees above the relevant London or Stonewall to improve our Workplace Equality Index results National Living Wage threshold, and we have an action plan since joining in 2012, and our current rating places us in the in place to ensure our contractors are paid a living wage too. top 200 firms. We confirm that in the last three years we have not been the ‘Flexible’ subject of a formal investigation by the Equality and Human April 2015, we launched a shared parental leave policy, Rights Commission or an equivalent body, on the grounds aimed at giving eligible working parents more flexibility of unlawful discrimination. over how they share childcare between them during the first year of their child’s life or at adoption. They will be able to Our Strategy take it in turns to have periods of leave to care for the child, and/or take leave at the same time as each other. ‘Informed & measured’ Our global target is that 40% of leaders will have completed ‘Connected & engaged’ training on diversity and inclusion, with a future aim to Our three Connect networks (Connect Cultures, Connect increase this to 100%. ‘Inclusive Leaders and Leadership’ Out and Connect Women) continue to celebrate our has been attended by 450 staff (out of 974) at the beginning diversity and promote inclusion through regular events: of 2014. Three Connect Women events took place in the Middle East In April 2015 Arup’s diversity and inclusion team launched between February and mid-April 2015; one internal event a new diversity and inclusion survey (see extract from in Dubai targeting the entire office, and an external event the survey in the adjacent table), including very simple in each of the Dubai and Doha offices targeted our senior questions that cover protected characteristics; things like women clients. The Dubai sessions focused on blended age, gender and sexuality. There were a number of reasons leadership, and the Doha session on leadership skills. The for the survey: we wanted to understand our workforce events were well-received and generated many enthusiastic and identify which policies and practices could be more discussions. effective. Collation and monitoring of this type of data also allows us to work towards achieving the aims outlined in our Regional Strategy of recruiting, promoting and retaining Launched in 2013, our editorial series ‘Senior women’s the best talent from a diverse pool. With a more informed journeys’ profiles some of the most senior women in our picture of our workforce, we can identify where barriers firm, celebrating their careers and looking at what has exist that prevent the best use of all available talent. shaped their journey. In August 2014, Group Board Member and Aviation Leader for UKMEA Dervilla Mitchell talked about her career, and a short film and article were produced documenting her journey. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 16 Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 Our Connect Women network organised a speed mentoring ‘Industry leading recruiter & employer’ session in October 2014. Based on the format similar to Arup celebrated National Apprenticeship week 9-13 March speed dating, this session allowed staff to mingle with 2014 with a number of high profile achievements for its senior leaders for short periods of time and introduce apprentices. Arup had six apprentices shortlisted for the ICE themselves, ask questions about the business, and get to Quest Scholarship with four being awarded the scholarship. know the leaders a bit better. Arup has also been recognised for its commitment An event entitled ‘Cultural Intelligence’ was hosted in April to apprentices. We have been awarded the Employer 2015 by our Connect Cultures network, to discuss how Commitment to Apprentices Award by College of North we harness the diverse cultures within Arup, to improve West London for providing outstanding support to our our employee experience and competitive edge. The event apprentices and fostering an excellent working relationship included key speakers and was followed by a debate on how with the college. In addition, we were recognised as one Arup can make the best of our cultural assets. of the UK’s Top 30 Employers of Apprentices in 2014 by RateMyApprenticeship.co.uk. This is a testament to our Our Connect Out network screened the film ‘Pride’, based commitment to remain an employer of choice for those on a true story, in April 2015. considering their early career options. ‘Balanced’ Erin McConahey became our first engineer to be elevated We want our people to feel valued and for this, they need to to ASHRAE (American Society of Heating, Refrigerating be treated with dignity and respect. And yet we know this and Air-Conditioning Engineers) Fellow in January 2015. doesn’t always happen and sometimes barriers exist which This is a rare appointment that recognises members who prevent everyone from being treated equally. Our diversity have attained distinction and made substantial contributions and inclusion strategy 2015-17 aims to address this and in heating, ventilation, air-conditioning and refrigerating our approach is based on the concept that people should be and the built environment through education, research, valued as individuals for reasons related to their business engineering design and consultation, publications, interests, as well as for moral and social reasons. presentations and mentoring. The Society elevated only 14 members to the grade of Fellow. Arup in Australia was once again recognised in November 2014 as an ‘Employer of Choice for Gender Equality’ ‘No nonsense communication’ (EOCGE) by the Workplace Gender Equality Agency Our diversity intranet site is refreshed regularly, and kept (WGEA). Last year, 76 organisations were awarded the up-to-date with relevant policies, strategies and information 2014 EOCGE citation, down from 125 in 2012. on the Connect networks. ‘Transparent & accountable’ To articulate the diverse cultures within Arup, in June 2015 In March 2015, approximately 200 people (including over our Connect Cultures network published an email to all 20 directors) attended a Connect Women debate where staff about the holy Islamic month of Ramadan. Staff are the motion proposed was: This house believes that a step encouraged to recognise the importance of Ramadan for our change is needed to improve gender balance on the Group Muslim colleagues. and Region Boards. Awards The event was introduced by Susan Claris, Chair of We have been recognised with a Young Engineer Awards at UKMEA Connect Women, and Gregory Hodkinson, the 37th International Association for Bridge and Structural Chairman of the Group Board and Global Diversity Engineering (IABSE) Symposium, held in Madrid on 3-5 Champion and chaired by Tim Chapman, Director, September 2014. Four Arup staff from London won the Infrastructure London. The proposal was hotly contested, award for their outstanding paper and presentation about but both sides agreed on many issues. Firstly, that the Bridge Tool Design and Construction of rural Suspension current gender balance in the Group and Region Boards is Footbridges. 24 of our engineers attended the Symposium not representative and further action was needed to make and made a significant contribution to the event, including this the case. Secondly, that there are number of options to authoring papers, providing input to round table discussions improve this. Finally, that while it is useful to see industry and co-organising a one-day ‘Bridge Design’ workshop. norms and statistics for benchmarking purposes, Arup has always been, and will continue to be, industry leaders. Consequently participants expect the firm to be ahead of the curve. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 17 Yvonne Murphy, an Engineer in Arup’s Cardiff office, won the Duke of Gloucester’s Young Achievers Scheme, Engineering Category Award, organised by the Construction Youth Trust. The judges look for young people who have not only achieved academic success in their careers so far, but who have had to overcome barriers and challenges to get to where they are. Yvonne has also been elected as a general member of the global Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE) council. Yvonne was the youngest on the ballot, and the only candidate from the Wales region. She competed against 20 candidates to win one of five seats, and will start her three year term of office on 3 November 2015, following the ICE President’s address. As a council member, and trustee, Yvonne will be responsible for ensuring that the ICE is properly governed and administered and, most importantly, that it is fulfilling its objective, as laid down in the Royal Charter; to ‘foster and promote the art and science of civil engineering’. The Building My Skills programme won the Business in the Community Schools Partnership Award at The Responsible Business Awards 2015, held on 7 July 2015. We helped Esh Group to develop the programme in partnership with Ryder and Turner & Townsend in the 2010/11 academic year. The programme brings together businesses and schools across the north of England to provide a structured, free careers advice programme to almost 7,000 young people. Building My Skills offers young people invaluable insight into the world of work directly from employers, through timetabled careers sessions delivered by businesses. Students benefit from mock interviews, work experience and apprenticeship opportunities. A total of 49 schools in 23 local authorities have taken part, with 65 businesses contributing time and resource. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 18 Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 D D: Environment This section relates to the UNGC principles: −− Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges −− Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility −− Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies D Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Commitment Our Mission Statement Sustainability is fundamental to our thinking at Arup, helping us to deliver on our mission ‘to shape a better world”. We are taking steps to minimise the carbon “ To shape a better world”. emissions associated with our operations and endeavour to prevent pollution within the scope of our activities. • To enhance prosperity and the quality of life Our offices are the second biggest contributor to Arup’s carbon footprint, after travel. We are committed to taking a • To deliver real value resource efficient, sustainable approach to the way we run • To have the freedom to be creative and learn our offices. Responsibility for our sustainability, at UKMEA regional Our Approach Board level, is held by Ian Rogers (Director). Our Foresight and Innovation team is dedicated to managing the firm’s global innovation programme, gathering and taking views Our Business on emerging technologies, and sharing these experiences Key Speech with Arup offices and our clients around the world. Every year we invest a percentage of our profits to fund this A speech written and delivered by our founder Sir Ove research. Arup in 1970, that defines who we are, and sets our core values and guiding principles. The Key Speech is the As a firm of consultants, the biggest impact we can have on high-level framework that guides appropriate behaviour the environment is through our work with clients. We try to within the firm. Sir Ove Arup established the firm over 60 embed sustainability in everything that we do in the way years ago with the principles of ‘total design’ very much we run our business, our projects, and our physical impacts at the fore the integration of the design process and the on the external environment. We help our clients to face the interdependence of all the professions. He also championed challenges of sustainability by investing in our passion for the social value of innovation and the humanitarian purpose turning ideas into tangible tools and methodologies. of good design. Today we understand this as a commitment to sustainability. Please see attachment 3. We extend our influence at every level, from individual buildings and large portfolio owners to cities and Sustainability Policy Statement governments. Through our many partnerships and Arup’s Sustainability Policy states that the firm will committee memberships we disseminate best practice implement practices that promote economic security, social sustainable design. We strive to deliver better solutions for betterment and environmental stewardship and will strive our clients and create a lasting and positive legacy for future for continuous improvement of performance in these areas. generations. Please see attachment 10. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 20 Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 Global Sustainability Strategy Our People In 2013 we launched our 2013-2015 global strategy, which SusNet delivers our policy and provides a framework, setting out our sustainability expectations from the top levels SusNet is Arup’s intranet site for sustainability skills, of the firm. It defines our approach and responsibilities, guidelines, tools and technologies. The site is an ‘umbrella’ and it enables us to maintain our position of leadership in or gateway for all skills in Arup that relate to sustainability. this area. It states that “We remain committed to placing It provides access to information across a range of other sustainability at the heart of all that we do, helping us in sites to cover all aspects of sustainability at a business and our mission to shape a better world.” Responses from project level. It also has a forum where people can ask the staff sustainability survey, conducted in September sustainability / environmental questions and quickly get a 2012, were instrumental in shaping this strategy and its response from an expert within Arup. focus on our business, our people, our facilities and our external relationships. These areas cover our projects, client OvaGreen engagement, staff training, sustainable operations and OvaGreen is a growing global network of environmental community engagement. volunteers in Arup’s offices. They coordinate environmental initiatives within our offices, including: campaigns, climate UKMEA Regional Sustainability Plan week events, recycling waste, reducing energy, reviewing This plan implements the global strategy within the our purchase of products and improving our use of UKMEA region, identifies roles and responsibilities, transport. defines areas of focus for Ian Rogers, UKMEA Director of Sustainability to report bi-monthly to the UKMEA Board. Our Facilities In our 2015-16 Plan, we have committed to ensuring that all Environmental Management System (EMS) staff receive a minimum of two hours sustainability training per year, as seen in the screen shot below. A strategic approach has been taken to the implementation FOR INTERNAL USE ONLY MAY 2015 of our EMS within Arup. Implementation occurs at Our People the group level, with our offices seeking certification Objectives Actions for FY15-16 Notes locally to the requirements of ISO 14001:2004. While We aim to give our staff the skills they need to engage with clients, ~ Include sustainability awareness briefings in staff Review graduate training modules to ensure sustainability is suitably covered Likely to be integrated into existing modules as opposed to all of the environmental impacts of our activities require and inspire them to embrace the sustainability agenda by building on their curiosity, enthusiasm and sense induction programmes Review e-learning modules under stand-alone subject management, the assessment of each activity and of purpose. development and promote uptake. consequent impact is used as a guide to prioritise action, Training in the broad issues around ~ Inform staff about Ensure information on initiatives goes Year in Perspective report is the sustainability, coupled with leadership development, is vital. sustainability initiatives and through RSP and R&L networks and appropriate forum for via risk assessments, through the EMS. These assessments results in significance ratings, calculated by considering the best practice regularly appropriate news channels communication of best practice Once we understand our clients’ ~ Develop pathways for Increase coverage and formality of ~ Target: 2 hours sustainability needs, we then need the skills to sustainability training, outlining inclusion of sustainability within appraisals training/FTE/yr engage further and connect our specialists to clients in a way which relevant training for each discipline and grade, from Support businesses to ensure adequate training is available to staff to deliver their likelihood, severity and legal implications. delivers value. ‘awareness’ to ‘advanced’ business strategies e.g. Cities Strategy Engage with Arup University to ensure businesses and skills networks are developing appropriate training pathways. Audits and Reviews of Sustainability Performance Explore methods of better Research possible approaches to better capturing informal capture informal sustainability training sustainability training We carry out annual internal system audits, regular project ~ indicates Global Sustainability Strategy objectives, KPIs and targets audits and an annual management review to ensure compliance with our internal processes and management of Page extracted from the UKMEA Regional Sustainability Plan our environmental aspects. Our environmental audit process Arup Management System (AMS) UKMEA RSP 2015-16 contributes to ongoing monitoring and improvement of environmentally sustainable performance. The Arup Management Systems embraces Health and Safety, Quality and Environmental Management. This Sustainable Procurement Vision provides the procedures, processes, and documentation to complete our projects. The AMS has achieved a “single Arup’s Sustainable Procurement Vision aims to improve certificate” to ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 the environmental, social and ethical performance of its covering all UK offices. The AMS captures project business by addressing these areas in the procurement of its sustainability objectives and is used to monitor and record goods and services. We communicate this to new suppliers achievements and outstanding actions. at tendering stage and have revised our sourcing practices, supplier questionnaires, tender scoring criteria and supplier contracts. Please see attachment 11. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 21 A number of these are open for pilot projects which gives us Activities and Implementation further opportunity to shape the programme. Existing Buildings Our Business With 40% of the UK’s energy usage and 50% of GHG Global Sustainability Strategy emissions being attributed to existing buildings, Arup is This strategy responds to staff feedback and includes committed to working to reduce the impact of these assets our commitment to bring our sustainability approach on their local communities. We have extensive experience and expertise to our projects, across all regions and all of assisting the property sector to embrace sustainability disciplines, to ultimately ‘shape a better world,’ develop and transform their property portfolios. This includes the our collaborations with clients for more sustainable retrofitting of existing assets and development of strategies design solutions, review and improve access to relevant to reduce energy use and change behaviours. We have sustainability staff training, continue to improve Arup produced existing buildings survival strategy guides facilities and operations’ resource-efficiency, embodying to help owners to plan for the future of their buildings. our vision and values, and enabling us to ‘walk the talk,’ These guides set out and explain research on market and and strengthen involvement in all communities in which we legislative challenges, strategies for revitalising assets, operate. initiatives and ideas for prioritising actions, and case studies. Specific performance targets are established against KPIs, to gauge our progress. We will gather data on these metrics on Asset MAP a regional level, enabling us to review progress and adjust Our building retrofitting services are underpinned by our our actions for ongoing performance improvement. We will proprietary software tool Asset MAP, which brings together report our performance publicly in our annual Sustainability architectural, engineering and financial risk analysis for us Plan. For example our current target is for every employee to analyse the economic and environmental improvement to recieve a minimum of two hours sustainability training potential of a client’s building or property portfolio. This per year, as outlined in our annual regional sustainability helps us to advise clients on where best to focus any plan see attachment 12. physical interventions. We recognise that our firm’s largest sustainability impact and influence is through our business (our projects). Our priority for 2015-16 is to deliver projects that not only meet local regulations, but achieve more sustainable outcomes, in line with client expectations and local objectives wherever we work. Arup and the WELL Building Standard Arup has a number of employees worldwide who have recently become Provisional WELL Accredited Professionals. The WELL Building Standard is a new green rating system that explores relationships between health, wellbeing and the built environment. The Standard is managed and administered by the WELL Building Institute and has synergies with both LEED and the Living Building Challenge. Version 1.0 of the Standard is optimised for commercial and institutional buildings and can be applied to three project typologies: new construction and major renovations; tenant improvements; and shell and core developments. Future refinements will address the specific requirements of multifamily residences, retail and restaurants, sports facilities and convention centers, schools, and healthcare facilities. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 22 Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 Carbon Accounting for Green Districts in China materials. The project is at an advanced stage and should be completed later this year. From then on, the tidal turbine Carbon Accounting for Chinese Cities Green District Plans: will deliver renewable energy that allows considerable Methodology, Data and Evaluation Guidelines, a book electricity savings. This simple but effective technology written by our colleagues using our case studies, has could be used in similar cases all around the globe, recently been published. multiplying its positive impact on the environment. Dr. Stanley Yip, in association with Wang Jingyi, both from Sustainable Investment Guidelines for China’s largest bank the Shanghai planning team, have published this guidebook for planners, designers and city decision-makers to provide We are collaborating with Energy Foundation China, a systematic, transparent and scientific method in measuring Energy Innovation Policy LLC, and Lawrence Berkeley carbon emissions for district level statutory plans in Chinese Laboratory to prepare the first comprehensive sustainable cities. urbanisation investment guidelines for the China Development Bank (CDB) Capital to be completed in The book was prepared based on Stanley’s recent research 2015. on climate change and urban planning and it features selected Arup projects, including the master land-use plan We are preparing guidelines for use by CDB’s investment for Jiangyin City and the redevelopment of the Urban Best managers, working across China. The guidelines will focus Practice Area (UBPA) at the former Shanghai Expo site. on establishing mandatory bottom lines for buildings, energy, water, waste and smart cities sectors. It will be a The book has a supporting foreword from Tang Kai, the toolkit to guide investment and asset management decisions Chief Urban Planner at the Ministry of Housing, Urban and for CDB Capital’s initial tranche of US$8bn equity Rural Development, and it has received a great response investment. since its launch at the Annual China Green Building Conference in Beijing in March. Supporting UK local flood risk management workers Our offices in Newcastle, Leeds and London have worked together with CIRIA to prepare two new guides to provide support for those working in local flood risk management: Communication and engagement in local flood risk management (C751) and Communication and engagement techniques in local flood risk management, companion guide (C752). We prepared the guides to bring together experiences, and proven approaches to flood risk communication and engagement. They will be useful in identifying, engaging and working with people likely to be affected by flooding, Sources of carbon emission / Sources of carbon emission / or integral to its future management. sequestration by sectors of the Post sequestration by sectors of the Post Shanghai Expo UPBA: baseline Shanghai Expo UPBA: low carbon They can also be used at several stages of managing flood scenario scenario risk, from building engagement and awareness, and the preparation of a local flood risk management strategy or Underwater turbines for coral reef restoration on Gili surface water management plans, through to recovery after Islands an event and benchmarking activities. In 2000, the Gili Eco Trust (GET) in Indonesia launched a programme to foster the cultivation of new coral reefs The guidance will provide practical help for: to replace those destroyed around the Gili Islands through destructive fishing practices. A weak electrical current • Leading local flood authorities; can accelerate the coral reef’s growth process, so the GET • District authorities and other local authority investigated possibilities to power the restoration of the organisations; coral reefs using Biorock technology. • Sewerage undertakers; In 2013, we developed a technical solution for a suitable • Other risk management authorities; small-scale tidal turbine prototype funded through Invest in Arup. Staff from our offices in Germany, Ireland and the • National government, national regulator and strategic UK have designed a prototype which the GET is currently bodies; reproducing on site using a local workforce and local Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 23 • Environmental regulators; and Water at the heart of climate change adaptation • Consultancies. We have produced a short animation on why water is at the heart of climate change adaptation. The film was shown at the COP 20 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Arup shows leadership at Infrastructure Carbon Review Lima, Peru. One Year On Conference On the 27th October 2014, senior industry leaders gathered The animation was produced on behalf of The Alliance for in London to commit to take action on reducing carbon Global Water Adaptation (AGWA). Membership of AGWA within the infrastructure sector. Arup was one of 30 is by invitation only and our invitation came about due to organisations who have already shown leadership and AGWA members seeing our ‘Design with Water’ water committed to this important agenda and whose progress was cycle-based framework, and our work on resilience. celebrated at the conference and accompanying report. AGWA members include representatives from US State Andrea Charlson of Arup took part in a panel discussion Department, US Corps of Engineers, Dutch Government, with Mike Putman, CEO of Skanska UK and co-chair of Stockholm International Water Institute, the Inland the Green Construction Board, among others, on leadership, Waterways Association and the United Nations Framework emphasising how leadership needs to come from all parts of Convention on Climate Change. the supply chain and all levels within organisations. Completion of two major UK Energy from Waste Facilities Arup has committed to actively reducing carbon within the Arup has recently designed a number of Energy from Waste industry and will continue to explore the opportunities to facilities, with expertise covering all aspects of design, from influence our clients on this agenda. This builds upon our feasibility, to development planning. recent work with the Highways Agency assisting them in defining their carbon strategy. Last month marked the completion of two Energy from Waste Facilities located in Kent and Shropshire: How Green Infrastructure adds to our economy Mersey Forest, on behalf of Atlantic Gateway, recently Ridham Docks Biomass, Sittingbourne, Kent appointed Arup to produce a document demonstrating the The plant will use old and waste timber to generate almost value of Green Infrastructure as a catalyst for innovation 190 million kilowatt-hours of green electricity a year. Its and economic growth. The leaflet is aimed at Local annual capacity of 172,000 tonnes of timber will be sourced Enterprise Partnerships (LEPs) in the North West of from the surrounding region. England, to encourage the inclusion of Green Infrastructure within their growth plans. Arup provided structural, civil, geotechnical engineering and infrastructure design for the fast paced programme There is compelling evidence that strategic investment in with construction on a former marshland with poor ground Green Infrastructure adds measurable value to an economy. conditions. To minimise the residual settlement after the It provides a competitive edge, attracts investment and project finished, the settlement process was accelerated. brings sustainable growth whilst supporting innovation This was achieved by draining soft clay layer, allowing and social inclusion, making the best use of the natural ground water to dissipate more quickly. environment. The document demonstrates how the world’s most innovative and successful economies have already Energy from Waste, Shropshire, UK whole-heartedly embraced Green Infrastructure, realising The Shropshire Energy from Waste facility provides a high that it is vital for economic prosperity, social and ecoquality innovative design that reflects the context of its innovation and that it brings investment and jobs, improves countryside setting. The new facility will use 90,000 tonnes citizens’ health and well-being in addition to creating of waste per annum generating 8MW of energy. Arup was opportunities for leisure and tourism. the lead designer and provided structural, civil geotechnical, MEP, acoustics, fire engineering, infrastructure design The leaflet was launched in Liverpool during the and architecture services. The design adopts sustainable International Festival for Business at Mersey Forest’s principles, and includes a visitors centre. conference ‘Setting the Scene for Growth – Creating Investible Places’. Director, Tom Armour, leader of Arup’s The development is adjacent to the existing Veolia Global landscape architecture business, spoke about the role household recycling centre and waste transfer station, with of green infrastructure in delivering significant economic, the façade allowing the silhouette of internal operations to environmental and social benefits in the design of our cities. be viewed, showcasing the energy from waste equipment machinery. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 24 Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 SPeAR® Sustainable Project Appraisal Routine CEEQUAL the Sustainability Assessment, Rating and Award Scheme for Civil Engineering Our SPeAR® software based tool relates to environmental rating tools including LEED®, BREEAM and CEEQUAL, Arup is a CEEQUAL Project Partner, is a member of the and was developed by Arup’s software and sustainability Technical Advisory Group, and has been involved with experts to help us to support clients’ sustainability goals. each stage in the design development of CEEQUAL. We The tool encompasses quantitative and qualitative appraisal, have one accredited verifier and 27 assessors. We routinely based on 23 core indicators. This is presented graphically achieve ‘Excellent’ awards, and have a running total of using a traffic light type system to indicate performance 11 awards at interim and final stages, scoring in the Very against key themes. A tabulated summary of the input Good and Excellent categories. These include, most data is also generated, ensuring that the process is robust recently, Bristol Water’s proposed 9,400 mega-litre Cheddar and auditable. It can assist with improving the social, Reservoir Two project. economical and environmental performance of projects, expedite planning approvals, and reduce project risks and costs. SPeAR® output is available in a range of languages including Chinese, German, Italian, Polish and Spanish. ASPIRE (A Sustainability Poverty and Infrastructure Routine for Evaluation). This software based tool was created to provide Our People organisations with an analytical framework that comprehensively addresses three ‘pillars’ of sustainability, Communication of Policies and Procedures (environment, society, economics) and uniquely recognises All employees are made aware of our strategies, policies institutions as a fourth critical dimension, in developing and procedures with respect to sustainability. These are country contexts. It uses over 90 detailed indicators to also made available to all staff via our intranet and our ensure that users ask the right questions and consider all environmental and sustainability teams. the critical issues. It is built on the SPeAR® platform, and has been developed by Arup International Development in collaboration with Engineers Against Poverty. ASPIRE Training has been used with our partner Bridges to Prosperity Sustainability training in UKMEA is provided through (B2P) to complete a retrospective assessment of the Arup University. A range of training options are available Muregeya Bridge project in Rwanda in order to test including Designing Sustainable Buildings e-learning several sustainability theories, and identify gaps and any modules, classroom based courses such as the Sustainability opportunities missed, so that lessons learned can be applied Workshop for Project Leaders and Sustainable Cities. More to future bridges. ASPIRE was also employed on the in-depth and specialist masters courses are also offered design and construction of the 46m span Ciricito Bridge in including Smart Cities and Energy Futures and Transitions. Panama. To complement formal sustainability training, informal and ad-hoc lunch-time talks and events are organised at office level to share best practice and sustainability learning from projects. Our target on sustainability training is 2 hours per full-time equivalent employee per year in 2014-15, and we have achieved 1.6 hours/FTE. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 25 Forums Arup is a participant in the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme and the Energy Saving In addition to training we encourage regular sharing of Opportunity Scheme, and as such, is currently auditing its sustainability best practice across offices and projects. office energy use to determine where further reductions We have a number of sustainability related intranet based might be possible. staff communication forums for the sharing of ideas and knowledge including: Ecology, Environmental, Food and As part of Arup’s ongoing efforts to reduce carbon Agriculture, Landscaping and Green Infrastructure, Living emissions per employee, an Energy Management System Roofs, and OvaGreen. (EnMS) has been introduced to help manage energy usage in ten of our offices in the UK. Data is managed through Our Facilities an online automatic monitoring and targeting (AM&T) Sustainable Office Environments software platform. The system enables us to proactively capture, monitor, trend and report resource consumption and We have been monitoring and reporting our carbon footprint the energy performance of our buildings. The highly visual since 2007. Our greatest source of carbon emissions is reports also spark discussions amongst staff to find ways to business travel, followed closely by emissions from indirect reduce office energy consumption. 80% occupied space in electricity generation to power our facilities. To ensure a Arup UKME region has half-hourly energy monitoring. safe and healthy workplace for our staff, we will maintain high standards of health and safety at our own offices, and Video Conferencing require our clients to do likewise to ensure the protection of staff and their wellbeing while working on site. Since 2001, we have invested in, and made extensive use of video conferencing and teleconferencing. This Arup promotes multiple sustainability initiatives within the enables effective communication while reducing the need office environment focusing on reuse, recycling, energy for excessive travel. Our global use of desktop video consumption and behavioural change. We encourage our conference calls (via Microsoft Lync) continues to increase staff to consider their environmental impact and how we and we predict that desktop VC will be the main driver for can work together sustainably and set global and regional face to face meetings in the future, alongside our use of targets to improve our facilities’ sustainability performance. meeting room VC. Our regional sustainability plan target is that 100% of our resource data will be monitored via Credit 360. Our Follow You Printing sustainable procurement vision outlines our approach to procuring products and services. Arup embeds all aspects of our sustainable procurement vision, and category-specific deliverables into our RFP We work closely with first-tier suppliers and encourage processes. Arup recently tendered our contract for the them to adopt sustainable behaviour. We require them to supply of photocopier/printers to deliver improved energy have their own environmental policies and targets, thereby consumption, using technology to prevent wasted prints and influencing overall supply chain performance. Examples unnecessary colour prints. include: minimising deliveries of stationary and other materials, and purchasing uniforms made from recycled We continue to utilise our existing print management materials. Examples of sustainable initiatives are given software in the UK which reduces wasted prints by below. automatically deleting queued prints that are not collected within 24 hours. Office Energy Use and Supply Night Watchman Arup purchases 99% renewable, Climate Change Levy (CCL) exempt electricity, where we are responsible for This power management solution controls power and shuts the supply. Energy use data for our UK offices is made down connected desktop computers at a scheduled time, available to staff through the annual sustainability report preventing any computers still on after staff have left from and using the Credit 360 software to generate an office consuming power overnight. specific report on all our sustainability metrics. We are improving the management, control and efficiency of Bicycle Facilities our office energy use, and looking at the introduction of Arup has cycle storage with cyclist changing rooms and “continuous commissioning” and energy-led maintenance to showers at all main offices in London. There is an active drive on-going improvement. employee community of cyclists called BUG (Bicycle User Group). Since 2008 Arup has offered a cycle-toHuman Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 26 Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 work scheme in the UK, via our partners Cyclescheme, to average CO2 emission of 86g/km makes ours the most encourage employees to enter a tax efficient bicycle rental efficient salary sacrifice scheme on Hitachi’s books. That agreement for cycling to work. We passed our landmark is in large part due to the 120g/km CO2 emission cap we 1,000th cycle-to-work enrolment last year with over 1,080 chose for the scheme, as we wanted it to be a genuinely participants, and more than £800,000 spent on bikes sustainable and environmentally-friendly benefit. obtained through the scheme. Cyclescheme promotes the Arup scheme as an example of a successful long-running scheme with continually high engagement. Our External Relationships Stationery From “Green / Core” Products Global partnership with C40 to tackle climate change Arup has a core list of stationary and office supplies We have consolidated our six-year relationship with the C40 from recycled, environmentally friendly and sustainable Cities Climate Leadership Group (C40), a network of 75 of materials, which encourages the business to identify with the world’s megacities taking action to reduce greenhouse the economic and environmental sustainability pillars. gas emissions and adapt to climate change. 91.6% of our printing paper is from a Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified source. Over the next three years we will invest $1m, matched by the C40 in fees, to create a $2m research programme. Office Waste and Recycling This funding will allow us to develop rigorous research and technical knowledge that will help improve the Our offices follow the principles of waste prevention, measurement, management and strategic planning of reduction, re-use, recycling,/composting and energy climate action in cities. recovery. We apply waste segregation and do not dispose of waste to landfill. We work with BPR who convert our waste to energy. We have a well publicised and organised Current research projects include the third instalment of our waste policy and colour coded containers clearly identify Climate Action in Megacities series, together with analysis the correct waste locations for our office staff. Please see of the powers held and barriers faced by city mayors attachment 15. Many items are sorted in our recycling room when taking climate action. We are also working with for reuse, including PCs and steel toe capped boots (reused C40 to develop innovative visualisation tools to improve in Africa), and other items which are donated to charities. communication of C40 data, and exploring how smart We have been trialling food composting in our London technology can support citizen participation in C40 cities. offices with some success, however, we are also looking at the possibility of introducing anaerobic digestion as an Our partnership with C40 helps to elevate our reputation as alternative to composting in the near future. The business a strategic advisor and agent of change on climate action across the UKMEA region has grown considerably since in cities. The first major work from our partnership will last year. Despite the increase in overall waste production, be launched globally on 1 July at the World Summit on the generation of waste per employee has reduced from Climate and Territories and at a client event at our London 171kg per employee in 2011, to 117 kg per employee in offices. 2014. Other Outcomes and Progress Further environmentally responsible initiatives include using all FSC sourced materials for furniture, and procuring Our Business fair trade or fairer trade food items. We work with all our Annual Report suppliers, particularly in catering, to reduce packaging. An example is our fruit suppliers who now deliver in reOur Annual Report provides a snapshot of Arup’s used plastic crates rather than cardboard boxes and paper performance for the previous financial year, highlighting wrapping. We also employ rainwater harvesting in our some of the work our teams have carried out around the London offices. globe over the year. In the UK, we introduced a Green Car scheme in July Our unique ownership structure means we are not obliged 2014, in partnership with Hitachi, where each employee to report on our performance in the same way as listed can obtain a new, low-emission vehicle to replace their companies, but we strive to be an open and inclusive older, more polluting model. We have approximately 65 organisation and the report provides us with an opportunity employees who have obtained a new, low-emission vehicle to share some of the things we do every day with a wider from the Green Car Scheme since its launch. Our fleet’s audience. The report provides an insight into the firm, Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 27 allowing clients, partners and stakeholders to share the design and project management services. aspirations we have for shaping a better world in all sorts of ways, large and small. It also highlights our ongoing Our Project Awards commitment to creating a more sustainable and resilient built environment for the future, and includes our financial Product Design wins Green Good Design Award statement for the period. The Craft range of LED High-Bay lighting has won a Green Good Design 2015 Award. Our Product and Our Facilities Lighting Designers designed the Craft range which was manufactured by Zumtobel for the illumination of industrial Sustainable Offices environments. 100% of Arup UKMEA region staff are working in offices The Green Good Design Awards were founded in 1950 by with an EMS certified to IS014001. This exceeds our Eero Saarinen and Charles and Ray Eames. They are one of original global target of 95%. Our annual UVDB Verify the most established and respected award programmes for Management System Evaluation, by Achilles Information the most innovative and sustainable new product designs Ltd, scored 91.5% for Health & Safety, 94.9% for worldwide. Environment and 96.9% for Quality in July 2014. The Onsite Assessment scores for July 2014 were 92.2% for Health and Safety, 96.4% for Environment and 100% for The judging panel commented “Craft sets new standards Quality. for energy efficient lighting, reducing power consumption whilst providing better light emission for its intended factory and logistics centre applications.” Since its launch Our global target total paper consumption per full time in 2013, the Craft range has also received German Design employee is a reduction of 15% compared to 2011/12 paper Council, iF and Design-Plus Awards. use, which was 36kg per employee. In May, we launched a mini version of the Craft product In the UKMEA region, paper consumption per full time called ‘Craft S’. Craft S delivers up to 7,500 lumens of light employee per year was 29kg per person in 2013/14. The with an efficiency of 115 lumens per watt. The one piece target for that year was 30.6kg per employee. Overall ,this die cast aluminum housing draws cool air through the fitting was a reduction of over 15% in kg paper per employee. to expel heat from the LED boards using the heat stack effect, extending the product lifespan. Craft offers an energy Our global target for greenhouse gas emissions is a saving of up to 50% compared to more traditional high-bay maximum of 3.0t CO2 per employee per year by the products. financial year 2014 -2015. Best Practice in Innovation award at CIEEM Awards, UK The 2013/14 emissions were reduced by half a tonne per employee. For this year, the calculation method was Our work with The Crown Estate on the London Portfolio updated to include radiative forcing from air travel. This Ecology Masterplan has been awarded the Best Practice was also applied to the 2012/13 and 2011/2012 figures Award for Innovation at the recent Chartered Institute of retrospectively, so they would be comparable. Ecology and Environmental Management (CIEEM) awards. Our Business Awards Our Sustainability, Ecology, and Integrated City Planning teams, supported by Digital and Visual Communications Highly commended at Energy Awards 2014, UK teams prepared the masterplan. It provides a long-term guide for the installation of green infrastructure throughout As part of the Virgin Media Cooling Partnership The Crown Estate’s London portfolio. It aims to provide Framework, Arup was ‘highly commended’ for the Energy valuable habitats for wildlife on and around buildings, Efficient Partnership of the Year Award at the recent Energy enhancing city resilience and creating an ‘urban green Awards 2014, held in London. corridor’ between Regent’s Park and St James’s Park. Under our national framework agreement with Virgin Media The benefits of this strategic approach are now being we have been working alongside specialist contractors extended throughout the West End. Working with The (Foster Environmental Ltd and UpNorth Group) to deliver Crown Estate, we have created an ecology partnership cooling efficiency improvements across the Virgin Media with neighbouring property owners to be known as ‘Wild technical estate. West End’. The partners (Grosvenor Britain & Ireland, The Portman Estate, Howard de Walden and Shaftesbury) The Cooling Partnership Framework has delivered will commit to continue to invest in green infrastructure efficiency improvements to reduce operating costs, improve initiatives for their own portfolios and work collaboratively resilience and enable growth in over 60 technical sites to deliver a linked network of green spaces across the West across the Virgin Media technical estate, over the last four End. years. We also provide Virgin Media with a wide range of Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 28 Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 Our External Relationships Sustainability organisations and institutions: Arup is: • a founding member of the Australian Green Infrastructure Council, • a founding member of the the UK Institute of Sustainability, • a member of the US Green Building Council (Gold level), • a member of the Green Building Council of Australia • a member of the Russian Green Building Council (Platinum level), • a sponsor of the Chartered Institute of Ecology and Environmental Management, • an affiliate of the Chartered Institution of Waste Management, and • a member of Renewable UK. The firm’s ambition to engage with organisations that share our values and ambition to promote sustainability leadership means Arup has worked closely with partners such as the World Economic Forum to highlight the multi-billion dollar market potential for energy-efficient buildings. This is a vital contribution as buildings are responsible for 40% of the world’s energy consumption and generate 40% of all carbon emissions. As such, retrofitting buildings to improve their energy efficiency presents a tremendous opportunity to reduce costs and impact on the environment. Arup is also supporting the WWF’s call to the British government to build a low-carbon economy. In an open letter to the Prime Minister published in the Financial Times on the 10th June 2015, Arup, along with 80 other UK businesses, call on the government to take action to combat climate change. WWF-UK is leading calls for a new approach to governance that places low-carbon growth and the responsible management of natural capital at the heart of economic policy. See attachment 13 for an enlarged version of the letter below. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 29 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 E E: Anti Corruption This section relates to the UNGC principles: −− Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery E Anti Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Commitment Our Mission Statement “ To shape a better world”. • To enhance prosperity and the quality of life • To deliver real value • To have the freedom to be creative and learn Our Approach Our Business Key Speech A speech written and delivered by our founder Sir Ove Arup in 1970, that defines who we are, and sets our core values and guiding principles. The Key Speech is the highlevel framework that guides appropriate behaviour within the firm. One of the six core principles is “straight and honorable dealings”. Our written Ethical Standards Policy, defines our core objectives as to: Our global codes of practice support this and appropriate policy level statements are supported by local procedures as −− commit to acting honourably and with integrity in necessary. All employees receive a copy of the key speech all its business dealings as part of their induction. Please see attachment 3. −− ensure that no financial or other inducements to Ovacode gain or retain work are offered or accepted by or on behalf of Arup Ovacode sets our conditions of employment for all staff. This reinforces our Global Conduct and Performance Code −− endeavour to raise the ethical standards of global of Practice and Ethical Standards Policy. business in the market in which we operate −− provide such training, advice, information as may Member of Anti-Corruption Organisations be necessary to personnel at all levels Arup is a member of the World Economic Forum – −− integrate ethical considerations into our design and Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) and the UK business decisions Anti-Corruption Forum. −− provide pro bono services where appropriate and engage with the wider community. We are committed to maintaining our record of zero incidents of bribery and corruption. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 32 Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 Working Globally Making Ethical Decisions As an international consultancy the anti-bribery laws of Making ethical decisions can be difficult and to help, we recommend you apply a 5-step approach to the ethical decision making process. many jurisdictions apply to our business. On this basis we Feelings Reputation 2 4 have developed extensive policies / code of practice and Consider Effects Options procedures to ensure compliance. 1 3 5 Political Donations and Financial Inducements Consider the Problem: • Is it legal? • Does it violate our company Consider how your intended action will make you feel: • Relief, regret or remorse? Consider how those affected will feel: • Duped, used, angry, annoyed Consider what others will think: • What would your family, Consider the options for raising a concern: • What is the best method for policies or Code? • If you have to convince or disappointed? friends and colleagues think? raising this concern? • Is it consistent with our values? yourself you are right then you • Pleased, proud, respected? • Would you, or they, be happy • What evidence do you have Arup does not make political donations. Arup will not, in • Is it a question of being fair? are probably wrong • That you are the only one to benefit? reading about it in the paper? or will you need? any circumstances make or offer to make a payment or This simple 5 step approach can be applied to any dilemma and when used alongside the code of practice you’ll have the confidence to act ethically. transfer anything of value for the purposes of improperly obtaining or retaining business or any other improper business advantage. Arup does not permit ‘facilitation’ payments made to expedite or guarantee government services that we are legally entitled to e.g. connection of water, customs Anti Corruption Links clearances) as these are prohibited in most countries. Our UK intranet provides guidance on the Bribery Act 2010 for the Infrastructure Sector from the UK Anti Corruption Global Conduct and Performance Code of Practice Forum. “All members of Arup are expected to act in a professional and competent manner in all aspects of their work. In Anti-Bribery and Due Diligence Check List support of this, the firm’s role shall, wherever practicable, Our intranet area includes guidance on issues to consider be to give advice and guidance in accordance with its when working on a project including anti-corruption disciplinary procedure.” Please see attachment 7. provisions in our contract terms, the appointment of partners or sub-consultants Ethical Standards Policy This sets our ethical objectives as a firm (as listed Our People previously under the commitment heading). Please see Communication of our Policy, Code and Procedure attachment 14. The Arup Ethical Standards Policy and Ethics Code of Ethics Global Code of Practice / Procedure Practice is communicated to all members of staff, is freely available via our employee intranet and is referred to in This sets out our ethical values and is intended to provide the Ethical Standards training that all staff are required to guidance on acceptable business practice to ensure that complete. these values, principles and standards are being met across a range of areas including: financial inducements, third parties, gifts and entertainment, competition, confidentiality, conduct and performance at work, client activity, conflict of interest, political contributions and asking questions and raising concerns. We believe that our Ethical Standards Policy and Ethics Code of Practice and Procedure are in line with the Bribery Act 2010 and the US foreign Corrupt Practices Act 1977 and other relevant legislation. Please see attachment 14. Ethics Guidance on Making Ethical Decisions This gives a five step process to assist staff with making ethical decisions. Please see attachment 14. Example Ethics Intranet Page Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 33 Partners and Sub consultants Communications Channels for Reporting Concerns Arup is committed to undertaking appropriate due diligence Arup has a dedicated intranet area for ethics, which is kept on all agents and joint venture partners, and where up to date with the latest relevant policies and procedures. appropriate, sub consultants that we work with. The Arup standard form sub-consultancy agreements require our Our Global Ethics Code of Practice and Procedure includes sub-consultants to comply with all applicable laws and guidance for staff on how to raise queries and concerns. regulations relating to anti-bribery and anti-corruption. Arup commits to investigate all potential breaches of this They must have and maintain in place, throughout the term policy, that are reported in good faith, responsibly. This of their appointment, their own policies and procedures to includes the following: “If you have a concern or suspect ensure compliance. This includes requirements for them that a breach of this policy has occurred or may occur, you to have anti-corruption programmes, client, project and have a duty to report these concerns.” Reporting can be partner ownership and funding arrangements. The complete undertaken anonymously, although staff are encouraged document forms the basis of risk assessments and covers to identify themselves to enable a full investigation. All the country, client, project, partners, and agents associated questions or reported suspected breaches can be directed with any proposed project. through the staff member’s Group Leader in the first instance, but where this is not possible or appropriate, Disciplinary Procedure employees may choose to contact Dervilla Mitchell, the nominated member of the Arup Group Board. The disciplinary procedure is designed to be supportive and to encourage improvements in individual conduct and This also identifies the roles and responsibilities of our performance. Disciplinary action follows for individuals managers, our human resources team, and our staff. who abuse Arup’s policies and procedures, including the Ethical Standards Policy, and for any “actions which undermine working relationships with colleagues and / or Global Board Representative / Champions: other organisations or which may compromise our integrity Dervilla Mitchell, Group Board Director, is the firm’s global as a firm and our honourable dealings with people. Please champion responsible for ethical business practices. She is see attachment 7. supported by regional champions and works with them and others to create and approve policies and procedures and to Activities and Implementation continue to promote communications and education in this area. Alain Marcetteau, UKMEA Regional Board Director and COO, is the UKMEA regional champion responsible Our Business for ethical business practices. Global Ethics Code of Practice and Procedure Training and Development As previously mentioned, this procedure provides practical guidance on acceptable behaviour across a range of areas. All staff are required to complete an Ethical Standards e-learning module which addresses the requirements of the Conflicts of Interest Bribery Act 2010. This underlines the importance attached to high standards in all our business activities. Arup’s philosophy is based on acting honourably in our dealings with our own and other people. Our Ethical Standards Policy addresses the responsibility of each of our Outcomes and Progress employees with regard to the fiduciary duties they owe. We supplement this with a We confirm that in the last three years we have not been the subject of a formal investigation by the Equality and Human Rights Commission or an equivalent body, on the grounds Our People of unlawful discrimination. Communication of Policies and Procedures The published UKMEA region’s results from the 2013 All employees are made aware of our strategies, policies global Arup staff survey attracted the highest ever response, and procedures with respect to ethics and anti-corruption. and showed that 88% of respondents agree that “I feel These are also made available to all staff via our intranet proud to work for Arup” and 84% of respondents agree that and our human resources team. “I would recommend Arup as a place to work.” In the event of a breach of our policies, or a reason for Arup has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings, or complaint, we provide guidance for resolution in our Global other events related to bribery or corruption. There are zero Ethics Code of Practice and Procedure. offences for corruption or bribery in the firm. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 34 Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 Dervilla Mitchell Alain Marcetteau Global Ethics Champion UKMEA Regional Ethics Champion Our company financial accounts are subjected to external audit every year. These audits are to confirm that the financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). This audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 100% of new employees received the Key Speech, setting It was recently reported in the South China Morning Post, out our guiding values and principles, including our that the foreman in question has now been jailed for 15 commitment to honourable dealings which we expect our months for offering a bribe to Shum Po-kit in the form of people to follow. a Macau casino chip worth HK$50,000. “Our member of staff rejected the offer straight away and the incident was It is compulsory for all staff to complete the e-learning reported to the law enforcement agency,” says KO Yeung, ethics training course. East Asia Ethics Champion. The published results of the 2013 global Arup staff survey The Post reports that Shum, who worked for Arup at the attracted the highest ever response and showed that 84% time, refused this same bribe on two occasions. of respondents agree that “Arup is ethical in its business dealings,” with 15% neutral. The survey results have KO stresses that regular training on our construction informed board level, regional, and group action plans to sites and in our offices helps us all to remain vigilant in improve our performance further. the face of this sort of behaviour. “This incident, and the severity of the punishment, demonstrates the importance of Attempted bribery of Arup staff leads to 15 month jail communicating clear ethical policies and offering regular sentence training to our staff, especially those responsible for the firm’s supervising duties.” In the March 2015 issue of the Bulletin (an internal publication for Arup staff), we looked at examples of difficult ethical behaviour, including the case in East Asia in which a member of staff on site was asked by a site foreman to accept non-compliant materials for construction. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 35 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 F F: Community Engagement, Arup International Development and Partnerships Partnerships, Community Engagement and Arup International Development Community Engagement, Arup International Development and Partnerships Our open approach encourages collaboration between our staff, clients and partners, as well as community stakeholders. Commitment Community Engagement Arup also has a long history of community engagement, Our founder, Ove Arup, established the firm to be ‘an encompassing both charitable donations and organisation which is human and friendly’ and one that voluntary (or pro-bono) engagement. The focus of our carries with it ‘a wish to do socially useful work and to community engagement activities are strongly related join hands with others fighting for the same values’. This to the sustainability agenda, with themes such as water commitment is spelt out in the Key Speech written and (environmental resources) and shelter (social wellbeing). delivered by our founder, Sir Ove Arup in 1970. It defines who we are, and sets out our core values and guiding Arup Group commits to donate money and staff time for principles, providing a high-level framework that guides charitable purposes through its Community Engagement appropriate behaviour within the firm. All employees Programme. In recent years this has typically equated to 3% receive a copy of the key speech as part of their induction. of our profit. One of the six core principles that the speech identifies is Arup considers charitable causes that relate closely to “social usefulness”. Arup achieves this tthrough our core Arup’s business and our mission to “shape a better world” business by only taking on projects which we believe and either: contribute to our overall mission “to shape a better world.” • Serve the community in the areas where Arup offices In addition, there are two aspects of our operations which are located. focus specifically on achieving positive social outcomes, without there being any direct commercial value. • Alleviate poverty through supporting the economic, environmental and social development of developing countries. Arup International Development • Save lives, alleviate suffering and maintain and Arup International Development (ArupID) operates protect human dignity during and in the aftermath of as a not-for-profit business, working exclusively with emergencies. organisations committed to improving social well-being and reducing vulnerability in developing countries. Our aim is • Qualify for special consideration. to harness Arup’s skills and networks providing accessible and affordable strategic advice and technical expertise in contexts where the key drivers of change facing society – climate change, urbanisation, poverty – are felt most acutely. Our key areas of focus are: • Sustainable infrastructure that enables access to water, energy, shelter, education and healthcare. • Resilient cities and communities that are able to withstand, adapt to and transform when faced with sudden shocks or chronic stresses. • Recovery and reconstruction in post-disaster contexts that empowers local communities and ensures donor funding ‘builds back better’. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 38 Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 Arup International Development Our External Relationships Arup ID works across a range of sectors, often in Our Business challenging geographies, to help combat poverty and vulnerability to increase wellbeing and resilience in the Established in 2008, Arup International Development developing world. (Arup ID) collaborates with development and humanitarian organisations, to help strengthen the impact of their work. Before deciding to work on a project we make sure that we understand the project’s three Cs – Content, Client, and From the seed of an idea to final delivery, we help them Context. make best use of their resources in order to combat poverty and vulnerability, and increase wellbeing and resilience in the developing world. As a specialist, not-for-profit business within Arup – a globally recognised leader in the built environment – we bring professional expertise to help solve complex problems and bring improved clarity and rigour to the field. First, we determine if we are familiar with the project’s context, the area within which the project is based. Second, we determine if Arup has the appropriate skills and expertise to address the project’s content. And finally, we decide if the client is someone that we want to work with and who has a commitment to improving social well-being and reducing vulnerability in developing countries. To date we have partnered with the following organisations. NGOs • CARE From high-level strategic planning to physical interventions and programme management, we make sure our partners • Disaster Emergency Committee (DEC) can best meet their strategic objectives and achieve their • Habitat for Humanity (HfH) outcomes. We provide technical expertise across a diverse range of areas – from masterplanning to sustainable • International Water and Sanitation Centre (IRC) buildings and infrastructure. Through desk-based and fieldwork research we also review projects, programmes • MercyCorps and organisations in order to strengthen them for future • MuslimAid success. • OXFAM Finally, we believe in sharing knowledge, for the benefit • WaterAid of all – it’s at the heart of what we do. We proactively disseminate new learning and knowledge gained through our project work with the wider development sector. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 39 Red Cross Organisations Our People • American Red Cross The founder and director of Arup • Danish Red Cross International Development is Jo da Silva. After studying engineering • International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) at Cambridge University, Jo began her career working in India before • nternational Federation of the Red Cross and Red joining Arup where she qualified Crescent Societies (IFRC) as a chartered structural and civil engineer. Jo has lived and worked in UN Agencies Asia, Africa and Europe, and been responsible for planning, design • International Labour Office (ILO) and delivery of a wide range of • International Office of Migration (IOM) buildings, infrastructure, and urban regeneration projects. She has also provided strategic advice • UN-HABITAT and expertise in post-disaster contexts working with non• UN Office for Project Services (UNOPS) governmental and UN agencies. In recent years, Jo’s work has focused on understanding Development Bank Organisations what contributes to community and city resilience; and the • Global Facility for Disaster Risk Reduction (GFDRR) role of infrastructure – schools, healthcare, housing, water and energy in reducing vulnerability and poverty. She has • Part of the World Bank published numerous academic papers, and was awarded an • Asian Development Bank (ADB) Honorary Doctorate of Technology at Coventry University. Jo is a Fellow of the Institution of Civil Engineers and the Royal Academy of Engineering, and in 2011 was made Charitable Foundations an Officer of the British Empire (OBE) for services to • Aga Khan Development Network engineering and to humanitarian relief. • Qatar Foundation Outcomes and Progress • Rockefeller Foundation Projects Social Enterprises To date ArupID have completed more than 70 projects in 40 countries. The following are example projects worked on • Domogeo within the last year. • ASS Design Group City Resilience Framework • Just Energy Supported by The Rockefeller Foundation, Arup set out • olcim to articulate urban resilience in a measurable evidencebased and accessible way that can inform urban planning, Government Organisations practice, and investment patterns which better enable urban communities (e.g. poor and vulnerable, businesses, coastal) • UK Department for International Development to survive and thrive multiple shocks and stresses. (DFID) • Social Impact Investors and Agribusiness Project Arup reviewed over 150 documents, generated case studies Developers (AgDevCo) of 16 cities, and carried out field work in 6 cities where we interviewed business leaders, government and civil society. • UK Foreign & Commonwealth Office This culminated in the City Resilience Framework. • ICLEI – Local Governments for Sustainability The City Resilience Framework provides a lens through • Turks and Caicos Islands Government which the complexity of cities and the numerous factors • Abu Dhabi Urban Planning Council Development that contribute to a city’s resilience can be understood. It Research Organisations comprises 12 key indicators that describe the fundamental attributes of a resilient city. The indicators can be used to • International Institute for Environment and assess to what extent a city is resilient, to identify critical Development (IIED) areas of weakness, and to understand how a particular project enhances or undermines the city’s resilience. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 40 Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 Global Programme for Safer Schools The Global Programme for Safer Schools (GPSS) is a global knowledge, advisory and technical assistance program which will be linked to education policy lending or school infrastructure investment programs that are financed by national governments and international donors. GPSS aims to improve the safety of schools by helping them make investments to improve their resilience to natural hazards. Arup is providing the technical support to GPSS. There are three components of this work: • Providing technical support to GPSS country projects; • Developing a guidance note for safer school technical assistance projects; and • Support the development of a global handbook on community based construction Wastewater Treatment for Vavuniya Hospital, Sri Lanka Our UN partner is supporting a project to improve sewage and wastewater disposal for Vavuniya Hospital in Sri Lanka. We completed a detailed design for the wastewater system. To address the challenging circumstances onsite, Arup used an innovative solution of simplified sewerage, large septic tanks and a solids-free sewer to convey the effluent for treatment in waste stabilisation ponds 2km from the hospital site. Our work is helping our partner to improve the level of cleanliness of the environment and reduce incidence of pollution-related diseases for the approximately 30,000 people living in Vavuniya. Global Programme for Safer Schools Vavuniya Hospital, Sri Lanka Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 41 Affordable Housing ILO Structural Integrity and Fire and Electrical Safety Assessments Our partner, Domogeo, provides affordable, high quality, and eco-friendly modular structures in developing Rapid expansion of the Ready Made Garment industry economies to help address the issue of insufficient coupled with weak institutions, lack of local capacity and housing. For one of their designs in India they aimed rapid urbanisation has left Dhaka with a factory building to use engineered bamboo as the primary material for stock that is structurally deficient and potentially deadly. In the structure. Arup supported Domogeo by conducting April 2013 the collapse of Rana Plaza set in motion a need seismic and structural engineering tests of the structure. to understand the safety of textile factories in the country. Additionally, Arup also provided advice on sustainability, construction techniques, and design, material, and Arup developed and refined an assessment and reporting manufacturing optimisation. Our input helped Domogeo methodology for rapid structural inspections that was use a new and innovative materials to create sustainable subsequently adopted as the benchmark for the process to structures for the urban poor. be rolled out across Bangaldesh’s 5000 garment factories. Arup completed approximately 750 assessments and were appointed by the International Labour Organisation to review and verify that local consultants are correctly applying our assessment and reporting methodology to a total of 1200 factories. Inherent in this role has been capacity building of local consultants in Structural, Fire and Electrical disciplines. Affordable housing in India developed in partnership with Domogeo Garment factory in Bangladesh Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 42 Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 TCI Building Guidelines Supporting UN Design Reviews Arup ID was recently commissioned to update and improve As part of our Long Term Agreement with a UN agency we the Turks & Caicos Islands (TCI) building guidelines. It help them mitigate design and planning risk by completing had not been updated for a number of years and the details design reviews of their infrastructure works. This is also did not reflect current international or local best practices. done to ensure that our partner complies with the Policy for Furthermore, it was rarely referred to even by those who Sustainable Infrastructure and meets minimum requirements have copies. for safety and functionality to reduce potential legal liability and reputational risk. Therefore, Arup developed a simple practical guidance, e.g. on construction details, to illustrate how to apply the To date Arup has completed 6 design reviews. The reviews requirement of the new Turks & Caicos Islands Building covered: Code to small buildings. • A garment factory in Haiti • A health facility in Myanmar • A bridge in Pakistan • Two sets of bridges in South Sudan • A government building in Grenada Turks & Caicos Islands Building Code Arup supporting UN Design Reviews Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 43 Awards won this year Community Engagement Coventry University awarded an Honourary Degree of Doctor of Technology to Jo da Silva, the director of the Our Business International Development group. Arup aims to deliver a programme of Community This year Arup International Development won the Engagement (CE) activities that is inclusive, integrated, International Green Apple Award for the Built Environment inspiring and impactful. It is made up of three strands: and Architectural Heritage. The award recognises our contribution to building quality sustainable school −− Local Engagement: providing support to organisations infrastructure for the Sabre Charitable Trust in rural Ghana. and communities that are local to our offices across the world and for whom our skills are particularly relevant. Conferences and events attended: −− Development: providing technical assistance to community based, and international, organisations; This past year members of the International Development delivering projects that improve people’s lives in team attended a wide variety of conferences and events: developing and newly industrialised countries. −− Disaster Response and Recovery: enabling our people to • The Third UN World Conference on Disaster Risk respond to humanitarian needs by supporting fundraising Reduction in Sendai, Japan; initiatives and responding to requests for technical • Global Alliance for Disaster Risk Reduction & support. Resilience in the Education Sector Conference on in Our Community Engagement Programme is managed by Bangkok, Thailand; the global Community Engagement Committee (CEC). This • Community-Based Safe School Construction committee is chaired by Sarah Bowden and includes the Technical Consultation Event in Bangkok, Thailand; managers of each of the regional Community Engagement Committees. Current members of the global CEC are Jon • World Economic Forum’s 5th International Disaster Hurt (Americas), Samantha Webb (Australasia), Ellen and Risk Conference in Davos, Switzerland; Lee (East Asia), Henning Czujack (Europe), Alison Ball • Understanding Risk Forum at University College (UKMEA), Martin Ansley-Young and Sarah Bowden London; (Global). • CIRIA Event on Infrastructure Risk and Resilience to Sarah who meets with other regional leaders to promote Natural Hazards> best practice, and to set the strategic direction for all our • Sustainable Cities: Looking to the Future in charitable giving, strategic partnerships, fundraising and Cambridge, UK; directing funds, and volunteering time to projects. Sarah says “Arup donates to charitable causes ... but we believe • 100 Resilient Cities City Resilience Officer Summit we can make an even bigger impact by donating our time in New Orleans and skills.” • 100 Resilient Cities Medellin Collaboration – Barcelona The CE programme also benefits from the knowledge, skills and expertise that has been built up in Arup’s International • UK Shelter Forum Development team. The two teams work together to ensure that CE projects are well conceived and take account of the developmental/humanitarian context (both in terms of design and communication). Our internal Community Engagement Skills Network Forum is used to communicate opportunities and activities and to share knowledge, news, and enthusiasm. Our External Relationships Strategic Partnerships We have established a small number of strategic partnerships with charities that enable us to provide an ongoing programme of support through a combination of cash and time donations. We want to maximise the impact Community-Based Safe School Construction Technical Consultation Event of these partnerships by aligning our skills, knowledge in Bangkok, Thailand Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 44 Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 and interests with each charity’s mission, and with their Sustainable Housing in El Salvador with Fundacion REDES immediate and longer-term needs. As these partnerships Over the past year an Arup staff member, Sebastian develop we believe the enthusiasm of our staff will make Kaminski, volunteered with Fundación REDES, an El a real difference, will improve the personal development Salvadoran NGO, on the development of a low-cost, of our staff, and help our business to become more closely permanent, sustainable and appropriate housing solution engaged with the communities in which we work. for El Salvador, which uses local materials and techniques. Strategic partnerships have been set up with charities such He constructed an updated prototype house for a family as WaterAid to provide technical support for a country in El Salvador, with the aim to test out the construction program in Nicaragua. And across the firm, sponsored bake methodology, obtain feedback on the design and attain a sales, walks, cycle rides, and even moustache-growing more accurate cost breakdown for future buildings. He also have all featured in Arup offices as fundraising efforts have conducted a full-scale shake-table test at the University connected our people with communities in need around the Mariano Galvez in Guatemala City, 20 tests behaviour world. under severe earthquake events. These partnerships are often formalised within a Memorandum of Understanding, and key contacts named by both parties, so expectations can be managed and the relationship is mutually beneficial. Our strategic partnerships include: • Engineers without Borders (Australia, UK & USA) • RedR UK • Bridges to Prosperity • Habitat for Humanity (UK and Australia) • Engineering Development Trust • Prince’s Trust Sustainable Housing in El Salvador with Fundacion REDES • The Smith Family Map Action – Ebola Response • Depaul International A member of Arup staff, Andy Kervell, volunteered with • The Property Industry Foundation MapAction to support of Sierra Leone’s response to the Ebola outbreak. MapAction deployed a two man team to • WaterAid (America and Australia) Freetown to support the establishment of the National Ebola Response Centre (NERC). The NERC had a key role in the management of Ebola Care Facility (ECF) data, and Our People they provided situation updates via a live map. MapAction generated a number of mapping products, and established Voluntary Assignments the methods and procedures to coordinate ECF data management such as bed numbers and operational status. We work closely with our charitable partners and occasionally our staff take voluntary leaves of absence to help with a project or to provide technical expertise following a disaster. We often find that Arup staff ‘shine’ in their positions while on voluntary leave and clients tend to want to hang on to them as long as they can! Voluntary leave is also useful in the training of our engineers. Experience ‘on site’ or out of the Arup offices is an important part of a young engineer’s development. The following are examples of our staff which have volunteered for community engagement projects. Map Action Ebola Response Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 45 Bulamuli District WASH Programme, Uganda orphanages; low-cost and earthquake safe housing development; survey and delivery of water infrastructure; Arup provided water engineering consultancy services for delivery of communications strategies and websites; and a series of water supply and sanitation projects in eastern other technical support. In addition, a number of research Uganda. The overarching aim of the project was to improve and learning projects have been funded where we have the health of the village community by implementing captured technical knowledge in a format that can be the most appropriate and sustainable water supply and widely shared and drawn upon to improve the quality of sanitation solutions. Arup’s role included delivery of a humanitarian or development projects. needs assessment, a hygiene education and sanitation promotion programme, support for water supply and To date our achievements include: sanitation improvements, and subsequent site visits and • Providing more than 3,000 families with safe shelter; progress reviews. • Providing more than 8,000 families with improved Since the project’s inception in 2008 numerous Arup staff access to clean water or sanitation; members have taken short term leaves of absence to work • Providing more than 88,000 people with improved with the local communities to improve their access to access to healthcare; WASH services. • Providing more than 5,400 children and youths with improved access to education; • Providing 14 communities with support to develop vital infrastructure; • Providing more than 900 people with new knowledge, skills or technology; and • Providing more than 20 charitable organisations with support to build internal skills and capacity. Example Projects Panama Ciricito Bridge – Bridges to Prosperity In September 2014 a team of nine Arup volunteers travelled to Panama to build a bridge that connects the villages of Arriba, Teria Nacimiento and El Caracoral. They worked on the project with Bridges to Prosperity (B2P), a not-for-profit organisation that aims to overcome rural isolation through the construction of footbridges over impassable areas enabling people to access health centres, schools and towns. The suspension footbridge for this site is eight meters in Bulamuli District WASH Programme, Uganda height and spans a distance of 46 meters across the river Ciricito. Heavy rainfall causes the river to flood during four months of the year and couldn’t be crossed safely so the Outcomes and Progress bridge provides vital access to local schools, markets and medical facilities. Our Development Programme Our Development Programme was initiated in 2006 to mark our 60th Anniversary. This global initiative exists to reward, encourage and leverage staff abilities and interest in undertaking community centred and educational activities. This typically involves providing technical assistance to humanitarian and development organisations; enhancing their capacity to reduce suffering and improve people’s lives. Over the past nine years, over 80 projects have been supported which have contributed to improving the lives of tens of thousands of people. These include design and site supervision of a number of schools, health centres and Panama Ciricito Bridge – Bridges to Prosperity Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 46 Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 Ntunga Maternity Centre IStructE (Institution of Structural Engineers) Young Structural Engineer Professional Award The Ntunga Maternity Centre, is a cost effective maternity hospital envisaged as a prototype to be replicated Kayin Dawoodi – winner of the IStructE Young Structural throughout Rwanda. Passive design principles and Engineering Professional of the Year 2014. appropriate technologies have been developed to fit around local requirements. Rwandan health professionals, district IStructE Awards 2014 officials and the local community were all included in the design process. Arup’s work on a suspension footbridge bridge in Rwanda, with not-for-profit organisation Bridges to Prosperity (B2P), was awarded the top Sustainability prize and was Women who previously had to travel for hours by foot or commended in the Pedestrian Bridge category. bicycle will now be able to access medical professionals in a clean and safe maternity unit. This new design and the variety of services offered supports a large rural community. The team receiving their IStructE award for the Bridges to Prosperity suspension footbridge in Rwanda Ntunga Maternity Centre, Rwanda Outstanding International Development Project Award Awards The Ntunga Maternity Centre has recently been awarded the “Outstanding International Development Project” in the Designed in London Award 2015 British Expertise International Awards. The Panama Ciricito Bridge received the ICE “Designed in London Award” in May 2015. Australian Centre for Corporate Social Responsibility (ACCSR) Arup was listed amongst the Top 10 organisations with the strongest CSR management capabilities by the ACCSR – a list that also includes ABC, National Australia Bank, Pricewaterhousecoopers (PwC) Australia and Rio Tinto. Cathay Pacific China Business Awards 2014 – Corporate Social Responsibility Award Arup was named winner of the Social Responsibility Award at the Cathay Pacific China Business Awards 2014, a scheme designed to celebrate UK business dynamism and success in Hong Kong and mainland China. The award recognises our approach to social sustainability and our continuous efforts to benefit China in a socially The team receiving their ICE award for Panama Ciricito Bridge responsible manner, through initiatives such as Arup Cause, the Arup Wu Zhi Qiao Bridge and the Sichuan Motianling Young Engineer Award at IABSE Symposium, Spain. Nature Reserve, as well as supporting numerous charitable organisations in Hong Kong and mainland China. Kayin Dawoodi, Phil Borowiec, Lee Franck and Avery Louise Bang outstanding paper and presentation about Bridge Tool Design and Construction of rural Suspension Footbridges. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 47 Hong Kong Humanity Award 2014 Albert Ho (Hong Kong) received the 2014 Hong Kong Humanity Award for his dedication in his work as chairman of Sowers Actions – a major volunteer organisation that has donated and constructed hundreds of school buildings in impoverished parts of China, sponsored deprived children, trained teachers in counselling and providing services for orphans and handicapped children. He has made numerous self-funded trips and personally participated in the construction of more than 40 schools, benefiting some 8,000 students. Albert has also applied his engineering expertise in earthquake disaster reconstruction and in Bridge to China’s work, including the Arup Wuzhiqiao Bridge in Mixia village, Yunnan Province. Penarth Pier Pavilion Refurbishment, Penarth, Vale of Glamorgan, Wales This projecy won the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) Wales Awards Community Benefit category. River Hull Scale Lane Footbridge Competition, Hull, Kingston upon Hull, United Kingdom This projecy won the Civic Trust and Special Award for Community Impact and Engagement. Conferences and events attended This last year five Arup engineers under the age of 30 attended the One Young World Summit in Dublin, Ireland. The One Young World Summit is the preeminent global forum for young leaders aged 18-30 and gathers the brightest young leaders from around the world, empowering them to make lasting connections and develop solutions to come of the world’s most pressing issues. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 48 Arup / Communication on Progress 2015 United National Global Compact: Communications on Progress 2015 1 Attachment: −− Annual Report Annual Report 2014 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited Front cover: Michael Markieta, Transport Planner, Arup used Geographic Information Systems (GIS) to collect data for more than 58,000 global flight paths, available from open-source project www.openflights.org. Contents Strategic report 1 Directors’ report 2-4 Independent auditors’ report 5-6 Consolidated profit and loss account 7 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses 7 Consolidated balance sheet 8 Parent company balance sheet 9 Notes to the financial statements 10-23 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 Strategic report | for the year ended 31 March 2014 Strategic report The directors present their strategic report for the During the financial year the Group disposed of year ended 31 March 2014 which was approved subsidiary companies Arup d.o.o., Arup Gulf by the board of directors on 17 September 2014. Limited, Arup International Limited and Arup Limited. The Group has recorded an exceptional Principal activities item in its profit and loss account of £8,738k as a gain on the sale of these subsidiaries. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries (“the On behalf of the Board Group”) practice in the field of consulting engineering services, in architecture and in other related professional skills. The Company operates branches in the United Kingdom, Indonesia, Ireland, Moscow, Poland, Qatar and Romania. D A Whittleton Director Review of the business 17 September 2014 The Group turnover for the year increased by Registered Office: 13 Fitzroy Street, London W1T 4BQ 9.8% (2013: 3%) and the Group made a total profit before tax, dividends and staff profit share of £58m (2013: £32m). The performance and development of the Group is in line with the expectations of the directors. The principal risks and uncertainties facing the business include foreign exchange risk and risk resulting from the diverse geographical spread of the business and its ability to continue to secure new projects and deliver the performance of existing projects in line with management’s objectives. To monitor and manage these, the directors use the following key performance indicators (KPIs): • Turnover and profit per person is a financial KPI used to monitor the continued contribution to the Group. In calculating this measure, profit is stated before tax, dividends and staff profit share. For the year ended 31 March 2014, Group turnover per person was £122k (2013: £119k) and profit per person was £14k (2013: £8k). • Staff turnover is a key non-financial measure of business performance. For the year ended 31 March 2014, staff turnover for the Group was 9% (2013: 10%). 1 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 Directors’ report | for the year ended 31 March 2014 Directors’ report The directors present their directors’ report currently in force. The Company also purchased together with the audited consolidated financial and maintained throughout the financial year statements of Ove Arup & Partners International Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance in Limited for the year ended 31 March 2014 respect of itself and its directors. which were approved by the board of directors on 17 September 2014. Independent auditors The capital of the ultimate parent company is The Company’s auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers divided into equity shares, which are held in trust LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in for the benefit of the employees (past and present) office for another financial year. of the Arup group of companies, and voting shares that are held by Ove Arup Partnership Financial risk management Charitable Trust. The Group’s financial assets/liabilities comprise cash at bank, overdraft, trade and other payables Future developments and receivables and bank loans, whose main The Group will continue to operate in similar purpose is to maintain adequate finance for the markets. The Company has a solid, diversified Group’s operations. portfolio to navigate the market challenges and a It is the Group’s policy to finance its operations breadth of quality employees that will help to through a mixture of cash and borrowings and to exploit opportunities. review periodically the mix of these with regard to the projected cash flow requirements of the Group Dividends and an acceptable level of risk exposure. The directors do not recommend a dividend The Group has subsidiaries where transactions, payment (2013: nil). assets and liabilities are denominated in non-pound sterling currencies and is therefore exposed to Directors currency fluctuations arising from these sources. The directors of the Company during the year and Note 1(g) in the notes to the financial statements up to the date of signing this report, were as follows: provides further information on accounting for exchange differences. A J Belfield* R F Care (Resigned 31/03/2014) The Group is exposed to a number of financial risks and actively mitigates the risk of financial T G A Carfrae* (Resigned 31/03/2014) loss. The key aspects are: A K C Chan (Resigned 31/03/2014) P G Dilley (Resigned 01/06/2014) • Liquidity risk: cash flow forecasts are prepared to ensure that sufficient funds are available to meet T M Hill (Resigned 11/06/2013) the Group’s liabilities as and when they fall due. G S Hodkinson* (Resigned 31/03/2014) A R M Marcetteau • Foreign exchange risk: where possible the Group J G Turzynski matches its currency earnings with currency D A Whittleton* costs. Where this is not possible appropriate derivative contracts may be used. There is no All directors marked with an * were also directors speculative use of financial instruments. of Arup Group Limited at 31 March 2014. • Interest rate risk: the Group does not currently Directors’ indemnities hedge interest rate risk, however the need to do so is regularly reviewed. As permitted by the Company’s Articles of Association, the directors have the benefit of an • Credit risk: the main exposure to credit risk is indemnity which is a qualifying third party on amounts due from customers. Controls and indemnity provision as defined by section 234 of procedures are in place to mitigate this risk. the Companies Act 2006. The indemnity was in Cash investments are held with banks with a force throughout the last financial year and is minimum credit rating of A-1/P1. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 2 Directors’ report | for the year ended 31 March 2014 Directors’ report (continued) Research and development Under that law, the directors have prepared the The Group engages in research and development Group and parent company financial statements in on an ad-hoc basis as required to complete projects accordance with United Kingdom Generally during the normal course of business. Costs incurred Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom in research and development are immediately Accounting Standards) and applicable law. Under expensed to the profit and loss account. company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of Employees affairs of the Group and the Company and of the The maintenance of a highly skilled workforce is profit or loss of the Group and the Company for key to the future of the Group. Health and Safety that period. In preparing these financial statements, matters are regularly reviewed by the directors and the directors are required to: it is their policy to ensure that: • select suitable accounting policies and then • full and fair consideration is given to all apply them consistently; applications for employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their capabilities; • make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; • when existing employees become disabled (whether from illness or accident) every • state whether applicable UK accounting reasonable effort is made to continue to provide standards have been followed, subject to any suitable employment either in the same job, or material departures disclosed and explained by training, in an alternative job; and in the financial statements; • disabled persons are given equal consideration • prepare the financial statements on the going for training, career development and concern basis unless it is inappropriate to opportunities for promotion within the Group. presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business. The Group is active in the field of employee communications and employees are encouraged The directors are responsible for keeping adequate to express their views on major policy issues. accounting records that are sufficient to show and ‘Working at Arup’ surveys are conducted to explain the Group’s transactions, and disclose with obtain feedback from employees. This survey is reasonable accuracy at any time the financial confidential and is used alongside consultation position of the Company and the Group and enable with employees where appropriate. them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also Each year, employees are provided with a responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Chairman’s Report and financial information. Company and the Group and hence for taking Employees are informed of significant business reasonable steps for the prevention and detection issues via the use of email, discussions with of fraud and other irregularities. senior management, the Group’s intranet and in-house publications. The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website. Legislation Employee involvement in the Group’s performance in the United Kingdom governing the preparation is encouraged and maintained via participation in a and dissemination of financial statements may staff profit sharing initiative. differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Statement of directors’ responsibilities Disclosure of audit information The directors are responsible for preparing the The directors confirm that, as at the date this report strategic report, the directors’ report and the was approved, so far as each director is aware, financial statements in accordance with applicable there is no relevant audit information of which the law and regulations. Company’s and Group’s auditors are unaware, and Company law requires the directors to prepare that he or she has taken all the steps he or she financial statements for each financial year. ought to have taken as a director in order to 3 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 Directors’ report | for the year ended 31 March 2014 Directors’ report (continued) make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Company’s and Group’s auditors are aware of that information. On behalf of the Board D A Whittleton Director 17 September 2014 Registered Office: 13 Fitzroy Street, London W1T 4BQ Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 4 Independent auditors’ report | for the year ended 31 March 2014 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Ove Arup & Partners International Limited Report on the financial statements What an audit of financial statements involves Our opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with In our opinion the financial statements, International Standards on Auditing (UK and defined below: Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”). An audit • give a true and fair view of the state of the involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to as at 31 March 2014 and of the Group’s profit give reasonable assurance that the financial for the year then ended; statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes • have been properly prepared in accordance with an assessment of: United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and • whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances and have been • have been prepared in accordance with the consistently applied and adequately disclosed; requirements of the Companies Act 2006. • the reasonableness of significant accounting This opinion is to be read in the context of what we estimates made by the directors; and say in the remainder of this report. • the overall presentation of the financial statements. What we have audited The Group financial statements and parent company In addition, we read all the financial and financial statements (the “financial statements”), non-financial information in the annual report to which are prepared by Ove Arup & Partners identify material inconsistencies with the audited International Limited, comprise: financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, • the consolidated balance sheet and parent or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge Company balance sheet as at 31 March 2014; acquired by us in the course of performing the • the consolidated profit and loss account and audit. If we become aware of any apparent material consolidated statement of total recognised misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the gains and losses for the year then ended; implications for our report. • the notes to the financial statements, which Opinion on other matters prescribed include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the strategic The financial reporting framework that has report and the directors’ report for the financial been applied in their preparation is applicable year for which the financial statements are law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards prepared is consistent with the financial statements. (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). Other matters on which we are required In applying the financial reporting framework, to report by exception the directors have made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant Adequacy of accounting records and information accounting estimates. In making such estimates, and explanations received they have made assumptions and considered Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to future events. report to you if, in our opinion: • we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or • adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or 5 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 Independent auditors’ report | for the year ended 31 March 2014 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Ove Arup & Partners International Limited (continued) • the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. Directors’ remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities set out on page 3, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. Jonathan Hook (Senior Statutory Auditor) For and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 17 September 2014 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 6 Consolidated profit and loss account for the year ended 31 March 2014 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses 2014 2013 Consolidated profit and loss account £’000 £’000 Note Turnover 1c & 2 497,133 452,771 Staff costs 3 Wages and salaries (198,076) (183,155) Social security costs (20,688) (19,275) Pension contributions (15,750) (15,309) Other staff costs (9,530) (9,882) (244,044) (227,621) Depreciation 1d & 10 (7,193) (8,329) Other operating charges Charges from sub-consultants and other direct project costs (140,143) (121,384) Accommodation (23,506) (32,384) Communications and other overheads (51,820) (43,352) (215,469) (197,120) Operating profit 6 30,427 19,701 Exceptional gain on sale of subsidiairies 5 8,738 Other finance income 4,700 800 Interest receivable and similar income 7 96 184 Interest payable and similar charges 8 (515) (1,082) Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 2 43,446 19,603 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 1e & 9 (2,071) (1,588) Profit for the financial year 17 & 18 41,375 18,015 2014 2013 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses £’000 £’000 Profit for the financial year 17 & 18 41,375 18,015 Exchange translation gain / (loss) 2,973 (994) Actuarial gain / (loss) recognised in the pension schemes 24 4,300 (19,200) Deferred tax asset movement related to the actuarial (gain) / loss (7,044) 2,547 Total gains recognised since last annual report 41,604 368 There is no material difference between the profit on ordinary activities before taxation and the profit for the current and prior financial year stated above, and their historical cost equivalents. 7 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 Company number 952468 Consolidated balance sheet | as at 31 March 2014 Consolidated balance sheet – Ove Arup & Partners International Limited 2014 2013 and its subsidiary undertakings £’000 £’000 Note Fixed assets Tangible assets 10 38,779 40,882 Current assets Debtors 12 225,950 270,361 Cash at bank and in hand 26,857 23,953 252,807 294,314 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 13 (147,687) (220,903) Net current assets 105,120 73,411 Total assets less current liabilities 143,899 114,293 Provisions for liabilities 14 (902) (1,700) Net assets excluding pensions 142,997 112,593 Pension liability 24 (92,930) (104,130) Net assets after pension liabilities 50,067 8,463 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 16 45,000 45,000 Profit and loss account 17 5,067 (36,537) Total shareholders’ funds 18 50,067 8,463 The financial statements on pages 7 to 23 were approved and authorised by the board of directors on 17 September 2014 and signed on its behalf by: D A Whittleton Director Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 8 Company number 952468 Consolidated balance sheet | as at 31 March 2014 Parent company balance sheet – Ove Arup & Partners International Limited 2014 2013 excluding its subsidiary undertakings £’000 £’000 Notes Fixed assets Tangible assets 10 24,417 26,142 Investment in subsidiary undertakings 11 15,386 25,352 39,803 51,494 Current assets Debtors 12 225,898 226,275 Cash at bank and in hand 26,857 20,247 252,755 246,522 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 13 (148,708) (178,019) Net current assets 104,047 68,503 Total assets less current liabilities 143,850 119,997 Provisions for liabilities 14 (902) (1,700) Net assets excluding pension liabilities 142,948 118,297 Pension liability 24 (92,930) (104,130) Net assets after pension liabilities 50,018 14,167 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 16 45,000 45,000 Profit and loss account 17 5,018 (30,833) Total shareholders’ funds 50,018 14,167 The financial statements on pages 7 to 23 were approved and authorised by the board of directors on 17 September 2014 and signed on its behalf by: D A Whittleton Director 9 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2014 1 Accounting policies a) Basis of accounting e) Taxation These financial statements are prepared on the going Current and deferred income tax are recognised in the concern basis, under the historical cost convention in profit and loss account for the period except where the accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable taxation arises as a result of a transaction or event that is United Kingdom accounting standards. recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and The Company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Arup losses or directly in equity. Income tax arising on Group Limited and is included in its consolidated transactions or events recognised in the statement of total financial statements which are publicly available. recognised gains and losses or directly in equity is Consequently, the Company has taken advantage of the charged or credited to the statement of total recognised exemption from publishing a cash flow statement under gains and losses or directly to equity respectively. terms of FRS 1 (Revised 1996). f) Deferred taxation Having considered post year end trading and forecasts Full provision is made for timing differences at the tax and the cash resources available to the Group, the rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to continue to the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on use the going concern assumption. tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date, in respect of timing The principal accounting policies, which have been differences which have arisen but not reversed at the applied consistently and uniformly throughout the Group balance sheet date. Timing differences are differences during the year, are set out below unless otherwise stated. between the Group’s taxable profits and its results b) Basis of consolidation as stated in the financial statements, which are The consolidated financial statements include the not permanent. Deferred tax is measured on a Company and all its subsidiary undertakings. Intragroup non-discounted basis. trading is eliminated within charges from sub-consultants No deferred tax has been provided for on any gain arising and other direct project costs and communications and from the sales of any assets where the taxable gain has other overheads. been, or will be, rolled over to replacement assets. c) Turnover Deferred tax assets are only recognised where they Turnover represents the value of work performed on arise from timing differences where the recoverability contracts in the year. is foreseen with reasonable certainty. For contracts on which turnover exceeds fees rendered, g) Exchange rates the excess is included as amounts recoverable on Monetary assets and liabilities in non-pound sterling contracts within debtors. For contracts on which fees currency have been translated into sterling at year end rendered exceed turnover, the excess is included as exchange rates. The trading results of non-pound sterling deferred income within creditors. operations have been translated using an average rate for d) Tangible fixed assets and depreciation the year. Tangible fixed assets are carried at cost less accumulated Exchange differences on the translation of the results depreciation and impairment. Cost comprises purchase of non-pound sterling operations together with those on price after discounts and rebates plus all directly assets and liabilities in foreign currency are taken directly attributable costs of bringing the asset to working to reserves. All other exchange differences are included condition for its intended use. Freehold land and property in the profit and loss account. are depreciated over 50 years, expenditure on leasehold h) Long term contracts properties is depreciated over the period of the lease The value of long term contracts is based on recoverable and all other tangible fixed assets are depreciated over costs plus attributable profit. Cost is defined as a 4 to 10 year period. engineering and technical staff costs and related Fixed assets and investments are reviewed for overheads plus project expenses. impairment wherever events or changes in circumstances As projects reach stages where it is considered that their indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. outcome can be reasonably foreseen, proportions of the An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by expected total profit are brought into the financial which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its statements. Provision is made for all known and recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the anticipated losses. higher of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 10 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2014 1 Accounting policies (continued) For contracts on which turnover exceeds fees rendered, the lease term, except where the period to the review the excess is included as amounts recoverable on date on which the rent is first expected to be adjusted to contracts (lump sum projects), and as accrued income the prevailing market rate is shorter than the full lease (time basis projects), within debtors. For contracts on term, in which case the shorter period is used. which fees rendered exceeds turnover, the excess is included as deferred income, within creditors. l) Investment in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost i) Research and development less impairments. All research and development cost is expensed in the year incurred. m) Business combinations The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to j) Pension costs account for business combinations. The consideration Contributions to the Group’s defined contribution schemes transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the are charged to the profit and loss account when they fall due. fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities The Group also operated defined benefit schemes during incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group. the year as described in note 24. The assets from the The consideration transferred includes the fair value schemes are held separately from those of the Group of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent in an independently administered fund. Under FRS 17, consideration arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired the assets of the defined benefit pension schemes are and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a measured at their fair (market) value at the balance sheet business combination are measured initially at their date and compared to the liabilities of the schemes, at the fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of same date, measured on an actuarial basis using the the consideration transferred, the amount of any projected unit method. The discount rate used is the rate non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the of return at the balance sheet date on a high quality acquisition date fair value of any previous equity corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the schemes’ liabilities. The extent to which the schemes’ Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is assets exceed/fall short of their liabilities is shown as a recorded as goodwill. surplus/deficit in the balance sheet. The surplus/deficit is shown net of deferred taxation. n) Trade debtors Trade debtors are recognised at original invoice The increase in the present value of the pension schemes’ amount. A provision for impairment of trade debtors is liabilities arising as a result of employee service in the established when there is reason to believe that the current period is charged to operating profit. Any Group will not be able to collect all amounts due increase in the present value of pension schemes’ according to the original terms of the debtor. A provision liabilities arising in the current period but as a result of for exchange differences is also recognised on debts employee service in prior periods, is charged to operating raised in currencies other than the Company’s profit on a straight line basis over the period in which the functional currency (pound sterling). increases in benefit vest. o) Cash The amount of expected return on the schemes’ assets Cash comprises cash in hand, on-demand deposits and and the increase during the period in the present value of short term highly liquid investments that are readily the scheme liabilities arising from scheme liabilities convertible to known amounts of cash and which are being one year closer to payment are included as other subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. finance income / costs in the profit and loss account. p) Dilapidation provision Management assessed the expected return on scheme The Group is required to perform dilapidation repairs assets based on a review of past returns and professional on leased properties prior to the properties being vacated advice of the level of future returns. at the end of their lease term. Provision for such costs Actuarial gains and losses are reported in the statement is made where a legal obligation is identified and the of total recognised gains and losses. liability can be reasonably quantified. The provision is discounted to net present value at the balance sheet date k) Leased assets using an appropriate discount rate. Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the q) Company profit and loss account profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the In accordance with the concession quoted under Section term of the lease. 408 (3) of the Companies Act 2006, the Company profit Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign and loss account has not been separately presented in an operating lease are spread on a straight line basis over these financial statements. 11 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2014 2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013 2 Segmental report £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 Turnover by destination United Kingdom 316,739 289,306 Middle East & Africa 74,991 58,172 Europe 58,198 57,229 Asia 25,040 21,549 Americas 12,834 13,902 Australasia 9,331 12,613 497,133 452,771 Turnover by origin Total Internal Total less Total Internal Total less internal internal United Kingdom 485,152 20,825 464,327 451,858 22,980 428,878 Middle East & Africa 34,354 6,031 28,323 22,508 3,780 18,728 Asia 5,216 934 4,282 5,163 300 4,863 Europe 243 42 201 410 108 302 524,965 27,832 497,133 479,939 27,168 452,771 Profit before taxation by origin United Kingdom 43,632 14,787 Middle East & Africa 129 3,807 Europe (39) 307 Asia (276) 702 Group profit before taxation 43,446 19,603 Net assets by origin Excluding Excluding pensions pensions United Kingdom 137,468 44,538 110,820 6,690 Middle East & Africa 3,019 3,019 976 976 Asia 1,675 1,675 508 508 Europe 835 835 289 289 142,997 50,067 112,593 8,463 The Group only operates materially in the business of consulting engineering. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 12 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2014 2014 2013 3 Staff costs £’000 £’000 Ordinary staff costs Wages and salaries 183,724 170,826 Staff profit sharing 14,352 12,329 Social security costs 20,688 19,275 Pension contributions 15,750 15,309 Redundancy costs 1,029 1,790 Other staff costs 8,501 8,092 Total staff costs 244,044 227,621 Number Number Average number of persons employed by the Group Engineering and technical staff 3,375 3,118 Administrative staff 682 651 Company directors 23 25 Total average staff numbers 4,080 3,794 4 Directors’ remuneration 2014 £’000 2013 £’000 Aggregate remuneration: Aggregate emoluments paid 1,853 2,524 Aggregate contributions paid to money purchase schemes 16 15 Number of directors accruing pension benefits under: Number Number Money purchase schemes 3 3 Defined benefit schemes 6 7 Some directors are included under both money purchase and defined benefit due to the closure of the defined benefit scheme in June 2010. Highest paid director: £’000 £’000 Emoluments excluding contributions paid to pension schemes 430 445 Accrued pension from defined benefit pension scheme as at 31 March 121 80 5 Exceptional items During the financial year the Company disposed of subsidiary companies Arup d.o.o., Arup Gulf Limited, Arup International Limited and Arup Limited. The Group has recorded an exceptional item of £8,738k as a gain on the sale of these subsidiaries. 13 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2014 6 Group operating profit 2014 £’000 2013 £’000 This is stated after charging/(crediting) During the year, the Group obtained the following services from the Company’s auditor: Audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 175 172 Fees payable for other services: Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 12 12 Profit on disposal of fixed assets (6) (Profit) / loss on foreign exchange from trading activities (1,880) 76 Research and development costs 16,260 15,336 Operating leases land & buildings 19,178 18,695 Depreciation 7,193 8,329 2014 2013 7 Interest receivable and similar income £’000 £’000 Bank interest 50 63 Other interest 11 6 Group undertaking 35 115 96 184 8 Interest payable and similar charges 2014 £’000 2013 £’000 Bank interest 165 31 Other interest 41 20 Interest payable on Group undertakings 309 1,031 515 1,082 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 14 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2014 2014 2013 9 Tax on profit on ordinary activities £’000 £’000 a) Analysis of tax charge The charge for taxation comprises: UK corporation tax for the year at 23% (2013: 24%) 327 138 Less: double tax relief (327) (138) Over provision in respect of prior years Non-UK tax for the current year 1,785 283 Adjustments in respect of prior years 194 426 Current tax charge 1,979 709 UK deferred taxation for the current year 92 1,048 Under/(over) provision in respect of prior years (169) Total tax charge 2,071 1,588 b) Factors affecting the tax charge for the year The tax assessed for the year is lower (2013: lower) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 23% (2013: 24%). The differences are explained below: Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 43,446 19,603 Profit on ordinary activities at the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 23% (2013: 24%) 9,993 4,705 Effects of: Group relief (1,749) (2,485) Permanent differences (9,440) (3,235) Timing adjustments 1,523 1,187 Adjustments in respect of prior years 194 426 Utilised brought forward losses (34) Non-UK tax in excess of UK tax 1,458 145 Current tax charge 1,979 709 c) Factors affecting current and future tax charges The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK changed from 24% to 23% with effect from 1 April 2013. Accordingly, the Group’s profits for this accounting period are taxed at an effective rate of 23%. A number of changes to the UK corporation tax system were announced in the 2012 Autumn Statement and the March 2013 UK Budget Statement. The main rate of corporation tax reduces to 21% from 1 April 2014 and 20% from 1 April 2015. These changes had been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and, therefore, are included in these financial statements. 15 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2014 10 Tangible fixed assets Group £’000 Freehold land Leasehold Furniture, Motor & property property fittings & IT vehicles Total Cost or valuation Balance at 1 April 2013 15,723 32,477 47,219 103 95,522 Additions during the year 1,717 3,791 57 5,565 Intercompany transfers (1,336) (366) (9) (1,711) Disposals during the year (371) (86) (12) (469) Acquisitions and disposals of businesses (654) (8) (662) Adjustment for exchange differences (156) (2) (158) Balance at 31 March 2014 14,387 33,823 49,748 129 98,087 Accumulated depreciation Balance at 1 April 2013 1,064 15,815 37,680 81 54,640 Charge for the year 297 2,212 4,672 12 7,193 Eliminated in respect of disposals (160) (79) (12) (251) Intercompany transfers (1,336) (366) (9) (1,711) Acquisitions and disposals of businesses (436) (2) (438) Adjustment for exchange differences (123) (2) (125) Balance at 31 March 2014 25 17,867 41,348 68 59,308 Net book value at 31 March 2014 14,362 15,956 8,400 61 38,779 Net book value at 31 March 2013 14,659 16,662 9,539 22 40,882 10 Tangible fixed assets Company £’000 Leasehold Furniture, Motor property fittings & IT vehicles Total Cost or valuation Balance at 1 April 2013 32,477 46,364 92 78,933 Additions during the year 1,717 3,545 48 5,310 Disposals during the year (371) (86) (12) (469) Intercompany transfers 12 12 Adjustment for exchange differences (87) (2) (89) Balance at 31 March 2014 33,823 49,748 126 83,697 Depreciation Balance at 1 April 2013 15,815 36,900 76 52,791 Charge for the year 2,212 4,588 10 6,810 Eliminated in respect of disposals (160) (79) (12) (251) Adjustment for exchange differences (69) (1) (70) Balance at 31 March 2014 17,867 41,340 73 59,280 Net book value at 31 March 2014 15,956 8,408 53 24,417 Net book value at 31 March 2013 16,662 9,464 16 26,142 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 16 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2014 11 Subsidiary undertakings Ove Arup & Partners International Limited owns ordinary shares in the companies noted below and these companies were all wholly owned subsidiary undertakings of Ove Arup & Partners International Limited at 31 March 2014. The operating companies were all engaged in the same principal activities as the parent company except for Fitzroy Street Limited whose principle activity is property holdings. Direct holdings Country of incorporation Arup Associates Limited England & Wales Fitzroy Street Limited England & Wales OASYS Limited England & Wales Ove Arup & Partners Limited England & Wales Indirect holdings Ove Arup & Partners Scotland Limited Scotland £’000 Cost Movement of investment Opening balance at 1 April 2013 25,352 Additions 15,386 Transfers (25,352) Balance at 31 March 2014 15,386 The directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets. 12 Debtors £’000 2014 2013 Group Company Group Company Amounts recoverable on contracts 19,412 19,412 21,579 20,227 Trade debtors 54,221 54,221 63,202 58,430 Amounts owed by Group undertakings 123,887 123,835 152,825 117,401 Foreign tax recoverable 1 1 38 38 Deferred tax asset 5,767 5,767 5,078 5,078 Corporation tax 1,526 1,526 2,818 2,818 Other debtors 4,640 4,640 5,460 3,365 Prepayments and accrued income 16,496 16,496 19,361 18,918 225,950 225,898 270,361 226,275 17 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2014 13 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year £’000 2014 2013 Group Company Group Company Amounts falling due within one year Deferred income 62,711 62,711 68,677 58,168 Trade creditors 6,037 6,037 11,842 11,820 Amounts owed to Group undertakings 35,720 36,741 88,761 57,957 Provision for foreign tax 506 147 Taxation and social security costs 8,412 8,412 8,735 8,735 Other creditors 481 481 969 572 Accruals 34,326 34,326 41,413 40,620 147,687 148,708 220,903 178,019 14 Provision for liabilities £’000 Movement of liabilities and charges Opening balance at 1 April 2013 1,700 Utilisation / release of provision in the year (798) Balance at 31 March 2014 902 This provision relates to dilapidations on buildings leased by the Group, in accordance with our lease contracts. 15 Deferred taxation £’000 2014 2013 Group Company Group Company Timing differences due to accelerated taxation depreciation allowances 5,484 5,484 4,775 4,775 Short term timing differences 283 283 303 303 5,767 5,767 5,078 5,078 Movement of deferred tax asset: At 1 April 5,077 5,077 4,209 4,209 Under provision of deferred tax in respect of prior years 169 169 Restated opening balance 5,077 5,077 4,378 4,378 Charge for the year (92) (92) (1,048) (1,048) Less: deferred tax on pension scheme deficit 3,381 3,381 2,472 2,472 Adjustment for changes in corporation tax (2,625) (2,625) (728) (728) Exchange rate difference 26 26 4 4 At 31 March 5,767 5,767 5,078 5,078 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 18 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2014 2014 2013 16 Called up share capital – Group and Company £’000 £’000 Issued, called up and fully paid: 45,000,000 (2013: 45,000,000) ordinary shares of £1 each 45,000 45,000 17 Profit and loss account £’000 Group Company Profit Profit and loss and loss account account Balance at 1 April 2013 (36,537) (30,833) Profit for the financial year 41,375 36,393 Actuarial gain recognised in the pension schemes 4,300 4,300 Deferred tax liability movement related to the actuarial loss (7,044) (7,044) Exchange translation differences 2,973 2,202 Balance at 31 March 2014 5,067 5,018 Profit and loss reserve excluding net pension scheme liabilities 97,997 97,948 Net pension scheme liabilities (note 24) (92,930) (92,930) Profit and loss reserve 5,067 5,018 2014 2013 18 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds Group £’000 £’000 Balance at 1 April 8,463 8,095 Profit for the financial year 41,375 18,015 Exchange translation differences 2,973 (994) Actuarial gain / (loss) recognised in the pension schemes 4,300 (19,200) Deferred tax asset movement related to the actuarial (gain) / loss (7,044) 2,547 Closing shareholders’ funds 50,067 8,463 Shareholders’ funds excluding net pension scheme liabilities 142,997 112,593 Net pension scheme liabilities (note 24) (92,930) (104,130) Closing shareholders’ funds 50,067 8,463 19 Contingent liabilities The Group has recorded a liability in its balance sheet for the best estimate of certain claims that have been brought against it. At this time, it is not possible to reliably measure the potential liability from any other issue that may have occured but where a claim has yet to be raised. The Group monitors all claims and takes appropriate insurance to mitigate its risk. 19 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2014 20 Capital commitments £’000 2014 2013 Group Company Group Company Authorised and contracted for 1,539 1,539 345 345 21 Other financial commitments £’000 The Group and Company have the following annual property leasing commitments at the year end in respect of leases expiring as follows: 2014 2013 Group Company Group Company Within one year 4,851 4,674 5,161 5,106 In two to five years 1,932 1,689 2,734 2,528 After five years 10,104 10,104 11,524 11,524 22 Ultimate controlling party The immediate parent undertaking of Ove Arup & Partners International Limited is Ove Arup Holdings Limited, a Company incorporated in England and Wales. Arup Group Limited is the parent undertaking of the largest group of undertakings to consolidate these financial statements at 31 March 2014. The consolidated financial statements of Arup Group Limited are publicly available at 13 Fitzroy Street, London W1T 4BQ. The ultimate parent undertakings are Ove Arup Partnership Employee Trust, Ove Arup Partnership Charitable Trust and The Arup Service Trust. These are the owners of Arup Group Limited. The controlling party is Ove Arup Partnership Charitable Trust. 23 Related party transactions The Company, its wholly owned subsidiaries and other Group companies transact with each other in the normal course of business. These transactions, in accordance with FRS 8 paragraph 3, are not disclosed as the Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Arup Group Limited whose consolidated financial statements, in which the Company is included, are publicly available at 13 Fitzroy Street, London W1T 4BQ. 24 Pension commitments The Group operated a UK registered, contributory pension scheme, which had a defined benefit and a defined contribution section, for employees. On 31 March 2010, the scheme was closed to new members. With effect from 30 June 2010, the future accrual of benefits for existing members ceased. The Group replaced this scheme with a group personal pension plan for employees with effect from 1 July 2010. All contributions for the new plan are held and managed by BlackRock Life Limited. The Group has no ongoing liability to the funds held by BlackRock in respect of the employees. For the pension scheme which closed on 30 June 2010, contributions were made in accordance with the rules of the scheme and the advice of independent qualified actuaries on the basis of triennial valuations. The most recent valuation was at 31 March 2010 using the projected unit method. A special employer’s contribution of £10m was made during the year to 31 March 2014 (2013: £9.5m). The next actuarial valuation is being carried out as at 31 March 2013 but the results will not be available at the date of signing these financial statements. The valuation position of this scheme was reassessed at 31 March 2014 by a qualified independent actuary for the purposes of the financial reporting standard FRS 17. The current amount of actuarial gains recognised in the statement of recognised gains and loss is £4.3m (2013: loss of £19.2m). The scheme holds no assets that are issued or owned by the Group. Management assessed the expected return on scheme assets based on a review of past returns and professional advice of the level of future returns. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 20 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2014 24 Pension commitments (continued) Assets in the scheme and the expected rates of return as at 31 March: Long term rate Value of assets of return expected in the scheme 2014 2013 2014 2013 £’m £’m Equities and property 7.1% 7.4% 453.5 459.8 Bonds and cash including net current assets 3.9% 3.7% 168.8 144.7 Total market value of assets 622.3 604.5 Present value of defined benefit obligation (738.6) (739.8) Deficit in the scheme (116.3) (135.3) Less: related deferred tax asset at 20% (2013: 23%) 23.3 31.1 Net scheme liability (93.0) (104.2) Major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total scheme assets: 2014 2013 Equities 69% 73% Gilts and bonds 13% 23% Property 4% 3% Other 14% 1% 100% 100% Amounts recognised in the profit and loss account: 2014 2013 £’m £’m Interest on obligation (34.2) (34.6) Expected return on scheme assets 38.9 35.4 Net income 4.7 0.8 Actual return on scheme assets 30.7 66.0 Movement of deficit during the year 2014 2014 £’m £’m Deficit in scheme at 1 April (135.3) (126.4) Movement in the year: Employer contributions 10.0 9.5 Interest cost (34.2) (34.6) Expected return on scheme assets 38.9 35.4 Actuarial gain / (loss) 4.3 (19.2) Deficit in scheme at 31 March (116.3) (135.3) 21 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2014 24 Pension commitments (continued) Reconciliation of the present value of the defined benefit obligation: 2014 2013 £’m £’m Present value of defined benefit obligation at 1 April 739.8 676.9 Interest cost 34.2 34.6 Actuarial (gain) / loss on scheme liabilities (12.5) 49.8 Benefits paid (22.9) (21.5) Present value of defined benefit obligation at 31 March 738.6 739.8 Reconciliation of fair value of scheme assets: 2014 2013 £’m £’m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 April 604.5 550.5 Expected return on scheme assets 38.9 35.4 Actuarial (loss) / gain on scheme assets (8.2) 30.6 Actual return on scheme assets 30.7 66.0 Employer contributions 10.0 9.5 Benefits paid (22.9) (21.5) Fair value of scheme assets at 31 March 622.3 604.5 Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages): At 31 March 2014 2013 Future average rate of increase in salaries N/A N/A Future average rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions 1.9% 1.9% Future average rate used to discount liabilities 4.6% 4.7% Retail price inflation 3.3% 3.3% Consumer price inflation 1.9% 1.9% Pension increases: Pre 88 Guaranteed Minimum Pension 0.0% 0.0% Post 88 Guaranteed Minimum Pension 1.7% 1.7% NGMP accrued before 01/10/2006 (5% LPI) 3.0% 3.0% Pension accrued after 31/09/2006 (2.5% LPI) 1.9% 1.9% NGMP – Non guaranteed minimum pension LPI – Limited price indexation Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 22 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2014 24 Pension commitments (continued) Mortality 2014: 108% SAPS Light tables for males and 101% SAPS Light tables for females using the CMI 2013 projections, allowing for LTR of 1% per annum. 2013: PNA00 birth year mortality tables using the 92 series medium cohort projections, allowing for minimum improvements in mortality of 1% per annum. Cash commutation 25% of members’ pensions assumed to be taken as cash on current terms (2013: 30%) Assumed life expectations on retirement at age 65 UK are: 2014 2013 Number of Years Retiring today Males 22.9 22.7 Females 24.7 25.1 Retiring in 20 years Males 24.3 24.6 Females 26.2 27.0 The assumptions used by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions. History of experience gains and losses 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m Defined benefit obligation (738.6) (739.8) (676.9) (629.2) (608.5) Scheme assets 622.3 604.5 550.5 524.6 494.8 Scheme deficit (116.3) (135.3) (126.4) (104.6) (113.7) Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 15.5 11.3 (14.0) (23.7) 12.4 Experience adjustments on scheme assets (8.2) 30.6 1.9 4.1 101.8 Total actuarial gains and (losses) recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses 4.3 (19.2) (31.0) 1.0 (66.0) Estimated contributions The employer’s best estimate of contributions to be paid to the scheme next year is £12m (2013: £10m). Defined contribution schemes The Group has also made payments to defined contribution schemes of £14.9m (2013: £14.8m). 23 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Annual report for the year ended 31 March 2014 Arup Group 13 Fitzroy Street London W1T 4BQ United Kingdom We shape a better world | www.arup.com United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 2 Attachment −− Global Human Rights Code of Practice Global Code of Practice Page 1 of 2 Human Rights: Global Code of Practice CODE OF PRACTICE Arup is founded on the principles of ensuring that our people’s work is interesting, rewarding and stimulated by a drive for excellence in an environment where people’s lives are inextricably linked with those of other human beings. A guiding principle of the firm is that everyone accords to others the rights that individuals claim for themselves and accept the moral and humanitarian values that this embraces. A person cannot be treated just as a link in a chain of command but as someone whose happiness and prosperity is a concern of all. Purpose Our approach on human rights reflects this by: Value Diversity. Ensuring that Arup people work in an environment that is free from all forms of discrimination and that they are valued as individuals and treated with dignity and respect. Discrimination on the grounds of disability, race, age, religion or gender or sexual orientation is in conflict with out guiding principles. Self Esteem. Providing an environment that is free from any form of harassment or intimidation by eliminated any form of behaviour or abuse that could affect an individual’s self esteem, including bullying and victimisation. Life Balance. Helping people to more easily balance their work, domestic and personal lives Fair Reward. Fairly compensating employees through wages and benefits for their labours. Providing for rewards and other means for staff to share in the firm’s success. Effective Workplace. Giving people a safe, clean, comfortable and healthy working environment that provides for the needs of all employees including those with disabilities. Integrity. Operating in an environment where we demonstrate consideration for people and respect for the job they do when they are striving to achieve the best that they can. Personal Development. Treating people fairly, respecting the sanctity of human life and allowing gifted people to unfold. Global Human Resources Adapted 2009 Global Code of Practice Page 2 of 2 Acting Honourably. Acting honourably in our dealings with our own and other people Social Responsibility. Being aware of our social responsibility, striving to do socially useful work and joining hands with others who are working to achieve these values Respect. Ensuring that no-one is subjected to arbitrary interference in their privacy, home or family or attacks on their honour or reputation. Effective Date 28 May 2012 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide and other third parties who are permitted access to the firm’s electronic communications systems, including temporary staff, people who are hired on contract, contractors, joint venture partners and clients. Global Human Resources Adapted 2009 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 3 Attachment: −− Key Speech The Key Speech Sir Ove Arup A In its pre-natal stage, this talk has been These two general principles are not honoured with the name of ‘key in dispute. I will elaborate them a speech’. It is doubtful whether it can little further: live up to this name. What is it The first means that our work should supposed to be the key to? The future be interesting and rewarding. Only a job of the firm? The philosophy? The aims? done well, as well as we can do it and On 9 July 1970 Ove Arup spoke At the moment, sitting in my garden as well as it can be done is that. We to a meeting at Winchester of his and waiting for inspiration, I would be must therefore strive for quality in what partners from the practices more inclined to call it: ‘Musings of an we do, and never be satisfied with the around the world bearing the old gentleman in a garden’ and leave second-rate. There are many kinds of Arup name. His talk was in it at that. quality. In our work as structural response to the collective desire engineers we had and have to to continue working together, I have written before a piece called satisfy the criteria for a sound, lasting despite the changes that would ‘Aims and Means’ for a conference of and economical structure. We add to Senior and Executive Partners in take place as the founding that the claim that it should be pleasing London on 7 July 1969. It did not partners progressively retired and aesthetically, for without that quality it manage to deal much with means, gave up ownership, handing over doesn’t really give satisfaction to us or however, and it is of course difficult to control to the successors they to others. And then we come up generalise about means, for they must would choose for these practices. against the fact that a structure is vary with circumstances. The first part generally a part of a larger unit, and we of this paper was published in Newsletter are frustrated because to strive for The pre-natal name of ‘key37, November 1969. This you may quality in only a part is almost useless if speech’ for this talk has endured, have read but I will shortly summarise the whole is undistinguished, unless the in recognition of the fact that in it the aims of the firm as I see them. structure is large enough to make an Ove both states the aims of our impact on its own. We are led to seek There are two ways of looking at the firm and analyses in his very overall quality, fitness for purpose, as work you do to earn a living: distinctive way the principles well as satisfying or significant forms through which they may be One is the way propounded by the late and economy of construction. To this achieved. From time to time we Henry Ford: Work is a necessary evil, must be added harmony with the but modern technology will reduce it to surroundings and the overall plan. have asked ourselves whether a minimum. Your life is your leisure lived We are then led to the ideal of ‘Total what he said in 1970 remains in your ‘free’ time. valid for us, despite the fact that Architecture’, in collaboration with other inevitably some specifics about The other is: like minded firms or, still better, on our To make your work interesting and own. This means expanding our field of the firm’s organisation and rewarding. You enjoy both your work activity into adjoining fields architecture, individuals’ roles therein to which and your leisure. planning, ground engineering, he refers in passing have changed environmental engineering, computer We opt uncompromisingly for the over the years. On each occasion programming, etc. and the planning second way. we have found that it does, and and organisation of the work on site. thereby reaffirmed our There are also two ways of looking at commitment to these principles. the pursuit of happiness: It is not the wish to expand, but the One is to go straight for the things quest for quality which has brought us The Key Speech is required you fancy without restraints, that is, to this position, for we have realised reading for each person who without considering anybody else that only intimate integration of the joins Arup or who wants to be besides yourself. various parts or the various disciplines reminded of what we are all will produce the desired result. The other is: about, and for those who want to recognise that no man is an island, The term ‘Total Architecture’ implies to learn about us. that our lives are inextricably mixed up that all relevant design decisions have with those of our fellow human beings, been considered together and have and that there can be no real been integrated into a whole by a well happiness in isolation. Which leads to organised team empowered to fix an attitude which would accord to priorities. This is an ideal which can others the rights claimed for oneself, never or only very rarely be fully which would accept certain moral or realised in practice, but which is well humanitarian restraints. worth striving for, for artistic wholeness We, again, opt for the second way. or excellence depends on it, and for our own sake we need the stimulation produced by excellence. The humanitarian attitude hand and becomes very dangerous for and accepted. In short, we must be our harmony, unity and very existence. efficient individually, in all our subThe other general principle, the divisions, and as a world organisation. humanitarian attitude, leads to the It costs money to produce quality, creation of an organisation which is especially when we expand into fields I have tried to summarise the foregoing human and friendly in spite of being where we have no contractual in a number of points. Like all large and efficient. Where every obligations and can expect no pay for classification, it is arbitrary and rough member is treated not only as a link in our efforts. We may even antagonise but may nevertheless be useful as a a chain of command, not only as a people by poaching on their domain help to understanding and discussion, wheel in a bureaucratic machine, but or by upsetting and criticising traditional if its imperfections and its as a human being whose happiness is procedures. incompleteness are borne in mind. the concern of all, who is treated not only as a means but as an end. It also costs money to ‘coddle’ the staff The main aims of the firm are: with generosity and welfare, or to lose Group A Of course it is always sound business lucrative commissions by refusing to to keep your collaborators happy just 1 Quality of work bribe a minister in a developing country, as any farmer must keep his cattle in or to take our duty too seriously if 2 Total architecture good health. But there is or should be nobody is looking. 3 Humane organisation more in it than that. (We know what happens to cattle.) If we want our work 4 Straight and honourable dealings Money spent on these ‘aims’ may be to be interesting and rewarding, then wisely spent in the long term, and may 5 Social usefulness we must try to make it so for all our cause the leaders of the firm a certain 6 Reasonable prosperity of members. people and that is obviously much satisfaction but if so spent it is not more difficult, not to say impossible. It available for immediate distribution If these aims could be realised to a is again an ideal, unattainable in full, among the members, whether partners considerable degree, they should but worth striving for. It leads to the or staff. So aim No. 3 conflicts to that result in: wish to make everybody aware of, and extent with aims 1 and 2. Moreover, if interested in, our aims and to make the money is made the main aim if we are Group B environment and working conditions as more greedy than is reasonable it will 7 Satisfied members pleasant as possible within the accentuate the natural conflict about 8 Satisfied clients available means. how the profit should be distributed 9 Good reputation and influence. between our members the partners This attitude also dictates that we and staff or the different grades of staff. But this will need: should act honourably in our dealings with our own and other people. We The trouble with money is that it is a Group C should justify the trust of our clients by dividing force, not a uniting force, as is 10 A membership of quality giving their interest first priority in the the quest for quality or a humanitarian 11 Efficient organisation work we do for them. Internally, we outlook. If we let it divide us, we are 12 Solvency should eschew nepotism or sunk as an organisation at least as a 13 Unity and enthusiasm. discrimination on the basis of force for good. nationality, religion, race, colour or sex Of course there is not really any strict basing such discrimination as there So much for our aims. As aims, they demarcation between aims (Group A) must be on ability and character. are not in dispute. What is debatable, and means (Group C) and the results is how vigorously each shall be pursued (Group B) flowing from the whole or Humanitarianism also implies a social which is the most important; how to partial fulfilment of the aims in A. And it conscience, a wish to do socially useful balance long term against short term is not absolutely certain that these work, and to join hands with others aims. Let us first see what these results are obtained. For instance, A3 fighting for the same values. Our aims imply. and 4 (a humane organisation and pursuit of quality should in itself be straight dealings) can as well be useful. If we in isolated cases can show Obviously, to do work of quality, we considered as a means, and in fact all how our environment can be improved, must have people of quality. We must the points are to some extent both this is likely to have a much greater be experts at what we undertake to do. aims and means, because they effect than mere propaganda. Again, there are many kinds of quality, reinforce each other. And there will be and there are many kinds of job to do, members who are dissatisfied no There is a third aim besides the search so we must have many kinds of people, matter how good the firm is, and the for quality of work and the right human each of which can do their own job same may apply to clients, who may relationships, namely prosperity for all well. And they must be able to work not appreciate quality at all. But on the our members. Most people would say well together. This presupposes that whole, what I said is true. We should that this is our main aim, this is why we they agree with our aims, and that they keep the six aims in A in view all the are in business. But it would be wrong are not only technically capable but time, and concentrate on the means to to look at it as our main aim. We should acceptable to us from a human point of bring them about. rather look at it as an essential preview, so that they fit into our kind of requisite for even the partial fulfilment of organisation; and that they are But before I do this, I will try to explain any of our aims. For it is an aim which, effectively organised, so that the why I am going on about aims, ideals if over-emphasised, easily gets out of responsibility of each is clearly defined and moral principles and all that, and don’t get down to brass tacks. I do this In the following 13 points, which I must consider whether this way is possible, simply because I think these aims are have jotted down some time ago whether it leads to the desired result. very important. I can’t see the point in I found them in an old file I am Unless of course his goal is to go having such a large firm with offices grappling with this question, perhaps through, not to arrive anywhere, like the all over the world unless there is not very successfully. I give them to man in the sports car. But this only something which binds us together. you now: shows that it is the goal which is If we were just ordinary consulting important, whatever it is. engineers carrying on business just as Principles business to make a comfortable living, 1 Some people have moral principles. The star system is an attempt to soften I can’t see why each office couldn’t 2 The essence of moral principles is the rigidity of moral principles. But it carry on, on its own. The idea of that they should be ‘lived’. doesn’t really solve this dilemma. It is a somebody in London ‘owning’ all these little more flexible than moral precepts 3 But only saints and fanatics do businesses and hiring people to bring as to the way, but surely the ‘stars’ follow moral principles always. in the dough doesn’t seem very must be fixed for if they can be inspiring. Unless we have a ‘mission’ 4 Which is fortunate. changed ad lib the whole thing although I don’t like the word but 5 Are then moral principles no good? wobbles. And that in a way is what it something ‘higher’ to strive for and I 6 It appears we can’t do without does I can’t do anything about that. don’t particularly like that expression them. I should have loved to present you with either but unless we feel that we have a strictly logical build-up, deducing the 7 It also appears we can’t live up to aims for the firm from unassailable first a special contribution to make which them. principles. Or perhaps this is an our very size and diversity and our whole outlook can help to achieve, I for 8 So what? exaggeration for I know very well that one am not interested. I suppose that 9 A practical solution is what I call the this can’t be done. All I can do is to try you feel the same, and therefore my star system. to make the members of the firm like words to you may seem superfluous; 10 The star or ideal indicates the the aims I have mentioned. I would like but it is not enough that you feel it, course. Obstacles in the way are to persuade them that they are good everybody in the firm should as far as circumnavigated but one gets back and reasonable and not too impossible possible be made to feel it, and to on the course after the deviation. aims, possessing an inner cohesion, believe that we, the leaders of the firm, reinforcing each other by being not 11 The system is adopted by the only aims but means to each really believe in it and mean to work for Catholic church. Sins can be other’s fulfilment. it and not just use it as a flag to put out forgiven if repented it doesn’t on Sundays. And they won’t believe affect the definition of good or evil. ‘Stars’ like goodness, beauty, justice that unless we do. 12 That this system can degenerate have been powerful forces in the On the other hand, who am I to tell you into permanent deviation is history of mankind but they so often and the firm what you should think and obvious. are obscured by a mental fog or feel in the future when I am gone or 13 One needs a sense of proportion. perhaps I should say the opposite before that, for that matter? It wouldn’t they are created by a mental fog, and be any good my trying to lay down the Incidentally, they should not be taken when the fog lifts, they are seen to law, and I haven’t the slightest inclination as an encouragement to join the have been illusions. They are manto do so. That is my difficulty. I dislike Catholic church! made. I do not rate them less for that hard principles, ideologies and the like. reason but they are too remote, too They can do more harm than good, they I found also another tag: indefinable, to be of much practical use can lead to wholesale murder, as we ‘The way out is not the way round but as guide-lines. They sustain or are born have seen. And yet we cannot live life the way through.’ That’s rather more of the longings of mankind, and belong entirely without principles. But they have uncompromising, more heroic. It to the ideal world of Plato which is in some way to be flexible, to be springs from a different temperament. fixed for ever. Rigid ideologies feed on adaptable to changing circumstances. It’s equally useful in the right place. them. Not so practical politics. ‘Thou shalt not lie’, ‘Thou shalt not kill’, But the man that bangs his head are all very well, generally, but do not Our aims on the other hand are not against a wall may learn a thing or two apply if for instance you are tortured by nearly so remote. We will never from the reed that bends in the wind. fanatical Nazis or Communists to reveal succeed in fulfilling them in toto, but the whereabouts of their innocent The trouble with the last maxim is that they can be fulfilled more or less, and victims. Then it is your duty to mislead. it says something about the way, but the more the better. And they are not What these commandments should not about the goal. The way must be grasped arbitrarily out of the sky or define is an attitude. To be truthful adapted to the circumstances the wilfully imposed, they are natural and always, wherever it does no harm to goal is much more dependent on what obvious and will, I am sure, be other ideals more important in the sort of person you are. I admit that the recognised as desirable by all of you: context, to respect the sanctity of human last maxim also says a good deal so much so, in fact, that the thing to life and not to destroy life wantonly. But about the man who propounds it, a be explained is not why they are where to draw the line in border cases man of courage, of action, perhaps not desirable, but why I should waste any depends on who you are, what life has given too much to reflection, perhaps words on them. taught you, how strong you are. not a very wise man. The wise man will I do, as I pointed out at the beginning them, of course (and I think we have a more it needs to be organised. Most of this argument, because our aims are larger proportion of really good people strong men, if they are also wise, will the only thing which holds us together, than any other firm of our kind). And accept that. Somebody must have and because it is not enough to when we take on new people the authority to take decisions, the approve them, we must work for them choice is limited. Again we have to take responsibility of each member must be and the leaders must be prepared to the best we can get. We cannot pay clearly defined, understood and make sacrifices for them. Temporary them a much higher salary than our accepted by all. The authority should diversions there must be, we have to average scale, because that would also be spread downwards as far as make do with the second best if the upset our solvency and sink the boat. possible, and the whole pattern should best is not within reach, we have to Naturally our method of selection is be flexible and open to revision. accept expediencies and from a strict important, and what we can do to point of view all our activities can be educate our staff and give them We know all this, and we have such an considered as expediencies, for in opportunities to develop is important, organisation: we have both macro, theory they could all be better still but but I can’t go into details here. All I can micro and infra-structure. It has been the important thing is that we always say is that staff getting and staff developed, been improved, and it get back on the course, that we never ‘treating’ must not degenerate into a could undoubtedly be improved still lose sight of the aims. Hence the name bureaucratic routine matter, but must further. We are of course trying to do star system derived from comparison be on a personal level. When we come that all the time. The organisation will with old fashioned navigation. But I across a really good man, grab him, naturally be related to some sort of propose to abandon this expression, even if we have no immediate use for hierarchy, which should as far as partly because its meaning in the film him, and then see to it that he stays possible be based on function, and industry may confuse, especially as it is with us. there must be some way of fixing very opposed to our point of view, remuneration, for to share the available which is in favour of teamwork rather The last is the really important point, profit equally between all from senior than stardom: and also because it which in the long run will be decisive. partner to office-boy would not be suggests star-gazing, which I find Why should a really good man, a man reasonable, nor would it work. And all uncomfortably near the bone because I or woman who can get a job this is very tricky, as you know, might with some justification be anywhere or who could possibly start because, as soon as money and status accused of it. So I am afraid we have out on his own, why should he or she come into the picture, greed and envy to fall back on ‘philosophy’. Having choose to stay with us? If there is a and intrigue are not far behind. One dabbled in this subject in my youth I convincing and positive answer to that, difficulty is particularly knotty, the have been averse to seeing the term then we are on the right way. question of ownership, which is degraded by talk about the philosophy connected with ‘partnership’. There is of pile-driving or hair-dressing, but it is Presumably a good man comes to us dissatisfaction amongst some of those of course useless to fight against the in the first instance because he likes who in fact carry out the functions of a tide. The word has come to stay and the work we do, and shares or is partner dealing with clients, taking in ‘the philosophy of the firm’, it is not converted to our philosophy. If he decisions binding on the firm, etc used quite so badly. So that’s what I doesn’t, he is not much good to us because they cannot legally call have been giving you a dose of. anyhow. He is not mainly attracted by themselves partners but are ‘executive’ the salary we can offer, although that is partners or have some other title. I I will now discuss what we have to do of course an important point but by have discussed this problem in my in order to live up to our philosophy. the opportunity to do interesting and paper Aims and Means. If some viable And I will do it under the four headings rewarding work, where he can use his way could be found to make 100 10 to 13 in my list of aims and means: creative ability, be fully extended, can partners, I wouldn’t mind, but I can’t grow and be given responsibility. If he think of any. 10 Quality staff finds after a while that he is frustrated 11 Efficiency by red tape or by having someone In the Ove Arup Partnership we have all breathing down his neck, someone for but eliminated ownership the senior 12 Solvency whom he has scant respect, if he has partners only act as owners during 13 Unity and enthusiasm. little influence on decisions which affect their tenure of office because his work and which he may not agree someone has to, according to the laws But it will of course be necessary to with, then he will pack up and go. And of the country. And I wish that system mix them up to some extent. so he should. It is up to us, therefore, could be extended to all our to create an organisation which will partnerships. It no doubt irks some allow gifted individuals to unfold. This is people that the money invested in the Quality of Staff not easy, because there appears to be firm may one day (with some How do we ensure that our staff is of the a fundamental contradiction between contriving) fall into the turban of people right quality, or the best possible quality? organisation and freedom. Strongwho have done nothing to earn it but willed individuals may not take easily to what can we do? The money is We all realise, of course, that this is a directions from above. But our work is needed for the stability of the firm, it key question. The whole success of teamwork and teamwork except makes it possible for us to earn our our venture depends on our staff. But possibly in very small teams needs to living and to work for a good cause, so what can we do about it? We have the be organised, otherwise we have why worry? staff we have we must make do with chaos. And the greater the unit, the It may be possible to devise a different My advice would be: calibre, you may accuse me of leaving and better arrangement than the one ‘Stadig over de klipper’, reality behind. ‘As you said yourself’, we have now, more ‘democratic’, more or if you prefer: you may say, ‘our work is teamwork. fair: it may be possible to build in some ‘Take it easy!’ And most of this work is pretty dull. It is defences against the leaders ‘More haste less speed!’ designing endless reinforced concrete misbehaving and developing boss‘Hâtez-vous lentement!’ floors, taking down tedious letters complexes and pomposity and ‘Eile mit weile!’ about the missing bolts, changing forgetting that they are just as much ‘Hastvaerk er lastvaerk!’ some details for the nth time, attending servants in a good cause as everybody site meetings dealing with trivialities, else only more so. This is partly a It’s the fruit that matters. I have a taking messages, making tea what is legal question depending on the laws lingering doubt about trying to gain a exciting about that? You are of the country. But I have neither the foothold in various exotic places. Might discriminating in favour of an elite, it’s ability nor the time to deal with all that we not say instead: Thank God that we undemocratic. What about the people here. What I want to stress is the have not been invited to do a job in who have to do the dull work?’ obvious fact that no matter how Timbuctoo think of all the trouble we wonderful an organisation we can are avoiding. It’s different with the work devise, its success depends on the we do in Saudi Arabia, Tehran and Equality of opportunity people working in it and for it. And if Kuwait1. There we are invited in at the all our members really and sincerely top, working with good architects, You have certainly a point there. Of believed in the aims which I have doing exciting work. We are not course I am discriminating in favour of enumerated, if they felt some hammering at the door from outside. quality, and I would do anything to enthusiasm for them, the battle would But as a rule, grab and run jobs are not enable our bright people to use their be nearly won. For they imply a so useful for our purpose. I think the talents. You cannot equate excellence humanitarian attitude, respect and Overseas Department agrees with this with mediocrity, you cannot pretend consideration for persons, fair dealings, in principle, if not in practice. they are the same. We would be sunk and the rest, which all tend to smooth if we did that. We need to produce human relationships. And anyone It’s also different with civil engineering works of quality, and we need those having the same attitude who comes work, provided we have control who can produce them. One perfect into an atmosphere like that, is at least complete control over the design and job is more important for the morale of more likely to feel at home in it. And if are not ‘sharing’ the job or having a the firm, for our reputation for the right kind of people feel at home quantity surveyor or ‘agent’, etc, producing enthusiasm, than 10 with us, they will bring in other people imposed on it preventing us from doing ordinary jobs, and enthusiasm is like of their kind, and this again will attract a the job our way. The general rule the fire that keeps the steam-engine good type of client and this will make should be: if we can do a job we will going. Likewise one outstanding man is our work more interesting and be proud of afterwards, well and good worth 10 men who are only half good. rewarding and we will turn out better but we will do it our way. In the long This is a fact of life we cannot change. work, our reputation and influence will run this attitude pays, as it has already It is no good pretending that all are grow, and the enthusiasm of our done in the case of Arup Associates. equal they aren’t. There should be members will grow it is this And incidentally, the control of such jobs equality before the law, and as far as enthusiasm which must start the should be where our expertise resides. possible equality of opportunity, of process in the first place. course. But the fact that you are good To export Arup Associates’ jobs is at something is something you should much more difficult, for whilst we may be grateful for, not something to be be able to build a bridge or radio tower conceited about. It doesn’t mean that And they all lived happily in a foreign locality, good architecture you are better as a human being. And ever after? presupposes a much more intimate there are probably many other things knowledge of the country. Long Yes, it sounds like a fairy tale, and you are hopeless at. distance architecture generally fails. perhaps it is. But there is something in But that does not mean that the ideal No man should be despised or feel it. It is a kind of vicious circle except of Total Architecture is irrelevant to our ashamed because of the work he that it isn’t vicious, but benevolent, a purely engineering partnerships or does, as long as he does it as well as lucky circle. And I believe that we have divisions. In fact they have been he can. What we should aim at, made a beginning in getting onto this founded on the idea of integrating naturally, is to put each man on to the lucky circle. I believe that our fantastic structure with architecture and work he can do. And, fortunately, there growth has something to do with our construction, and in Scotland for is nearly always something he can do philosophy. And I believe our instance they are trying to give well. We will have square pegs in round philosophy is forward looking, that it is architects a service which will unite holes, we shall have frustrated people, what is needed today, is in tune with these domains2. unfortunately those who are not the new spirit stirring in our time. But of course there are many other and frustrated one way or another are in the Coming back to my main theme, I dangerous spirits about and too much minority. But fortunately people vary, as realise that when I have been talking growth may awaken them. Too much jobs vary, and few would want to do about quality, about interesting and growth may also mean too little fruit. the job another calls interesting if they rewarding work, about Total are no good at it. Architecture, and attracting people of 1. In 1970 Arup was carrying out a good deal of 2. In 1970 Arup’s Scottish practice had just work in the Middle East. begun to offer a multidisciplinary engineering service for buildings. If we can reach a stage where each worry us for the time being. At the the old leaders retire and growth takes man or woman is respected for the job moment the need for solvency is place mainly locally, the ties that bind they do, and is doing his or her best restricting, and is the most frequent us together may weaken. We should because the atmosphere is right, cause of having to compromise. That prevent this by forging more ties, because they are proud of what we are we may have to do but let’s not do it forming new friendships, and always and do and share in the general unnecessarily, and let’s get back being true to our principles. Improve enthusiasm, then we are home. And on course. communications the universal each job is important. Secretaries, for injunction nowadays. Absence does instance. They could have a And Unity and Enthusiasm, the last not make the heart grow fonder, tremendously civilising influence on our item, is in a way what my talk has been unfortunately. There will always be a staff. They could teach them to write about. It is a question of giving the firm need for a strong coordinating body English, for instance, a most important an identity. What do we mean, when which is at the moment formed by the and necessary job. But secretaries who we speak about the firm, about ‘we’ or senior partners which has the power can do that are of course at a ‘us’? Is it the whole collection of people to interfere if our principles are seriously premium. We must try to find them. It in dozens of offices in different places? betrayed. For should that happen, it is even more important than that they Are ‘we’ all of them or some of them, would be better to cut off the offending are good-looking and nobody could and which? limb, less the poison should spread. accuse me of being indifferent to that. Our name must not be allowed to I think it is unavoidable that ‘we’ should cover practices which conflict with our Our messengers and cleaners how mean different things in different philosophy. But at the moment there is important it is that they are reliable and contexts. Sometimes what is said is no danger of that, and we can take likeable, human, with a sense of only relevant to the upper layers of comfort from what has been achieved. humour. A cheerful remark can brighten management, sometimes it is meant to Perhaps that should have been the gist the day. All our people are part of us, include everybody. What we must aim of my talk? But you are seeing it for part of our ‘image’, create the at is to make ‘we’ include as many as yourself. I could also have dwelt on atmosphere we live in. possible as often as possible. To how far we have still to go; it would increase the number of those who perhaps have accorded more with my But it doesn’t alter the fact that the have a contribution to make, however star-gazing habits. But my time is up services of a messenger are less small, who agree wholeheartedly with my speech should have been valuable to the firm than those of a our aims and want to throw in their lot condensed to one-third but it is too gifted designer or an imaginative with us. We might think about them as late now. I hope at any rate that I mechanical engineer, a fact that even members of our community; the haven’t deserved the warning which the messenger will understand. others, who come and go, might be the Duke of Albany addressed to called staff. Of course there can never Goneril in King Lear: But there are of course people we be any clear line of demarcation it is cannot employ usefully. Masses of not a question of signing a form or How far your them, in fact. Those we should not bestowing a title it is a matter of how eyes may pierce take on, obviously, except on a strictly each feels and what we feel about I cannot tell. temporary basis. But sometimes they them. For it is a two-way business. Striving to better, are found inside the firm. They may oft we mar have been good once, but are on the But what binds our membership what’s well. way down. I am a case in point myself. together must be loyalty to our aims. But their loyal service, their place in the And only as long as the leaders of the hierarchy, makes it difficult to de-grade firm are loyal to these can they expect them. To deal with them requires much and demand loyalty from the members. tact, and is embarrassing. But they This speech is too long already, and I should not be allowed to pretend to do have not even touched on what you jobs they are no good at. They must perhaps expected to be the main not prevent the good ones from subject of my talk, the relationship functioning. It’s a problem all firms between the Ove Arup Partnership and have, it’s one of the cases where the Overseas Partnerships. But from humanity and efficiency clash. To the foregoing my point of view should resolve it tactfully may be expensive, be clear. not to resolve it is fatal. The fact that we have these outposts So far I haven’t said much about all over the world is of course an solvency. Stuart Irons3 can tell you enormous source of strength to us and something about that. I compare it to to you, it helps to establish our stability in engineering structures reputation and power for good, and without it the whole thing collapses but opens up opportunities for all our if you have much more money than members. This is however only you need the usefulness of it declines because the leaders in these places until it becomes distracting and are our own people, bound to us by dangerous. That danger need not common aims and friendships. But as 3. The then Financial Director. Arup’s core values maintain the vision established by Sir Ove Arup (1895-1988): • We will ensure that the Arup name is always associated with quality. • We will act honestly and fairly in dealings with our staff and others. • We will enhance prosperity for all Arup staff. Our priorities are: • our clients and our industry • our creativity • our people • sustainable development. We shape a better world: • to enhance prosperity and the quality of life • to deliver real value • to have the freedom to be creative and to learn. 13 Fitzroy Street, London W1T 4BQ, UK tel +44 (0)20 7636 1531 fax +44 (0)20 7580 3924 email corporate@arup.com www.arup.com United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 4 Attachment: −− Global Harassment Code of Practice & UK Local Procedure Global code of practice Harassment Harassment : code of practice Purpose Arup believes that all employees have a right to be treated with dignity and respect while at work and when representing the company outside of work. The following code of practice informs employees of the type of behaviour that is not acceptable and provides employees who are subjected to harassment with a means of redress without fear of reprisal. CODE OF PRACTICE Arup identifies that employees have a right to be treated with dignity and respect. Harassment is harmful, unlawful and can reduce the effectiveness of the organisation by undermining the confidence of employees and creating a threatening environment. Employees have a right to work in an environment, which is free from harassment of any kind. The organisation will take positive action to prevent its occurrence. Any complaint will be taken seriously and the necessary resources deployed to investigate and resolve the matter. Effective date 1 May 2001 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide. Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 GCP10601 Harassment & Bullying UK Policy What can be categorised as Harassment? Harassment may be characterised as unwanted conduct affecting the dignity of people in the workplace. It may be related to age, gender, gender reassignment, marital or civil partner status, pregnancy, race colour, disability, sex, sexual orientation, religion or belief, nationality of ethnic origin ( protected characteristics ), or any other personal characteristic of the individual. It may be persistent or an isolated incident. The key is that the actions or comments are viewed as demeaning and unacceptable to the recipient, whether or not this is intentional. It can occur in or at of the work place, such as on business trips or at events or work related social functions. Bullying and Harassment can be carried out by anyone (including senior managers, officers, directors, employees, part time and fixed term employees as well as consultants, contractors, casual workers and agency staff) and also by third parties, such as customers, suppliers and/or visitors to Arup's premises. Any complaint will be taken seriously and the necessary resources deployed to investigate and resolve the matter. Once the investigation is completed, the Leader who initiated the investigation will decide, on the strength of the findings, the appropriate action to be taken. Bullying and Harassment will be treated as misconduct. Conversely, any malicious complaint which, on investigation, is shown to be without foundation, will be treated as a matter no less serious than an act of harassment. Individual members of staff may in some cases be legally liable for harassment of colleagues or third parties and may be ordered to pay compensation by a Court or an Employment Tribunal. What is Bullying? Bullying may be characterised as offensive, intimidating, malicious, or insulting behaviour; an abuse or misuse of power through means which undermine, humiliate, denigrate, or injure the recipient. Research suggests that bullies are just as likely to be female as male and that bullying happens equally to men and women. Version 1, March 2014 1 Bullying behaviour may include: • Setting of unachievable objectives and timescales • Insisting that the management way is the only correct way of doing things • Frequently ‘changing the goal posts’ • Setting of ‘trick’ problems • Public ‘dressings down’ whether justified or not • Continual nit-picking about minor issues • Asking individuals loaded questions about themselves • Continually making derogatory statements about an individual • Calling individuals by offensive names. Legitimate, reasonable and constructive criticism of a workers' performance or behaviour, or a reasonable instruction given to a worker in the course of their employment will not amount to bullying on their own. What is Harassment? Harassment is any unusual physical, verbal or non-verbal contact which has the purpose or effect of violating a person's dignity or creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment for them. It also includes treating someone less favourably because they have submitted or refused to submit to such behaviour in the past. Harassment may include, for example: • unwanted physical contact, including touching, pinching, probing, brushing past someone and more serious forms of physical or sexual assault; • unwelcome sexual advances or suggestive behaviour; • sending or displaying material that is pornographic or that some people may find offensive; • offensive or intimidating comments or gestures or insensitive jokes; • mocking, mimicking or belittling a persons' disability; • racist, sexist, homophobic or ageist jokes, or derogatory of stereotypical remarks about a particular ethnic or religious group or gender; • outing or threatening to out someone as gay, or lesbian; or • ignoring or shunning someone, for example, by deliberately excluding them from a conversation or workplace social activity A person may be harassed even if they were not the intended target . For example, a person may be harassed by racist jokes about a different ethnic group if they create an offensive environment. Version 1, March 2014 2 How do I raise my concerns? What are the first steps?Informal procedure Employees who are harassed should keep a written record of all incidents, including the date, time, nature of incident, the names of those involved and the names of any witnesses. They should ask for colleagues who have witnessed the harassment to provide written statements of what they have seen or heard, so that they can be provided as evidence. The Human Resources Group is available to give confidential support and advice. If possible, the person or persons carrying out the harassment should be told by the individual who is being harassed that the behaviour is offensive and unwanted and must stop. This can either be done by talking to the individual(s), or alternatively, writing a letter stating what happened, where and when. A colleague or a member of Human Resources Group can act as a witness when this statement is made. Alternatively, an appropriate Leader can speak to the alleged harasser. Whenever possible, any complaint of harassment should be made in the first instance to the person to whom they report or someone of a similar level. What can I do next? -Formal procedure Where informal methods fail, or where a more serious incident of harassment occurs, employees have the right to bring a formal complaint using the firm's Grievance procedure (see Grievance code of practice). The complaint should be made in writing, and where possible state: the identity of the harasser(s) • The nature of the harassment • Date(s) and time(s) when harassment has occurred • Names and witnesses to any incidents of harassment • Any action taken by the employee to stop the harassment. Employees may raise a complaint of harassment either with their Leader, a more senior member of the firm, or directly to the Human Resources Group. Where the complaint is raised initially with a Leader, the Leader should immediately involve the Human Resources Group. The Leader will arrange for a thorough investigation of the complaint. The investigation will be conducted by someone with no prior involvement in the complaint. The steps taken will be those set out in the Grievance procedure. As far as possible, confidentiality will be maintained throughout the investigation. Individuals not involved in the complaint or the investigation are not to be told about it. It may be necessary to interview witnesses to the incidents complained of, and if so the importance of confidentiality will be emphasized to Version 1, March 2014 3 them. Where the complaint is about a member of staff we may consider suspending them on full pay pending the outcome of the investigation. The investigator will also meet with the alleged harasser or bully to hear their account of events. They have the right to be told the details of the allegations against them so they can respond. Where your complaint is about someone other than an employee, such as a contractor, customer, supplier or visitor, we will consider what action may be appropriate to protect you and anyone else involved pending the outcome of the investigation, bearing in mind the reasonable needs of the firm and the rights of that person. Once the investigation is completed, the Leader who initiated the investigation will decide, on the strength of the findings, the appropriate action to be taken. This may include disciplinary action, in which case the Conduct & Performance code of practice and disciplinary procedure will apply. A meeting will be arranged with you to discuss the outcome of your complaint and what action, if any, should be taken. You have the right to bring a colleague to the meeting, whether or not the complaint is upheld. We will consider how best to manage the ongoing working relationship between you and the alleged harasser or bully. This may include some form of mediation or counselling, or change to the duties, working location or reporting lines of both parties. Where the harasser or bully is a third party, appropriate action might include putting up signs setting out acceptable and unacceptable behaviour, speaking or writing to the person about their behaviour or in very serious cases, banning them from the premises. As a general principle, the decision whether to progress a complaint is up to you. However, Arup has a duty to protect all staff and may pursue the matter independently if we consider it appropriate to do so. Any malicious complaint which, on investigation, is shown to be without foundation, will be treated as a disciplinary matter no less serious than an act of harassment. If the complainant or the alleged harasser is dissatisfied with the outcome of the procedure then he or she may appeal, (see appeals procedure in the Grievance Procedure and/or Conduct & Performance code of practice). What are the roles in this process? Leaders • Any Leader who receives a complaint of harassment must arrange for an investigation of the complaint or incident and ensure that the problem is resolved as Version 1, March 2014 4 quickly as possible, making sure that appropriate action is taken to ensure compliance with the code of practice. Failure to take corrective action may in itself be treated as a disciplinary offence. • All Leaders have a duty to establish and maintain a working environment free from harassment and should be observant and alert to the kind of behaviour which might indicate that a problem exists. Leaders should also be prepared to deal with any inappropriate behaviour even if it has not been complained about. • Leaders are responsible for notifying the Human Resources Group when a formal case is raised, and must keep the Human Resources Group informed and involved as necessary, throughout the process. • Leaders are responsible for ensuring that employees for whom they are responsible have knowledge of and understanding of the firm's code of practice. Human Resources Group • The Human Resources Group will assist Leaders and employees with advice and guidance involved in the use of this code of practice and will keep it under review. • The Human Resources Group will also arrange for employees who request it to have access to advice from trained counsellors, eg from the firm’s Employee Assistance Programme. Employees • All employees must comply with this policy and take steps to ensure that harassment does not occur. • Any employee who feels bullied should feel confident that complaints will be taken seriously and dealt with in confidence • Any employee who is made aware of harassment by a colleague must respect the confidence of the parties involved and should encourage the person being harassed to consider using the correct procedure. • If an employee believes that a colleague is being harassed and that they have not complained about it, then it is the employee's duty to report the harassment of the colleague to their Leader or to the Human Resources Group. • Employees who make complaints or who participate in good faith in any investigation conducted under this policy must not suffer any form of retaliation or victimisation as a result. If you believe you have suffered any such treatment you should inform the Human Resources Group. If the matter is not remedied you should file it formally using the firm's Grievance Procedure. Anyone found to have retaliated against or victimised someone for making a complaint or assisting in good faith with an investigation under this procedure will be subject to disciplinary action under the firm's Disciplinary Procedure. Version 1, March 2014 5 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 5 Attachment: −− Global Health & Safety Policy & OHSAS 18001:2007 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 6 Attachment: −− UKMEA Regional Diversity Strategy Vision Introduction Where are we now Going forward Contacts rsity and tegy 2015-2017 Page 12 Vision Introduction Where are we now Going forward Contacts nd inclusion strategy 2015-2017 . cruits, retains kforce that , no matter re proud to ir own skin. This Report ters. novation Introduction Where are we now? Going Forward out ensuring Creating a culture Diversity and Our strategy of inclusion inclusion at Arup 2015-2017 rse e Arup nclusive and to be Learn more + Learn more + Learn more + on. Page 13 Vision Introduction Where are we now Going forward Contacts We want our people to feel valued and for individuals for reasons related to business eed, it is part of the very this they need to be treated with dignity interests, as well as for moral and social rup: and respect. And yet we know this doesn’t reasons. It’s the right thing to do. man or woman is always happen and sometimes barriers In taking the widest possible view of exist which prevent everyone from being oing his or her inclusion and diversity, going beyond treated equally. abilities, age, ethnicity, religion, sexual because they are To make sure this happens, we have created orientation, gender identity and expression, e in the general this diversity and inclusion strategy; a plan we will create an environment that of action with key deliverables to keep us welcomes and delights in the richness of on track. Its overriding principle is a simple our differences and in which all can thrive. one: people should be appreciated as Diversity and inclusion: The business case The benefits that a diverse and inclusive organisation can bring include: • The ability to recruit, retain and • More opportunities for innovation; progress the best talent. Research diversity and inclusion embedded shows that employees are 20% more within teams discourages ‘group likely to stay at a company where think’ difference and inclusion co-exist 1 • Reputation; meeting client and • An impact on our bottom line. wider stakeholder expectations; Companies with inclusive cultures are demonstrating we know diversity & 45% more likely to have improved inclusion is not just a ‘nice to have’ market share, and 70% more likely to • Alignment with our values; increasing have captured a new market 2 staff satisfaction. • Improvement in our leadership and decision making capability 1 The Corporate Executive board Global Labour Market survey of 18,500 employees 2 The Centre of Talent Innovation (2013) Study looks at 75 corporations, across 192 countries covering 6 million employees Page 14 Vision Introduction Where are we now Going forward Contacts Globally Our Chairman, ion at Arup Greg Hodkinson is the Global with the support, dedication Diversity and includes our UKMEA Board, Inclusion roup members, who all devote Champion. essential Regionally for ng At a regional level, the UKMEA Board is committed to ensuring that Arup provides a work environment based on fairness, respect and merit, which embraces difference and enables The Steering Group talented people to flourish. As part of the new leadership arrangements, membership of the UKMEA Diversity Steering group has been refreshed. In addition to members from a wide range of teams and disciplines, the group now has Vicky Evans, Comms representatives from the Middle East Martin Radley Diversity & UKMEA Diversity Inclusion and Southern African offices. Programme & Inclusion Champion Manager Page 15 Vision Introduction Where are we now Going forward Contacts “We need more transparency why was “Recruitment outreach and engagement someone recruited or promoted? This lets with schools is important. If we’re (rightly) other people see what skills are required hiring on merit we can only make a to ‘make it’ whilst also celebrating the difference by improving diversity in individual concerned” our pool of applicants” 017 “Focus on all aspects of inclusion: “Awareness of one’s unconscious bias different backgrounds, sex, sexuality, for all colleagues (not just grades 7+)” ext two nationality, religion etc” ve even can play get a “We should definitely communicate the “We are generally good, but the spread numbers better. For example, would people is sporadic and there are some teams be surprised to find that the region with & team leaders that are far behind the the lowest percentage of Grade 9 women progress of others” is UKMEA?” “Inclusion (or exclusion) can be subtle. Meeting rooms are named after great “We need to improve the Arupians but there are no women or people of industry stereotype” different ethnicity. We should have a greater variety of faces!” Page 16 Vision Introduction Where are we now Going forward Contacts The strategy is based on seven principles which will shape our activities going forwards and is structured as follows: • Key principle e.g. informed and measured • What does this mean? provides an understanding of what the key principle means in practice • Details of previous and on-going activities to achieve the key principle. This helps us celebrate our successes so far • New activities to support the key principles • Measurement of our progress Progress will be reported quarterly to the UKMEA Region Board by the Steering Group. The strategy and the progress made will be communicated both internally and externally. lexible Connected & engaged Balanced Learn more + Learn more + Learn more + dustry leading No nonsense cruiter & employer communication Learn more + Learn more + Back: Employee owned Page 17 Vision Introduction Where are we now Going forward Contacts at does this mean? New activities We will ensure our people are informed about the importance of • Revise the current Inclusive Leadership Programme to ensure it diversity and inclusion at Arup, empowering people to lead in an applies current research around unconscious bias and inclusion. It inclusive way should also make attendance mandatory for all Grades 7-9 Ensure all of our people are informed about their own unconscious • Develop and deliver an unconscious bias awareness e-module, to be biases available for all staff. Collect and measure baseline diversity data to understand the • Undertake voluntary annual ‘Who Works at Arup?’ survey. Collate characteristics of our workforce. This will allow us to measure data on gender, age, ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability, caring improvement and showcase our successes responsibilities and flexible working arrangements, in line with the Equality Act 2010 Undertake a benchmarking exercise and adapt an appropriate quality standard to measure our performance and provide an objective view of • Meaningfully disclose the data, initially via the group leaders to our progress communicate to their groups, and then publish the data, as appropriate, internally and externally • Develop a process to track progress and encourage gradual vious and on-going activities improvement In May 2009 we created our Inclusive Leadership Programme. The • Seek out and implement a suitable benchmarking process / external aim was to give leaders the skills and knowledge to recognise that audit. Undertake benchmarking exercise to reflect all ‘equality everyone has unconscious bias, and to understand how to manage strands’ rather than just gender, or sexuality e.g. National Equality that bias. Since its inception 450 of our grades 7-9 have attended this Standard (or other appropriate quality standard) training, although attendance is voluntary In October 2012 an external consultant, Dr Helen Zarod, reviewed gender diversity and recommended areas for improvement which have Measurement since been implemented • New Inclusive Leadership Programme launched Arup was the first engineering firm to sign up to the Stonewall programme. We have been working closely with Stonewall to improve • % of leadership staff who have taken part in Inclusive Leadership our Workplace Equality Index results since joining in 2012, and our learning events current rating places us in the top 200 firms • % of staff who have accessed unconscious bias training • Report results from the Who works at Arup survey • Publish data • Report survey response rate • Report whether benchmarking has occurred and the results • Achievement of a level which accurately recognises the progress we Page 18 are making and where we need to go next Vision Introduction Where are we now Going forward Contacts What does this mean? • We will showcase and celebrate Arup’s flexible working policies which enable our people to seek different working arrangements during their careers Previous and on-going activities • Successful flexible working stories are showcased on the intranet. These will continue with a spread of grades, cultures and genders represented New activities • Include flexible working as part of appraisal discussions • Monitor uptake of flexible working arrangements Measurement • Requirement introduced successfully into the appraisal system • Publish data Page 19 Vision Introduction Where are we now Going forward Contacts at does this mean? We will promote an inclusive and fair culture where people feel • Review reasons for staff leaving after two years at Arup (data respected, engaged, can be themselves and can speak out. This way, recorded by HR), and publish results on the intranet. Dependent on we will retain talent results, commission specific separate research Provide staff with the opportunity to be connected and engaged with • Undertake progress interviews for new staff recruited at Grade 7-9 networks and form relationships that support them as individuals in to ensure they are aware of Arup’s inclusion policies contributing to Arup’s success • Investigate the possibility of undertaking exit interviews, six months after exit and feedback to business leaders. vious and on-going activities Our three Connect networks (Connect Cultures, Out and Women) Measurement celebrate our diversity and promote inclusion through regular events, workshops and speakers • Hold three ‘external’ events per year per Connect Group and one combined external Connect event • Report whether Connect Cultures has been established in Southern w activities Africa and the Middle East We will continue to support all Connect networks to host regular • Report whether additional disability group / network and family client and internal events focused on relevant and stimulating topics network has been established and scope required support, awareness and will encourage more cross-working between ‘Connect’ Groups. raising and training We will boost internal engagement and involvement with ‘Connect’ Groups and their events through more targeted communication • Report whether a review of staff leaving has taken place and if data has been made available Support the launch and operation of Connect Cultures in Southern Africa and Middle East • Report whether progress interviews are undertaken Launch a disability group / network (including a focus on Mental Health) (subject to demand) Launch a family network Page 20 Vision Introduction Where are we now Going forward Contacts hat does this mean? New activities We will work toward a balanced allocation of opportunities for all • Continue to address barriers which we believe are inhibiting entry and staff. We must ‘level the playing field’ and target support towards progression in the firm. Review and bolster mentoring programme those groups who are currently underrepresented in leadership for all staff, initially targeting those from minority backgrounds • Continue to challenge promotions on basis of diversity and inclusion revious and on-going activities • Increase Board membership to include person(s) from wider Connect Out has developed a mentoring scheme which launched inclusive pool in August 2013. This scheme in on-going. A mentoring scheme • Provide access to bespoke training materials that support career specifically for women, to provide women at Arup with female development at Arup. Work with providers to ensure materials are mentors was successfully piloted in the Campus office and is available and suitable for all staff about to launch in Scotland and the North East Diversity and inclusion is a standing agenda item on UKMEA board meetings Measurement Diversity and inclusion is a standing agenda item at group reviews • Mentoring taking place throughout the firm Policies and guidance relating to the promotion process have been • % of female and other minority leaders in a mentoring relationship communicated and published on the HR intranet homepage • % of female and minority Board members • % of female and minority staff • % of female and minority staff in leadership roles (Grades 7-9) • Corporate membership of three organisations which provide access to bespoke career development training Page 21 Vision Introduction Where are we now Going forward Contacts hat does this mean? We will apply transparent and merit-based processes to advertise, • In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code provisions, disclose appoint and promote the best people to new roles meaningful information about the Board appointment process and how we address diversity in the company’s Annual Corporate Report, Leaders will be accountable for implementing positive action and including a description of the search and nominations process 5 involving their teams to ensure a culture that celebrates diversity • Each group and business to have an inclusion plan and leaders' performance to be measured against delivery of the plan as part revious and ongoing activities of appraisal All role descriptions are posted on Arup News for internal and external recruitments Measurement Where certain roles/vacancies are not appropriate for open posting and • Whether Arup is signed up to Think, Act, Report enrolment, the UKMEA Region Board takes on responsibilities for reviewing diversity issues • If formalised role descriptions and terms of reference are published on the intranet ew activities • Whether portfolio role vacancies and role descriptions are available on the intranet Sign up to and champion the principles in Think, Act, Report to drive greater transparency on gender and wider diversity employment issues • Nomination process for UKMEA Board membership to be reviewed for transparency Formalise and publish role descriptions and terms of reference for leadership roles at office, region and for practice leadership • Disclosure of Board appointment process in annual corporate report Advertise portfolio role vacancies and accompanying role descriptions • Requirement introduced successfully into the appraisal system on the intranet • % of leadership staff with positive diversity and inclusion feedback Nomination for UKMEA Board membership to be more transparent in their appraisal 5 Page 22 In line with Davies Report (2014) Recommendation 5 Vision Introduction Where are we now Going forward Contacts mployer hat does this mean? We want to attract and recruit the widest range of talent available • As part of graduate recruitment selection, review removing the and positively influence the career choices of the next generation – following information as part of application review: particularly those who may not traditionally apply to work at Arup • Gender We want to lead by example by promoting an increased focus and adoption of diversity and inclusion to the wider industry • Address • Name revious and ongoing activity • School We have relationships with a number of schools and universities This will remove any biases which may influence selection process. which traditionally feed into our graduate streams. However, to • Up-skill HR and interviewers to understand specific needs for ensure we are fully fishing from the widest pool of talent, a refresh recruitment of different equality strands e.g. gender, ethnicity etc of these schools and universities is required Continue engagement with current industry partners such as WISE, Stonewall, Association of Black Engineers, WES, Royal Academy Measurement of Engineering, RICS etc to ensure that collaborations continue to • Number of Arup staff attending education and awareness raising advance the diversity and inclusion agenda at schools • Whether removing information from CVs prior to selection ew activities review has any positive effect Promote Arup staff involvement with agencies such as Education • Tailored diversity awareness training provided to HR to ensure and Employers to raise awareness of Arup as a diverse employer specific recruitment needs understood and stimulate pipeline. This includes holding lunchtime sessions, signposting to the website and celebration of Arup staff attendance at schools Page 23 Vision Introduction Where are we now Going forward Contacts hat does this mean? We want to use effective communication to articulate the importance • Inclusive Attraction and Recruitment – improving our communication of diversity and inclusion at Arup, to both staff and clients to potential recruits We must provide access to the latest thinking around the diversity and • Similar to Arup Thoughts, release regular ‘debunking the myths’ inclusion agenda and debunk myths papers on the diversity and inclusion intranet page as a way of reporting progress and stimulating discussion e.g. ‘Why do people leave Arup?’, ‘How many women do we have at senior level? Why is revious and on-going activities there an imbalance?’, ‘Why are there not more black leaders in Arup?’ There is a diversity intranet site with links to relevant policies, strategies and information on the Connect networks Measurement There is a diversity and inclusion section on the bid support intranet • Intranet site to be updated regularly (at least every 2 months) page • Review of bid support material to have taken place by July 2015 • Review of internet pages relating to diversity and inclusion ew activities • Report whether papers have been written and uploaded Refresh diversity intranet pages to ensure they are up-to-date Undertake a review of current bid support material available to ensure it meets procurement standards. This will include communicating bid winning/losing information on a regular basis Page 24 Vision Introduction Where are we now Going forward Contacts iversity and Inclusion Programme Manager: icky.Evans@arup.com egion Chair: lan.Belfield@arup.com www.arup.com We shape a better world Page 25 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 7 Attachment: −− Global Conduct and Performance Code of Practice Global code of practice Conduct & Performance Conduct & Performance : code of practice Purpose Arup maintains a Conduct & Performance code of practice to uphold the professional standards expected from all its members. The code of practice provides a framework for guidance to members of the firm whose conduct and/or performance does not fulfil the firm’s expectations. It also provides guidance to members who manage such issues. The aim of the supporting disciplinary procedure is to provide a uniform, fair and responsive means of addressing issues of unsatisfactory conduct and/or performance. CODE OF PRACTICE All members of Arup are expected to act in a professional and competent manner in all aspects of their work. In support of this, the firm's role shall, wherever practicable, be to give advice and guidance in accordance with its disciplinary procedure. Effective date 1 May 2001 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide (but see also section 1 for further details). Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 GCP10101 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 8 Attachment: −− Global Grievance Code of Practice −− UK Grievance Procedure Global code of practice Grievance Grievance : code of practice Purpose The purpose of a grievance code of practice is to assist the employee in seeking fair, unbiased redress of an employment-related issue. It provides an explicit framework in which employment-related problems can be discussed and addressed. It does not apply to matters related to the outcome of disciplinary action, as there is a separate procedure for this. CODE OF PRACTICE Arup believes that all its members should have the opportunity to discuss any matter of concern with the person to whom they report. In most cases employment related matters are likely to be resolved informally in this way. If, however, the outcome of informal discussions is unsatisfactory then the issue can be addressed through the grievance procedure. Effective date 1 May 2001 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide. Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 GCP10501 UK procedure Grievance Grievance : UK procedure The framework outlined below is intended to be fair. It is designed to give you the appropriate opportunity to have your personal employment-related concerns heard within Arup. Your concern ( grievance ) will be investigated thoroughly, and taken seriously, and you will be informed of the outcome. 1 Initial contact You should always be able to talk in the first instance to the person to whom you report if you have a concern about an aspect of your employment with the partnership. If you do not feel it is appropriate, because of the nature of your concern, to talk to the person to whom you report you will have the facility to contact your next level of management, in which case you should contact your representative from the Human Resources Group for guidance. In the case of members of the Human Resources Group, they should contact another nominated leader within the same Division in order to seek guidance on how to proceed. Any discussion you have will be confidential between the people involved unless you specify otherwise. The matter may be resolved at the time of the discussion, or the person to whom you report may need to check information. In any event, it is intended that you are notified of the outcome of your discussions within 10 working days. The outcome of the discussion will take into account all the facts and be sensibly and carefully considered. If you are unhappy with the decision reached, you may raise the concern again, formally. 2 Raising a concern formally You should submit a written summary of your concern to the person to whom you report. A meeting will be arranged within 10 working days, subject to postponement by mutual agreement to discuss the issue and attempt to resolve the matter. If the matter is not dealt with to your satisfaction then an appeal may be made, in writing, to the next level of management within five working days of receipt of the original decision. Should this person be a Divisional Director, it shall be treated as the final stage of the procedure. If you remain dissatisfied with the decision on appeal then a further appeal may be made, in writing, within 10 working days to the next level of management. This will be the final stage of the procedure and no further appeal will be possible. 3 Guidelines At each stage of the formal procedure you may be accompanied by a colleague from within Arup and you should notify the person to whom you report if you intend to do this. Although this procedure may be used to pursue an allegation of sexual harassment there is a separate procedure designed specifically for this which you may prefer to use. 1/2 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 LP105U01 UK procedure Grievance Every effort will be made to give you a written explanation of the decision about your grievance within 10 working days, subject to postponement by mutual agreement. 4 The Responsibility of the Human Resources Group The Human Resources Group are available to provide advice and guidance to all members involved in the use of this code of practice. The Leadership is responsible for notifying Human Resources when a formal grievance is raised, and for keeping Human Resources informed, and involved as necessary, throughout the process. A Human Resources representative will attend any meetings addressing an appeal. In the case of appeals from members of the Human Resources Group, any meeting will be attended by a member of the leadership team within the same Division. 2/2 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 9 Attachment: −− Global Diversity & Inclusion Code of Practice −− UK Equal Opportunities Procedure Global Code of Practice Page 1 of 1 Diversity and Inclusion: Code of Practice CODE OF PRACTICE As a global organisation, we recognise and respect each others’ differences and strive to build a working environment where our different values and perspectives are actively harnessed to create the best solutions for our equally diverse client base. We will work to ensure that everyone feels their contribution is valued and their successes are celebrated through our processes and through our training and development. The diversity and inclusiveness of our workforce is supported by our ethics on Sustainability and Human Rights. Our employment and recruitment practices will adhere to, and strive to exceed, local legislation wherever we work in the world. Arup’s principles of Diversity and Inclusion extend to our clients, our suppliers and all those with whom we choose to work. Purpose Arup recognises that to produce work of high quality, to maintain our reputation for innovation and creativity and to understand and delight our clients we need to fully embrace the skills, talents and knowledge that only a diverse workforce can deliver. Effective Date 1 January 2009 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide, our applicants and all those with whom we have contact with through our working lives. Global Human Resources Adapted 2009 UK procedure Equal opportunities Equal opportunities : local procedure for the UK 1 Introduction We must all be committed to ensuring that employment practices are applied fairly and equally, unless directed otherwise by law. The Human Resources Group will monitor our employment policies and practices to ensure that they conform to relevant legislation, remain free from bias and enable us all to take advantage fully of available opportunities. The Human Resources Group will take action to redress any examples of discriminatory employment practices, direct or indirect. Any such examples within Arup should be brought to the attention of the Human Resources Group. 2 Procedures 2.1 Recruitment Our equal opportunities code of practice applies equally to all recruitment activities, both internally and externally. Those involved in the recruitment process must be familiar with the code of practice and its proper implementation. Information and training in support of this code of practice are available; each Arup employee is responsible for obtaining these as necessary. The selection process shall be based on a job description which relates to the particular experience, knowledge and skills that are needed for the safe and effective performance of the job. In the event of any complaint or criticism being made by any job applicant in relation to the application of the code of practice, the firm's grievance procedure is to be followed. 2.2 Training Training is available to all members of Arup in accordance with our training code of practice. Any selection criteria applied to training opportunities will take full account of this equal opportunities code of practice. 2.3 Career development and promotion The selection criteria for promotion and other career development opportunities within Arup will consider the relevant qualifications, experience and requirements that are needed for the safe and effective performance of the job and shall take full account of this equal opportunities code of practice. 2.4 Pay Your salary and benefits will take account of your experience, knowledge and skills, in accordance with the spirit of this equal opportunities code of practice. 2.5 Selection for redundancy If job functions become redundant, the selection process shall take full account of this equal opportunities code of practice. The firm will ensure that any criteria applicable from time to time to the selection for redundancy are not directly or indirectly in conflict with this code of practice. 1/2 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 LP103U01 UK procedure Equal opportunities Those responsible for selecting and informing employees of redundancy must be familiar with the equal opportunities code of practice and its proper implementation. Information and training in support of this code of practice are available; each employee is responsible for obtaining these as necessary. 2.6 Grievance If you believe you have not been treated equitably in accordance with this code of practice, you should refer to the firm's grievance procedure for details of action that may be taken. If the grievance issue relates to the behaviour or actions of the person to whom you report or if you are not comfortable talking to the person to whom you report because of the nature of the grievance eg sex discrimination, the matter may be raised instead with an alternative member of Arup. This should be either a member of the Human Resources Group or another member of Arup who is at least as senior as the person to whom you report. In this event, the manager approached should notify the Human Resources Group directly that a grievance has been raised. All grievance matters raised will be treated confidentially. 2.7 Monitoring Both members of Arup and job applicants are expected to provide certain reasonable personal data in order to ensure that our policies and employment practices are applied equitably throughout the firm. Such information will be collected when you apply when you become a member of the firm, and from time to time, as requested. Any such information collected will be treated confidentially and will only be used for the purpose of monitoring whether our practices meet the aims stated in this code. 3 Responsibility 3.1 Every member of Arup has a responsibility to uphold our equal opportunities code of practice in order to ensure that everyone with whom we work is treated equally and honourably. 3.2 Leaders have a particular responsibility to ensure that grievances are investigated, that confidentiality is maintained and that appropriate action is taken. 3.3 The Human Resources Group has a particular responsibility to ensure that the firm's employment practices do not discriminate, directly or indirectly, against its members and job applicants. It will do this by monitoring procedures and providing a framework, which facilitates access to opportunities. The Human Resources Group will also support the grievance procedure. 3.4 The firm takes this commitment very seriously. Any acts of discrimination by its members will result in disciplinary action, including termination of employment if appropriate, in accordance with the firm's disciplinary procedure. 2/2 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 10 Attachment: −− Sustainability Policy Statement United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 11 Attachment: −− Sustainable Procurement Vision Statement United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 12 Attachment: −− Regional Sustainability Plan Internal Use Only UKMEA REGION SUSTAINABILITY PLAN 2014-15 Version Contents 2 2 A note from the Region Board 3 Our Plan at a glance 5 Our Business 7 Our People 9 Our Facilities 11 Our External Relationships 13 Further information Internal Use Only A note from the Region Board The UKMEA Region’s mission is: To shape a better world. Arup designs with a social purpose. We shape a sustainable, inspiring environment that promotes well-being through being safer, healthier and having greater amenity for its inhabitants. The UKMEA Region’s vision is: Our independence and purpose drive us to bravely push boundaries, to create better solutions for our clients, to vigorously break down barriers to collaboration. Integrating our abilities we respond imaginatively to the changing needs of the world. The values of sustainability are at the heart of more engaged with the sustainability agenda. Arup; they are not only part of our mission and The programme builds on the work of a team vision but part of everything we do on a dayof activists and includes internal talks and by-day basis. workshops, including “show and tell” sessions. Arup’s people are passionate about this agenda. This Region Sustainability Plan [“the Plan”] They have extraordinary ideas and demonstrate responds to the Arup Group Sustainability a deeply embedded culture of sharing. They Strategy. It reflects increasingly active rightly have high expectations, coupled with engagement by the UKMEA Board with the energy and commitment. To stay ahead, we sustainability agenda. The aim is to stimulate need to integrate and optimise our abilities, renewed activity and confidence at a time when thereby meeting the aspirations of our staff, the countries, clients and communities in which and leading our clients to bold solutions by we operate need our skills more than ever. showing what is possible. Ultimately we must embed sustainability into everything we do and this plan is a key part. In 2014/15 we are embedding our internal programme entitled “Resilience and Legacy” We welcome your views on this plan and through which we hope staff will become even where and how we can do better. Alan Belfield Ian Rogers UKMEA Region Chair UKMEA Sustainability Director Page | 2 Internal Use Only Our Plan at a glance Our Plan at a glance Governance April 2014 to March 2015 We are all responsible for achieving our This Plan is for one year and will be mission and vision. updated in April 2015. The UKMEA Board is accountable for our Plan and is updated on Four aspects implementation bi-monthly by Ian The Plan is presented in four parts that Rogers. The Board also looks critically represent the scope of our operations: to ensure global initiatives [indicated by  Business ‘~’] are delivered in the Region.  People  Facilities  External Relationships Deciding what is included Many issues inform how and where we can shape a better world. There are many initiatives already in place across the Region. These related initiatives are referenced throughout. This Plan complements existing initiatives and responds to the Region commitments noted in the Arup Group Sustainability Strategy, the views of staff and our priorities for the year. Global Sustainability Policy & Sustainability Strategy Region Sustainability Plan Region Strategy UR PLAN AT A Page | 3 Internal Use Only Our Plan at a glance Summary Objectives & Targets, Management Actions & KPIs ~ indicates Region activity required in the Group Sustainability Strategy Our Business Pages 5-6 ~ Ensure client-facing staff have sustainability Resilience & Legacy Programme KPIs skills and knowledge of at least 30 events  Recruits reporting ~ Capture and communicate sustainability Research possible approaches to strong link between benefits of Arup projects measure the sustainability impact Arup and sustainability of our projects and share with the  Reputation Institute business Survey Understand our key client’s views on Research our top 10 clients’  Working at Arup sustainability drivers and priorities in Survey sustainability and communicate findings to the business Monitor use of Sensitive Project Guidelines Implement Sensitive Projects Guidelines through AMS Our People Pages 7-8 ~ Provide staff sustainability awareness Continue to implement training KPIs briefings in induction and regular information programmes including:  Sustainability training on best practice  New starters induction hours  Designing Sustainable ~ 2 hours sustainability training per employee Buildings e-learning per year programme  Infrastructure and Buildings Leaders Sustainability Workshop Our Facilities Pages 9-10 ~ Reduce consumption of environmental Implement Building Improvement KPIs resources and implement Carbon Programme  Staff in offices with Management and Reduction Plan management system to Communicate performance ISO 14001 ~ Reduce carbon emissions to 3tCO2e per regularly to staff  GHG emissions employee or less  Paper consumption Update Sustainable Procurement  Energy consumption ~ Reduce total paper consumption by 15% Plan  Waste generation  Waste recycled  Water use ~ Implement and maintain ISO14001 On-going AMS implementation ~ 99% region ISO14001 certified & legal compliance monitored 100% of resource data reported Monitor via Credit 360 Our External Relationships Pages 11-12 Deliver equivalent of 1.5hrs per head of staff Review programme, partnerships KPIs on pro-bono engagement (paid staff time) and further opportunities  Staff participation in Increase staff community engagement Communicate opportunities to community engagement participation levels to 12% staff  Hours per head of staff Understand the outcomes of our donations of Implement arrangements to on pro-bono and cash and time capture the outcomes of our voluntary engagement community engagement programme Review our external partnerships around Review and consider sustainability leadership opportunities for greater synergy and leverage of impact across the Region Page | 4 Internal Use Only Our Business OUR BUSINESS By harnessing and integrating our broad service base and by communicating in the client’s language, we aim to become the consultant of choice for forward-thinking clients. To do this we must ensure we have insightful Staff across all grades need to feel empowered to understanding and knowledge to communicate with make a difference on their projects – from clients. Our project leaders must engage with clients identifying opportunities and risks for a client, to to understand their drivers. understanding Arup’s services and applying lessons learnt. 10,000 projects globally at any one time 4,000 UKMEA staff talking with clients Thousands of opportunities to create change Context Risks Our investment activities seek to understand what We must not allow a short term financial focus to our clients need today and in the future, and prepare crowd out longer term decision making. There may us to address them. The Arup Management System be a temptation to assume that we are doing enough encourages us to place customer satisfaction, already. We should learn to recognise potentially quality, environmental improvement and attention sensitive projects and take related decisions in a to health and safety at the heart of our projects. But manner which is transparent and has due regard to how comfortable are we that we understand the longer term reputational implications. opportunities and the services we can offer, and have the appropriate language to talk to clients Priorities about them? Our first priority for the year is to raise staff comfort levels to talk and deliver around project Opportunities sustainability. Our second priority is to enhance If we embrace the sustainability agenda we will be staff awareness around sustainability at project bid prepared for the challenges of the 21st Century, stage. We should consider if our projects and clients giving priority in our business to the external resonate with our values and interests; do they have drivers which our clients will experience. We have sensitivities that pose reputational risks? Finally we the opportunity to position ourselves as the wish to better capture how we shape a better world, consultant of choice for forward-thinking clients. by understanding the sustainability outcomes of our involvement with clients on projects. Page | 5 Internal Use Only Our Business Our Business priorities & action plan ~ indicates Region activity required in the Group Sustainability Strategy OBJECTIVES & TARGETS MANAGEMENT ACTIONS LEAD ~ Ensure that client-facing staff  Continue to implement the Resilience and Legacy UKMEA have necessary skills and programme to provide at least 30 sustainability events Sustainability knowledge to engage clients on to staff across the Region to raise broad, contextual Director sustainability in early project awareness and share project knowledge including: stages  Travelling with Vision external speaker talks  Show & Tell project events in each SubRegion  Internal talks in each Sub-Region  Capture and communicate the presentations and discussions, and attendance levels where practical ~ Capture and communicate the  Research possible approaches to quantitatively measure UKMEA sustainability benefits that are the sustainability impact of our projects Sustainability delivered by Arup through our Director projects Understand our key clients’ views  Research our top 10 clients’ drivers and priorities in UKMEA on sustainability sustainability Sustainability  Share findings across the business, particularly to Director Region Account Managers Monitor use on all relevant  Sensitive Projects Guidelines implemented through Chief projects of the Sensitive Project AMS and Bid Support Operating Guidelines during the Decision to Officer Proceed and Bid Review process Key Performance Indicators  Recruits reporting a strong link between the Arup brand and sustainability (%)  Reputation Institute UK Survey (position) 1  Working at Arup Survey (% respondents agreeing/strongly agreeing with statements) o Arup is committed to putting sustainability at the heart of its projects o I understand my responsibilities with regards to sustainability with clients and generally in the workplace o I have access to the necessary skills and knowledge to apply sustainability to my everyday work Other indicators collated centrally by the Region for Global reporting  ~ Profit (% turnover)  ~ Investment in research, development, training and innovation  ~ Cash at bank (weeks of costs, before profit share)  ~ Repeat clients Related initiatives Strategy Region Strategy covering investment in sustainability related services including energy strategy, renewables, building retrofit, water business Management system Arup Management System covers management of environmental impacts, health & safety and quality Sensitive Projects Policy and Guidelines for discussion at new project bid stage Sustainable Event Guidelines to help organise a well-managed and sustainable event Sustainability & Environmental Management FAQs 1 http://www.reputationinstitute.com/ Page | 6 Internal Use Only Our People OUR PEOPLE We aim to give our staff the skills they need to engage with clients, and inspire them to embrace the sustainability agenda by building on their curiosity, enthusiasm and sense of purpose. Training in the broad issues around sustainability, we then need the skills to engage further and coupled with leadership development, is connect our specialists to clients in a way which vital. Once we understand our clients’ needs, delivers value. I Context Risks There is enormous staff interest in the sustainability Sustainability requirements feature across many job agenda and significant informal activity across the positions and projects, reflecting the maturity of the seven sub-regions in which we operate. Our staff topic and creating opportunities for all. At the same need to recognise where personal development time the commercial constraints are tougher than would better equip them to respond to the agenda ever. We must continue to provide marketand understand the opportunities to do so. appropriate opportunities to retain and develop our staff. Opportunities By improving the skills of our staff we can generate Priorities renewed levels of enthusiasm and activity. This This year we will work across the Region to create a should positively impact morale through a greater greater understanding and awareness by sense that we are living the firm’s values. communicating what sustainability means to UKMEA and how we apply this to what we do. We will focus on training staff, particularly project and client facing staff on sustainability issues related to their profession. Page | 7 Internal Use Only Our People Our People priorities & action plan ~ indicates Region activity required in the Group Sustainability Strategy OBJECTIVES & TARGETS MANAGEMENT ACTIONS LEAD ~ Include sustainability  Continue to implement training programmes UKMEA awareness briefings in staff including: Sustainability induction programmes and Director / inform staff about sustainability o New starter induction Operating Group initiatives and best practice o Designing Sustainable Buildings eLeaders regularly learning programme o Infrastructure and Buildings Leaders ~ 2 hours sustainability training Sustainability Workshop per employee2 per year Key Performance Indicators  ~ Sustainability training (hours/employee/year) Other indicators collated centrally by the Region for Global reporting  ~ Women in management positions3 (%)  ~ Managerial staff completing Diversity and Inclusivity training (%) Related initiatives Development and Training ~ Global Sustainability action: Develop pathway(s) for sustainability training, outlining relevant training for each discipline and grade, from ‘awareness’ to ‘advanced’ Sustainability Awareness Film provides a foundation platform for sustainability awareness Designing Sustainable Buildings e-learning modules Sustainability Skills Network Embedding Sustainability SusNet Sustainability Skills Network Early Career Group facilitates dialogue between the UKMEA Board and early career staff Diversity ~ Global Sustainability Target: At least 18% of management positions (grades7-9) occupied by women. UKMEA target: 20% ~ Global Sustainability Target: 40% of managerial staff completed diversity and inclusion training Diversity Strategy is split into four focus areas: leadership, people, organisation and external relationships Inclusive Leadership Programme developed for Arup leaders in collaboration with consultants Pearn Kandola Connect Women set up by the UKMEA Diversity Steering Group to encourage and improve opportunities for women in Arup Connect Out (LGBT) is managed by a committee of volunteers who represent different areas of the firm and meet regularly to plan activities and initiatives Connect Cultures is the cultural, religious, and ethnic diversity strand in the Arup UK-MEA’s family of diversity networks 2 Sustainability Training includes internal and external training lasting at least 30 minutes and recorded e.g. in TAPS 3 Grades 7-9 Page | 8 Internal Use Only Our Facilities OUR FACILITIES We need to be confident that we operate from buildings we can feel proud of, honest enough to admit where there are shortcomings in our facilities and committed to addressing these. For Arup, “walking the talk” is a matter of credibility. To do this we must ensure we understand the should not result in inertia however. we must seek sustainability impact of our office space, the to prioritise improvement interventions based on the potential opportunities to reduce this impact, and potential scale of outcome, ease of implementation, the extent of our ability to deliver improvements. and commercial considerations. In many instances our space is leased and the scope for us to control changes is more limited; this ILTIES Context Risks Our facilities encompass not just the offices we Our space needs are fluid and our space leasing and inhabit and from which we do our business, but the ownership status is complex; managing our goods and services we procure to support our sustainability impact in this context is a challenge, business activities. Staff and clients are curious and common to our peers and our clients. How we rise challenging about how our own space performs; are to this challenge and share our journey has we applying our skills to our own offices and able reputational implications. to demonstrate the value of our interventions? Priorities Opportunities Managing office energy use and business travel Our ability to talk knowledgeably and candidly carbon emissions will be our focus this year. about the sustainability performance of our offices and our improvement plans is increasingly important to our clients. Sharing this information with staff and visitors raises awareness of our skills and services; our office space is our shop window. Page | 9 Internal Use Only Our Facilities Our Facilities priorities & action plan ~ indicates Region activity required in the Group Sustainability Strategy OBJECTIVES & TARGETS MANAGEMENT ACTIONS LEAD ~ Reduce consumption of  Implement an Arup Building Improvement Initiative UKMEA environmental resources focussed initially on buildings where the majority of the Facilities (including energy, water and Region’s resources are used: Management paper) by o In the UK at no8, no13 and Campus; identify a. Encouraging resourceenergy conservation measures, investment and efficient behaviour by payback information, and plan delivery of agreed those who occupier our measures offices o Encourage other offices to review performance and b. Optimising our systems identify, implement and share improvements and building services for  Across the Region, communicate performance results to enhanced, efficient inform behaviour change performance o Share reported resource data with staff quarterly o Trial Cylon meter and green screen initiative in ~ Implement a Carbon energy intensive offices with a view to rolling out Management and Reduction across the Region Plan, including specific  Refresh the UK Sustainable Procurement Plan to ensure it is COO, UK measures for priority areas fit for purpose, objectives are clear and priorities current. Regional such as energy use and The social impacts of procurement will be a particular focus Purchasing, business travel of the review. Southern  As part of the above review, consider the opportunities to African ~ Achieve carbon reductions to include MEA in this Plan, share MEA experiences to inform Sustainability 3tCO2e per employee or less the UK Plan and review the value of a specific plan for the Taskforce, ME Middle East and for Africa. representative ~ Reduce total paper consumption by 15%4 ~ Implement and maintain ISO  Delivered via Arup Management System Arup 14001 certificated EMS for all  Review status of Region offices that are not yet certified and Management permanent Arup offices, and monitor status with AMS leads. System measure compliance with legislation and other requirements in all regions ~ 99% staff in offices with EMS to ISO14001 100% of resource use data  Report to Region Board quarterly UKMEA reported for the year  Report to sub-regions monthly Facilities Management Key Performance Indicators  ~ Staff in offices with management system to ISO 14001 (%)  ~ GHG emissions: building energy use, refrigerant loss and business travel (tCO 2e/employee/yr)  ~ Paper consumption (kg/employee/yr)  ~ Energy consumption (kWh/m2/yr)  Waste generated (kg per employee)  Waste recycled (%)  Annual water use (m3/FTE/year, m3/m2/year) Other indicators collated centrally by the Region for Global reporting  ~ Lost time accidents per 100,000 employees (hours) Related initiatives Arup Management System covers management of environmental impacts, health & safety and quality Office Travel Plans providing generic staff survey, templates and completed Plans Sustainable Procurement for embedding sustainability in purchasing goods and services Office Management Guidelines on what Arup is doing and what you can do in our offices Ovagreen network of volunteers coordinating environmental initiatives in our offices 4 compared with 2011-12 total paper use Page | 10 Internal Use Only Our External Relationships OUR EXTERNAL RELATIONSHIPS Sharing our knowledge and skills with the communities in which we work, and learning with our partners offers opportunities to our people and organisation, supporting skills development and improved quality of life. Having social purpose is a key value; to be an collectively shape a better world; they encourage us “organisation which is human and friendly5” is as and our industry to improve and share knowledge. important to staff now as it was to the company’s founder. We must be proud to talk about the impact of our work to reinforce the culture of community Relationships with partners recognised as engagement and build further interaction. sustainability leaders are important to help us Medical waste incinerator, Kumi District Hospital Uganda Context Risks We connect with communities geographically close Are we aware of opportunities to collaborate with to us, on initiatives of particular relevance to us and clients? They may be working with similar partners our skills. Our community engagement work is to us and with our peers. wide and varied, albeit with a focus through a select number of longer-term Strategic Partners; we We must be inclusive; maximising our efforts in engage by giving cash and pro-bono time, both this area by involving as many individuals as corporately and individually. possible. Staff across the region must have opportunity to participate wholeheartedly so we can Opportunities increase our impact. Our community engagement focuses where we can leverage optimum outcomes for our partners, where Priorities our skills can be developed and our staff experience Our efforts must be focussed and the outcomes of value from the positive contribution they have our input clear. Our priorities will first be to made. understand the impact of our community engagement time and donations, and secondly Our work with leaders in sustainability adds value encourage and enable participation from our staff. to our knowledge base and moves forward efforts to shape a better world through discussion and innovation. 5 The Key Speech – Sir Ove Arup 1970 Page | 11 Internal Use Only Our External Relationships Our External Relationships priorities & action plan ~ indicates Region activity required in the Group Sustainability Strategy OBJECTIVES & TARGETS MANAGEMENT ACTIONS LEAD Deliver equivalent of 1.5hrs per  Review pro-bono engagement to confirm it aligns with UKMEA head of staff on pro-bono our professional skills and expertise Community engagement (paid staff time)  Identify further opportunities to utilise our professional Engagement skills and expertise to support 3rd parties in activities Committee that align with our core values [CEC]  Review strategic partnerships once during the year  Encourage increased recording of paid and unpaid staff time spent on community engagement activities within the finance systems Increase staff participation  Review current participation levels across the Region UKMEA CEC levels in community  Implement communication programme to staff to clarify engagement activities up to the programme, its objectives and the available 12% of staff opportunities Understand the outcomes of our  Identify appropriate categories of ‘recipient’ and UKMEA CEC donations of cash and time outcomes from our community engagement work  Implement arrangements to capture information on the numbers and types of outcomes, focussing on significant initiatives Review and encourage the use  Establish current partnerships across the Region; the UKMEA of external partnerships around range of organisations, the commitments required of us Sustainability sustainability leadership and the outcomes sought Director  Consider opportunities for greater synergy in effort across the Region and opportunities to leverage greater impact Key Performance Indicators  % Staff participation in community engagement activities  Hours per head of staff on pro-bono-engagement (paid staff time)  Hours per head of staff on voluntary engagement (unpaid staff time) Other indicators collated centrally by the Region for Global reporting  ~ Charitable donations (£ to the nearest £000)  ~ Equivalent financial value of pro-bono engagement (£ to the nearest £000) Related initiatives ~ Global Sustainability Target: Charitable donations of 1% of management accounts profit Community Engagement Skills Network forum and knowledge point for all community engagement activities. Community Engagement Framework sets out guidance to direct our energies and donations to maximise longterm impacts Workplace Giving Scheme to support good a causes in a tax efficient way Page | 12 Key Contacts UKMEA Sustainability Director Ian Rogers UKMEA Sustainability Representative, Global Jonathan Ben-Ami Sustainability Team UKMEA Sustainability Manager Laura Ashley Our Business Operating Group Leaders: Buildings UK Sub Regions Justin Evans Buildings London Nigel Tonks Infrastructure UK Peter Chamley Consulting UK Jerome Frost Middle East Tony Lovell Southern Africa Damane Hlalele International Development Jo Da Silva Our People Head of Human Resources Di Thornhill Our Facilities COO Alain Marcetteau Property Management John Turzynski Facilities Management Debbie Rogers and Office Managers Our External Relationships Community Engagement Manager Alison Ball Feedback We welcome your views on this plan and where and how we can do better in implementing this plan. Please email Ian Rogers: ian.rogers@arup.com. Page | 13 We shape a better world United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 13 Attachment: −− Businesses Back Low Carbon Britain Letter to 10 Downing Street (printed in the Financial Times) United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2015 14 Attachment: −− Ethical Standards Policy −− Ethics Global Code of Practice / Procedure −− Ethical Decision Process Global Procedure Ethics ___________________________________________________________________________ Ethics: global procedure 1 Introduction ___________________________________________________________________________ The ethical values of integrity, openness and fairness apply to all the activities of a company. It is important not only to have standards, but also to demonstrate to clients, and under possible media scrutiny, that such standards are being met; there is considerable reputational risk associated with ethical failures at a time when anti-corruption issues are high on the media and wider business agenda. The construction sector has been identified as one of the most vulnerable, and global companies that are exposed to diverse local business practices are particularly at risk. The Board accepts responsibility to see that the values, principles and standards of business conduct underpinning how Arup operates are established and applied globally and in accordance with the Ethical Standards Policy has nominated a member of the Arup Group Board to be responsible for ethical business practices. This code of practice is intended to provide guidance on acceptable business practice to ensure that these values, principles and standards, are being met. Our behaviour will be judged against these standards. 2 Financial inducements: ___________________________________________________________________________ ≠ Arup will not, in any circumstances make or offer to make a payment or transfer anything of value for the purposes of improperly obtaining or retaining business or any other improper business advantage. ≠ Arup does not permit ‘facilitation’ payments (payments made to expedite or guarantee government services that we are legally entitled to e.g. connection of water, customs clearances) as these are prohibited in most countries. The only circumstances in which a facilitating payment should be authorised is where there is a real risk to your health and/or safety, or that of a third party, if such a payment is not made. In such event the payment should be reported so that actions can be taken as appropriate. 3 Using third parties (including agents) or working in a Joint Venture: ___________________________________________________________________________ ≠ Arup commits to undertaking appropriate due diligence on all agents and joint venture partners, and where appropriate, sub consultants that we work with. ≠ If we are required to use agents or representatives in particular countries they must have a clearly defined scope of service and agree to abide by the applicable laws and the terms of this policy as we may be liable for any financial inducements that our agent makes, or offers to make. ≠ Any agency or joint venture agreements that we enter into should require the partners to comply with all applicable anti-bribery laws and to comply with this policy. ≠ Arup should reserve the right under any such agency or joint venture agreements to terminate the arrangements if there is a breach of any applicable laws or of this policy. Arup Date: January 2012, Rev 3.1 Global Procedure Ethics ___________________________________________________________________________ 4 Gifts & Entertainment: ___________________________________________________________________________ ≠ You should exercise discretion in accepting or offering gifts or hospitality and in determining whether it is appropriate you should ensure you are aware of the circumstances and implications of the offer. ≠ Gifts and entertainment may be perceived as a financial inducement and should never be offered or accepted where the purpose is to gain an improper business advantage. ≠ Wherever possible, gifts from clients should be shared within the group that has been involved in the project. ≠ The following should be considered when determining if it is appropriate to accept or offer a gift or entertainment: ≠ Any gifts or entertainment should be of a modest value, occur occasionally and be appropriate in all the circumstances. If you would feel embarrassed that colleagues or anyone outside of Arup knew about the gift, it is likely to be inappropriate. ≠ The purpose of the hospitality must have a legitimate business purpose. It is not acceptable to accept hospitality if our business contact will not be present, and vice versa. ≠ It is important to consider if the recipient is allowed to accept gifts, government officials and public bodies may be unable to do so. ≠ As a general rule, we should only offer as gifts and entertainment what we would be comfortable to accept; and vice versa ≠ There are some gifts and entertainment which cannot be accepted without prior approval from your Group Leader; these include, but are not limited to money; hospitality that lasts more than one day and that involves meals and/or travel being paid for. 5 Competition: ___________________________________________________________________________ ≠ Competition, however fierce, should always be undertaken honestly and fairly. ≠ You must not use improper means to obtain information about our competitors. 6 Confidentiality: ___________________________________________________________________________ ≠ Information that is not in the public domain or that may be regarded as confidential in relation to Arup’s business or concerning any other organisation with which you, in the course of your work have had business dealings, must be kept confidential. ≠ You are reminded that there are laws in many countries that prohibit the use of confidential or unpublished information for insider trading on the stock market 7 Conduct & performance at work: ___________________________________________________________ ≠ You are expected to apply due skill, care and diligence in the services that you provide for clients. You should, at all times, work to the best of your ability. Arup Date: January 2012, Rev 3.1 Global Procedure Ethics ___________________________________________________________________________ ≠ It is your personal responsibility to acquaint yourself with the legal standards and restrictions that are applicable to the location in which you are working any to comply with these in all respects. ≠ Many of the professional bodies of which staff are members have ethical standards or Codes of Ethics that we individually, and corporately, must adhere to. ≠ If you are responsible for supervising others in Arup you should: ≠ Promote ethical behaviour and compliance with the policy ≠ Monitor compliance with the policy and enforce it as is necessary ≠ Support employees who ask questions or raise concerns in good faith 8 Client Activities: ___________________________________________________________________________ ≠ If you are reasonably concerned abut the ethical aspects of a particular project, you will be allowed to decline involvement following appropriate consultation and agreement with your Group Leader ≠ If you are reasonably concerned about ethical aspects of a client’s activities, you will be allowed to withdraw from working with that client after appropriate consultation and agreement with your Group Leader and the approval of the Region Chair. 9 Conflicts of Interest: ___________________________________________________________________________ ≠ Arup’s professional duty extends to not placing ourselves in a position where any conflict of interest is likely to arise. Where any potential conflict does arise, we must identify it and ensure it is appropriately addressed. Where we have more than one role on the same project for different clients: Follow the procedures for identifying all job opportunities through job application forms. Seek client agreement to the arrangements Implement effective information barriers between project teams so that teams are from separately located groups, led by separate project directors, and operating effectively as separate organisations. Further guidance on information barriers is available here ≠ You must not allow your private interests to influence your business judgment or decision making on behalf of Arup. ≠ You are not prohibited from owning shares in any of our client, partners, contractor’s or competitor’s businesses but it is essential that these business dealings do not raise a conflict of interest or give the appearance of doing so and you must comply with insider trading legislation at all times. ≠ Jobs/affiliations of close relatives may give rise to the appearance of a conflict of interest and this should be taken into account. ≠ You may be asked to serve on the board of directors or as trustees etc. of another organization and such roles can provide opportunities for personal development as well as building experience and relationships in new areas. Approval must be sought before such a post may be accepted in the following circumstances: Where the organization is commercial (as this is likely to increase the chance of a conflict arising); or Where there are, or may be perceived to be, concerns in respect of time and commitment, financial exposure or reputation Arup Date: January 2012, Rev 3.1 Global Procedure Ethics ___________________________________________________________________________ Approval should be obtained from the relevant Region Chair or, in the case of a Region Chair or Group Board member, by the Group Chair. 10 Political Contributions ___________________________________________________________________________ ≠ Arup funds or facilities may not be used to make political contributions to any organisation or candidate for public office. You are not restricted from contributing financially, from your own funds, to political campaigns or from participating, in your own time, in political campaigns. 11 Asking Questions & Raising Concerns: ___________________________________________________________________________ ≠ Arup encourages all staff to discuss any queries or concerns that relate to ethical business practices. ≠ If you have a concern or suspect that a breach of this policy has occurred or may occur, you have a duty to report these concerns. ≠ You may report suspected breaches of this policy anonymously, although you are encouraged to identify yourself so that a full investigation is possible. Investigation may not be possible or effective where reports are anonymous. Arup will conduct any investigations sensitively and will take all reasonable steps to keep your identity confidential but in some cases disclosure will be unavoidable. ≠ All potential breaches of this policy that are reported in good faith will be investigated responsibly. ≠ Arup will not tolerate any form of retaliation against individuals who report, in good faith, breaches or potential breaches of this policy. ≠ If you would like to ask a question or to report a suspected breach, you should: o Direct all queries are directed through your Group Leader in the first instance. o Where this is not possible or appropriate, employees may choose to contact the nominated member of the Arup Group Board 12 Disciplinary Procedure for breach: ___________________________________________________________________________ Failure to comply with the spirit or letter of this policy may result in significant reputational damage to Arup and breaches of the law, of any country, is a serious matter which may subject Arup and/or individual employees to civil and criminal penalties. In addition to the above, where individuals are in breach of the terms of their contract of employment they may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination. Approved by Group Board, October 2011 Arup Date: January 2012, Rev 3.1 Decisions lt and to help, we recommend you apply a 5-step approach to the ethical gs Reputation 2 4 Effects Options 3 5 ow your intended Consider how those affected Consider what others Consider the options for raising make you feel: will feel: will think: a concern: ret or remorse? • Duped, used, angry, annoyed • What would your family, • What is the best method for e to convince or disappointed? friends and colleagues think? raising this concern? ou are right then you • Pleased, proud, respected? • Would you, or they, be happy • What evidence do you have ly wrong • That you are the only one reading about it in the paper? or will you need? to benefit? any dilemma and when used alongside the code of practice you’ll have the confidence to act ethically.
