Together we bring the world closer SWEDAVIA | Annual and sustainabilit y report 2014 the aviation market A business that spans the globe Statement of the President and ceo “Increased access and the airports of the future” Swedavia raises its targets Target-driven work has produced results zero emissions 7% Our way forward Swedavia’s Passenger offering growth Airports and properties 2014 Contents 24 A more climate24 smart trip 9 12 4 20 35 32 The year in brief Strategy Table of contents, Audit Report 84 Performance in 2014 3 Strategies for sustainable financial reports 39 development 12 Statement of The aviation market Report of the Compliance 85 A business that spans The market Directors 40 the globe 4 Increased demand for air Corporate travel drives Swedavia’s Consolidated Governance Report 86 This is Swedavia financial reports 47 revenue 20 GRI Index 96 Airports with a focus on Parent Company sustainable development 6 Group operations financial reports 52 UN Global Swedavia’s offering – Compact 101 Statement of the 24 President and CEO airports and properties Notes 57 Definitions 102 Torborg Chetkovich: Employees Signatories to the “Increased access and Competencies and Annual Report 83 the airports of the future” 9 development 35 about Swedavia’s reporting This is Swedavia’s Annual and Sustainability Report for the financial year 2014. The report is aimed ContaCt person : primarily at Swedavia’s owner, credit analysts and partners but also at other stakeholders, and is focused on our strategy as well as our objectives, targets and results for the past year. It covers the entire Group, Klas Nilsson unless otherwise indicated. Swedavia reports results using the most recent version of the Global Reporting Head of External Communication Initiative (GRI) guidelines (G4). Reported indicators have been chosen based on Swedavia’s and our Tel. +46 (0) 10 109 00 00 stakeholders’ shared view of material factors and what is important for developing long-term sustainable klas.nilsson@swedavia.se operations. The last publication date for the Annual and Sustainability Report was March 31, 2014. Read more at www.swedavia.com/about-swedavia/this-is-swedavia/ THE year in brief Performance in 2014 During the year, Swedavia’s airports had 35.7 million (33.5) passengers, which corresponds to a seven per cent increase Net revenue increased to SEK 5,538 M (5,233) Operating profit increased to SEK 1,405 M (946) The hotel property at Stockholm Arlanda Airport was sold. The sale had a positive effect on consolidated operating profit of 347 M The Land and Environmental Court issued a ruling on Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s new environmental permit which allows the continued development of the airport Passenger volumes 40 International Domestic Total Million 30 20 10 key figures for the group 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Consolidated SEK M, unless otherwise indicated 2014 2013 2012 2011 Net revenue 5,538 5,233 4,965 4,693 Operating profit 1,405 946 831 781 new targets actual Operating margin, % 25.4* 18.1 16.7 16.6 2015–2020 2014 Profit before tax 1,162 686 554 556 Profit for the period 926 501 447 438 Satisfied passengers Earnings per share, SEK Return on equity, % 0.64 17.7 0.35 10.9 0.31 10.8 0.30 11.2 85% 75% Return on operating capital, % 10.3 7.1 7.4 7.6 Satisfied employees Debt/equity ratio, times 1.4 1.9 1.9 1.6 Equity/assets ratio, % 36.5 30.5 29.1 32.7 85% 84% Cash flow from operating activities 2,109 1,339 1,493 1,178 Capital spending 924 2,413 3,418 1,057 Return on operating capital Satisfied passengers (ASQ), % Satisfied employees (ESI), % 75 84 73 80 68 76 68 64 7% 10.3% Average number of employees 2,460 2,369 2,380 2,265 Fossil carbon dioxide emissions Carbon dioxide emissions, tonnes 0 tonnes 3,108 tonnes 3,108 3,800 5,400 4,600 CO 2 *The operating margin excluding capital gains was 19.1 per cent Swedav i a 2014 3 the aviation market A business that spans the global air travel industry the globe The air travel industry 20,000 aircraft is experiencing steady 20,000 aircraft from thousands growth of airlines large and small fly The global air travel industry functions Global demand for air transport in scheduled, charter or cargo as a system in which airlines, airports has increased far faster than the traffic. According to the US and cities together create conditions for Central Intelligence Agency, there demand for most other products economic growth, sustainable travel and are more than 40,000 airfields, and services. Since 1970, decargo transport. mand for air travel has increased from simple grass runways to tenfold, whereas total world full-scale airports. About 1,000 As demand for travel grows, the air travel GDP has grown just 3–4 times. airports have international traffic. industry develops. At the same time, the global The industry is cyclical – Direct routes to attractive access that air travel creates is an increasingly travel and transport destinations are a competessential requirement for economic growth. increase in economic upswings itive advantage, since that drives Meanwhile, international society is setting higher and decrease in economic traffic and thus revenue for airdownturns. lines and airports, which benefits demands for the services that airlines and airsociety and business. ports together provide. However, conditions differ for airlines and airports. Airlines must be able to quickly adapt their offering based on how global travel patterns and cargo flows change. Airports, for their part, can work to ensure capacity and JOBS offer solutions that are as flexible as possible, in The air travel industry directly part by providing quick turnaround for aircraft and indirectly creates millions on the ground. The basic driver in attracting air of jobs around the world. traffic to an airport is still the attrac­tiveness of About 180,000 of them are 180,000 destinations for tourism and business. in Sweden. There are some Swedish 80,000 jobs in the aviation jobs By far the greatest challenge for the air travel sector, while the access that industry is its environmental impact and the air travel creates provides requirements for lower greenhouse gas emissions about 100,000 jobs. that this challenge entails. The industry has taken up this challenge by setting long-term global targets for emission reductions. Today there is already technology that enables the use of renewable fuel. Large-scale development of this ENVIRONMENTAL requires serious commitment from all of society. REQUIREMENTS Swedavia has active climate work in every phase The air travel industry was the first intelligent of travel, from increased mass transit at its airglobal industry to agree on longAIRPORT ports to renewable aviation fuel. Today Swedavia term global environmental objectThe intelligent airport, is classified as a world leader among airports with ives: fossil carbon dioxide emiswhich uses modern the least possible environmental impact. sions from aviation shall be cut by technology, is one key to ca1.5 per cent per passenger kilopacity. With tablets and smartmetre by 2020. Beginning in 2020, phones, the potential is created growth shall be climate-neutral, to give each passenger unique and actual fossil carbon dioxide information. NFC technology* Attractive emissions in 2050 shall be reduced to half the level in 2005. enables automated check-in and baggage handling. Passengers airports The United Nations Intergovernand baggage can be monitored in real time, which makes it posmental Panel on Climate Change The basic driver for attracting sible to direct flows and prevent (IPCC) indicates that air travel air traffic to an airport is still the queues. today accounts for about two per *Near Field Communication (NFC) is a transattractive­ness of destinations for both cent of global fossil carbon dioxmission standard for the wireless exchange the export and hospitality sectors. ide emissions. of data over short distances. 4 Swedav ia 2014 the aviation market continued consolidation Europe’s share of rest of the world Low-fare airlines are seeing sharp growth. international flights The US is biggest in international Established players are reducing fares, and the flights. Countries not included 27% price gap is narrowing. The competitive situation among the advanced economies between carriers along with generally low profitof the OECD account for 41 per ability has led to continued consolidation. cent of global air traffic. In 2017, China is expected to overtake the US as the largest market. 2014 2017 2017 in a Swedavia 2014 CH 2014 2017 35.7 million passengers Leaders in 232,000 international air travel tonnes of cargo increased demand A rapidly growing middle class in Asia, Latin America and southern Africa means that the air travel industry needs to quadruple its capacity to meet the increased demand. According to the industry trade association IATA, capital spending of USD 4–5 billion is needed to replace ageing aircraft and double the world’s aircraft fleet by 2031. CAPACITY limit almost reached The world’s airports need to be expanded in order to handle heavier traffic with larger aircraft AVIATION AS a mode of transport and more passengers. Accorddiversity More than three billion passengers and 30 million ing to IATA and ACI forecasts, Air travel creates opportunities tonnes of cargo travel by air each year. In a 20 of the largest airports in for exchanges and meetings longer-term perspective, the price of flights since Europe will be operating at or between cultures and people. 1971 has fallen 60 per cent. near capacity by 2030. Low air fares and increased globalisation are driving travel and cargo. Source: IATA or ACI unless otherwise indicated Swedav ia 2014 5 THIS IS swedavia Airports with a Together we bring the world closer focus on sustainSwedavia’s task is to own, operate and develop able development airports Together, the airports build a network that links Sweden’s regions together, while also serving as a bridge to and from the world beyond. Swedavia’s vision is “Together we Swedavia owns, operates and develops a network of ten bring the world closer”. That means Swedavia shall help to Swedish airports. Stockholm Arlanda Airport and Göteborg make air travel and cargo transport – regionally, but also to and from Sweden – as accessible, efficient and attractive Landvetter Airport have the most passengers. The company, as possible. which is wholly owned by the Swedish State, was formed in 2010 when airport operations that previously belonged to Luftfartsverket (LFV) were converted into a limited Kiruna liability company. airport Lule å airport Swedavia works in an international market that is subject to competition. The company’s role is to create the access Sweden Ume å airport needs to facilitate travel, business and meetings – in Sweden, elseÅre where in Europe and around the world. Our customers are passenöstersund airport gers, airlines and tenants that lease retail, office or hotel space in Swedavia’s properties. Sweden competes with other airports in its stockholm work to attract investments by airlines. arlanda airport Göteborg Bromma stockholm Safety, security, a focus on customers and sustainable airport landvetter develop­ment are the basis of everything Swedavia does, both in its airport VISBY airport own operations and in society in general. Operations are run along solid business principles, and the company shall build a business Malmö Ronneby airport airport that is sustainable over the long term through development, planning and operational efficiency. Satisfied employees and a good workplace are crucial to Swedavia’s operations. At the same time, Swedavia acquired all outstanding shares in the company Göteborg the company shall continually reduce its carbon footprint and help City Airport AB, which operates Säve Airport, on January 13, 2015. reduce the environmental impact of the entire air travel industry. All of Swedavia’s airports are environmentally certified at the highest level of the Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) programme. 35.7 million Swedavia is a passengers world leader Swedavia’s airports enable air in developing airports with the least travel within the country and are a possible environmental impact. gateway to and from Sweden. They are also modern marketplaces that Read more about our environoffer services and other concepts. mental responsibility on page 32 6 Swedav ia 2014 THIS IS swedavia Swedavia’s business The ROLE OF THE air travel industry StRONG ACCESS WITH A FOCUS ON customers Swedavia’s customers are passengers, airlines The air travel industry and the access and tenants. Passengers are offered inspiring that air travel creates today contribute more environments and destinations, airlines get reliable than 130 billion Swedish kronor annually and efficient infrastructure, and tenants get to Swedish GDP, according to Oxford functional premises in an attractive setting. High Economics. Air travel also generates direct access increases air travel and enables personal tax revenue of more than nine billion kronor encounters and increased business dealings. annually. Air travel also contributes significantly to employment throughout Sweden. The air travel industry and the passengers who land New at Swedish airports create over 180,000 Inspiring develop­ments, jobs in Sweden. Over the next five years, it passenger experiences is estimated that the expected development Attractive experience and attractive of Swedish access will create an additional destinations brands 20,000 jobs. That means air travel within as well as to and from Sweden is a crucial factor contribPersonalised, sustainable Airlines and modern airport Tenants uting to increased GDP and employment in services and transport the years ahead. The air travel industry also has considerSwedavia shall able responsibility in the environmental field. create the access Functional Over the past few decades, major technoSafe, Sweden needs to facilitate premises in logical advances have brought a reduction efficient travel, business an attractive in the environmental impact of air travel. infrastructure environment This trend is expected to continue, with and meetings investments in modern aircraft fleets and gradual phase-in of renewable fuels being important milestones. 80 billion 3,200 kronor a year 25,000 employees at Swedavia jobs at How much is spent by Swedavia’s passengers who land by airports plane in Sweden. Source: Oxford Economics 2014 Swedav ia 2014 7 this is swedavia Sights set on the future Swedavia began its journey as a company almost five years ago. Through target-driven work, with sustainability as our guiding principle, we can carry out our task today and tomorrow. areas what we have done going forward • Passenger satisfaction (ASQ) since 2010 has increased • Continued passenger volume records, with strong drivers Customers from 69 per cent to 75 per cent being urbanisation, globalisation and consumer behaviour • The number of passengers increased from 28.4 million in • The capacity of airports is enhanced, as is the commercial 2010 to 35.7 million in 2014, a gain of almost 30 per cent offering, combined with an inspiring atmosphere • A large number of new shops, cafés and restaurants and a • Digital technology and self-service solutions are used new commercial organisation increasingly to make travel easier • Refurbishments to improve the atmosphere, increased • Stockholm Arlanda Airport is Scandinavia’s leading airport capacity and more efficient flows at most airports • Punctuality and passenger satisfaction have been further • Developed self-service solutions improved • Increased employee satisfaction (ESI) from 64 per cent in • Employee satisfaction is further strengthened, as is Social 2010 to 84 per cent in 2014 employee engagement develop• Partnership programmes launched with the Swedish • Swedavia is an attractive employer for different groups in employment service Arbetsförmedlingen and the intern Swedish society, which enhances our ability to handle a ment programme Tekniksprånget diverse passenger base • Increased Swedish access, with more international direct • Additional direct links have been developed with trade connections and at least two airlines established at each partners that are important to Sweden, which strengthens airport Sweden’s export and hospitality industries • Developed safety climate at the company • Safety and security remain our highest priority, and there • Group-wide platform for competency development and are zero serious incidents training as well as Group-wide health care and occupational • Absence due to illness has decreased, and the workplace is rehabilitation insurance for all employees introduced better adapted to prevent injuries • Return requirements have been met every year since 2011 • Long-term investment programmes carried out while Group Economy • Formation of Swedavia Real Estate as well as the financial targets are met acquisition, restructuring and sale of properties • The areas around airports are developed increasingly into • Sales of Karlstad Airport, Örnsköldsvik Airport, Ängelholm commercial and office areas, which strengthens the airports Helsingborg Airport and Sundsvall Härnösand Airport as hubs in modern society completed • Commercial opportunities have increased, and the airports • Extensive investment programmes carried out and offer products and services that inspire passengers and launched at most airports. Among other things, approach to make their everyday lives easier Stockholm Arlanda Airport adopted • Continued efficiency improvements carried out in order to • New price model for airport users implemented, along with enhance the airports’ competitiveness and growth potential a more cost-effective organisation • To ensure Swedish access, charges for airport users are kept at a competitive level • Fossil carbon dioxide emissions from Swedavia’s own oper• Swedavia has zero fossil carbon dioxide emissions, and we Environations have fallen by about 60 per cent since 2010 and the are an international leader in environmental work mental phasing in of a fossil-free vehicle fleet has begun • Production of renewable aviation fuel takes off, which dra• All airports certified at the Airport Carbon Accreditation’s matically reduces the environmental impact of air travel concern highest level, Neutrality • Swedavia remains an active player in increasing the • New environmental permits for Stockholm Arlanda Airport percentage of travellers who take mass transit to and from and Malmö Airport. The process was initiated for Göteborg the airport CO 2 Landvetter Airport • Technological advances help to reduce noise • Investments in noise insulation of properties around over nearby communities Stockholm Arlanda Airport, Bromma Stockholm Airport and • Swedavia’s energy use continues Umeå Airport have been made to decline despite an expansion in • Inventories of natural areas completed at most airports, operations documenting rich biodiversity 8 Swedav i a 2014 Statement of the President and CEO Increased access and the foundation laid for the airports of the future Torborg Chetkovich President and CEO Swedav i a 2014 9 Statement of the President and CEO Long-term investments in increased access I feel proud when I look back on Swedavia’s first five years. dioxide emissions, continue to link together various modes of We are a young company, but we have also succeeded in transport and contribute to greater use of mass transit to and laying the foundation for the airports of the future. Already from its airports. We shall support airlines in the transition to today, Swedavia contributes to Sweden’s growth and biofuels so that our passengers can be provided with a fossil fueldevelopment. That does not mean we are leaning back free journey. – on the contrary, we have clear visions for the future. carefully chosen and ambitious targets we exist for passengers Our targets for passenger satisfaction, employee satisfaction, Our intention is for Swedavia to be a natural part of the travel finan­cial return and zero fossil carbon dioxide emissions are experience. Our airports should be ones that travellers look based on our ambition to be a sustainable company. By achievforward to visiting. We want to provide architecture, brands, ing these targets, we also increase our stakeholders’ potential to design and activities that make passengers feel a sense of develop their own operations. In five years, we have grown into inspiration and anticipation before their trip. That means we must a company run on solid business principles that has exceeded a understand what attracts passenger flows from all the corners of number of the targets we set ahead of schedule. That is a result the world and predict what kind of experience will be profitable of teamwork, with employees in all areas making enormous contomorrow. To achieve this, we must be quick on our feet and tributions. Another success factor is that, from the very beginning, courageous enough to try new concepts. we chose a few but clear targets. The environmental target is our greatest challenge. We do not have total control over we shall provide Scandinavia’s most important meeting places We are developing all aspects, and technological leaps are also In ten years, 40 million passengers, over into a role model for the required. In 2014, we took one such leap through 100,000 a day, will flow through our airports. We our investment in new biofuel-propelled vehicles link Sweden together as a country and connect entire sustainability field for snow removal and other purposes. These are it to the rest of the world. We create encounters vehicles that did not even exist and which many between regions, countries and cultures, but most of all encounpeople thought would not be possible to develop. The equipment ters between people. That drives growth, understanding and is now gradually being placed in service in our operations, and well-being. as a result we have demonstrated that our ambitious targets are something that can drive development forward. Consequently, our Direct air links drive development journey toward our target of zero fossil carbon dioxide emissions Swedavia shall continue to enhance our collaboration with continues to follow the milestones we have set along the way. airlines. By focusing on competitive levels of airport charges, effiAlready in 2013, we reached the target of 80 per cent satisfied cient infrastructure and modern technology, we can be involved employees. In 2014, we achieved our return target, seven per cent and enable a broader offering of direct routes. By continuing to of operating capital, and for the first time Swedavia’s Board of attract these critical investments from airlines, benefits are proDirectors can propose paying a dividend to our owner. There have duced for Sweden’s export and tourism sectors as well as for the also been clear improvements in passenger satisfaction, although country’s increasingly multicultural population. that target has not yet been met in full. We are on the right track, Swedavia shall be Sweden’s main growth engine. By workand our findings indicate that satisfied passengers result from ing together with businesses, with our owner, with the country’s satisfied employees but that there is some time lag. Our efforts to regions and with researchers, we create the airport cities of the incorporate the commercial side of airports in our daily operations future. They are already taking shape around Stockholm Arlanda will also be a key tool going forward. Airport and Göteborg Landvetter Airport. Our aim is for them to We see that our strategy for sustainable development has been create thousands of jobs that generate billions of Swedish kronor profitable. We are convinced that our corporate social responsibility for Sweden. has encouraged increasing numbers of people to apply for jobs with us. Our diversity efforts give us a breadth of experience that enables Long-term investment in the environment us to deal with customers and create an inclusive environment for Swedavia shall continue to address environmental issues, one employees from many different cultures in a way that works well. of the greatest challenges in the air travel industry. Today we are We also observe the principles for responsible management under already a leading player internationally in our environmental work, the United Nations Global Compact. Our healthy economic growth and we are developing into a role model for the entire sustaina­ allows us to continue developing our operations, increase access bility field. Swedavia shall achieve its target of zero fossil carbon and drive innovations, particularly in the environmental field. 10 Swedav i a 2014 Statement of the President and CEO The sale of our hotel property at Stockholm Net revenue increased in 2014 to sek 5,538 m Arlanda Airport shows that our property development operations (sek 5,233 m in 2013) can contribute to a higher degree of self-financing Operating profit increased in 2014 to sek 1,405 m (sek 946 m in 2013) New record 35.7 million passengers at Swedavia’s airports (33.5 million in 2013) Torborg Chetkovich, President and CEO, and Karl Wistrand, Deputy CEO and Director of Commercial & Real Estate 2014 was an exciting year with important successes Our growth real estate operations can help increase our degree of self-financing. Our net revenue increased 5.8 per Growth in air traffic continued, and we set new was significantly cent to SEK 5,538 million in 2014, and profit rose to records at many airports. Our growth was signifi­ SEK 926 million, a performance that confirms that our cantly higher than that of our colleagues elsewhere higher than that of our strategies are successful. in Europe. That is due to increased travel globally colleagues elsewhere In 2014, Swedavia’s Group targets were revised and to Sweden’s strong economy, but also to our upward. By 2020, we shall have customer and airline customers deciding to launch additional in Europe employee satisfaction levels of 85 per cent each, international direct routes. From 2013 until now, ten while maintaining our target of zero fossil carbon new routes to destinations, mostly in the US and Asia were added. dioxide emissions. The single most important event in 2014 was that, ten years after Our owner also decided to revise our financial targets, which completion of Runway 3, an environmental permit for Stockholm led to the setting of one overall target as a seven per cent return Arlanda Airport was finally issued that enables the continued on operating capital. The targets are stringent, but I see them as a development of the airport. An environmental permit is an essential natural extension and an essential requirement of the work we have requirement for operations at every airport, but Stockholm Arlanda so far carried out. This also means that we are now sharpening our Airport is critical to Sweden’s continued development, so the permit strategies to ensure that we achieve our targets. was especially gratifying. It is also confirmation that we, together We have every reason to be optimistic about the years ahead. We with our partners, have created an understanding of the importance have clear strategies and targets. We are focused on our customers of air travel for Sweden. and we are building our operations for sustainability and profitabi­ Meanwhile, discussions are under way about the future of lity. We want to develop as a meeting place and a growth engine in Bromma Stockholm Airport. Our view is clear. The airport is society, thus creating better conditions, in part, for continued investneeded. Swedavia has a contract until 2038 and will continue our ments by airlines and even greater access. To achieve this, it also development work in line with our task of contributing to Sweden’s requires that we are an innovative partner that takes responsibility. access. The immediate concern is the airport’s security category, which allows the possibility of aircraft today as well as aircraft of the My fellow employees and I look forward to continuing this work future serving the airport after 2016. in 2015. During the year, we completed the sale of a hotel property at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. This generated a capital gain of Torborg Chetkovich almost 350 million Swedish kronor and shows that our efforts in President and CEO Swedav i a 2014 11 Strategy Strategies for sustainable development Sustainability is an integral part of our operations and Strategic Priorities strategies. At the same time, sustainability is a guiding principle in all of Swedavia’s functions and is embedded Customer throughout our value chain. Our ability to think and act Swedavia’s most important customers are passengers, airlines and sustainably is fundamental to our future as a company tenants, with passengers being our primary customer group. With a and so that we can continue to create value for our focus on customers, we create the right business controls to bring stakeholders and for society in general. about satisfied customers as well as profitable business develop­ ment in our operations. Sustainable development a strategic focus Swedavia’s strategic focus is based on three dimensions of Business development with a focus on customers sustainability – social development, economy and environmental Passengers are our most important customer group, and satisfied concern – combined with our putting a focus on customers. customers are our priority. We develop the commercial space in Together, these four perspectives form Swedavia’s sustainability our terminals, based on demand, in order to offer an attractive wheel, which in turn constitutes the basis of Swedavia’s man­ selection of goods and services that enhance the travel experience. agement and communication at all levels. Our choice of strategic To meet the growing demand for both air travel and cargo, major focus accords well with our materiality analysis, which indicates investments are needed in buildings and other infrastructure. This is that issues concerning access, financial performance, the envir­ especially true for the information technology required to link differ­ onment, employees and safety/product responsibility are most ent operations and the conditions necessary for good punctuality, important today to our stakeholders. increased access and economic efficiency. Future demand bale develo in a pm One strategic challenge is to understand what air travel will look like sta en in the future and what travellers will want. That governs the confi­ Su So c t guration of our terminals. We must therefore create flexible environ­ i ments than can be continually adapted to new needs. y al om de ECo Economy opment n ve l Swedavia shall develop airports in a sustainable way based on customer sound business principles. This means that we shall develop operations through good investment planning and operational efficiency that are profitable in the long term while creating value for our customers. ss En v ir e Broader funding on r en Our operations are long-term, capital-intensive and run based men ta l awa on sound business principles. Access to capital is an important strategic issue for Swedavia, in order to ensure the company’s con­ Our sustainability wheel illustrates our management model, under which we tinued favourable performance. We have strong cash flow today, work with all three sustainability dimensions – social development, economy and which funds most of our investment needs. The company’s own environmental concern – together with our putting the focus on customers. This real estate operations can also contribute to increased investment. is sustainable development for Swedavia. In each sustainability perspective, we Today Swedavia owns properties in attractive locations at and have concrete strategies and measurable targets that set the course for both around the airports. These properties will be developed in different management and communication. The targets are then broken down in operations ways and then sold or leased, depending on their location and use. and made concrete through activities. The targets and activities are monitored on a Together, they provide financial strength which enables funding continuous basis in terms of achievement of those targets and changes in the world. of other priority projects that help increase the attractiveness and Targets and activities are reviewed on a quarterly basis through function controls. access of the airports. 12 Swedav i a 2014 Strategy Coordination and efficiency society. Creating access through good air links, especially Swedavia shall achieve long-term stable profitability. Because direct routes, is one of our most important tasks. We there­ operations are capital-intensive, cost structures must be as fore work in different ways with our partners to facilitate travel, flexible as possible, while we continuously try to improve oper­ meetings and business. In collaboration with other transport ational efficiency by identifying opportunities for coordination modes, we also work to increase the proportion of people and economies of scale. who take mass transit to and from our airports. In that way, we help create workplaces as well as economic and social Continued capital spending development, for the various regions of Sweden and for the Over the next decade, Swedavia will be making significant country as a whole. investments to increase capacity and customer value. Plans for increased access Environmental awareness Increased access, both in the offering of destinations and Swedavia works to reduce its own environmental impact with through better solutions for mass transit to and from the a focus on fossil carbon dioxide and is a driver in reducing airports, is a strategic challenge. the environmental impact of a passenger’s entire journey. To be successful, significant technological advances and Satisfied employees mean satisfied customers collaboration between businesses, researchers and political Employee satisfaction shall continue to develop in a posi­ leaders are needed. One of the most critical issues is access tive direction. This shall be done through continued work to to renewable fuel. create employee engagement and participation in operations and to develop the corporate culture that we want to be Zero emissions integral to operations. We also work for an inclusive organisa­ One of Swedavia’s sustainability targets is to have zero fossil tion with increased diversity and, through training and moni­ carbon dioxide emissions in its own operations by 2020. toring, to prevent harassment and discrimination in all areas. Social development High level of safety and security Swedavia’s work in social development is aimed mainly at Swedavia’s airports are characterised by a high awareness creating the access Sweden needs. Swedavia gives priority of safety and security, with aviation safety and security being to passenger safety and security and to developing a sustain­ the highest priority. Swedavia takes part nationally and able work environment and satisfied employees. We comply internationally in the work to develop regulations that can be with the social responsibility requirements specified in the effectively implemented in operations and ensure or increase Swedish State’s ownership policy. the level of safety. Systematic work with methods and cus­ tomer care shall help make people feel safe at Swedavia’s Access is a social benefit airports while at the same time improving both efficiency and Our objective is for Swedavia to always take an active role in customer satisfaction. Task Vision Swedavia is a State-owned company that owns, operates Together we bring the world closer. Swedavia’s operations and develops Sweden’s national basic infrastructure of give Sweden access and enable people who live in Sweden to airports – a system of airports that connects all of Sweden to the experience the world. Together with our partners and employees, we rest of the world. Our role is to create the access Sweden needs to create an experience that makes passengers want to return, time and facilitate travel, business and meetings. time again. Swedavia’s development brings the world closer. Mission Values We at Swedavia create added value for our customers through attractive airports and access. Together with Reliability Innovativeness our partners, we continuously develop our business. Engagement A warm welcome Swedav i a 2014 13 Strategy Swedavia has raised its level of ambition Swedavia’s operations are managed with the help of time. Three of the four targets set for 2014 were already achieved of sustainability targets. In Swedavia’s four general in 2013. Actual outcomes for these targets in 2014 are presented in sustainability targets, one from each strategic focus area, the table to the right. the company has decided on desired levels for satisfied According to its Articles of Association, Swedavia shall help passengers, satisfied employees, return on operating to achieve Sweden’s transport policy goals. To make these goals capital and fossil carbon dioxide emissions. concrete, the Annual General Meeting 2014 adopted targets/indica­ tors for the tasks which will be reported annually. These indicators Swedavia’s Board of Directors decided this year on new tar­ are shown in the table to the right and measure access (through gets through 2020. Based on these, a level of 85 per cent is to be passenger volume and the number of international direct routes), achieved for satisfied passengers (ASQ)* and for satisfied employ­ customer satisfaction, safety, security, and carbon footprint. ees (ESI)**. One of the company’s new financial targets is a seven per cent return on operating capital. The previous target of zero The financial targets are long-term. The return target was fossil carbon dioxide emissions by 2020 remains in place. The clear changed in 2014 to one based on operating capital rather than focus in these four general sustainability targets has led to the com­ equity. Swedavia has also established targets for its debt/equity pany making considerable progress in each area in a short period ratio and dividend. Passenger satisfaction by airport, 2014 Bromma Stockholm Airport 68% Göteborg Landvetter Airport 80% Kiruna Airport 76% Luleå Airport 85% Malmö Airport 71% Ronneby Airport 82% Stockholm Arlanda Airport 75% Umeå Airport 78% Visby Airport 86% Åre Östersund Airport 89% * Airport Survey Quality (ASQ): a passenger survey that some150 airports around the world take part in. ** Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI): a measurement of the work environment in the working group. 14 Swedav i a 2014 Strategy Swedavia’s targets sustainability actual 2011–2014 task targets/indicators targets 2020 actual 2014 (2013) 85% 100% 75% (73%) 80% satisfied passengers satisfied actual % passengers 60% 73 75 13.1 million/22.6 million (12.6 million/20.9 million) 68 68 Number of passengers domestic/international 2011 2012 2013 2014 320 (300) 85% 100% Number of international destinations satisfied 80% actual % 446,200 tonnes (426,000 tonnes) 80 84 Carbon footprint** employees 76 60% 64 2011 2012 2013 2014 5 (2) Accidents and serious incidents 15% 7% 10% financial target return on 10.3 actual % operating 5% 7.6 7.4 7.1 capital 0% 2011 2012 2013 2014 1.0–1.5 times debt/equity ratio Capital structure target 6 K tonnes 0 tonnes 4 5.4 7% return on operating capital Profitability target carbon dioxide 4.6 actual 3.8 kilo tonnes emissions* 2 3.1 30–50% of profit for the year as dividend 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 Dividend target * The general environmental target of 0 tonnes of fossil carbon dioxide emissions applies to Swedavia’s own operations. ** Footprint by airport is reported on page 34. Swedav i a 2014 15 Strategy Swedavia creates value Swedavia creates value for its customers, that is, contribute physical inputs and competencies. Swedavia’s inte­ passengers, airlines and tenants, by combining access gral sustainability perspective is the basis of its value chain. to infrastructure with direct services provided by the company itself as well as indirect services through Through economies of scale, developed competencies in strategic partnerships with tenants, partners and both customer behaviour and airport operations in general, customers. Swedavia invests in necessary aviation and strategic partnerships, Swedavia can provide value to all infrastructure, commercial properties, its own employees of its customer groups. Real estate operations create value by and environmental measures. generating some of the investment capital needed to ensure Swedish airport capacity and further develop business. The inputs Swedavia needs to create value are found in three Swedavia’s combined business is based on competitive areas. One area is capital, tangible and intangible, which makes charges for those that use the infrastructure. This makes air­ it possible to develop and fund operations. Next are the suppli­ ports more attractive to airlines and in that way helps to drive ers that contribute services and goods which supplement and increased travel, which, in the next step, generates higher strengthen the value chain. The third resource is employees, who revenue in other operational areas. Swedavia’s value chain Strategic partners offering Products Market channels Services that facilitate Aviation Business, Airports, stakeholder capital Tangible, travel, business and Commercial Services, dialogue and intangible and meetings Real Estate partnerships financial capital le devel a ba op a in m suppliers st en sustainable development Su Goods and So c t and shared values Access and i services m y al attractive no de Reliability airports o pm e n t ECo vel customer Engagement Innovativeness employees Labour and En ss A warm welcome competencies v ir on en e men ar ta l a w inputs activities and Products 16 Swedav i a 2014 Strategy Swedavia creates value for: If Swedavia runs operations successfully and profitably, this Passengers – through access to a modern airport that is creates value at the national level. The company’s owner, the tailored to its customers, with attractive destinations and a large Swedish State, gets a good return on the capital invested. commercial offering. This is based on close cooperation with Swedavia also links regions together and connects Sweden to companies and organisations that serve and operate at the the rest of the world. As a result, space is created for meetings airports. and business opportunities, which leads to social development, new jobs and increased tax revenue. Airlines – through access to modern, smoothly functioning airports with competitive charges, located in attractive destina­ tions. This drives increased passenger flows for airlines and thus profitability. Tenants – through access to functional and attractive premises for retail, food & beverage, offices, warehouses and logistics. Create conditions needed to develop business customers Access Employment Tax revenue Attractive destinations Business opportunities Airlines Cultural and knowledge exchanges passengers Diversity Environmental impact tenants Experiences and shopping Suppliers effects Swedav i a 2014 17 Strategy We meet our stakeholders’ expectations It is important for Swedavia to listen to our stakeholders Based on relevant global trends and drivers, GRI aspects and and understand their expectations. In our stakeholder Swedavia’s targets and priorities, 47 issues have been outlined in dialogue, we can identify the issues that are critical order to identify the most important areas for creating value in the to Swedavia’s economic, environmental and social short and long term. value creation. The issues were assigned a weight based on two perspectives – how they affect Swedavia’s potential to create value and to what stakeholder dialogue degree each issue affects stakeholder views of Swedavia’s value By keeping track of the social groups throughout the company’s creation. Of the seven main stakeholder groups, customers were value chain that are affected by or affect operations, Swedavia assigned the greatest weight. In the first phase, the different stake­ has identified a total of seven stakeholder groups, which are holder groups were represented by key people at Swedavia with presented on the right. We maintain a continuous dialogue with good knowledge and understanding of the stakeholders’ priorities. all stakeholder groups in order to ensure that we understand how Qualitative interviews were then conducted with represen­tatives of our stakeholders view our operations and our offering. Issues that the most important stakeholders. For Swedavia’s owner, customers are important to our stakeholders are monitored through annual and strategic partners, economic aspects such as financial reports, surveys and measurements, such as employee, sustain­ strength, capacity and socioeconomic value creation are important ability and attitude surveys. issues. Similarly, environmental issues were ranked high by these groups. Issues that affect working conditions and the work materiality analysis environ­ment were ranked highest by employees and government Swedavia’s materiality analysis is based on our stakeholder authorities. An active stakeholder dialogue, transparency, safety dialogue and has been designed to identify the issues that are and security were important for all groups. The findings from the most critical to Swedavia’s economic, environmental and social materiality analysis are integrated into Swedavia’s vision and targets value creation. as strategies and practical operations. Identified material aspects The issues considered by internal Capacity Attractive brand and external stakeholders to be Swedavia shall have sufficient capacity An attractive brand is considered by both most material to Swedavia’s value to meet future demand for air travel and internal and external stakeholders to be one creation are: thus contribute to Sweden’s economic of the most important issues for Swedavia. development through increased access. Through an active stakeholder dialogue High level of safety and security Punctuality at the airports is one indicator of and strategic partnerships, conditions are Safety and security are given the highest our capacity. created for, among other things, environpriority by both stakeholders and Swedavia. mental permits that fit the purpose of the A high level of safety and security contri­ Reduced environmental impact company’s operations and opportunities to butes to passengers feeling safe and having A clear focus in operations on targets to increase value creation. a positive experience. reduce the environmental impact from Swedavia’s own organisation and along the Satisfied customers value chain. A clear focus on customers, which contri­ butes to satisfied customers, is an essential Socioeconomic development and requirement for Swedavia to be able to international exchanges successfully develop operations and create Swedavia shall contribute to increased value at the national level. access to and from Sweden while supporting international exchanges in an ever more Satisfied employees globalised world. One measure of access is All aspects ranked by external A corporate culture founded on ethical the number of international direct destinaand internal stakeholders can be guidelines is a basis for satisfied employees. tions from Swedavia’s airports. found on page 97 of this report 18 Swedav i a 2014 Strategy Swedavia’s stakeholders Owner Strategic partners, Customers suppliers and businesses Swedavia Government Society authorities Employees Environment Swedav i a 2014 19 The Market Increased demand for travel drives Swedavia’s revenue Global air travel continued to expand in 2014, despite it There is also competition between airports. This varies dependbeing another year of modest growth for both the European ing on the type of traffic and the airlines operating there. If an and global economy. For the full-year 2014, travel at international airline wants to launch service to Europe, the first Swedavia’s airports was up seven per cent. A total of 116 question is not which of the Nordic airports is most attractive to airlines serve our airports. More than 400,000 take-offs operate from. Instead, northern and central regions of continental and landings were performed. Europe compete for their attention. But when it comes to flights to and from the Nordic market, the four major airports continuFor Swedavia, the greatest increase in absolute numbers was ously compete with one another. Major investment programmes on European routes. That was an effect of airlines such as SAS are currently being carried out at these airports. Total capacity is and Norwegian increasing the number of destinations and adding being built to handle an additional 20 million passengers by 2025, capacity on new and existing routes. The most popular destinaa figure equivalent to a brand-new Stockholm Arlanda Airport. In tions once again included London, as well as Mallorca, the Canary this climate, it is important that Swedavia offers competitive prices Islands, Paris and Rome. These destinations change little over time to maintain and increase its market share. Sweden is the largest and are also relatively insensitive to disturbances such as political market in the Nordic countries. or economic developments. In percentage terms, intercontinental scheduled traffic Focus areas account­­ed for by far the largest increase, albeit from low absolute In market terms, Swedavia sees challenges in a number of areas in numbers. A large share of the increase here is attributable to the the years ahead. It is a matter of getting airlines to continue esta­ nine direct routes to Bangkok, Dubai, Los Angeles, New York, San blishing new routes to and from Swedavia’s airports and working Francisco, Fort Lauderdale, Tel Aviv, Casablanca and Teheran to increase frequency on existing routes. Meanwhile Stockholm launched in 2013 and 2014. Essentially all routes, which represent Arlanda Airport and Bromma Stockholm Airport are very close to major investments by the airlines flying them, showed good growth. capacity in peak traffic. This means that Swedavia must work conAlso domestically, there was good growth in passenger volume, tinuously to maintain customer satisfaction among passengers and and Swedish domestic volume is now on the same level as in the airlines, even though the system is already operating with very high early 2000s. All of Swedavia’s airports have at least two carriers loads. That also means it is crucial to implement planned measures operating there, which helps increase competition and provide to increase capacity. more options. The issue of Bromma Stockholm Airport’s future is thus also crucial to Swedavia’s potential to offer the access to and from a changing customer base Stockholm that is demanded. This is especially important since There is generally intense competition between airlines. This is Bromma Stockholm Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Airport see the most apparent between larger and often national airlines, or legacy greatest use during the same times of the day. carriers, and low cost carriers (LCCs). Legacy carriers are responding with their own LCCs, such as Lufthansa’s Germanwings and Iberia’s Iberia Express. LCCs, which operate mostly in Europe, have begun to fly to the major airports instead of more peripheral ones and have also announced that they will have a greater presence on intercontinental routes. There are also new players, such as Qatar Airways, Air Emirates and Etihad (United Arab Emirates), which fly to hubs such as Doha, Dubai and Abu Dhabi, which attract traffic to Asia and Africa in particular. Swedavia’s largest airline customers today are SAS, Norwegian and Braathens Regional. Turkish Airlines, which uses Istanbul as its hub for flights eastwards, has Read more about Bromma Stockholm Airport experienced sharp growth recently. at www.swedavia.com/bromma/ 20 Swedav i a 2014 The Market New destinations International leisure travel is seeing the greatest growth. Examples of destinations that have increased traffic are the West Indies, with Jamaica being a best-seller, West Africa and Zimbabwe, and the islands of Bali and Mauritius in the Indian Ocean. In the Middle East, Jordan has Jordan grown into a new and exciting destination. Jamaica Long-haul flights to the US west coast to places such as Los Angeles and Mauritius Bali San Francisco are another growing trend. Zimbabwe Airports with the largest growth in percent 15% 35.7 Kiruna Airport passenger growth million Increased passenger volume 20 per cent outside Europe passengers Passenger growth passed through in intercontinental Swedavia’s ten Åre östersund scheduled traffic was 15 per airports – a new record AIRPORT cent in 2014. Much of this for the Group. Increased passenger volume increase consisted of the nine 13 per cent direct routes launched in 2013 and 2014. Visby AIRPORT Increased passenger volume 16 per cent Swedav i a 2014 21 The Market Trends and drivers in air travel Swedavia and the air travel industry live in a world of transport. As a result, there are continuously growing challenges constant change and are affected by trends on a number of to the capacity of airports in these areas. Sweden today is the EU different levels. They include ups and downs in the global country with the fastest rate of urbanisation, which is also reflececonomy, demographic changes, changing values in society, ted in the growth of passenger volume especially at Stockholm and especially access to new technology. Arlanda Airport. The three most important trends from a longer-term perspective increased awareness of sustainability issues are increased globalisation, continued urbanisation and increased The third dominant trend is increased environmental awareness. environmental awareness. Because these trends affect how cusClimate changes now under way may cause economic, human tomers and society in general view this industry, they also ultimately and environmental disasters. Demands thus continue to grow for affect business conditions for Swedavia and other players. more sustainable social development and a broader understanding of what growth is. This means that not just financial ratios but increased globalisation also corporate social responsibility and environmental concern Increased globalisation – politically, economically, culturally and are increasingly important. For the aviation industry, this means socially – means that the world has become smaller, figuratively a continued focus on practical steps in the form of environmental speaking. Organisations as well as individuals are affected by measures to reduce emissions of chemicals, carbon dioxide and and increasingly dependent on one another. Organisations with noise, both for airlines, which have to invest in new aircraft, and operations and production in a number of countries are expected airports, which need to invest in new facilities. This is being done in to have broad insight and take responsibility for the entire value the wake of increased international harmonisation and increasingly chain. Freer movement, with people able to travel where they want, stringent regulations, especially in the environmental field, but also when they want, leads to growing demand for air travel. Increased on issues concerning anticorruption and labour laws. exchanges in terms of trade, tourism and opportunities to work and At the same time, there has been a dramatic increase in the study abroad also contribute to increased travel. Surveys indicate potential to scrutinise organisations and their operations in online that international contacts created through modern communica­ communities. This places great demands on companies and tion technology increase curiosity about the world and drive organisations in the industry, both in terms of sensitivity to new demand for air travel. For airlines in Europe, globalisation will mean consumer demands and transparency in day-to-day operations to increased competition for transit traffic to Asia and for access to maintain and develop trust in the industry. new destinations in the world’s emerging markets. Globalisation and modern communication technology have changing consumer behaviour helped the global economic system today to transcend borders. The behaviour and values of consumers and travellers have Economic cycles have become ever shorter, and changes in changed over time, which is explained by both demographic and one country or in a single market may quickly have major coneconomic factors. Increased prosperity in developing countries, sequences elsewhere. an older and healthier population who are seasoned travellers, a From the perspective of security, increased globalisation can more flexible work life and more single-person households increase also be considered a challenge, since there is great political turmoil demand for travel. There are growing demands for collaboration in some parts of the world. Sudden changes may mean that between different modes of transport, and passengers increasingly airlines quickly redirect their capacity to other destinations. Today, want more flexible, individualised and accessible traffic systems. there are not just purely physical threats in the form of terrorist There has also been a shift in values. Travel and experiences threats, civil unrest and civil war, but also different kinds of “cyber have become increasingly important as status markers. Holiday conflicts”, which requires increased preparedness and higher travel and restaurant visits are to an increasing extent replacing awareness of safety and security among industry players. purchases of durable goods such as televisions. The power of customers is on the rise today since customers are ever more continued urbanisation aware, have greater options and are harder to engage. The situUrbanisation is a global phenomenon. Today half of the world’s ation is critical – purchasing decisions are based on feelings and population lives in cities; in fifteen years, two thirds will live in cities. service, rather than on the brand. That makes it more difficult and Ever more densely populated urban areas increase the demand at the same time creates new business opportunities in the form and need for effective logistics solutions for both travel and cargo of services. 22 Swedav i a 2014 The Market Urban and rural population The world’s exports, % of global GDP Climate change , Million Per cent . Temperature anomalies in degrees Celsius , . , . , . , . , . , . Source: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Source: UN Source: WTO and IMF . Association, NOAA Urban population Rural population Like in society in general, e-commerce and bricks-and-morcost-cutting drive continues tar retail are merging. This new digital lifestyle means that the Airlines are seeing profits squeezed and are increasingly short-term physical space at an airport has to be adapted to the digital and flexible in their operations. They are looking for attractive desti­ space, not just in terms of the breadth of brands, but also design. nations that generate the best return. The consolidation that has taken Access to lounges, “workpods” and “thinkpods” for working and place in small steps over the past decade will continue. The drive by relaxing is increasingly important. airlines to cut costs is also seen at airports, where low charges even For airlines, the greater share of leisure travel means that today are a competitive advantage. Major investments are being made there are fewer passengers in more expensive ticket classes. To in new technology to increase automation and self-service, in part maintain revenue, airlines are investing in additional services and through positioning and push services to better control flows of pason-board sales. In the same way, airports are adjusting signage, sengers and cargo. “The Internet of everything”, where both people and products and services for the increase in international leisure machinery are continually connected to high-speed Internet, will be a travellers, especially from the emerging economies. driver for cost-effective operations and increased customer satisfaction. Swedav i a 2014 23 Operations Swedavia offers attractive airports and properties Swedavia is entrusted with the task of operating and developing the airports that are included in Sweden’s national basic infrastructure and contribute to increased access for Sweden and for the country’s regions. Based on four strategically selected focuses and on the stakeholder dialogues and materiality analyses that have been carried out, Swedavia has organised its operations so that they are run sustainably and according to solid business principles with a focus on customers and achieving the company’s targets. This work shall also be characterised by an environment where aviation safety and security are guiding principles. There are two operational areas, airport and real estate operations. Together, they provide a comprehensive offering that helps the company to fulfil its task by generating solid financial returns for the owner and value for customers, that is, passengers, airlines and tenants. During the year, Swedavia continued its capital spending to increase efficiency, capacity and attractiveness, thereby increasing customer value for both passengers and airlines. These and previous measures, combined with sustained strong growth in air travel and a successful property sale, helped the Group achieve its financial targets for 2014. Airport operations are strengthened Swedavia’s airport operations, which constitute the bulk of Swedavia’s business, both in terms of employees and revenue, consist of the two areas Aviation Business and Commercial Services. Aviation Business Aviation Business offers services focused on aviation operations, in the form of take-off and landing services, ground handling services and aircraft parking for airlines. Different kinds of passenger services are also provided, such as baggage handling. Airport Operations are also responsible for infrastructure in the form of Service portfolio, % of net revenue 54% Aviation Business 13% Car parking 12% Retail, food & beverage 11% Other property revenue 1% Advertising 9% Other 24 Swedav i a 2014 Operations Good punctuality Punctuality is an indicator of Swedavia’s capacity. Punctuality cannot be achieved without the right capacity and a properly functioning, cost-effective organisation. If this is not achieved, competitiveness and attractiveness decline as a result. Capacity is ultimately determined by the environmental permits that are issued for operations, but also by the access to infrastructure and talent in the Group’s own organisation. Punctuality is defined as when airports not being able to meet a departing aircraft has gone the growth in traffic experienced “off block”, that is, rolls out from during the year. the gate within 15 minutes of its Swedavia continues to work scheduled departure time. Every on a continuous basis to improve airport owned by Swedavia has its punctuality and efficiency. its own punctuality targets, and This is done in part through the the Group’s general target is to continuous development and increase punctuality overall from coordination of its own processes. 87.4 per cent, the level reached in Structured work will strengthen 2014, to 90.0 per cent in 2017. proactivity, stability and efficiency However, performance for and thus increase punctuality, the year was down 0.4 per cent both in normal operations and compared to 2013. This figure when there are disruptions. is mainly due to capacity at the Swedav i a 2014 25 Operations terminals and appurtenant systems as well as the aviation safety Traffic trends, 2014 and security needed for stable and safe operations. Passenger growth at Swedavia’s airports continued during the A well-functioning airport with a broad offering of attractive year. At Stockholm Arlanda Airport, travel was up nine per cent destinations brings in passenger flows. There is also a symbiosis to 22.4 million, with 80 per cent flying internationally. At Göteborg since the attractiveness of an airport and destination are crucial Landvetter Airport, passenger volume was up four per cent to 5.2 to the airlines’ choice of destinations and their desire to establish million. Swedavia’s smaller airports also saw good growth. At Åre direct routes. The more passengers that fly to and from an airport, Östersund Airport, the number of passengers increased 13 per the more tempting it is for airlines to offer new destinations, which cent, Kiruna Airport saw a rise of 20 per cent, and Visby Airport in turn leads to increased travel and increased attractiveness. grew by 16 per cent. This growth was partly the result of new Along with passenger volume, there are other factors that direct routes, both domestic and international. Air cargo, which affect airlines’ interest in serving a given airport. Well-functioning is more sensitive to economic conditions, grew a total of two per infrastructure, in which everything from refuelling and catering to cent for the full year. baggage handling, aircraft parking, terminal services and security work together as a whole, is an essential requirement. Airlines Commercial Services have high fixed costs, which is why efficient use of their aircraft Commercial Services is responsible for developing retail and fleet is very important. As part of Swedavia’s drive to offer more service-based operations in conjunction with airport operations. competitive prices, Swedavia has decided to lower airline charges The aim is to create an offering that makes Swedavia’s airports by 3.7 per cent beginning April 1, 2015. attractive to passengers. Supply chain Swedavia has a large number of supresponsibility and carefully monitor the of Human Rights, the International Labour pliers that account for different types entire supply chain, including subcontrac­ Organisation’s Fundamental Principles of services or goods, from aviation tors, with respect to sustainability issues. and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration fuel and catering to building contracts, Monitoring is regulated by Swedavia’s own on Environment and Development, and cleaning services, IT and air traffic Code of Conduct for suppliers, a code that the UN Convention against Corruption. management. The security checkall suppliers must ensure compliance with in Like Swedavia, Swedavia’s suppliers are points at Malmö Airport and the two order to work with Swedavia. also expected to act ethically, morally and Stockholm airports are also handled socially responsibly, comply with laws, and by one of Swedavia’s partners. Under the code suppliers must run their operations in accordance with the work for increased diversity. Swedavia also For a State-owned company like United Nations Global Compact, which is has fundamental requirements for quality, Swedavia, it is important to take based on the UN’s Universal Declaration safety, security and environmental work. 26 Swedav i a 2014 Operations Airports with an attractive offering and good infrastructure between Swedavia and Schiphol International BV. Since its formfor travel and retail activities encourage passengers to get to the ation, the company has worked to develop operations in retail, airport earlier and stay longer – and come back when it is time food & beverage at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. Starting in 2010, for their next trip. This drives traffic and thus revenue for both the company has had the same task at Göteborg Landvetter Swedavia and the airlines. Airport. As a result of the acquisition, Swedavia has its own Today Swedavia’s revenue from retail sales at the airports organisation with overall responsibility for continued development. represents a lower share of total revenue compared to many other Gym facilities, massage therapists, hairdressers and other airports. This can be explained in part by the fact that passengers supplemental services are examples of ways to develop operbehave differently depending on what destination and airline are ations and find new revenue streams. These services are used involved. Swedavia also has a large proportion of domestic traffic, by passengers as well as by the often tens of thousands of and domestic passengers tend to spend less at airports on averpeople who work at or in the vicinity of the airport. Collaborations age than international passengers. with retail chains or with institutions and organisations such as Liseberg Amusement Park and Nationalmuseum are another The ability to understand and monitor customers’ needs, way to increase the airports’ attractiveness. Airports can also interests and purchasing patterns is increasingly important. To provide a showroom for companies and products, offer shopping meet this demand more effectively, during the year Swedavia opportunities for arriving passengers and develop new busiacquired the outstanding shares in Arlanda Schiphol Development ness models for well-functioning e-commerce connected with Company (ASDC) AB. ASDC was formed in 2005 as a joint venture the airports. Swedav i a 2014 27 Operations expanding real estate operations acquired from Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS) in 2012, were Swedavia Real Estate consists of properties, both buildings and restructured as registered properties with a book value of about land, that are considered to be developable. The properties three billion Swedish kronor. used for actual airport operations, such as terminals, and which After an analysis of which properties were considered make up most of Swedavia’s property portfolio are therefore not essential for Swedavia’s own operations, in the spring of 2014 a included in Swedavia Real Estate. Operations that are responsible sales process was initiated involving more than 200,000 square for the Group’s energy supply and telecommunications have been metres of space. The sale entails the formation of a joint venconverted into companies and included in Real Estate operations. ture, with the goal being to have 50 per cent of the shares held Swedavia Real Estate’s task is to own, manage and develop by an external investor. selected properties in order to enhance the attractiveness and competitiveness of the airport and the region. Real Estate operThe single most important activity in Real Estate operations constitute part of Swedavia’s comprehensive customer ations in 2014 was the sale of the hotel property adjacent offering but are also an essential requirement for the Group’s to Stockholm Arlanda Airport. The purchaser was SPP funding of continued expansion and renewal. According to Fastigheter, and the deal gave Swedavia a capital gain of Swedavia’s strategy, income from developed properties that are almost 350 million kronor. The sale was confirmation that then sold reduces the need for external funding. facilities close to infrastructure hubs are increasingly attractive An important part of the property portfolio consists of office investment properties and that Swedavia’s real estate strategy and logistics buildings at Stockholm Arlanda Airport, Göteborg is creating value. Next on the list is construction of the SkyCity Landvetter Airport and Malmö Airport. Some of these were Office One complex at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. The propformerly owned by the company Nordic Airport Properties, all erty has more than 20,000 square metres of planned space. outstanding shares of which were acquired by Swedavia in 2013. At Göteborg Landvetter Airport, work to develop logistics and These properties, together with the buildings that Swedavia commercial areas is under way. Capacity is ensured through an accelerated investment rate In order to ensure the airports’ long-term capacity and attractiveness, during the year Sweden prepared for an accelerated rate of investment. A number of refurbishment and expansion projects were carried out at the regional airports. At the airports in Kiruna, Luleå and Umeå, this was done through joint funding with the regions affected. Now resources are being concentrated mainly on Stockholm Arlanda Airport, Göteborg Landvetter Airport and Bromma Stockholm Airport. The number of passengers at Swedavia’s 2043, with seven billion of this being too, investment in increased capacity is airports is expected to increase over time. invested through 2023. In the first phase, necessary in the long term. Measures com­ The increase will mostly take place at resources will be concentrated on meeting pleted during the year include the opening airports with many international connec­ the increased demand for international of the terminal area between domestic and tions. Swedavia therefore needs to ensure connections with a new pier in Terminal 5. Schengen traffic, thus improving use of sufficient terminal, gate and runway capacity During the year, an investment was made in the building. Going forward, new logistics to meet this growth. Alongside measures a new baggage facility in Terminal 2, and a properties will be developed adjacent to the to increase capacity, Swedavia is also new multi-storey parking facility was com­ airport, and commercial space will be expan­ increasing opportunities to develop the pleted. Swedavia also intends to invest three ded in the long term. The investments that atmosphere at the airports and enhance to four billion kronor in developing proper­ Swedavia is making at Bromma Stockholm the commercial offering in the form of more ties adjacent to the airport. Such capital Airport are being carried out in compliance shops, cafés and restaurants. spending can generate a return through the with the requirements that the Swedish sale of properties and be reinvested in the Transport Agency has placed on operations. In December 2013, Swedavia decided on development of the airports. In addition, investments to improve the its approach to the long-term development atmosphere at the airport are also being of Stockholm Arlanda Airport. A total of Göteborg Landvetter Airport recently carried out. 13 billion kronor will be invested through completed a major refurbishment, but here 28 Swedav i a 2014 Operations Net revenue and operating profit , SEK M , , , , , Net revenue Operating profit Cash flow from operating activities , SEK M , , , Capital spending , SEK M , , , 10.3% return on operating capital 2014 1.4 times debt/equity ratio as of December 31, 2014 Swedav i a 2014 29 Operations A good climate for safety and security function in operational terms. For instance, new regulaWork with safety and security has the highest priority at Swedavia tions will be introduced in March and September 2015. All and is integrated in operations and Group targets. This work is European airports must then check hand baggage and focused on aviation safety to prevent accidents and on aviation passengers using special equipment to detect any explosive security to proactively prevent criminal activity. materials. Swedavia already has such equipment in service at In aviation security, which passengers encounter physically, in some airports. part via security checkpoints, the focus in 2014 was on standardIn aviation safety, the focus was on preparing Swedavia’s ised procedures, cost-effectiveness and quality, and improved airports for conversion of their national airport certificates to customer care. certificates compliant with EU standards. This is being done Together with trade organisations, government authorities by developing and certifying safety processes in accordance and companies, Swedavia is involved in the future project “Smart with European Aviation Safety Agency regulations. An impor­ Security” for more effective security screening. Swedavia works tant part of this aviation safety work consisted of the reclasnationally in close cooperation with the Swedish Transport sification needed to enable Bromma Stockholm Airport’s Agency and internationally with the trade organisations ACI and continued handling of aircraft today and in the future. IATA to ensure that new regulations and demands for change Satisfied customers Satisfied customers are the foundation of our business and thus the basis of everything we do. Passenger satisfaction continued to improve, increasing two per cent to a total of 75 per cent. The target of 80 per cent satisfied passengers was not reached in 2014, but the trend over the past few years has been very favourable. To achieve the target of increased passenger satisfaction, the airports’ basic functions such as convenience and cleanliness are given priority and are the focus of operations, along with customer care and atmosphere. The work to further develop services and attractive offerings for passengers continues. With the acquisition of the outstanding shares in Arlanda Schiphol Development Company AB, commercial development has also been integrated in Swedavia’s operations. Swedavia monitors how satisfied tenants and airlines are with Swedavia’s offering on a regular basis. During the year, the level for tenants improved three per cent to 65 per cent. Airline satisfaction with the airports is measured every two years. Between 2011 and 2013, that figure increased from 57 to 60 per cent. Satisfied and motivated employees are an essential requirement for increased customer satisfaction. We therefore work on a continuous basis to train airport employees to best be able to handle customer care at their airport. 30 Swedav i a 2014 Operations risk mitigation management and emergency accident/serious incident trends preparedness Swedavia has a vision of zero accidents and serious incident trends. Risk management at Swedavia is aimed at ensuring the Group’s The definitions for these are based on a standard EU regulation ability to achieve its business targets and confront changes both and are evaluated in Sweden by the Swedish Accident Investigation internally and externally. Swedavia shall be prepared if an emerAuthority. Swedavia reports all incidents with an assessment of gency arises. During the year, the development and implementtheir impact on aviation safety to the Swedish Transport Agency. ation of standard risk management methods continued. The aim All accidents and serious incidents are reported directly to the is to create an overall view of how risks are to be managed and Swedish Accident Investigation Authority. In 2014, there were five mitigated. Continued efforts are also being carried out in the area of such incidents – one accident and four serious incidents, none continuity planning, that is, how the Group’s airports are to handle involving personal injury. In comparison, there was one accident and major disruptions, for instance in their power or water supply. one serious incident in 2013 and one serious incident in 2012. At During the year, work continued to develop a Group-wide strucpresent, there is nothing to indicate that Swedavia’s infrastructure or ture for a function-based emergency preparedness organisation operational procedures contributed to any of these incidents. and an emergency preparedness manual. In 2015, training will be conducted for the airports’ emergency preparedness organisations for command and staff levels. Swedav i a 2014 31 Operations More climate-smart air travel The aviation industry’s objective is to cut total emissions of fossil carbon dioxide in half by 2050 compared to 2005 and to have growth be CO2­ neutral beginning in 2020. Swedavia is involved in local, regional and international collaborations to help reduce the environmental impact of a Environmental permit passenger’s entire trip. These collaborations involve mass transit soluAll airport operations require a permit tions as well as the development of renewable fuels and more efficient under the Swedish Environmental Code flight paths. and therefore have an environmental permit. The permits regulate how operSwedavia is a world leader in reducing the environmental impact assoations may be run and can affect airport ciated with airports. All ten Swedavia airports are certified at the highest capacity. level of the Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) programme, which is an international standard for airports’ climate work. Among other things, certiIn November 2014 the Land and fication entails Swedavia setting targets and continuously reducing carbon Environmental Court of Appeals issued a new dioxide emissions from its own operations while also creating opportunitenvironmental permit to Stockholm Arlanda ies for other operations at the airports to reduce their emissions. Airport. The new permit, in contrast to the previous one, allows today’s approaches in Renewable fuels and lower energy use are two key factors in Swedavia’s peak traffic to Runway 3 to continue even after climate work. To achieve the zero emissions target by 2020, Swedavia’s January 1, 2018. The ruling thus means that vehicle fleet plays a critical role since today it accounts for 92 per cent of the airport’s continued capacity and future the Group’s remaining emissions of fossil carbon dioxide. Swedavia theredevelopment potential are ensured. However, fore continuously strives to reduce the number of vehicles and replace three different parties have appealed the today’s fossil fuels in operations. As part of these efforts, Swedavia is decision to the Swedish Supreme Court, and a replacing all of its snow removal equipment, known as plough, sweep and ruling on a potential leave to appeal the permit blow or PSB machines, with biogas-propelled versions. The first one was will most likely be issued during 2015. introduced at Åre Östersund Airport in the autumn of 2014. This venture is During the year, Swedavia worked on a new both economically and environmentally sustainable. Along with reduced environmental permit for Kiruna Airport. The carbon dioxide emissions, the switchover also means reduced fuel costs environmental permit processes under way for and a standardised vehicle fleet with lower maintenance costs. The rest of Göteborg Landvetter Airport and Visby Airport the vehicle fleet at the airports today already consists to a large extent of continued as planned. electrically powered vehicles. One challenge in achieving the zero emissions target is to develop renewable propellants, in particular biodiesel, that withstand winter temperatures. The aim is for biofuels to completely replace fossil fuels in Swedavia’s vehicles by 2020. Through 2020 Swedavia will invest about SEK 1.2 billion kronor in new vehicles, both snow removal equipment and lighter vehicles, for which the additional cost for environmentally adapted vehicles is about SEK 100 million. In 2014, fossil carbon dioxide emissions for the Group totalled 3,108 tonnes, 17 per cent less than in 2013 and a 73 per cent reduction since 2005. The main measures that helped cut emissions in 2014 were agreements for green district heating at Åre Östersund Airport which went into effect in 2014 and a higher blend of renewable fuel used in vehicles. Mild winters with limited snowfall have so far helped Swedavia to achieve emissions reductions faster than expected. Alongside reduced fossil carbon dioxide emissions, Swedavia carries out extensive efforts to reduce energy use in operations and its impact on waterways while also helping to preserve biological diversity at the airports. Another of Swedavia’s objectives is for residents in the vicinity of its airports to consider the noise level from air traffic to be acceptable. In 2014, some 15,000 residents were exposed to aviation noise exceeding the national aircraft noise level standard (ANL) of 55 dB(A) at Swedavia’s airports. This is on the same level as for the two previous years, despite an increase in air traffic in 2014. Read more about Swedavia’s environmental work at www.swedavia.se 32 Swedav i a 2014 Operations Swedavia’s fossil carbon dioxide Trend for Swedavia’s target of zero fossil carbon emissions by area, %, 2014 dioxide emissions* , Tonnes , , , , , 89% Vehicles and propellants 10% Energy , 1% Fire & Rescue Service Year Scope 1: Vehicle propellants, electricity and heat produced by Swedavia (for own use and sold), firefighting exercises Scope 2: Electricity and heat purchased for own use Scope 3: Heat purchased and then sold Sub-targets 2015–2020 * The target includes Swedavia’s emissions in Scope 1 and 2 as well as heat purchased and then sold (Scope 3). Scopes as per the GHG Protocol. Swedav i a 2014 33 Operations Carbon footprint, tonnes CO2 for Swedavia’s airports 2014, broken down by LTOs in air traffic, passengers’ ground transport and Swedavia’s own operations. The carbon footprint of Swedavia’s airports is reported broken down by the landing and take-off (LTO) cycle in air traffic, flights below an altitude of 915 metres, passengers’ ground transport to and from the airports, and Swedavia’s own operations. During the year, the total carbon footprint increased by about five per cent, while the number of passengers increased seven per cent, which means that the carbon footprint per passenger decreased about two per cent. Since 2011, the carbon footprint per passenger has decreased about nine per cent. Airport Air traffic Ground transport Swedavia Total Bromma Stockholm Airport 19,831 3,190 311 23,332 Göteborg Landvetter Airport 42,107 27,596 459 70,162 Kiruna Airport 2,341 1,196 221 3,758 Luleå Airport 8,785 5,933 80 14,798 Malmö Airport 21,715 17,340 340 39,395 Ronneby Airport 1,899 882 2 2,783 Stockholm Arlanda Airport 156,424 109,688 999 267,111 Umeå Airport 9,175 6,132 263 15,570 Visby Airport 2,412 780 70 3,262 Åre Östersund Airport 3,945 1,711 266 5,922 Swedavia Real Estate 97 97 Total 268,634 174,448 3,108 446,190 34 Swedav i a 2014 Employees Competencies and development Being able to recruit and retain engaged employees with Leadership in development the right competencies and interest in growing is crucial to Swedavia wants courageous, clear leaders at every level. So work Swedavia’s success. Our objective is to provide a workis continuously carried out, based on Swedavia’s values, to furplace where all employees have good conditions for sucther develop leadership. During the year, new training courses in cessfully carrying out their duties, further developing their Swedavia’s leadership programme were implemented. A shorter procompetencies and advancing in their career. Employee gramme was also introduced aimed at employees with a leader role satisfaction at Swedavia continues to progress in the right in operations. Swedavia’s leadership is characterised by a communidirection. During the year, the level improved from 80 to 84 cative approach. Therefore, during the year, a special dialogue tool for per cent. Efforts continue in selected areas to further eneffective communication was developed. The results from the year’s hance Swedavia’s potential to attract and retain employees. employee survey showed progress, with increased trust in leaders at all levels, from first line managers to the executive management. more Satisfied employees and increased engagement Effective provision of competencies Employeeship at Swedavia is characterised by participation and During the year, Swedavia implemented a new model for roles and engagement. In the 2014 employee survey, a level of 84 per cent positions as well as its Competency Terminal for system support. employee satisfaction (ESI) was achieved, which indicates that the The model ensures relevant and transparent requirements for what work environment continues to improve. The response rate was competencies are needed for the different roles in the company. high, and survey results are monitored on a continuous basis in Each role is associated with compulsory training and qualifications, all working groups. Action plans for improvement are developed which help make the provision of competencies in the company together with employees. Continuous improvement work in collabmore effective. In 2015, Swedavia will launch a trainee programme oration with employees creates conditions for increasing and mainand continue the development work with a focus on increased taining a good work environment and a high level of engagement. engagement and thus higher performance. Swedavia’s leadership and employeeship principles Focus on customers and the business One Swedavia A good role model The courage to be better Clear communication Swedav i a 2014 35 Employees improved health and work environment Work goes on at all hours of the day at an airport, and many environ­ments are physically or mentally demanding for employees. In 2014, Swedavia continued its systematic work with the work Code of Conduct environment with a focus on ensuring a safe, secure workplace with a high level of well-being. One way is to work actively with A corporate culture that is founded on ethical occupational rehabilitation. Great emphasis is placed on measguidelines is the basis for satisfied employees. ures in conjunction with repeated absence due to illness. It is also a matter of preventing employees as far as is possible To support the direction of day-to-day operations from having to take an extended leave of absence. If an employee and as support for our employees, there is also goes on sick leave, the objective is to have the employee return a Code of Conduct, which compiles Swedavia’s to work as quickly as possible, so each employee has health care and rehabilitation insurance. Group-wide ethical guidelines. The training programme “Welcome to Swedavia”, which all Active and inclusive diversity work employees complete, includes an introduction People of different ages and different genders from many different on this. In 2014, a whistleblower function was cultures and religions and with different sexual orientations also introduced, where employees at Swedavia’s work at Swedavia’s airports. Swedavia’s view is that differences airports can report irregularities. To handle between people add value and open up new opportunities. The any such cases, an Ethics Committee was set Group therefore carries out active diversity work with an inclusive approach, which is also an investment in a business advantage. up, which consists of a chief legal officer, an Swedavia has zero tolerance for bullying, harassment and internal audit manager and a chief negotiator. discrimination and has developed procedures for countering The committee convenes as needed and at least such behaviour. To increase awareness of ethical issues, these twice a year. In addition, a compulsory online are addressed in training programmes for new employees training programme for all managers, “Swedavia’s and managers. bribery policy and guidelines for external business The Group also takes a diversity perspective in its selection entertainment”, was launched during the year. of suppliers and in the procurement of staffing services. Specific requirements ensure that Swedavia and its suppliers share a perspective on these issues. Employee table* Number of employees 2014 Number of employees Permanent Fixed-term contract On hourly wages Full-time Part-time 3,248 2014 Women 1,148 829 54 265 727 103 Men Total 2,100 3,248 1,464 2,293 208 262 428 693 1,377 2,104 86 189 35% Women 2013 65% Men Women 975 696 60 219 646 50 Men 1,907 1,323 195 389 1,279 46 Total 2,882 2,019 255 608 1,925 96 2012 71% Permanent Women 982 700 33 249 658 43 8% Fixed-term contract Men Total 1,981 2,963 1,340 2,040 204 237 437 686 1,292 1,950 48 91 21% On hourly wages * Information pertains to the number of employee contracts as of December 31. 36 Swedav i a 2014 Employees Red Cross pop-up shop at Stockholm Arlanda Airport Collaboration to increase social well-being Swedavia’s operations have a broad impact on society in general, which is why the company has decided to work with different parties in order to contribute to increased social well-being. As a result, Swedavia’s brand as a company that takes responsibility and drives business opportunities is also strengthened, which enables the continued development of operations in line with society’s needs. Swedavia collaborates with busi­ which airlines, airports, government are also established partnerships with nesses and non-profit organisations authorities and aircraft manufacturers Doctors Without Borders and the Red based on solid business principles collaborate to identify opportunities Cross. All of these collaborations also with the aim of creating favourable for an effective supply of renewable help to develop Swedavia’s airports. conditions for the development of air aviation fuel. For instance, in 2014, new bottle travel. This is done, for instance, in In order to facilitate job creation recycling machines were installed trade organisations such as Airports in every region of Sweden, in terminals, with Doctors Without Council International and the Swedish Swedavia takes part in the Royal Borders receiving all proceeds. This trade association Svenskt Flyg, as Swedish Academy of Engineering initiative, carried out in partnership well as through the initiatives Connect Sciences initiative Tekniksprånget with the recycling company Returpack, Sweden and Go:Connect i Göteborg, and works actively together with helped to recycle 1.9 tonnes of plastic which both work for increased the Swedish employment agency containers in the final months of 2014 access. Another example is the Nordic Arbetsförmedlingen to provide intern­ and donate 70,000 kronor to Doctors Initiative for Sustainable Aviation, in ships to unemployed youths. There Without Borders operations. Swedav i a 2014 37 Annual Report 2014 Financial reports 38 Swedav i a A N NUA L R EPO R T 2014 Financial reports Contents Report of the Directors 40 Note 19 Investment properties 73 Note 20 Biological assets 73 Consolidated accounts 47 Note 21 Non-current financial assets 73 Consolidated income statement 47 Note 22 Other long-term receivables 74 Consolidated balance sheet 48 Note 23 Holdings in associated companies 74 Changes in equity 50 Note 24 Holdings in Group companies 74 Consolidated cash flow statement 51 Note 25 Financial assets and liabilities 75 Parent Company accounts 52 Note 26 Materials and supplies 76 Parent Company income statement 52 Note 27 Receivables from Group companies 76 Parent Company balance sheet 53 Note 28 Other receivables 76 Changes in equity 55 Note 29 Receivables from associated companies 76 Parent Company cash flow statement 56 Note 30 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 76 Note 31 Assets held for sale 77 Notes 57 Note 32 Equity 77 Note 1 Corporate information 57 Note 33 Provisions 77 Note 2 Accounting principles 57 Note 34 Provisions for pensions 77 Note 3 Segment reporting 62 Note 35 Other provisions 79 Note 4 Net revenue 63 Note 36 Deferred tax 79 Note 5 Transactions with related parties 64 Note 37 Interest-bearing liabilities 79 Note 6 Remuneration and compensation for auditors 64 Note 38 Borrowings 80 Note 7 Employees and staff expenses 64 Note 39 Bank credit facilities 80 Note 8 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses on Note 40 Other liabilities 80 tangible fixed assets/intangible non-current assets 68 Note 41 Accrued liabilities and prepaid income 80 Note 9 Financial income and expenses 68 Note 42 Financial risks 80 Note 10 Allocations and untaxed reserves 68 Note 43 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 82 Note 11 Tax 69 Note 44 Cash flow 82 Note 12 Intangible non-current assets 69 Note 13 Other fixed assets 70 Signatories to the Annual Report 83 Note 14 Buildings and land 70 Note 15 Field structures 71 Audit Report 84 Note 16 Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment 71 Statement of Compliance 85 Note 17 New construction in progress related to tangible fixed assets 71 Corporate Government Report 86 Note 18 Fair value 72 SWEDAVIA A N N UA L R EPO R T 2014 39 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Report of the Directors Arlanda Airport. The most important part of the ruling was a lifting of the ban on straight approaches to Runway 3, which was a condition in the previous permit. Instead a condition was imposed on Swedavia which states that the airport shall use other approach The Board of Directors and the President and CEO of methods to avoid the built-up portion of Upplands Väsby when Swedavia AB (publ), Swedish corporate identity number possible, taking into consideration the airport’s capacity, air traffic 556797-0818, hereby submit their annual accounts for management regulations, aviation safety and weather conditions. Swedavia AB and the consolidated financial accounts for However, three parties have appealed the ruling. In Swedavia’s the Swedavia Group for the year of operations 2014. view, the Swedish Supreme Court will rule in 2015 whether the The Report of the Directors is for the Group and Parent parties will be granted leave to appeal or not. Company, unless otherwise indicated. In June, SPP Fastigheter acquired all shares in the company TreDhotell AB, which owns the hotel property adjacent to Operations Stockholm Arlanda Airport and took possession on June 18, 2014. Swedavia is a State-owned company that owns, operates and The transaction was carried out at an underlying property value develops the State-owned airports in Sweden. Swedavia’s operof SEK 1,100 M with potential for a supplemental purchase price. ations are divided into two segments, Airport Operations and As a result of the sale, Swedavia recorded a capital gain of SEK Real Estate. At year-end 2014. the Airport Operations segment at 347 M. The sale is in line with the strategy Swedavia adopted to Swedavia ran operations at ten airports in the national basic infragenerate and realise value to reinvest in the competitiveness and structure of airports as determined by the Swedish government, attractiveness of the airports. In June, Swedavia also acquired which consist of Bromma Stockholm Airport, Göteborg Landvetter the outstanding 40 per cent of shares in its subsidiary ASDC AB Airport, Kiruna Airport, Luleå Airport, Malmö Airport, Ronneby (Arlanda Schiphol Development Company AB) for SEK 54 M from Airport, Stockholm Arlanda Airport, Umeå Airport, Visby Airport Schiphol International BV. The acquisition is a natural consequence and Åre Östersund Airport. The airports are managed as and conof the change phase that Swedavia is in, where a greater focus on solidated into an integrated airport system with shared corporate commercial activities is a priority. The acquisition is also expected functions. In addition, up until December, Swedavia was a minority to generate synergy effects with the rest of operations. shareholder in the company Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB, which In November 2014, deficiencies were identified in the runway operates Säve Airport. In December, Swedavia exercised its option system at Säve Airport, which is why heavy passenger traffic has to acquire the outstanding shares and as a result gained controlling been redirected to Göteborg Landvetter Airport since then. In interest in the company, which was consolidated as of December detailed analyses of the runway system, it was noted that very 18, 2014. Real Estate owns, develops and manages properties and extensive measures are needed to enable heavy passenger traffic developable land at and in the vicinity of Swedavia’s airports. to return to the airport. As a result, an impairment loss was recogSwedavia’s task from the Swedish State includes working actively nised on the fixed assets in the company that operates the airport, based on sound business principles and with long-term profitability and the company received a conditional shareholder contribution to develop the transport sector and help achieve the Parliament’s from Swedavia AB. transport policy objectives. The overall objective of Swedish transAll of Swedavia’s airports were recertified at the highest level of port policy is to ensure the socioeconomically efficient, long-term the Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) programme. ACA is a global sustainable provision of transport to citizens and businesses standard for the climate work of airports. throughout the country. As per the instructions of its owner, beginning in 2014, under the scope of Swedish transport policy objectives The Group in brief1 concerning access and other factors for consideration, Swedavia will measure and report results for five indicators in the areas of access, SEK M, unless otherwise indicated 2014 2013 2012 2011 quality of transport, safety, security, and environment. Net revenue 5,538 5,233 4,965 4,693 Swedavia’s operations are funded by the revenue generated Operating profit 1,405 946 831 781 from operations. This past year was dominated by good passenger growth and continued property development. Operating margin, % 25.4 18.1 16.7 16.6 Profit before tax 1,162 686 554 556 Vision and mission Profit for the year 926 501 447 438 Swedavia’s vision is “Together we bring the world closer”, and its Earnings per share, SEK 0.64 0.35 0.31 0.30 mission statement is “We at Swedavia create added value for our Return on equity, % 17.7 10.9 10.8 11.2 customers through attractive airports and access. We continually Return on operating capital, % 10.3 7.1 7.4 7.6 develop our business together with our partners”. Debt/equity ratio, times 1.4 1.9 1.9 1.6 Important events during the year Equity/assets ratio, % 36.5 30.5 29.1 32.7 The year was dominated by continued good passenger growth, Cash flow from operating activities 2,109 1,339 1,493 1,178 with an increase of 6.4 per cent compared to last year, which Capital spending 924 2,413 3,418 1,057 means a new passenger record for Swedavia. Average number of employees 2,460 2,369 2,380 2,265 On November 21, the Land and Environmental Court ruled on Swedavia’s appeal for a new environmental permit for Stockholm 1 For definitions of terms, see page 102. 40 SWEDAVIA A N NUA L R EPO R T 2014 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Net revenue and profit Last year’s investing activities were affected by the acquisition of Consolidated net revenue for the year totalled SEK 5,538 M (5,233), the assets of NAP, SEK 1,284 M. Financing activities reduced cash an increase of 5.8 per cent. Operating profit was SEK 1,405 M flow by SEK -1,671 M (842), which is largely explained by the paying (946), an increase of 48.5 per cent. The operating margin was 25.4 down of bank loans, which was made possible by the hotel sale per cent (18.1). Profit for the year totalled SEK 926 M (501). Net and the positive cash flow from operating activities. revenue increased SEK 305 M compared to last year. Higher passenger volume meant that aviation revenue increased SEK 164 M, Capital spending car parking increased SEK 76 M and rental income from retail, During the year, capital spending totalled SEK 924 M (2,413). The food & beverage increased SEK 14 M. Real Estate operations also change compared to last year is largely explained by the acquisition recorded non-recurring income of SEK 36 M for the early terminof assets in NAP, SEK 1,284 M, as of June 2013 and by a slower ation of leases. Other revenue totalled SEK 347 M (0) and pertains investment rate. Major capital expenditures in 2014 include investto a capital gain from the sale of the hotel property at Stockholm ments in noise insulation measures, a new multi-storey parking Arlanda Airport. structure at Stockholm Arlanda Airport, plough, sweep and blow External costs increased SEK 33 M compared to last year. machines and investments to maintain and increase capacity at During the year, income was affected by net non-recurring charges the airports. of SEK 128 M (108), which is mostly explained by the expensing of previously capitalised costs and the setting aside of provisions for Financial targets the company’s environmental liability. Swedavia’s new financial targets were adopted at its Annual Staff expenses increased SEK 106 M, with SEK 34 M of this General Meeting on April 29, 2014, and are in effect until further attributable to annual salary reviews. The remaining change is due notice. They consist of a profitability target, which requires a 7 per to more employees being hired to replace consultants previously cent return on operating capital, and a capital structure target, engaged and to more employees at the airports to handle the which specifies a debt/equity ratio of 1.0–1.5 times. increased passenger volume and future investment plans. These financial targets are long-term, which means that perDepreciation, amortisation and loss impairments increased by formance may exceed or fall below the targets as a result, for SEK 6 M. This change had a positive effect of SEK 55 M since no instance, of fluctuations in the economy. The values are based on a depreciation was taken on assets held for sale and depreciation combination of historical performance and the company’s expecwas lower due to the sale of the hotel property. Furthermore, ted ability to achieve the targets over the next few years. non-recurring effects in the form of impairment losses on fixed assets had a negative impact of SEK 57 M (24). Dividend policy Operating profit was SEK 1,405 M (946), which is an improveThe normal dividend shall be between 30 and 50 per cent of the ment of SEK 459 M compared to last year. This increase is year’s profit excluding capital gains on the sale of properties and explained mostly by the SEK 347 M capital gain from the sale of the excluding changes in value and related tax. Dividend decisions hotel property. shall take into consideration the company’s operations and the Net financial items totalled SEK -242 M (-260). A reduction in capital structure target (a debt/equity ratio of 1.0–1.5 times). external borrowings meant that interest expenses for the year were lower compared to last year. Shares Swedavia AB (publ) has issued 1,441,403,026 shares, which comLiquidity and financial position prise a single share class, and all shares have equal voting rights in Equity in the Group at year-end totalled SEK 5,571 M (4,915), the company. All shares are held by the Swedish State; the State’s and the equity/assets ratio was 36.5 per cent (30.5). Swedavia’s holdings in Swedavia were administered by the Ministry of Finance external borrowings at year-end totalled SEK 6,889 M, which is a as of December 31, 2014, and will be administered by the Ministry decrease of SEK 1,615 M compared to last year. The reduction is of Enterprise and Innovation starting in 2015. The par value of a largely explained by the paying down of bank loans in conjunction share is one Swedish krona. with the sale of the hotel property. External borrowings consist of notes issued of SEK 4,096 M, commercial paper issued of Acquisitions and disposals SEK 2,446 M and bank borrowings of SEK 347 M. At year-end, In June, Swedavia acquired the outstanding 40 per cent of shares Swedavia had unused credit facilities totalling SEK 710 M divided in its subsidiary Arlanda Schiphol Development Company (ASDC) between credit lines of SEK 500 M and unused overdraft facilities AB for SEK 54 M from Schiphol International BV. The acquisition of SEK 210 M. is a natural consequence of the change phase that Swedavia is in, where a greater focus on commercial activities is a priority. The Cash flow acquisition is also expected to generate synergy effects with the Cash flow from operating activities was SEK 2,109 M (1,339). rest of operations. In June, SPP Fastigheter acquired all shares in Investing activities used cash flow of SEK -378 M (-2,258). The the company TreDhotell AB, which owns the hotel property adjasale of shares in the subsidiary that owns the hotel property cent to Stockholm Arlanda Airport, and took possession on June at Stockholm Arlanda Airport had a positive effect on cash 18, 2014. The transaction was carried out at an underlying property flow of SEK 617 M. Important assets in the subsidiary that was value of SEK 1,100 M with potential for a supplemental purchase sold are investment properties, and important liabilities are price. As a result of the sale, Swedavia recorded a capital gain of operating liabilities. SEK 347 M. The sale is in line with the strategy Swedavia adopted SWEDAVIA A N N UA L R EPO R T 2014 41 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS to generate and realise value to reinvest in the competitiveness Stockholm Arlanda Airport. The trend in the market for properties and attractiveness of the airports. near airports has been stable, with good demand for premises. In June, Swedavia also acquired the company Tsiaras Fastigheter AB, now Bromma Stockholm Airport Fastigheter AB. Significant risks and uncertainty factors The company owns a workshop building at Bromma Stockholm Risk management at Swedavia is aimed at ensuring the Group’s Airport. In December, Swedavia exercised its option to buy the ability to achieve its business objectives and be well prepared to outstanding shares in Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB, which meet change both internally and externally. Carrying out proac­ operates Säve Airport, thus gaining controlling interest in the tive risk management is an important tool in our drive to provide company. Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB was consolidated as of greater access for our customers. Through continuous, systematic December 18, 2014. risk management, we direct decisions, priorities and change work toward our overall objectives. During the year, the risk work at The market Swedavia resulted in analyses and measures for a number of risks Swedavia runs airport operations under Airport Operations and related to our sustainability objectives – customers, social developproperty development under Real Estate. Both types of operations ment, environmental concern and economy. are sensitive to the business cycle and are affected by the trend in the number of passengers and aircraft movements. Airport Customers Operations is directly affected by changes, whereas Real Estate is Swedavia strives to continuously develop, improve and create indirectly affected. The number of passengers who flew to or from flexibility in operations in order to have a focus on customers. To one of Swedavia’s airports was 35.7 million (33.5). Compared to meet increased demand in the short term, efficient flows in the last year, that was an increase of 6.4 per cent, which means a new existing infrastructure are needed. In the long term, the demand for record for Swedavia. The number of international passengers was more capacity is met through development plans that then result up a full 7.9 per cent, while the number of domestic passengers in investment plans. There is a risk in terms of the ability to make was up 3.8 per cent. There as a sharp increase in traffic for much accurate assessments of the demand for capacity and in the ability of the year, and a number of Swedavia’s bigger airline customers to implement development plans at a fast enough pace. There increased their capacity in 2014, with more departures, larger is also a risk that Swedavia will not be able to translate insights aircraft and new destinations. Demand has responded quite well and customer needs into new ventures and business opportunto the greater supply. The cabin factor was higher in 2014 than the ities quickly enough, which could lead to declining profitability. year before despite already elevated levels in 2013. The passenger To ensure increased growth and the potential to take advantage trend in 2014 meant new records for many of Swedavia’s airports. of business opportunities, extensive business intelligence is In absolute numbers, Stockholm Arlanda Airport had the greatest carried out. increase, with total passenger volume of 22.4 million and a number of new intercontinental routes. While the macroeconomic situation Social development in Sweden and the rest of the world was uncertain in 2014, both Events such as extreme weather conditions, operational downtime, Sweden and the rest of Europe experienced economic growth. a terrorist act or labour dispute could entail a shutdown or disrupIncreased employment, continued low inflation and a favourable tion in airport operations and commercial services. The airports’ interest rate environment meant that household disposable income aviation safety and security work is aimed at preventing and rose, enabling increased capacity to consume. minimising the effects of any incidents in Swedavia’s operations. This continued increased consumption capacity and a someWith effective safety and security work combined with effective risk what more stable economic trend in Sweden and internationally work, disruptions in airport operations should never affect aviation were probably strong contributing factors behind the increased safety and security. Swedavia works actively with crisis managedemand for air travel from both individuals and companies during ment and continuity plans and carries out exercises to increase 2014. The fact that domestic air travel saw such strong growth risk awareness and the competency levels of our employees, is an indication of the large and growing need for rapid, safe and partners and government authorities. Being an attractive employer punctual transport that exists in the country. Sweden is the longest that attracts and keeps the right employees is an important part country from end to end in the European Union, and air travel is to of Swedavia’s drive to secure the supply of future talent and thus a great extent the only realistic mode of transport. Competition in minimise dependence on key people at all levels of the Group. With the market is crucial in order to ensure attractive timetables and a precise breakdown of targets and clear leadership, we motivate attractive air fares. In 2014, competition in the air travel market and engage our employees and work to improve our employee was high, which entailed intense marketing and contributed satisfaction index (ESI). to increased travel. In Aviation Business, increased passenger volume meant higher revenue from charges related to passenEnvironmental concern gers and aircraft movements. In Commercial Services, increased One essential requirement to carry out airport operations is that passenger volume generated higher revenue from car parking as the operations have an environmental permit that complies with well as rental income from leases in retail, food & beverage, which the Swedish Environmental Code. On November 21, the Land and is revenue-based. Real Estate is affected by the occupancy rate Environmental Court ruled on Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s appeal of properties leased. In 2014, the portfolio of properties in Real for a new environmental permit. The most important part of the Estate was reduced as a result of the sale of the hotel property at ruling was a lifting of the ban on straight approaches to Runway 3, 42 SWEDAVIA A N NUA L R EPO R T 2014 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS which was a condition in the previous permit. Instead a condition Impact on profit was imposed on Swedavia whereby the airport shall use other Parameter % SEK M/year approach methods to avoid the built-up portion of Upplands Passenger volume +1 +33 Väsby when possible, in consideration of the airport’s capacity, air traffic management regulations, aviation safety and weather Salary level +1 -15 conditions. The so-called emissions cap was also removed and Interest rates +1 -13 replaced with an action plan aimed at reducing atmospheric emissions and which includes both air traffic and ground transport to Passenger volume and from the airport. This is Swedavia’s most important strategic The number of passengers who fly to or from one of Swedavia’s issue, and the risk associated with Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s airports constitutes the basic condition for all revenue the comenvironmental permit is managed with the highest priority. Further pany generates. About half of Swedavia’s revenue comes from environmental information can be found on pages 32–34. Aviation Business and consists of infrastructure services aimed at airlines and ground handling companies. Revenue from Aviation Economy Business consists of airport charges, including passenger and Swedavia carries out work on a continuous basis to make take-off charges, which are related to the number of passengers, operations more efficient, which is required to meet performance the number of aircraft movements and aircraft take-off weight in targets and over time achieve a high equity/assets ratio to withtonnes. A change in the number of aircraft movements, aircraft stand periods of decelerating growth in traffic and passengers. tonnage and the number of passengers directly affects Swedavia’s Very complex infrastructure investments are needed as a result revenue. Swedavia’s other revenue comes from Commercial of increased demand and a fast pace of change. That constiServices, which is revenue from commercial services connected tutes a challenge in terms of priorities, funding and resource use. with the airport. This consists of revenue from car parking and the There is a risk of insufficient quality in the planning process and leasing of premises for shops, offices, restaurants and logistics. in the assessment of long-term future development and capacity Rental revenue is based largely on its customers’ revenue, which needs, which could produce inaccurate data for decision-making. means Swedavia’s revenue depends on its tenants’ sales, which in In order to counter and control this risk and to manage and give turn depend directly on the number of passengers at the airport. priority to the company’s investment funds, the investment proAn increase in passenger numbers means a direct increase in cess has been developed and a forum for capital spending and Swedavia’s revenue while a decrease means a direct decrease contracts has been established. Swedavia’s customers operate in in revenue. The correlation between percentage change in a market subject to intense competition, where there are a small passenger volume and percentage change in revenue is not number of major airline customers and changes occur rapidly. linear; instead there is some difference due to route development The risks that Swedavia faces because of uncertainty about the discounts, differentiated charges for domestic and international economy and airlines in financial imbalance include the risk of traffic and rental revenue, which depends partly on customer lower revenue as a result of lower profitability if costs cannot be revenue. A negative change in passenger growth of 1 per cent has reduced to the same extent and the risk of credit losses as a a negative impact on Swedavia’s revenue of SEK 33 M (31) on an result of airlines or other customers going bankrupt. Swedavia annualised basis. strives to increase flexibility in costs, create action plans to handle a decline in traffic and bolster its business intelligence about Salary level customers’ economic situation in order to minimise credit losses With an average of 2,460 (2,369) employees, Swedavia’s staff in conjunction with any bankruptcy. The Group’s and the Parent expenses totalled about SEK 1,476 M (1,370). A 1 per cent change Company’s financing activities and management of financial risks in staff expenses would have a SEK 15 M (14) impact on costs on are centralised in the Group Finance function. Operations are an annual basis. carried out based on a financial policy adopted by the Board of Directors which is characterised by a low risk level. The aim is Interest rates to minimise the Group’s capital costs through effective financial As of December 31, 2014, Swedavia had external borrowings of solutions and effective management and control of the Group’s SEK 6,889 M (8,504), which is 44 per cent (53) of the balance financial risks. For more information about definitions and the sheet. This means the company is sensitive to changes in interest management of financial risks, see Note 42 on pages 80–82. rates, which affect the company’s financial expenses. Through long-term borrowings and the use of financial instruments, Sensitivity analysis Swedavia works actively to achieve a balance between fixed and A sensitivity analysis shows how a change in different parametfloating interest rates. As of December 31, 2014, 82 per cent of ers, both internal and external, affects the company’s performits borrowings were hedged via financial instruments and the ance or financial position. The three parameters that have the remaining 18 per cent were exposed to interest rate changes. greatest impact on performance are passenger volume, staff A 1 per cent change in interest rates would have a SEK 13 M (29) expenses and interest rates. Swedavia’s situation can generally be effect on Swedavia’s interest rate expense. Current lock-in periods described as one where revenue essentially is variable while costs and financial instruments are taken into account in calculating the are relatively fixed. That means flexibility is limited in terms of the sensitivity analysis. The analysis thus reflects the actual risk on the ability to adjust costs in case revenue should fall. balance sheet date. SWEDAVIA A N N UA L R EPO R T 2014 43 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Other factors affecting performance Employees and Swedavia There are also other factors that could have an impact on profits Swedavia’s values, leadership and sustainability work constitute in both the short and long term. One critical factor, especially the foundation of the corporate culture. Swedavia should be an in the long term, is the environmental permits required for attractive employer, with airports that people look forward to visitSwedavia’s operations. A change in these could affect operaing. Engaged employees with the right competencies and a desire tions on a large scale. In the short term, any extreme weather to develop are critical to Swedavia’s future. The work is carried out conditions or natural disasters constitute the main factors that with a focus on sustainability and ambitious objectives in the areas have an immediate impact on air traffic and thus a negative of employeeship, leadership, talent management, occupational impact on revenue. Interest rate changes also affect Swedavia’s health and safety, and diversity. Each year, Swedavia conducts an pension liability, which means that if the discount rate falls, employee survey to measure employee satisfaction. The employee Swedavia must add funds to the provision for its pension liability. satisfaction index (ESI) has gradually increased each year, and the Swedavia is also sensitive to policy decisions that can affect air result in 2014 was 84 per cent satisfied employees, which exceeds traffic as well as to changes in the general public’s attitudes to Swedavia’s target of 80 per cent. The work to increase employee air traffic. satisfaction is ongoing and Swedavia has set a new target of 85 per cent by 2020. At year-end 2014, the number of employees, Ongoing litigation and disputes regardless of the form of employment, was 3,248 (2,882). Restated Swedavia is a party to ongoing litigation and disputes. The disas average number of employees during the financial year (see putes have arisen as part of the day-to-day business operations definition on page 102), the number was 2,460 (2,369). The breakcarried out by Swedavia. Legal proceedings and disputes are down by gender is 65 (66) per cent men and 35 (34) per cent unpredictable by nature, and the actual outcome may deviate women. Further information about employees can be found in Note from the assessments Swedavia has made. 7 on pages 64–68. Corporate Governance Report Talent management The Corporate Governance Report is a separate document from In 2013-2014, Swedavia implemented a new model for roles and the Annual Report and is released in conjunction with the publicpositions as well as its Competency Terminal to provide system ation of the Annual Report. support. The model ensures that Swedavia sets relevant and transparent requirements concerning what competencies are required Work of the Board of Directors for the different roles in the company. Compulsory training and Under the Articles of Association, Swedavia AB’s Board of qualifications are associated with each role. The model is the basis Directors shall consist of at least six and at most nine regular for all Swedavia’s talent management work, and the Competency Board members. In addition, there are two regular employee Terminal creates the conditions needed to ensure that employrepresentatives plus their two deputies. Swedavia’s Chief Legal ees meet all competency requirements for their various duties Counsel is the Board secretary. The CEO is not included on the and roles. Board but presents reports at the Board meetings. The Board is responsible for the organisation of the company and the Group Leadership and for the administration of the company’s affairs. None of the A crucial role for the leaders at Swedavia is to motivate all employBoard members is part of the executive management. ees to take responsibility for the company achieving its objectives During the financial year 2014, 16 meetings were held. and targets. These leaders are the key to Swedavia’s vision and Particular attention was paid during the year to strategic develvalues extending into the company’s operations. Swedavia works opment, Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s environmental permit, continuously to strengthen its leaders. This is done in part by develsustainability objectives and targets, access and new routes for oping communication tools used in the dialogue with employees, Stockholm Arlanda Airport and Bromma Stockholm Airport, and as well as by carrying out compulsory leadership training to create the development plan for Real Estate operations. The Board also a common platform for the company’s leadership but also potential focused on internal control, the development of Säve Airport, for individual development. and risk management and assessment. The Board has two committees set up, the Audit Committee Occupational health and safety and the Remuneration Committee. The Audit Committee’s tasks Occupational health and safety have high priority at Swedavia. The include taking responsibility for preparing the Board’s work employees shall have a physical and psychosocial work environto quality assure the company’s financial reporting and mainment that enables them to be healthy and thus work and perform taining an ongoing dialogue with the company’s auditors. The to their best potential. Swedavia works actively with occupational Remuneration Committee has the task of preparing matters perrehabilitation in case of repeated short-term absences due to taining to remuneration and other employment terms for senior illness as well as longer such absences. The company also works executive officers. to develop measures and tools to prevent injury. This is importFurther information about corporate governance, the comant since many of the employees have physically demanding position of the Board and internal control can be found in the tasks. Swedavia provides occupational health care service and Corporate Governance Report. crisis management. The company also supports and encourages employees to take responsibility for their health by subsidising 44 SWEDAVIA A N NUA L R EPO R T 2014 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS fitness activities. All employees have an employee insurance water operations under Chapter 11 (ponds, treatment facilities programme for illness and occupational rehabilitation via Swedavia and groundwater redirection). Swedavia must therefore have an aimed at quickly providing the help needed. Swedavia has a zero environmental permit for each airport in order for the company to tolerance policy on bullying and harassment. be allowed to operate the airports. At year-end 2014, Swedavia was responsible for eight airports subject to conditions in its Diversity and gender quality environmental permits under the Swedish Environmental Code. At Swedavia, diversity and an inclusive approach is a strategic The Swedish Armed Forces was responsible for the environmental issue and a priority. Having carefully prepared and inclusive permits for the remaining two, Luleå Airport and Ronneby Airport. diversity work is critical to the business, as Swedavia operates Swedavia’s primary environmental impact is atmospheric from the assumption that people’s differences are enriching. greenhouse gas emissions, mainly carbon dioxide. The largest Having a diversity perspective in the choice of suppliers is also source of the company’s emissions is exhaust from vehicles and an increasingly important issue in enhancing Swedavias benefits the operation of terminals and other buildings. Another significant to society. In 2014, the target was clarified. By 2018, Swedavia environmental impact is discharges into the ground and water, shall be a gender-balanced company, with a gender breakdown mainly of oxygen-depleting substances from the de-icing of of 40–60 per cent. By 2018, 20 per cent of Swedavia’s employees runways and aircraft. The vicinity of the airports is also affected shall have a foreign background. by aviation noise as a result of airport operations. During the year, Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Kiruna Airport, Stockholm Leadership and employeeship principles and ethical Arlanda Airport and Visby Airport each worked on applications for guidelines a brand-new environmental permit. On November 21, the Land Swedavia’s vision of leadership is specified in five leadership and Environmental Court issued a ruling on Stockholm Arlanda principles that are aimed at providing a common platform to Airport’s application for a new environmental permit. Three parties work from in the day-to-day operations. These principles are a have appealed the decision – the Municipality of Vallentuna, the focus on employees and business, one Swedavia, a good role Association of Väsby Residents against Aviation Noise, and a model, courage to be better, and clear communication. The private individual living in Sollentuna. The appeals mean that the principles are based on Swedavia’s vision, values and Code of ruling has not entered into force. The amount of time an appeal Conduct. To ensure that everyone at Swedavia is familiar with the takes varies, but the estimate is that this will take from three employee principles and the Code of Conduct, these concepts months to a year. Swedavia will monitor the three appeals during and guidelines and what they entail are included in the introthis time. The old permit contained two restrictive conditions that ductory training for all new employees, while all new leaders are meant it was not possible to fully take advantage of the actual trained in Swedavia’s bribery policy and guidelines for business production permitted of 372,100 movements. The conditions limentertainment involving external contacts through a web-based iting operations are the so-called emissions cap (conditions from programme. Leaders’ and employees’ compliance with these printhe Government’s decision to grant approval in 1991) and special ciples and guidelines in their day-to-day work is monitored through condition 6 from the National Licensing Board for Environmental a performance review process, in which behaviour is assessed Protection’s decision in 1993 concerning overflights of Upplands and strengths and areas for development are identified in order for Väsby. In the new permit, the emissions cap has been eliminated them to continuously develop in line with these principles. and replaced with an action plan for atmospheric emissions of fossil carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particles. Remuneration to executive officers The action plan shall include Swedavia’s operations and the The term executive officers refers to the people who, together with operations of other companies and organisations at the airport the President and CEO, constitute the executive management as well as ground transport and air traffic. The condition reguand/or report directly to the President and CEO. The Swedish lating overflights of Upplands Väsby means that regular straight Government has established guidelines for remuneration to approaches over the built-up portion of Upplands Väsby may now executive officers. Guidelines for remuneration to executive officers be made, but the airport is to use other approach methods to were adopted at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on April avoid that area when possible, taking into consideration the air29, 2014. Swedavia follows the Government’s guidelines for terms port’s capacity, air traffic management regulations, aviation safety of employment for executive officers in State-owned companies. and weather conditions. Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Kiruna For 2015, the Board proposes that the guidelines for remuneration Airport and Visby Airport have old permits under the Swedish to executive officers remain unchanged. The principles are presenEnvironmental Protection Act, and operations at these airports ted in the Corporate Governance Report. Information about those have changed over the years. The airports have therefore decided involved and the company’s process for handling remuneration to to apply for new environmental permits. Göteborg Landvetter executive officers is presented in Note 7 on pages 64–68. Airport submitted its application in April 2013, and Visby Airport submitted its application in July 2013. Kiruna Airport plans to Environmental information submit its application during the spring of 2015. Swedavia carries out operations in Sweden subject to the conditions of its environmental permits under the Swedish Environmental Events after the balance sheet date Code. These consist primarily of operations that are hazardous The policy regarding Säve Aiprport was announced on January to the environment under Chapter 9 (airport operations) and 13, 2015, after Swedavia acquired all shares in the company that SWEDAVIA A N N UA L R EPO R T 2014 45 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS operates the airport. This policy entails the gradual phase-out of Annual General Meeting the airport, and all employees at the airport were given notice. Swedavia AB’s Annual General Meeting takes place on April 29, On February 3, Swedavia signed an agreement via its subsidiary 2015, at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. The Annual Report and other Swedavia Real Estate AB with Bockasjö AB concerning the confinancial reports are available on Swedavia’s website tinued development of logistics properties at Göteborg Landvetter www.swedavia.com/about-swedavia/this-is-swedavia/. Airport. The agreement entails the parties forming a joint venture to develop the area around the airport for setting up logistics operaCalendar tions. In the first phase, land will be prepared for the construction of logistics properties with about 100,000 square metres of space. Annual Report 2014 March 31, 2015 On February 3, the Swedish government announced its intenAnnual General Meeting 2015 April 29, 2015 tion to explore the possibility of introducing US preclearance Quarterly report Q1 2015 April 30, 2015 at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. US preclearance means that US Quarterly report Q2 2015 August 14, 2015 immigration and border control are carried out on departure from Stockholm instead of on arrival in the US. Benefits include a Quarterly report Q3 2015 October 30, 2015 better passenger experience, a smoother arrival in the US and the Year-end report 2015 February 15, 2016 potential to attract new direct routes to Stockholm Arlanda Airport. Introduction requires the approval of Swedish and US authorities. For other matters concerning the company’s results and position, see the income statements and balance sheets below. Parent Company The Parent Company’s net revenue for the year totalled SEK 5,194 M (4,932). Operating profit totalled SEK 828 M (713). The operating margin was 15.9 per cent (14.5). Profit before tax was SEK 327 M (398), and profit for the year was SEK 178 M (284). Allocations to untaxed reserves consist of depreciation in excess of plan of SEK -400 M (205) and Group contributions paid in of SEK 256 M (193). The Parent Company’s equity at year-end was SEK 3,775 M (3,598) with an equity/assets ratio of 33.6 per cent (29.3). The Parent Company had positive cash flow of SEK 97 M (-88). Cash flow from operating activities totalled SEK 2,529 M (-2,080), investing activities used cash flow of SEK -964 M (1,157), and financing activities used cash flow of SEK -1,468 M (835) as a result of the paying down of bank loans. Proposed distribution of profit The following unrestricted equity is at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting, SEK: Share premium account 2,161,354,539 Retained earnings -4,979,966 Profit for the year 177,840,242 2,334,214,815 The Board proposes that the profit be appropriated as follows: Paid to shareholders SEK 0.16 per share 230,624,484 Brought forward 2,103,590,331 2,334,214,815 46 SWEDAVIA A N NUA L R EPO R T 2014 income statement Consolidated income statement Amounts in SEK M Note 2014 2013 Net revenue 3,4,5 5,538 5,233 Other operating revenue 347 – Total revenue 5,885 5,233 Operating expenses External expenses 6 -2,009 -1,976 Staff expenses 7 -1,476 -1,370 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment losses on tangible fixed assets and intangible non-current assets 8 -946 -940 Other operating expenses -49 – Operating profit 3 1,405 946 Income from financial items Income from holdings in associated companies 0 8 Interest income and similar items 9 6 4 Interest expenses and similar items 9 -248 -272 Profit after financial items 1,162 686 Tax 11 -236 -185 Profit for the year 926 501 Attributable to holdings with non-controlling interest – 10 Earnings per share Earnings per share before and after dilution, SEK 0.64 0.35 Number of shares 1,441,403,026 1,441,403,026 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Amounts in SEK M Note 2014 2013 Profit for the year 926 501 Other comprehensive income: Items that can be reclassified to the income statement Cash flow hedges Change in fair value for the year -186 112 Tax 41 -25 Items that cannot be reclassified to the income statement Revaluations of defined benefit pensions -71 47 Tax 16 -10 Total other comprehensive income, net after tax -201 124 Comprehensive income for the year 725 625 Attributable to holdings with non-controlling interest – 10 SWEDAVIA A N N UA L R EPO R T 2014 47 BALANCE SHEET Consolidated balance sheet Amounts in SEK M Note 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Intangible non-current assets 12 621 452 Other tangible non-current assets 13,14,15,16,17 10,389 10,591 Investment properties 18,19 150 3 847 Biological assets 18,20 86 87 Non-current financial assets 21,22,23 108 147 Total non-current assets 11,353 15,122 CURRENT ASSETS Materials and supplies 26 42 46 Trade receivables 42 424 492 Other receivables 28,29 93 198 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 30 211 222 Derivative instruments 18,25 3 – Liquid assets 25,39 112 52 Total current assets 885 1,011 Assets held for sale 31 3,027 – TOTAL ASSETS 15,265 16,133 48 SWEDAVIA A N NUA L R EPO R T 2014 BALANCE SHEET Consolidated balance sheet (cont.) Amounts in SEK M Note 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 32 Share capital 1,441 1,441 Other paid-in capital 2,162 2,162 Hedge reserve -237 -93 Retained earnings 2,205 1,395 Total equity attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders 5,571 4,904 Holdings with non-controlling interest – 11 Total equity 5,571 4,915 Non-current liabilities 42 Provisions 33,34,35 983 882 Deferred tax liability 36 363 332 Interest-bearing liabilities 16,37,38 3,107 6,308 Derivative instruments 18,25 375 186 Other non-current liabilities 15 16 Total non-current liabilities 4,843 7,724 Current liabilities 42 Provisions 35 4 20 Interest-bearing liabilities 16,37,38 3,800 2,217 Derivative instruments 18,25 14 13 Trade payables 333 490 Other liabilities 40 156 107 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 41 460 646 Total current liabilities 4,767 3,492 Liabilities attributable to assets held for sale 31 83 – TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 15,265 16,133 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Amounts in SEK M Note 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Pledged assets 43 – – Contingent liabilities 43 6 6 SWEDAVIA A N N UA L R EPO R T 2014 49 EQUITY Changes in equity Other Holdings with paid-in Hedge Retained non-controlling Amounts in SEK M Share capital capital reserves earnings interest Total capital 2013 Equity, opening balance 1,441 2,162 -170 857 10 4,300 Dividend paid – – – – -9 -9 Transfer – – -9 9 – – Comprehensive income for the year – – 86 529 10 625 Equity, closing balance 2013-12-31 1,441 2,162 -93 1,395 11 4,915 2014 Equity, opening balance 1,441 2,162 -93 1,395 11 4,915 Dividend paid – – – – -11 -11 Acquisition of minority interest – – – -54 – -54 Adjustment attributable to the previous year – – – -4 – -4 Comprehensive income for the year – – -145 869 – 725 Equity, closing balance 2014-12-31 1,441 2,162 -237 2,205 – 5,571 50 SWEDAVIA A N NUA L R EPO R T 2014 CASH FLOW STATEMENT Consolidated cash flow statement Amounts in SEK M Note 2014 2013 Operating activities 44 Profit after financial items 1,162 686 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow etc. 718 857 Tax paid -115 -45 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,765 1,498 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase(-)/Decrease(+) in materials and supplies 5 -8 Increase(-)/Decrease(+) in operating receivables 141 -55 Increase(+)/Decrease(-) in operating liabilities 198 -95 Cash flow from operating activities 2,109 1,339 Investing activities Acquisition/disposal of intangible non-current assets -187 -11 Acquisition of tangible fixed assets -754 -2,333 Acquisition of minority interest -54 – Disposal of subsidiaries/other financial assets 617 86 Cash flow from investing activities -378 -2,258 Financing activities Borrowings raised 5,001 12,493 Borrowings repaid -6,663 -11,642 Dividend paid -10 -9 Increase (+)/Decrease (-) in other financial liabilities 1 – Cash flow from financing activities -1,671 842 Cash flow for the year 60 -77 Liquid assets at the beginning of the period 52 129 Liquid assets at the end of the period 112 52 SWEDAVIA A N N UA L R EPO R T 2014 51 INCOME STATEMENT Parent Company income statement Amounts in SEK M Note 2014 2013 Net revenue 4,5 5,194 4,932 Operating expenses External expenses 6 -2,097 -1,976 Staff expenses 7 -1,357 -1,355 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment losses on tangible fixed assets and intangible non-current assets 8 -912 -888 Operating profit 828 713 Income from financial investments Income from holdings in Group companies 9 -202 14 Income from holdings in associated companies -1 9 Interest income and similar items 9 71 81 Interest expenses and similar items 9 -225 -245 Profit after financial items 471 571 Appropriations 10 -144 -172 Profit before tax 327 399 Tax 11 -149 -115 Profit for the year 178 284 Parent Company statement of comprehensive income Amounts in SEK M Note 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Profit for the year 178 284 Other comprehensive income – – Comprehensive income for the year 178 284 52 SWEDAVIA A N NUA L R EPO R T 2014 BALANCE SHEET Parent Company balance sheet Amounts in SEK M Note 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Intangible non-current assets 12 644 501 Tangible fixed assets Buildings and land 14 5,083 5,018 Field structures 15 2,226 2,249 Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment 16 2,108 2,158 New construction in progress related to tangible fixed assets 17 902 1,043 Total tangible fixed assets 10,320 10,468 Financial non-current assets Holdings in Group companies 24 913 963 Holdings in associated companies 23 – 1 Other long-term receivables 22 68 68 Deferred tax assets 36 31 25 Total financial assets 1,012 1,058 Total non-current assets 11,976 12,026 CURRENT ASSETS Materials and supplies 26 38 41 Current receivables Trade receivables 406 454 Receivables from Group companies 27 2,977 3,529 Receivables from associated companies 29 – 6 Other receivables 76 178 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 30 203 221 Total current receivables 3,662 4,388 Liquid assets 25,39 111 14 Total current assets 3,811 4,444 TOTAL ASSETS 15,787 16,470 SWEDAVIA A N N UA L R EPO R T 2014 53 BALANCE SHEET Parent Company balance sheet (cont.) Amounts in SEK M Note 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY 32 Restricted equity Share capital (1,441,403,026 shares) 1,441 1,441 Unrestricted equity Share premium 2,162 2,162 Retained earnings -5 -289 Profit for the year 178 284 Total equity 3,775 3,598 Untaxed reserves 10 1,967 1,567 Provisions Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 34 971 1,069 Other provisions 35 140 133 Total provisions 1,111 1,202 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 16,37,38 3,108 6,308 Other non-current liabilities 6 12 Total non-current liabilities 3,114 6,320 Current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 16,37,38 3,753 2,217 Trade payables 318 480 Liabilities to Group companies 1,168 447 Other liabilities 147 80 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 41 434 559 Total current liabilities 5,820 3,783 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 15,787 16,470 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Amounts in SEK M Note 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Pledged assets 43 – 0 Contingent liabilities 43 6 6 54 SWEDAVIA A N NUA L R EPO R T 2014 EQUITY Changes in equity PARENT COMPANY Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Amounts in SEK M Share capital Share premium Retained earnings Total capital 2013 Equity, opening balance 1,441 2,162 -289 3,314 Profit for the year – – 284 284 Equity, closing balance 2013-12-31 1,441 2,162 -5 3,598 2014 Equity, opening balance 1,441 2,162 -5 3,598 Profit for the year – – 178 178 Equity, closing balance 2014-12-31 1,441 2,162 173 3,775 SWEDAVIA A N N UA L R EPO R T 2014 55 CASH FLOW STATEMENT Parent Company cash flow statement Amounts in SEK M Note 2014 2013 Operating activities 44 Profit after financial items 471 571 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow etc. 1,052 766 Tax paid -93 -40 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,430 1,297 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase(-)/Decrease(+) in materials and supplies 3 -6 Increase(-)/Decrease(+) in operating receivables 779 -2,692 Increase(+)/Decrease(-) in operating liabilities 316 -679 Cash flow from operating activities 2,529 -2,080 Investing activities Acquisition of intangible non-current assets -187 -11 Acquisition of fixed assets -709 -1,202 Disposal of fixed assets 3 418 Acquisition/disposal of financial assets -71 86 Paid-in shareholder contribution – -81 Long-term receivables, subsidiaries – 1,947 Cash flow from investing activities -964 1,157 Financing activities Borrowings raised 5,001 11,579 Borrowings repaid -6,663 -10,728 Increase (+)/Decrease (-) in other financial liabilities 1 – Group contribution received/paid in 193 -16 Cash flow from financing activities -1,468 835 Cash flow for the year 97 -88 Liquid assets at the beginning of the period 14 102 Liquid assets at the end of the period 111 14 56 SWEDAVIA A N NUA L R EPO R T 2014 Notes Notes Note 1. corporate information Swedavia AB (publ), Swedish corporate identity number 556797-0818, has Regulations governing operations its registered officer in the Municipality of Sigtuna, Sweden. Swedavia AB is Swedavia’s operations are mostly regulated by Swedish and European wholly owned by the Swedish State. Swedavia’s task is to own, operate and regulations, with the most important regulations for running specific airport develop the national basic infrastructure of airports decided by the Swedish operations consisting of, among others: government. That consists of ten airports: Bromma Stockholm Airport, • Swedish Environmental Code (1998:808), with subsequent regulations Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Kiruna Airport, Luleå Airport, Malmö Airport, requiring a permit for airport operations Ronneby Airport, Stockholm Arlanda Airport, Umeå Airport, Visby Airport • Swedish Civil Aviation Act (2010:500), with subsequent regulations govand Åre Östersund Airport. Swedavia also owns the property Göteborg City erning, among other issues, permission to establish an airport Airport and since December 18, 2014, has controlling interest in the com• Swedish Civil Aviation Security Act (2004:1100) concerning searches of pany Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB, which operates Säve Airport. persons and baggage in security screening • Swedish Aerodrome Ground Services Act (2000:150) concerning the responsibilities of the airport operator in opening up airports with more than 2,000,000 passengers/year to external ground services providers • Swedish Act on Airport Charges (2011:866) regulating requirements for consultation on airport charges with the users, airlines Note 2. Accounting principles Conditions for preparation of the Parent Company and otherwise indicated below. Financial assets and liabilities have been consolidated financial reports recognised at amortised cost, apart from derivative instruments, which are The consolidated accounts for Swedavia and its subsidiaries have been recognised at fair value. Biological assets are recognised at fair value; see prepared in conformity with the International Financial Reporting Standards Note 20. For information concerning valuation and information about fair (IFRS) and International Accounting Standards (IAS) issued by the value under IFRS 13, see Note 18. International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), to the extent these have been adopted by the European Union (EU), as well as with interpretations New accounting principles given by the EU of current standards issued by the IFRS Interpretations • The following are new and amended standards and interpretations that Committee (IFRIC). entered into force on January 1, 2014: The Parent Company applies Sweden’s Annual Accounts Act and the • IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements. The standard contains Swedish Financial Accounting Standards Council’s recommendation RFR uniform rules for which entities are to be consolidated and will replace 2 Accounting for legal entities. The differences arising between the Parent IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements and SIC 12, which Company and consolidated accounting principles are due to restrictions addresses Special Purpose Entities. The standard is not expected to on applying IFRS in the Parent Company as a result of Sweden’s Annual have any material impact on the financial statements Accounts Act and Pension Obligations Vesting Act as well as, in some • IFRS 11 Joint arrangements. The standard concerns the reporting of cases, the connection between accounting and taxation. so-called joint arrangements and will replace IAS 31 Interests in joint In this report, the Swedavia Group is called “Swedavia” or “the Group”, ventures. At present Swedavia has no entities included under the new and Swedavia AB is called either by its full name or “the Parent Company”. standard Reporting for the Group and the Parent Company is in millions of • IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities. Increased requirements Swedish kronor (SEK M) unless otherwise indicated. The amounts reported for information about subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associated have in some cases been rounded off. In cases where amounts are less than companies have been gathered in one standard and are expected to lead SEK 1 M and rounded down, this is presented as a zero (0); if no figure is to some increase in information disclosed in Swedavia’s Annual Report given, a figure dash (–) is used. This means that tables, charts and calculations do not always add up. New and amended standards and interpretations that enter into Non-current assets, non-current liabilities and non-current provisions force in 2015 or later: consist in all essential respects only of amounts that are expected to be IFRS 9 Financial instruments. The standard concerns the classification and recovered or paid after more than twelve months calculated from the balvaluation of financial instruments, impairment and hedge accounting. The ance sheet date. Current assets and current liabilities consist in all essential standard replaces IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurerespects only of amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid within ment. The date for compulsory application is January 1, 2018. The EU has twelve months calculated from the balance sheet date. not yet approved the standard. Swedavia has not analysed all of the effects Assets, provisions and liabilities have been recognised at cost unless of the new standard, which however is expected to affect accounting and Swedav i a A n n ua l r epo r t 2014 57 Notes financial reports. Cost is calculated as the total fair value of assets purchased, liabilities that IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers. The standard concerns have arisen or are assumed, and equity instruments issued as payment in recognition of revenue from contracts and from the sale of some non-financial exchange for controlling interest over the acquired entity. Identifiable assets, assets, and includes expanded disclosure requirements. The standard liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired are recognised at fair value on replaces IAS 11 and 18, IFRIC 13, 15 and 18, and SIC-31. Swedavia has not the acquisition date. The premium that consists of the difference between analysed all of the effects of the new standard, which has led to an increase in the cost of the acquired holdings and the total fair value of the identifiable information disclosed in Swedavia’s Annual Report. The date for application is net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. A discount is charged to the January 1, 2017; application before that date is allowed when the EU has given income statement. its approval. IFRIC 21 Levies. The interpretation clarifies when a liability is recognised Associated companies for levies/taxes that a government or similar body imposes in accordance with Shareholdings in associated companies are recognised in the consoli­ laws/regulations, with the exception of income taxes, penalties and fines. The dated accounts using the equity method. The equity method entails that interpretation specifies that a liability shall be recognised when the company the carried amount of shares in the associated company is equivalent to has an obligation to pay the levy as a result of an event that has occurred. the Group’s share of the associated company’s equity and any residual A liability is recognised progressively if the obligating event occurs over a value of the consolidated premiums or discounts. The Group’s share of the period of time. If an obligation is triggered on reaching a minimum threshold, associated company’s profit adjusted for any amortisation on or liquidation the liability is recognised when that minimum threshold is reached. Since the of premiums or discounts on acquisitions is recognised in the consolidated owner of a property is liable to pay real estate tax on January 1, the interpretincome statement as holdings in associated companies. ation means that Swedavia will recognise a liability for total real estate taxes on January 1. The standard is applied for financial years that begin June 17, Elimination of transactions between Group companies 2014, or later. Intra-Group receivables and liabilities and transactions between Group companies as well as unrealised gains in conjunction with these are eliminated in Significant judgements and assumptions full. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associated companies In the preparation of financial reports in conformity with IFRS, the executive and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent that the Group owns shares in management is required to make judgements and assumption that affect the company. Unrealised gains arising as a result of transactions with assothe application of the accounting principles and the amounts recognised for ciated companies are eliminated against holdings in associated companies. assets, liabilities, revenue and costs. These judgements and assumptions Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains as long are based on historical experience and a number of other factors that seem as there is no need for impairment. reasonable under prevailing conditions. The actual outcome may differ from these assumptions and judgements. Judgements and assumptions are Segment reporting reviewed on a regular basis. Changes in assumptions are recognised in the A business segment is defined as a part of a company that carries out operperiod the change is made if it only affected that period, or in the period the ations from which it can generate revenue and incur costs, whose operating change is made and future periods if the change affects both the current profit is examined on a regular basis by the company’s highest executive and future periods. officer and for which there is independent financial information. Swedavia’s The most significant judgements and assumptions for Swedavia have operations are organised and run, based on two business segments, Airport been made in the following areas: valuation of goodwill through impairment Operations, which owns, operates and develops Swedavia’s airports, and testing (see Note 12), and assumptions in conjunction with provisions for penReal Estate, which owns, develops and manages properties and developsions and other provisions (see Note 33 and 34). The executive management’s able land at and around Swedavia’s airports. best judgement has also been taken into consideration in the recognition of The basis of segment reporting is internal reporting. The Board of disputed amounts (see Note 35). Directors and executive management mostly use operating profit by segment for their monitoring. Financial expenses, financial income and income tax are Consolidation principles handled at the Group level. The consolidated financial accounts include the Parent Company and all the companies over which the Parent Company directly or indirectly has Revenue controlling interest. Controlling interest is assumed to exist when ownership Swedavia’s recognised net revenue is revenue from Aviation Business and entails at least 50 per cent of the votes in the subsidiary, but can also be Commercial Services. Revenue from Aviation Business consists of revenue achieved if controlling interest can be exercised over the operational and related to passengers, aircraft movements, ground handling & aircraft parkfinancial management. The Parent Company in all cases owns, directly or ing, and revenue from other aviation. Revenue from Commercial Services indirectly, shares/holdings in the companies included in the consolidated consists of revenue from car parking, retail, food & beverage, other property financial accounts. Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial revenue and other commercial services. accounts starting from the time controlling interest is achieved and are Revenue from Aviation Business is recognised in conjunction with the excluded from the consolidated financial accounts from the time controlling airlines’ and ground handling companies’ use of Swedavia’s ranges of interest is no longer exercised. Where necessary, adjustments are made in services on offer, that is, when there is a departure from one of Swedavia’s the subsidiaries’ financial statements to adapt their accounting principles to airports. Revenue from car parking is recognised in conjunction with a parking those used by the Group. All intra-Group transactions, dealings, income and customer using a parking space. Revenue from retail, food & beverage is expenditures are eliminated in consolidation. sales-based, and preliminary revenue is recognised on a monthly basis, and there is final settlement at year-end. Other property revenue consists of fixed Business combinations lease charges, which are recognised during the period of the lease, and sales Acquisitions of businesses are recognised using the acquisition method. of energy and telecom services, which are recognised when the service is 58 Swedav i a A n nua l r epo r t 2014 Notes provided. Advertising revenue consists of the sale of advertising space, and recognised at cost less any impairment loss. Goodwill has an indeterminable revenue is recognised during the period the space is used. For other services, expected useful life, and an impairment review is carried out at least once a revenue is recognised when such a service is provided. Discounts provided year. have reduced net revenue. Other intangible non-current assets consist of noise insulation for the Revenue is recognised as the fair value of what has been received or will properties of others. Straight-line amortisation is used over an expected be received. Revenue is only recognised if it is likely that economic benefits useful life of 10 years; useful life is reviewed annually. will flow to the Group and these benefits can be reliably estimated. If there is later uncertainty as to the likelihood of receiving payment for amounts already Tangible fixed assets recognised as revenue, the amount for which payment is no longer likely is Tangible fixed assets excluding biological assets are recognised at cost recognised as a cost instead of as an adjustment in the amount of revenue minus accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. originally recognised. Cost comprises the purchase price and expenditures directly attributable to the asset in order to convey it to its location and to use it for the Financial income and expenses purpose for which it was acquired. Borrowing costs are capitalised for Financial income consists of income on invested funds, dividends, the gain large-scale construction and refurbishment projects to the extent they have on a change in value in financial assets recognised at fair value through profit arisen during the construction period and the interest expense constitutes a or loss and such gains on hedging instruments as are recognised in net significant amount. Interest expenses are calculated based on the Group’s financial items. average interest rate on all borrowings. Additional expenses are added to Financial expenses consist of interest expenses on borrowings, effects of the asset’s book value or recognised separately when it is likely that the reversing provisions calculated at their present value, the loss on a change company will derive future economic benefits attributable to the asset and in value in financial assets recognised at fair value via profits and losses and the cost of the asset can be calculated in a reliable way. such losses on hedging instruments as are recognised in net financial items. Depreciation is recognised based on the expected and estimated useful Interest income and interest expenses on financial instruments are life using the straight-line depreciation method. For cases where parts of recognised using the effective interest method. Dividend income is recognised the Group’s assets consist of different components, where each part has when the right to receive a dividend is established. Foreign exchange gains an expected useful life that differs significantly from the asset as a whole, and losses are offset. depreciation of such components occurs on an individual basis using the estimated useful life of each component. Tax Depreciation begins when the assets are ready for their intended use. The Group’s total tax consists of current tax and deferred tax. Tax is recogThe residual value and useful life are reviewed on an annual basis and adjusnised in the income statement except when the underlying transaction is ted if necessary. recognised in other comprehensive income. Current tax is tax that is to be New expenditures are added to the cost for the share of improvement paid or received for the year in question. Current tax is calculated based in the asset’s performance compared to the level that applied when it was on the taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit is distinguished from profit originally acquired. Other new expenditures are recognised as a cost in the recognised in the income statement. The difference concerns revenue that period they occur. is subject to tax and expenses that are deductible in other years (temporary differences) as well as items that are not subject to tax or are not Depreciation principles for tangible fixed assets tax-deductible (permanent differences). The Group’s current tax liability is Scheduled depreciation is based on cost minus estimated residual value. calculated using the tax rates that are in effect on the balance sheet date. An Depreciation is on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of the adjustment in current tax attributable to earlier periods is also recognised as asset or component. Useful life for the Group is: current tax. Deferred tax is calculated using the balance sheet method based on the Buildings and investment properties temporary differences between book and tax values of assets and liabilitFoundation and frame 20–60 years ies. Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates and tax regulations that Roof 20–60 years are decided or advised on the balance sheet date. Temporary differences Facade 20–60 years attributable to consolidated goodwill and asset acquisitions are not taken into Interior walls 20–30 years account, and normally nor are differences attributable to holdings in subsiElectrical installations 10–30 years diaries and associated companies that are not expected to be taxed within Equipment, buildings 5–30 years the foreseeable future. Untaxed reserves including deferred tax liability are Equipment, land 10–60 years recognised for legal persons. However, in consolidated accounts, untaxed Field structures 10–60 years reserves are divided into deferred tax liability and equity. Deferred tax assets Electrical installation, vehicles and equipment 3–10 years for temporary differences and loss carryforwards that are tax-deductible are only recognised to the extent it is likely that a taxable profit occurs against Biological assets – standing timber which tax-deductible temporary differences can be used. The book value of In conformity with IFRS, forest assets are to be divided into standing timber, deferred tax assets is reviewed on each closing date. Deferred tax liabilities which is recognised as a biological asset, and land, which is recognised as are normally recognised for all temporary differences subject to tax. a tangible fixed asset. This means that standing timber is to be valued and recognised at fair value on each reporting date. Changes in fair value are Intangible non-current assets recognised in the income statement. Fair value has been calculated as the The Group has goodwill and other intangible non-current assets. Goodwill present value of the discounted future return from long-term sustainable arises when the cost for the acquisition of shares in a subsidiary exceeds the forest operations, that is, the expected future cash flow from forest operafair value of the identifiable net assets of the company acquired. Goodwill is tions. For further information, see Note 18 and 20. Swedav i a A n n ua l r epo r t 2014 59 Notes Leases contractual obligation has been fulfilled or in any other way eliminated. Leases are classified in the consolidated financial accounts as either finanFinancial instruments that are not derivatives are recognised at fair value cial leases or operating leases. Financial leases arise when the economic plus or minus transaction costs, except for those financial assets belonging risks and benefits associated with ownership in all essential aspects are to the category of financial asset or liability recognised at fair value through transferred to the lessees. If that is not the case, then it is a question of an profit or loss. Derivative instruments are recognised at fair value; increases operating lease. The Group’s contracts are classified as financial leases and decreases in value are recognised on a regular basis as revenue or and have been recognised as assets in the consolidated balance sheet. costs in other comprehensive income in cases where hedge accounting The obligation to pay future leasing fees has been recognised as a current is appropriate. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and recognised as or non-current liability. The leased assets are depreciated according to a a net amount in the balance sheet when there is a legal right to offset and set schedule while lease payments are recognised as interest and principal when the intention is to settle the items with a net amount or to realise the payments on the liabilities. asset and settle the liability simultaneously. On each balance sheet date, the company evaluates whether there Impairment losses are objective indications that an impairment loss needs to be taken on a On each balance sheet date, the Group analyses the book values of tanfinancial asset or group of financial assets as a result of events that have gible fixed assets and intangible non-current assets to determine whether occurred. Objective indications could be a breach of contract such as a there is anything to indicate that these assets have decreased in value. If default or delay of payment of interest or capital, significant financial diffithere is an indication of this, the replacement value is calculated in order to culties for debtors or deterioration in the creditworthiness of customers. determine the value of any impairment loss. The book value after impairment losses on assets is calculated as the In valuation of the airports, a systems approach is applied. Since the present value of future cash flow discounted by the effective interest rate airports included in the national basic airport infrastructure are operated that applied when the asset was recognised for the first time. Assets with as a system, integrated and mutually dependent, the individual airports a short maturity are not discounted. An impairment loss is charged to the have been valued according to their systemic useful life rather than based income statement. The asset is eliminated from the balance sheet in the on recognised profit. Operating the airports as a system means that it is event of bankruptcy. not possible to isolate cash flow attributable to individual airports included in the system on a meaningful basis. Therefore the system of airports that Financial assets recognised at fair value through profit or loss are included in Sweden’s national basic infrastructure is treated as a single This category includes derivatives with a positive value that are not intencash-generating unit. ded for hedge accounting. Financial instruments in this category are measAn impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. If an impairured at fair value with value changes recognised in the profit for the year. ment loss is reversed, it is done so only to the extent that the book value of Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged or a the asset does not exceed the book value, minus depreciation, if no impairliability settled between knowledgeable, independent parties. In determinment loss had been made. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in ing fair value, the official price listing in an active market or other observthe income statement. A reversal of an impairment loss is never recognised able market data are preferably used. If these do not exist, fair value is for goodwill. calculated with the aid of the methods that can be considered on each occasion to give the best estimate of fair value. In the valuation of financial Inventories assets at fair value, Swedavia uses Hierarchy Level 2 (Note 25). Inventories are recognised at the lower of cost using the first-in first-out method or fair value. As a result, obsolescence risks are mitigated. Loans receivable and trade receivables This category includes loan receivables, trade receivables, receivables Receivables and liabilities in foreign currencies from associated companies and other receivables as well as liquid assets. Receivables and liabilities in foreign currencies have been translated at the These assets are valued at accumulated cost. Loan receivables and trade exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Exchange rate differences for receivables with short maturities are valued at their nominal cost with no operating receivables and operating liabilities are included in the operating discounting. Trade receivables are recognised at the amount that is expecprofit, while exchange rate differences for financial receivables and liabilities ted to be received minus any bad debts, which are judged on an individual are recognised in financial items. basis. Liquid assets Financial liabilities recognised at fair value through profit or loss Liquid assets comprise cash and bank holdings that are immediately This category Includes derivatives with a negative value that are not intenavailable. ded for hedge accounting. Financial instruments in this category are measured at fair value with value changes recognised in the profit for the year. Trade payables Trade payables have a short expected maturity and are valued without Other financial liabilities discounting their nominal amount. Borrowings and other financial liabilities, apart from derivatives, are recognised at amortised cost. Amortised cost is determined based on the Financial instruments effective interest rate calculated at the time the amount was borrowed. This A financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the balance sheet when means that discounts/premiums and the direct costs of share issues are an asset or liability arises under the terms of the instrument stipulated in the allocated over the maturity of the loan. Trade payables have short expected contract. A financial asset is derecognised from the balance sheet when the maturities and are recognised without discounting their nominal amount. contractual rights are realised, expire or when the company loses control Non-current liabilities have an expected maturity of more than one year over it. A financial liability is derecognised from the balance sheet when the whereas current liabilities have a maturity less than one year. 60 Swedav i a A n nua l r epo r t 2014 Notes Hedge accounting effects of future payments. Provisions are divided into non-current and General current provisions. Derivative instruments are recognised in the balance sheet on the contract date at fair value, both initially and in subsequent revaluations. The method Restoration reserve for recognising profit or loss arising from revaluation depends on whether the In conformity with the Group’s published environmental principles and derivative has been identified as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature applicable legal requirements, a reserve to restore contaminated assets of the item hedged. The Group identifies some derivatives as a hedge of a shall be recognised when the asset is contaminated. given risk which is connected to a recognised liability or a very likely forecast transaction (cash flow hedge). Reserve for onerous contracts The Group uses derivative instruments to limit exposure to the negative A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected ecoeffect of financial fluctuations on the Group’s income statement, balance nomic benefits the Group expects to receive from a contract are lower than sheet and cash flow. the unavoidable costs of fulfilling the terms of the contract. When the transaction is entered into, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the item hedged is analysed and assessed against Restructuring reserve the Group’s risk management objectives for hedging. The analysis is docuA provision is recognised when a detailed restructuring plan has mented at the inception of the hedge and on a continuous basis, to ensure been adopted and the restructuring has either begun or been publicly that the derivative instruments used in hedging transactions are effective in announced. evening out changes in fair value or changes in cash flow for hedged items. Gains and losses on hedges are recognised in the profit for the year at the Pensions same time the gains and losses on the items hedged are recognised. The Group has commitments to both defined benefit and defined contribuChanges in fair value for derivative instruments that do not meet the crition pension plans. teria for hedge accounting are recognised directly in the income statement. Defined benefit pension obligations Cash flow hedges The transfer of agreed assets and liabilities for airport operations in LFV To hedge uncertainty in highly likely forecast interest cash flows related included the assumption of a defined benefit pension liability. Most of the to borrowings at floating interest rates, interest rate swaps – in which the defined benefit pension obligations after the transfer are in the form of company receives a floating rate and pays a fixed rate – are used. Interest paid-up pension policies, and no new pension rights accrue for these. The rate swaps are recognised at fair value on the balance sheet. The interest remaining defined contribution plans consist mostly of pension obligations coupon portion is recognised directly in the profit for the year as part of under collective agreements and pension obligations as specified in tran­ interest expenses. Unrealised changes in fair value on the interest rate sitional provisions adopted in conjunction with the conversion into a limited swaps are recognised in other comprehensive income and are included in liability company of operations run previously under LFV. The expected the hedge reserve until the hedged item affects the profit for the year and present value of the defined contribution obligations is recognised in the as long as the criteria for hedge accounting and effectiveness are fulfilled. balance sheet as a provision. The company’s obligations are calculated The gain or loss attributable to the non-effective portion of unrealised value at least once a year by independent actuaries. An obligation consists of changes on the interest rate swaps is recognised in profit for the year. the present value of expected future payments. The discount rate used Hedge accounting has also been applied for commodity and currency corresponds to the interest rate on government bonds with a maturity that derivatives. Currency derivatives are used mainly to lock in the exchange rate corresponds to the average maturity of the obligation. The assumption on for future flows of foreign currencies, which arise mostly in conjunction with the discount rate is made on a quarterly basis. The Group bears the risk of investments and with electricity trading. Commodity derivatives are used ensuring that the payments determined are effected. to hedge the risk of electricity prices that arises in the Group’s business A receivable/liability that is part of the pension obligation is recognised operations. Changes in the fair value of these derivative instruments are for the special payroll tax if the pension expense is lower/higher than the recognised in other comprehensive income and are accumulated in the pension expense stipulated for a legal entity. The receivable or liability is hedge reserve under equity. The accumulated gains or losses in the hedge based on the difference between these amounts and the present value is reserve are reclassified to the income statement in the same period that the not calculated. hedged item affects profit. When a hedging instrument or hedging relationship is terminated but Defined contribution pension obligations the hedged transaction is still expected to occur, the accumulated gains The defined contribution plan applies as of the date of the Group’s formaand losses in the hedge reserve remain and are recognised in the profit for tion and is secured through payments to insurance companies or managed the year when the contracted or projected transaction is recognised in the funds. A defined contribution pension plan is a pension plan for which a income statement. However, if the hedged transaction is no longer expected company pays fixed contributions to a separate legal entity. The company to occur, the accumulated gains and losses in the hedge reserve are immesubsequently has no legal or informal obligations to pay additional contribudiately reclassified to profit for the year. tions to the employee’s accrued pensions. Provisions Contingent liabilities A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the company has a A contingent liability is a possible obligation resulting from past events and formal or informal obligation as a result of an event occurring, it is likely that whose occurrence is confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence an outflow of resources is required to settle the obligation, and a reliable of one or more uncertain future events, which are not entirely in the estimate of the amount can be made. company’s control, or there is an obligation resulting from past events but A present value calculation is made to take into account significant time which is not recognised as a liability or provision since it is not likely that an Swedav i a A n n ua l r epo r t 2014 61 Notes outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, or the size of Pensions the obligation cannot be estimated with sufficient accuracy. No accounting The Parent Company complies with the statutes in the Swedish Pension is necessary when the likelihood of an outflow of resources is extremely Obligations Vesting Act and the instructions of the Swedish Financial limited. Supervisory Authority since that is a requirement for making tax deductions. The most significant differences compared to reporting in the consolidated Assets held for sale financial accounts and in that case with the regulations in IAS 19 are the way Assets and liabilities that are classified for sale are recognised separately in the discount rate is determined. Calculation of the defined benefit obligation the balance sheet. These assets and liabilities are not offset. is based on the current salary level without any assumption of future salary increases, and actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the income Parent Company accounting principles statement. The Parent Company’s total commitments for defined benefit The Parent Company prepares its financial reports in conformity with pensions are covered by credit insurance with FPG/PRI. Sweden’s Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and the Swedish Financial Accounting Standards Council’s recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for legal entities. The differences between the consolidated and Parent Company accounting principles are presented below. The accounting principles specified for the Parent Company have been applied consistently in all Note 3. Segment reporting the periods presented in the Parent Company’s financial reports. Swedavia’s operations are organised and run as two business segments, Group contributions Airport Operations and Real Estate. Group contributions received and paid are recognised as appropriations. • Airport Operations owns, operates and develops Swedavia’s airports. Intangible non-current assets Most revenue consists of passenger-related revenue The Parent Company recognises goodwill from the acquisition of assets that • Real Estate owns, develops and manages properties and developable have an expected useful life of 20 years. Useful life reflects the company’s land at and in the vicinity of Swedavia’s airports. Most revenue consists of estimation of the period under which future economic benefits that goodwill revenue from properties and other intangible non-current assets represent will flow to the company. Straight-line amortisation is applied over the expected useful life of the asset. The basis of segment reporting is internal reporting. The Board of Directors and executive management mostly use operating profit by segment in Associated companies accordance with Swedish accounting principles for monitoring. Financial Holdings in associated companies are recognised in the Parent Company expenses, financial income and income tax are handled at the Group level. using the cost method. Dividends received are recognised in the income The accounting principles conform with those applied in the consolidstatement. ated financial accounts, with the exception of the IFRS adjustments made concerning amortisation on goodwill, unrealised value changes that are not Group companies covered by hedge accounting, actuarial gains and losses on pensions and Holdings in Group companies are recognised in the Parent Company using valuation changes for standing timber. The division of assets and liabilities the cost method. The recognised value of holdings in a limited partnership follows the legal structure. On April 1, 2014, Energy and Airport Telecom changes annually by Swedavia’s share of the limited partnership’s net profit operations at Swedavia were converted into limited liability companies, and and any withdrawals or contributions made during the year. the companies are included in the Real Estate segment as of that date. Equity Equity is divided between unrestricted and restricted reserves in accordance with Sweden’s Annual Accounts Act. Group contributions paid are recognised by the donor as an increase in holdings in Group companies. The recipient recognises the contribution as unrestricted equity. Untaxed reserves In the Parent Company, untaxed reserves are recognised in their entirety without being divided between equity and deferred taxes. Financial instruments The Parent Company does not apply IAS 39; instead, financial instruments are recognised based on their cost in conformity with Sweden’s Annual Accounts Act. This means that non-current financial assets are recognised at cost minus any impairment loss, and current financial assets are valued based on the lower of cost or market rule. Interest rate swaps that effectively hedge cash flow risk for interest payments on liabilities are recognised at the net of the accrued asset on floating interest and accrued liability on fixed interest, and the difference is recognised as an interest expense or interest income. 62 Swedav i a A n nua l r epo r t 2014 Notes Airport Operations Real Estate Eliminations/adjustments Total Swedavia Income statement Jan–Dec 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Revenue from external customers 5,086 4,927 799 306 – – 5,885 5,233 Revenue from other segments 117 30 230 6 -347 -36 – – Total revenue 5,203 4,957 1,029 312 -347 -36 5,885 5,233 Operating expenses -3,637 -3,256 -265 -76 367 -15 -3,535 -3,347 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses -920 -896 -111 -75 85 31 -946 -940 Operating profit 646 805 653 161 105 -20 1,405 946 Airport Operations Real Estate Eliminations/adjustments Total Swedavia Balance sheet 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Non-current assets 11,830 11,858 168 3,983 -645 -719 11,353 15,122 Current assets 3,843 4,252 1,048 508 -4,006 -3,749 885 1,011 Assets held for sale – – 3,027 – – – 3,027 – Total assets 15,673 16,110 4,243 4,491 -4,651 -4,468 15,265 16,133 Equity 5,318 4,912 1,151 821 -898 -818 5,571 4,915 Liabilities 10,355 11,198 3,009 3,670 -3,754 -3,651 9,610 11,218 Liabilities attributable to assets held for sale – – 83 – – – 83 – Total equity and liabilities 15,673 16,110 4,243 4,491 -4,651 -4,468 15,265 16,133 One customer accounted for 14 per cent (15) of total revenue in 2014, equal to SEK 841 M, allocated to both segments. Note 4. Net revenue Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Revenue by source Aviation Business Commercial Services Passenger-related revenue 2,058 1,930 2,058 1,930 Car parking 741 665 741 665 Aircraft movement-related revenue 609 596 607 596 Retail, food & beverage 660 645 659 645 Ground handling & aircraft parking 296 271 296 271 Other real estate revenue 620 731 392 423 Other aviation 10 12 10 12 Advertising 82 73 82 73 Total Aviation Business 2,973 2,809 2,971 2,809 Other commercial services 345 215 230 214 Total Commercial Services 2,447 2,329 2,104 2,020 Other revenue 118 96 118 104 Total net revenue 5,538 5,233 5,194 4,932 Swedav i a A n n ua l r epo r t 2014 63 Notes Note 5. related party transactions Note 6. remuneration and compensation for auditors Related party transactions involve transactions with State-owned companGroup Parent Company ies or operations that conduct business in which the State has controlling interest. Related parties also include companies over which Swedavia may 2014 2013 2014 2013 exercise controlling interest or a significant influence in terms of operational and financial decisions made. Concerning Swedavia AB’s receivables from EY and liabilities to Group companies, see Note 27 “Receivables from Group Auditing assignments 3 3 3 3 companies” and Note 29 “Receivables from associated companies”. Shares in Group companies are described in detail in Note 23 “Holdings in Group Tax consultancy 0 0 0 0 companies” and in Note 24 “Holdings in associated companies”. Transactions Other services 1 1 1 1 are carried out on market terms, and operations are subject to competition. Total 4 4 4 4 Physical persons who are related parties are defined as executive officers, Board members and immediate family members of such persons. For informAuditing assignments refers to the statutory auditing of the annual accounts ation about remuneration to executive officers and Board members, see Note and the administration of the Board of Directors and the President and CEO 7 “Employees and staff expenses”. There are no securities pledged by or as well as auditing and other examination performed in accordance with contingent assets from Swedavia for executive officers or Board members. agreements or contracts. This includes other duties incumbent upon the company’s auditors as well as advice or other assistance stemming from Transactions with the Swedish State observations made during such audits or the performance of other such Swedavia AB is wholly owned by the Swedish State. The Swedavia Group’s duties. Tax consultancy refers to all consultancy pertaining to taxes. products and services are provided to the State, government agencies and Other services refers to advice on accounting issues as well as advice on State-owned companies in competition with other suppliers on commercial processes and internal auditing. terms. Similarly, Swedavia AB and its Group companies purchase products and services from government authorities and State-owned companies at market prices and on commercial terms. Transactions with the Swedish State concerning taxes and payroll fees have not been included. Costs for Note 7. employees and staff expenses related parties consist mostly of the purchase of meteorological services, fees to government authorities and air navigation services, which are largely Of which Of which included in the costs covered via remuneration from the Swedish Transport Average number of employees 2014 women 2013 women Agency for security screening and parts of air traffic management services. Group Parent Company PARENT COMPANY Sweden 2,449 35% 2,355 34% 2014 2013 2014 2013 Total in the Parent Company 2,449 35% 2,355 34% Sales of goods and services SUBSIDIARIES Subsidiaries 127 – 115 32 Sweden 11 27% 14 50% Associated parties 6 6 6 6 Total in subsidiaries 11 27% 14 50% Other related parties 155 585 155 585 Total sales of goods and services 288 591 276 623 Group total 2,460 35% 2,369 34% Sales of immovable property or other assets Subsidiaries 8 – 4 422 Gender breakdown of 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 executive management Share of women Share of women Total purchases of goods and services 8 – 4 422 PARENT COMPANY Purchases of goods and services Board of Directors 56% 63% Subsidiaries 401 – 275 68 Other executive officers 43% 38% Other related parties 181 7 181 7 GROUP TOTAL Total purchases of goods and services 582 7 456 75 Board of Directors 33% 47% Other executive officers 35% 33% Interest, net Subsidiaries 0 – 65 75 Total interest 0 – 65 75 64 Swedav i a A n nua l r epo r t 2014 Notes 2014 2013 Remuneration to the Board RemuSalaries Salaries Parent Company Audit neration Other Salaries, other remuneration, and remuPayroll and remuPayroll 2013 SEK T Board fee Committee Committee benefits and payroll fees neration fees neration fees Chairman PARENT COMPANY 963 351 904 402 Ingemar Skogö 440 – 25 – (of which pension expenses) (13) (110) SUBSIDIARIES 12 6 9 5 Board members (of which pension expenses) (2) (2) Karin Apelman 220 35 – – Group-related adjustments – 100 – 1 Adine Grate Axén 220 – – – GROUP TOTAL 975 457 913 408 Lars Backemar 220 – – – (of which pension expenses) (15) (112) Anders Ehrling1 183 – – 5 Anna Elgh 220 20 – – Hans Jeppsson 220 – – – Jenny Lahrin – – – – Remuneration to the Board RemuParent Company Audit neration Other Lottie Svedenstedt 220 – 20 – 2014 SEK T Board fee Committee Committee benefits Total 1,943 55 45 5 Chairman 1 Anders Ehrling resigned from his duties as a Board member of Swedavia in October 2013 Ingemar Skogö 440 – 25 – after he was appointed the new CEO of Braathens Aviation. Board members Remuneration to the Board of Directors consists of a fee decided at the Karin Apelman 220 35 – – Annual General Meeting. The Board fee is paid as a salary or as an invoice Adine Grate Axén 220 – – – from the Board member’s sole proprietorship or company. In cases where the Board fee is invoiced, an amount equivalent to the payroll fees that Lars Backemar 220 – – – Swedavia AB does not have to pay as a result is added. Anna Elgh 220 20 – – Hans Jeppsson 220 – – – Guidelines for remuneration to the Board of Directors Swedavia follows the State’s guidelines for remuneration to the Board. A Jenny Lahrin – – – – fee is paid to the Chairman and Board members based on a decision at the Lars Mydland1 147 – – – Annual General Meeting (AGM) on April 29, 2014. No pension contribution is Lottie Svedenstedt 220 – 20 – paid for Board members. No remuneration is paid to Board members who are employed in the Swedish Government Offices. No Board fee is paid to Total 1,907 55 45 – employee representatives or their deputies. Board fees are paid as salary or are paid to the Board member’s company. No Board fee is paid to Board 1 Lars Mydland was elected as a member of Swedavia’s Board of Directors at the Annual members in any subsidiary since all members are employees of companies General Meeting on April 29, 2014. in the Swedavia Group. Remuneration for the Audit Committee is based on a decision taken at the AGM held on April 29, 2014. Since the 2013 AGM, the Audit Committee includes the Board members Karin Apelman as Chair and Anna Elgh and Jenny Lahrin as members. Remuneration to the Remuneration Committee is based on a decision taken at the AGM held on April 29, 2014. Since the 2014 AGM, the Remuneration Committee includes Ingemar Skogö as Chair, Board members Jenny Lahrin and Lottie Svedenstedt as members, and Robert Olsson as employee representative. Swedav i a A n n ua l r epo r t 2014 65 Notes Employer’s period of notice of termination + number Remuneration to executive officers Parent Base Variable Other Pension of months’ Company1, 2014 SEK T salary remuneration benefits expenses severance pay Chief executive officer President and CEO Torborg Chetkovich 3,283 – 13 967 6+ 15 Total 3,283 – 13 967 Other executive officers Deputy CEO CEO Swedavia Real Estate Director Commercial & Real Estate Karl Wistrand 2,378 – 0 702 6+ 9 Acting Chief Financial Officer Mats Påhlson 2 starting Aug 11, 2014 1,618 – – – – Chief Financial Officer Lars Johansson until Jul 24, 2014 1,180 – – 337 6+ 3 Michael Persson Director Aviation, Customer & Marketing Gripkow 1,515 – 0 413 6+ 6 Chief Human Resources Officer Marie Wiksborg 1,591 – 0 437 6+ 6 Chief Legal Counsel Anna Bovaller 3 1,352 – 0 361 6+ – Chief Information Officer Linda Sjödin 1,174 – 7 303 6+ 6 Director of Security and Safety Anders Lennerman 1,372 – 11 411 6+ 6 Strategy Director Lennart Bergbom 1,152 – 0 248 6+ 6 Chief Technical Officer Per Arenhage 3 1,562 – 7 469 6+ – Airport Director, Bromma Stockholm Airport Peder Grunditz 1,525 – 3 399 6+ 6 Director, Regional Airports Susanne Norman 1,289 – 2 336 6+ 6 Airport Director, Göteborg Landvetter Airport Charlotte Ljunggren 1,718 – 2 506 6+ 6 Airport Director, Stockholm Arlanda Airport Kjell-Åke Westin 1,790 – 7 537 6+ 6 Chief Procurement Officer 4 Athanassios Boukas until Feb 17, 2014 170 – – 44 6+ 3 Chief Information Officer 4 Fredrik Frimodig until Jul 24, 2014 521 – – 102 6+ – Total 21,907 – 40 5,603 1 Base salary reported is based on a fixed monthly salary, statutory holiday entitlement, any salary increase and severance pay. Base pay does not take into account any exchange of salary for benefits. 2 For Mats Påhlson, Chief Financial Officer, remuneration is via a consultancy fee. 3 Chose to waive severance pay. 4 On February 17, an organisational change and review of Swedavia’s management structure were carried out which entails new reporting channels for IT and the elimination of the procurement and quality functions from the executive management. 66 Swedav i a A n nua l r epo r t 2014 Notes Employer’s period of notice of termination + number Remuneration to executive officers Base Variable Other Pension of months’ Parent Company, 2013 SEK T salary remuneration benefits expenses severance pay Chief executive officer President and CEO Torborg Chetkovich 3,169 – 27 936 6+ 12 Total 3,169 – 27 936 Other executive officers Deputy CEO CEO Swedavia Swedavia Real Estate starting Jan 25, 2013 CFO Karl Wistrand until Feb 3, 2013 2,200 – 13 650 6+ 6 Chief Financial Officer Lars Johansson starting Mar 18, 2013 1,640 – 8 469 6+ 3 CEO Swedavia Real Estate Jan Egenäs until Jan 25, 2013 1,291 – 1 226 6+ 4 Chief Marketing Officer Michael Persson Gripkow 1,517 – 9 422 6+ Chief Human Resources Officer Marie Wiksborg starting Oct 14, 2013 338 – 1 79 6+ Acting Chief Human Resources Officer Anders Hjertman June 12–Oct 13, 2013 446 – 5 119 6+ Chief Human Resources Officer Charlotta Hyldal until Jun 11, 2013 1,997 – 4 452 6+ 3 Chief Legal Counsel Anna Bovaller 1,327 – 12 358 6+ Communications Director Linda Sjödin 1,217 – 9 323 6+ Director of Security and Safety Anders Lennerman 1,255 – 13 378 6+ Strategy Director Lennart Bergbom 1,076 – 11 229 6+ Chief Technical Officer Per Arenhage 1,520 – 19 452 6+ Airport Director, Bromma Stockholm Airport Olle Sundin until Dec 15, 2013 1,457 – 4 817 6+ 6 Director, Regional Airports Airport Director, Bromma Stockholm Airport Peder Grunditz until Dec 15, 2013 1,359 – 17 367 6+ Director, Regional Airports Susanne Norman starting Dec 16, 2013 55 – 0 12 6+ Airport Director, Göteborg Landvetter Airport Charlotte Ljunggren 1,678 – 2 457 6+ Airport Director, Stockholm Arlanda Airport Kjell-Åke Westin 1,617 – 32 488 6+ Director of Procurement Athanassios Boukas starting Jan 1, 2013 1,170 – 10 328 6+ 3 Chief Procurement Officer Fredrik Frimodig starting Jun 12, 2013 512 – 0 96 6+ Director of Quality Bodil Garneij Feb 1, 2013–Nov 20, 2013 776 – 5 169 6+ Total 24,448 – 175 6,891 Remuneration to executive officers shall strive for remuneration and terms of employment that are competitive and well Executive officer refers to the people who together with the CEO constitute informed. Remuneration shall be characterised by reasonableness and transparency the company’s executive management or report directly to CEO. The as well as contribute to good ethics and corporate culture. Remuneration shall not executive management is appointed by the CEO. be such that it drives salaries relative to comparable companies but shall instead be Remuneration to the CEO and Deputy CEO is determined by Swedavia’s Board characterised by moderation. of Directors after the matter has been prepared in the Remuneration Committee. The For matters concerning remuneration and other terms of employment, Swedavia CEO determines remuneration to other executive officers, following preparation in the applies the principles decided in the Guidelines for Terms of Employment for Remuneration Committee and a decision in the Board at an aggregate level. Executive Officers in Companies under State Ownership adopted by the Government The Board’s proposed principles for remuneration and other terms of employon April 20, 2009. These guidelines shall result in remuneration that is competitive, ment for the company’s executive management entail that Swedavia AB (publ) capped, reasonable and appropriate. Swedav i a A n n ua l r epo r t 2014 67 Notes Pensions Note 9. Financial income and expenses A provision for the President and CEO’s pension is made via a premium-based pension plan, which corresponds to 30 per cent of fixed salary. The Airport Parent Company Director of Göteborg Landvetter Airport also has an agreement for a premium-based pension, the provision for which corresponds to 30 per cent of Income from holdings in Group companies 2014 2013 fixed salary. Provisions for pensions for other executive officers are included Impairment loss on holdings in Group companies1 -217 – under the ITP 1 defined contribution plan. Executive officers who were Dividend 15 14 employed in the transition from LFV to Swedavia on April 1, 2010, are also covered by an age-related graduated pension premium for the ITP 1 plan as Total -202 14 determined through a collective agreement. An extra pension contribution in 1 See Note 24 for information about impairment losses on holdings in Group companies. addition to the defined contribution plan under the ITP 1 plan was agreed for some executive officers not covered by the graduated pension premium for Group Parent Company ITP 1. The retirement age for the CEO and other executive officers is 65. Financial income 2014 2013 2014 2013 Severance pay Interest income 2 3 67 80 For notice of termination given by the company, the period of notice of Net changes in foreign exchange rates 4 1 4 1 termination and severance pay are specified in the table. Severance pay is equal to fixed salary. If a new position or income from another economic Total 6 4 71 81 activity is found, severance pay shall be reduced by the amount equal to the new income during the period in question. Severance pay is not pensionGroup Parent Company able income and is not subject to statutory holiday pay. The CEO and other executive officers have six months’ notice of terminFinancial expenses 2014 2013 2014 2013 ation by mutual consent, except for one person who must give four months’ Interest expenses, financial liabilities -190 -209 -121 -190 notice of termination. All executive officers are entitled to all employment Derivative instruments -99 -34 -99 -49 benefits that apply during the notification period. Portion of interest on pension expenses for the year 45 -27 -4 -4 Other financial expenses -5 -2 -1 -2 Note 8. depreciation/amortisation and Net changes in foreign exchange rates – – – – impairment losses on tangible fixed assets and Total -248 -272 -225 -245 intangible non-current assets Group Parent Company The interest expense on financial liabilities is attributable to bank borrowings, medium-term notes and commercial paper. 2014 2013 2014 2013 Depreciation and amortisation Goodwill – – 25 24 Note 10. appropriations and untaxed reserves Other intangible non-current assets 18 16 18 16 Parent Company Buildings and land 311 321 308 316 Appropriations 2014 2013 Investment properties 31 73 – – Change in accelerated depreciation -400 -205 Field structures 155 153 155 153 Change in tax allocation reserves – -160 Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment 381 371 378 371 Group contribution paid -20 -20 Impairment losses, new construction in Group contribution received 276 213 progress related to tangible fixed assets -6 6 -6 6 Total appropriations -144 -172 Total 890 940 878 888 Untaxed reserves Depreciation and amortisation Accumulated accelerated depreciation 1,757 1,357 Buildings and land 28 – 18 – Tax allocation reserves 210 210 Investment properties 12 – – – Total untaxed reserves 1,967 1,567 Field structures 12 – 12 – Electrical installations, vehicles and Accumulated amortisation and depreciation pertain to other intangible equipment 4 – 4 – assets, electrical installations, vehicles and equipment. Total 56 – 34 – Total 946 940 912 888 68 Swedav i a A n nua l r epo r t 2014 Notes Note 11. tax Note 12. Intangible non-current assets Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 Intangible non-current assets 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Current tax expense (-)/ Goodwill 352 352 376 401 tax income (+) Other intangible non-current assets 268 100 268 100 Tax expense/tax income for the year -162 -112 -155 -106 Total 621 452 644 501 -162 -112 -155 -106 Group Parent Company Deferred tax expense (-)/ tax income (+) Goodwill 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Deferred tax for temporary differences -74 -73 5 -9 Total tax expense recognised -236 -185 -149 -115 Accumulated cost Opening balance 377 377 493 493 2014 2013 Closing balance 377 377 493 493 Group Per cent Amount Per cent Amount Accumulated scheduled amortisation Reconciliation of effective tax Opening balance -25 -25 -92 -68 Profit before tax 1,162 686 Scheduled amortisation for the Tax calculated using Swedish tax period – – -25 -24 rate in effect 22.0 -256 22.0 -151 Closing balance -25 -25 -117 -92 Tax pertaining to taxation for the previous year 3 2 Book value, closing balance 352 352 376 401 Tax effect of amortisation of Group goodwill -2 2 Tax effect of non-deductible costs -61 -34 Goodwill In conjunction with the conversion of airport operations into a limited liability Tax effect of non-taxable revenue 80 4 company on April 1, 2010, assets and liabilities from LFV were transferred to Other – -8 Swedavia at an estimated market value. In conjunction with the transaction, Recognised effective tax 20.3 -236 27.0 -185 goodwill of SEK 493 M arose in the Parent Company. In the consolidated accounts, defined benefit pension commitments are recognised in accordance with IAS 19, and the difference in accounting prin2014 2013 ciples means that goodwill in the consolidated accounts totalled SEK 377 M. Parent Company Per cent Amount Per cent Amount Goodwill impairment testing Goodwill is allocated to the cash-generating units that are expected to beneReconciliation of effective tax fit from the acquisition. Goodwill has an indeterminable expected useful life. Profit before tax 327 398 An impairment review is carried out at least once a year or more frequently Tax calculated using Swedish rate for if there is any indication of a decrease in value. Goodwill has been tested the Parent Company 22.0 -73 22.0 -88 for impairment based on the cash-generating unit, Airport Operations, from which the goodwill is derived. The recovery value is based on calculations Tax pertaining to taxation for the of the value in use. Calculations are based on estimated cash flows in the previous year – -1 business plan for the first four-year period. After that, estimated cash flows Tax effect of non-deductible costs -81 -32 are based on the executive management’s forecasts through 2035. Revenue Tax effect of non-taxable revenue 4 6 and expenses are based on previous profit, experience and expectations of the market trend. It has been assumed that cash flows beyond 2035 have Recognised effective tax 45.6 -149 28.9 -115 annual growth equivalent to 2 per cent (2) annually. The discount rate before tax used was 7.8 (7.5) per cent. The impairment review has not entailed any impairment loss on goodwill, and reasonable changes in the assumptions would not lead to any need for impairment. Swedav i a A n n ua l r epo r t 2014 69 Notes Group Parent Company NotE 14. Buildings and land Other intangible non-current assets 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Group Parent Company 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Accumulated cost Opening balance 154 143 154 143 Accumulated cost Reclassifications for the year 187 11 187 11 Opening balance 6,178 5,910 6,084 5,956 Closing balance 341 154 341 154 Acquisitions/reclassifications for the year 339 486 390 405 Accumulated scheduled Reclassification to investment amortisation properties – -177 – – Opening balance -54 -38 -54 -38 Disposals/divestments for the year -4 -41 -4 -277 Scheduled amortisation for the year -18 -16 -18 -16 6,513 6,178 6,470 6,084 Closing balance -73 -54 -73 -54 Accumulated scheduled Book value, closing balance 268 100 268 100 depreciation Opening balance -1,068 -799 -1,066 -794 Other intangible non-current assets pertains to noise insulation on the properties of others. Reversal of depreciation on disposals 6 40 5 44 Scheduled depreciation for the year -311 -321 -308 -316 Closing balance -1,373 -1,068 -1,369 -1,066 NotE 13. other tangible fixed assets Accumulated depreciation Opening balance – – – – Group Scheduled depreciation for the year -28 – -18 – 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Closing balance -28 – -18 – Buildings and land (Note 14) 5,113 5,110 Field structures (Note 15) 2,232 2,249 Book value, closing balance 5,113 5,110 5,083 5,018 Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment (Note 16) 2,112 2,158 Of which land New construction in progress related Opening balance 359 426 282 426 to tangible fixed assets (Note 17) 932 1,074 Acquisitions for the year 20 79 15 79 Total 10,389 10,591 Disposals for the year – – – -223 Reclassification from field structures and new construction in progress related to tangible fixed assets 18 31 18 – Reclassification between investment properties/operating properties – -177 – – Book value, closing balance 397 359 315 282 A property reallotment is under way and the application for a title is being processed by the Swedish land registration authority, Lantmäteriet. The cost of the buildings includes SEK 7 M (7) for acquisitions of another party’s property at Ronneby Airport. 70 Swedav i a A n nua l r epo r t 2014 Notes Note 15. field structures Accumulated depreciation Opening balance – – – _ Group Parent Company Depreciation for the year -4 – -4 – 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Closing balance -4 – -4 – Accumulated cost Book value, closing balance 2,112 2,158 2,108 2,158 Opening balance 2,796 2,819 2,796 2,819 Reclassifications for the year 166 -21 145 74 Leases Disposals/divestments for the year -25 -2 -10 -97 Swedavia’s leases pertain to the financial leasing of vehicles. Leased items that the Group has under leasing agreements are recognised under the item 2,937 2,796 2,931 2,796 “Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment” for the following amounts. Accumulated scheduled Consolidated leasing fees for the year totalled SEK 7 M (6) in the Group. depreciation Group Opening balance -547 -407 -547 -407 Book value 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Reversal of depreciation on disposals 9 13 9 13 Cost – capitalised financial leases 38 35 Scheduled depreciation for the year -155 -153 -155 -153 Accumulated depreciation -25 -20 -693 -547 -693 -547 Book value 13 15 Accumulated depreciation The Group leases a number of vehicles under leasing agreements; the leasOpening balance – – – – ing periods run between 2 and 9 years. Depreciation for the year -12 – -12 – Closing balance -12 – -12 – 2014 2013 Present Present value of value of Book value, closing balance 2,232 2,249 2,226 2,249 Future future Future future minimum minimum minimum minimum Net field structure assets acquired have been treated for tax purposes as leasing leasing leasing leasing land. Field structures consist mostly of take-off and landing runways. Future leasing fees fees fees fees fees Within 1 year 5 5 6 6 Between 2 and 5 years 11 10 11 11 Note 16. Electrical Installations, vehicles and More than 5 years – – 0 0 equipment Total 16 15 17 17 Group Parent Company 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Note 17. new constrction in progress related Accumulated cost to tangible fixed assets Opening balance 3,458 2,960 3,458 2,960 Group Parent Company Reclassifications for the year 337 534 333 545 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Disposals/divestments for the year -21 -36 -21 -47 Opening balance 1,074 953 1 043 953 3,774 3,458 3,770 3,458 Acquisitions for the year 903 1 121 892 1,114 Accumulated scheduled depreciation Disposals for the year – – -5 -89 Opening balance -1,300 -962 -1,300 -962 Reclassifications for the year -1,036 -1,000 -1,028 -935 Reversal of depreciation on disposals 23 33 20 33 Less assets held for sale -9 – – – Scheduled depreciation for the year -382 -371 -378 -371 Book value, closing balance 932 1,074 902 1,043 -1,659 -1,300 -1,658 -1,300 New construction in progress related to tangible fixed assets mostly consists of investments in infrastructure and terminals as well as landing runways and baggage handling systems. A reclassification of the asset is made when the asset is placed in service. The asset is reclassified as the type of asset it constitutes. Swedav i a A n n ua l r epo r t 2014 71 Notes Currency futures NotE 18. fair value Fair value of currency futures is calculated by discounting the difference between the contracted forward rate and the forward rate that can be conThe table below presents the assets and liabilities that are valued at fair tracted on the balance sheet date for the remainder of the contract period. value or for which fair values are given for information purposes. Fair value Discounting is done at a risk-free interest rate based on Swedish sovereign is defined as the price at the time of valuation that would be received in the bonds. sale of the asset or charged in the transfer of a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. Assets and liabilities that are valued Biological assets at fair value are classified in a hierarchy with three different levels based on Swedavia’s biological assets consist of large forest holdings adjacent to the information used to determine their fair value. Level 1 applies when fair Swedavia’s airports, with standing timber assessed at fair value. value is determined based on listed prices (unadjusted) in active markets for The holdings are valued each year by an external appraiser. The valuation identical assets and liabilities. Level 2 applies when fair value is determined method used is in accordance with the Swedish land registration authority based on observable data for the asset or liability other than listed prices Lantmäteriet’s forest valuation method. This method is based on a disincluded in Level 1. Level 3 applies when fair value is determined based on counted cash flow valuation of expected future cash flows from long-term inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data. sustainable forestry. Important inputs are local pricelists for timber and pulp with average prices for the past ten years, potential harvestable volume in Valuation at fair value accordance with the Swedish Forestry Act’s restrictions on clear-cutting, and discount rates based on the age of the forest. A change in fair value is recogHierarchy levels in valuation of fair nised in the income statement as other external costs. The information used value Dec 31, 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total to determine the fair value of biological assets on the balance sheet date is classified as Level 2, which means that inputs in the valuation are based on Derivative instruments (Note 20) 1 – 386 – 386 observable market data. There has been no change in valuation methods Biological assets (Note 20) 1 – 86 – 86 compared to previous years. Long-term interest-bearing liabilities (Note 20) 2 – 3,164 – 3,164 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities For information purposes, fair value is calculated for interest-bearing liabilInvestment properties (Note 20) 2 – – 396 396 ities. The fair value of a loan is calculated by discounting future cash flows. Total – 3,636 396 4,032 The calculation also takes into account any change in Swedavia’s credit risk since the loan was taken out. For some borrowings, the book value is considered to reflect the fair value, given the short remaining maturity of the Hierarchy levels in valuation of fair liabilities. value Dec 31, 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Derivative instruments (Note 20) 1 – 199 – 199 Investment properties Biological assets (Note 20) 1 – 87 – 87 Swedavia’s investment properties are recognised at accumulated cost. The properties are valued to determine their fair value, that is, their estimated Long-term interest-bearing liabilities market value. The portfolio of investment properties is valued annually by (Note 20) 2 – 6,300 – 6,300 external independent, qualified appraisers. External valuations in 2014 were Investment properties (Note 20) 2 – – 4,736 4,736 performed by DTZ. Total – 6,585 4,736 11,321 The valuation of properties is based on the cash flows the asset is expected to generate, discounting net operating income. To estimate net operating 1 Recognised at fair value in the consolidated balance sheet. income, estimates are made of inflation, rents, vacancies, and operating and 2 Recognised at cost in the consolidated balance sheet. The amounts above are fair values for maintenance costs. The value of the property is based on the expected cash information purposes. flows of each property appraised over the next ten years. For properties with rental contracts or leaseholds longer than ten years, the calculations have been There were no changes in the levels for 2014 compared to 2013. No change extended. For the last year of the calculation period, a residual value is calcuin valuation methods has occurred compared to previous years. lated, which shall constitute an estimated market value at that time. Valuation assumptions for the calculations include an assumed inflation rate Derivative instruments of 1 per cent for 2015 and 2 per cent for the remainder of the calculation period. Interest rate swaps The discount rate for the cash flow is estimated based mainly on the cerFor interest rate swaps, fair value is calculated as the present value of expectainty of the leases in the income stream, but also the complexity and condition ted future cash flows based on current market interest rates. of the properties. The risk entailed by the property portfolio is reflected in the required rate of return and depends in part on the contract length and stability Electricity derivatives of the tenant. The capitalisation rate for the different properties valued varies For electricity derivatives, fair value is calculated based on listed rates. If between 5.75 and 10.65 per cent. For the required rate of return on total capital, there are no listed rates, fair value is calculated by discounting the difference the capitalisation rate is a nominal required rate of return for total capital before between the contracted forward rate and the forward rate available on the tax. The required rate of return is based on empirical estimates of the market’s balance sheet date for the remainder of the contract period. required return for similar properties and has been set between 7.50 and 10.65 per cent to estimate the residual value. The information used to determine the fair value of the investment properties on the balance sheet date is classified as Level 3, which means the fair value of the investment properties cannot be directly attributed to observable market data. 72 Swedav i a A n nua l r epo r t 2014 Notes Operational leases – the Group as lessor Note 19. investment properties The Group’s investment properties and properties that are held for sale are leased through operational lease agreements and generate rental revenue. Swedavia recognises the properties classified as investment properties at Future rental revenue attributed to non-cancellable operational leases is cost. Investment properties are found in the Real Estate operating segment, broken down as follows. and the portfolio consists of hangar, cargo, hotel and office properties as Group well as land at Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Malmö Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Airport. Revenue from investment properties including properties 2014 2013 held for sale was SEK 335 M (306) and direct costs totalled SEK 53 M (76). Expiry For information about the depreciation method and estimated useful life, see Note 2 “Accounting principles”. Within 1 year 282 377 The portfolio of investment properties is valued annually by external indeBetween 1 and 5 years 1,017 1,324 pendent, qualified appraisers. The properties are valued to determine their More than 5 years 1,741 2,501 fair value, that is, their estimated market value, for information purposes. The external appraisals for 2014 were carried out by DTZ. For more information Total 3,040 4,202 about valuation assumption, see Note 18. Group 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Note 20. Biological assets Accumulated cost Group Opening balance 3,938 2,492 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Acquisitions for the year 10 1,446 Accumulated cost Disposals for the year -758 – Opening balance 87 91 Reclassifications for the year 257 – Change in fair value -1 -4 Reclassification of assets held for sale -3,283 – Book value, closing balance 86 87 164 3,938 Accumulated scheduled depreciation Swedavia’s biological assets consist of large forest holdings adjacent Opening balance -91 -18 to Swedavia’s airports, with standing timber assessed at fair value. Measurements of fair value are made by an external appraiser. The valuation Scheduled depreciation for the year -31 -73 method used is in accordance with the Swedish land registration authority Reversal of depreciation on disposals 19 – Lantmäteriet’s forest valuation method. This method is based on a disReclassifications for the year -250 – counted cash flow valuation of expected future cash flows from long-term sustainable forestry. Important inputs are local pricelists for timber and pulp Reclassifications of assets held for sale 351 – with average prices for the past ten years, potential harvestable volume in Closing balance -2 -91 accordance with the Swedish Forestry Act’s restrictions on clear-cutting, and discount rates based on the age of the forest. A change in fair value is Accumulated depreciation recognised in the income statement as other external costs. The fair value Opening balance – – of biological assets has been determined based on hierarchy Level 2, which Depreciation for the year -12 – means that important inputs in the valuation are based on observable market data. There has been no change in valuation methods compared to Closing balance -12 – previous years. See also Note 18. Book value, closing balance 150 3,847 Fair value (Note 18) 396 4,736 Note 21. non-current Financial assets Group 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Holdings in associated companies 0 1 Other long-term receivables 108 146 Total 108 147 Swedav i a A n n ua l r epo r t 2014 73 Notes Note 22. other long-term receivables Note 24. holdings in group companies Group Parent Company Parent Company 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Parent Company’s holdings in Group companies 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Accumulated cost Accumulated cost Opening balance 146 132 68 65 Opening balance 963 882 New receivables 0 10 – 5 Acquisitions 71 81 Receivables settled -38 -1 – -1 Shareholder contribution for the year 116 – Reclassifications 0 5 0 -1 Closing balance 1,150 963 Book value, closing balance 108 146 68 68 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation Opening balance – – Depreciation and amortisation for Note 23. holdings in associated companies the year -237 – Closing balance -237 – Group Parent Company 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Book value, closing balance 913 963 Accumulated cost In 2014, an impairment loss of SEK 121 M was taken on the holding in Opening balance 1 79 1 87 ASC AB. The value after impairment was SEK 26 M and is considered to Disposals for the year -1 – -1 – correspond to the net asset value. An impairment loss of SEK 116 M was Share of profit for the year from also taken on the holding in Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB, which corre­ holdings in associated companies – 0 – – sponds to the shareholder contribution paid. Reclassifications – -78 – -86 Book value, closing balance 0 1 – 1 Specification of the Parent Company’s holdings in Group companies Subsidiary/Corporate identity Number of Ownership Book value Book value number/Registered office shares in %1 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Specification of the Parent Company’s and Group’s holdings in associated companies 2014-12-31 Swedavia Real Estate AB, 556858-9872, Adjusted Profit for Book Stockholm County, Subsidiary/Corporate equity, the year, Value of value in Municipality of Sigtuna 500,000 100 870 870 identity number/ Swedavia’s Swdavia’s Number Ownerholding in the Parent Registered office share share of shares ship in % Group Company Arlanda Development Company AB, 556653-6628, Airport City Stockholm County, Stockholm AB, Municipality of Sigtuna 10,000 100 26 93 556872-9619, Bromma Stockholm Airport fastigheter AB, Stockholm County, 556932-3537, Municipality of Stockholm County, Stockholm 0 – 495 33 0 0 Municipality of Stockholm 50,000 100 17 – 0 0 Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB, In 2014, Swedavia sold all shares in the associated company Svensk 556195-5823, Destinationsutveckling AB. As of December 18, Cityflygplatsen i West Götaland County, Göteborg AB is classified as a subsidiary; see Note 24. Municipality of Gothenburg 5,244 40 0 – Book value, closing balance 913 963 1 The share of ownership of the capital corresponds to the share of votes for the total number of shares. Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB is consolidated as of December 18, when Swedavia AB exercised its option to acquire the outstanding shares. As a result, Swedavia AB is considered to have controlling interest. 74 Swedav i a A n nua l r epo r t 2014 Notes Group Book value Fair value Other important Group companies wholly owned by Swedavia Real Estate AB Financial liabilities 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Group company/Corporate identity number/Registered office Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 3,096 6,295 3,164 6,300 Altuna Hangar KB, 969655-5706, Stockholm County, Municipality of Stockholm Current interest-bearing liabilities 3,793 2,209 3,793 2,209 Landvetter Hangar KB, 969655-7322, Stockholm County, Municipality of Stockholm Derivative instruments1 389 199 389 199 Landvetter Cargo Terminal KB, 969655-6605, Stockholm County, Liabilities to leasing companies 19 20 19 20 Municipality of Stockholm Other long-term liabilities 6 16 6 16 Nordic Airport Properties KB, 969673-0143, Stockholm County, Trade payables 333 490 333 490 Municipality of Stockholm Other liabilities 9 8 9 8 Tor Viking Sverigehuset AB, 556891-5523, Stockholm County, Municipality of Stockholm Accrued interest expenses 45 47 45 47 Tor Viking Flygfastighet AB, 556891-5556, Stockholm County, Total 7,690 9,284 7,758 9,289 Municipality of Stockholm 1 Derivative instruments pertain to derivatives for hedge accounting. Swedavia Energi AB, 556951-8185, Stockholm County, Municipality of Stockholm Swedavia Airport Telecom AB, 556951-8193, Stockholm County, Valuation at fair value Municipality of Stockholm Assets and liabilities that are valued at fair value are classified in a hierarchy with three different levels based on the information used to determine their fair value. Level 1 applies when fair value is determined based on listed prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities. Level 2 applies when fair value is determined based on observable data for the asset or liability other than listed prices included In Level 1. Level 3 applies when Note 25. Financial assets and liabilities fair value is determined based on inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data. The Group’s financial assets and liabilities The Group’s financial assets and liabilities, excluding the Group’s derivatare valued at fair value based on Level 2. For more information about valuive instruments, are recognised at cost in the balance sheet. The Group’s ation at fair value, see Note 18. derivative instruments are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet. Other financial assets and liabilities are valued at fair value for information purposes. For information about fair value regarding derivative instruments, Net income from items for which hedge accounting is see the Group’s valuation below as well as Note 18. For current receivables not applied 2014 2013 and liabilities, such as trade receivables and trade payables, with a remainFinancial assets/liabilities that are valued at fair value* 0 15 ing useful life of less than six months, the book value is considered to reflect fair value. Total 0 15 The Parent Company recognises its financial instruments at amortised * The subcategory held for sale cost. Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 No financial assets and liabilities are offset in the balance sheet in Derivative instruments 2 – 386 – accordance with IAS 32. For derivatives, the Group has ISDA agreements, which allow offset in the event of a bankruptcy. As of December 31, 2014, Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 3 – 3,164 – there were no significant financial liabilities or assets that should be offset in Total – 3,550 – the event of a bankruptcy. 2 Recognised at fair value in the Group’s balance sheet 3 Recognised at cost in the Group’s balance sheet. The amounts above are fair value for Group Book value Fair value information purposes Financial assets 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 No change in levels in 2014 compared to 2013. Other long-term receivables 108 146 108 146 Other long-term receivables Trade receivables 424 492 424 492 For information purposes, fair value for long-term receivables is calculated by Receivables from associated discounting future cash flows based on current market interest rates. companies 0 6 0 6 Other receivables 58 137 58 137 Derivative instruments Interest rate swaps Derivative instruments 3 – 3 – Fair value for interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of expecLiquid assets 112 52 112 52 ted future cash flows based on current market interest rates. Total 705 833 705 833 Electricity derivatives For electricity derivatives, fair value is calculated based on listed rates. If there are no listed rates, fair value is calculated by discounting the difference between the contracted forward rate and the forward rate available on the balance sheet date for the remainder of the contract period. Swedav i a A n n ua l r epo r t 2014 75 Notes Currency futures Fair value of currency futures is calculated by discounting the difference Note 28. Other receivables between the contracted forward rate and the forward rate that can be contracted on the balance sheet date for the remainder of the contract period. Group Discounting is done at a risk-free interest rate based on Swedish sovereign 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 bonds. Receivables from associated companies 0 6 Interest-bearing liabilities Other receivables 93 192 For information purposes, fair value is calculated for interest-bearing liabilities. Total 93 198 The fair value of a loan is calculated by discounting future cash flows. The calculation also takes into account any change in Swedavia’s credit risk since the loan was taken out. For some borrowings, the book value is considered to reflect the fair value, given the short remaining maturity of the liabilities. Other receivables and liabilities Note 29. Receivables from associated For current receivables and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade companies payables, with a remaining useful life of less than six months, the book value Group Parent Company is considered to reflect the fair value. 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB – 6 – 6 Book value, closing balance – 6 – 6 Note 26. Materials and supplies Group Parent Company 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Note 30. prepaid expenses and accrued income Supplies 29 31 29 31 Group Parent Company Gravel stocks 7 7 4 4 Supplies, buildings and land 2 2 2 2 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Other stocks 4 6 3 3 Accrued income, ground handling 6 1 6 1 Total 42 46 38 41 Accrued income, retail, food & beverage 157 139 157 139 Accrued income, energy 11 13 2 13 Accrued income, parking 6 8 6 8 Prepaid material and maintenance Note 27. Receivables from Group companies costs 10 8 10 8 Parent Company Prepaid operational services 5 6 5 6 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Other accrued income and prepaid expenses 17 48 17 47 Tor Viking Komplementären AB 836 822 Total 211 222 203 221 Altuna Hangar KB 703 714 Nordic Airport Properties KB 703 764 Tor Viking Real Estate Holding AB 105 106 Tor Viking Sverigehuset AB 74 70 Tor Viking Flygfastigheter AB 44 25 Office Arlanda AB 66 72 Swedavia Airport Telecom AB 56 – Swedavia Energi AB 71 – Cargo City 1 AB 59 60 Other Group companies 261 896 Book value, closing balance 2,977 3,529 Swedavia’s wholly owned Group companies have been funded since 2013 through a Group account structure. 76 Swedav i a A n nua l r epo r t 2014 Notes Note 31. Assets held for sale Capital management Actual Target Actual Target Group Group financial targets 2014 2014 2013 2013 Return on operating capital 10.3% 7.0% 7.1% – Assets held for sale 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 1.4 1–1.5 1.9 Investment properties 3,002 – Net debt/equity times times times – New construction in progress 9 – Return on equity 17.7% – 10.9% 9.0% Customer receivables 11 – Equity/assets 36.5% – 30.5% 35.0% Other receivables 4 – Prepaid expenses and accrued income 1 – Parent Company Restricted and non-restricted equity Total 3,027 – Equity is divided between restricted and unrestricted (payable as dividends) capital in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. A dividend may only Liabilities attributable to assets held for sale be paid if there is full coverage for restricted equity after the payment of Other long-term borrowings 7 – dividends. Dividends are also regulated by the precautionary principle, which means that a dividend may only be paid if this is justifiable taking into Trade payables 6 – consideration the risks that the nature and scope of operations place on the Tax liabilities 1 – size of the Parent Company’s and consolidated equity as well as the Group’s Other liabilities 10 – consolidation requirements, liquidity and financial position in general. In the Parent Company, restricted capital consists of share capital of SEK Accrued income and other 59 – 1,441 M. The unrestricted capital in the Parent Company is SEK 2,334 M and Total 83 – consists of a share premium fund of SEK 2,162 M, retained earnings of SEK –5 M and profit for the year of SEK 178 M. A sales process is under way concerning holdings in a property portfolio in the Real Estate segment. Assets held for sale consist of investment properties at a book value of SEK 3,002 M, other tangible fixed assets of SEK 9 M and operating assets of SEK 16 M. Depreciation and amortisation are not taken on assets held for sale from the time of reclassification. The properties Note 33. provisions are funded through intra-Group loans. Liabilities attributable to assets held Group for sale consist mostly of operating liabilities. 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Provisions for pensions 807 749 Other provisions 176 134 Note 32. equity Total 983 882 The Group Equity attributable to the Parent Company consists of share capital, other paid in-capital, hedge reserves and retained earnings. Note 34. provisions for pensions Share capital Share capital is divided into 1,441,403,026 shares with a stated value of SEK 1. The Group has both defined contribution and defined benefit pension commitments. Other paid-in capital Other paid-in capital pertains to the premium in connection with new share issues. Defined benefit pension commitments Most of the defined benefit pension commitments pertain to PA91 and PA03 Hedge reserves government employee pension agreements that were taken over from LFV The reserve for cash flow hedging consists of unrealised changes in the value in conjunction with the division of operations. No new pension rights accrue of interest rate, electricity and currency derivatives (net of deferred tax). Hedge for these commitments; instead the commitments are in the form of paid-up accounting entails that the change in value has been charged to equity in the pension policies. balance sheet via other comprehensive income. The actuarial bases for calculating the value of capital are the provisions in FFFS 2007:24 adopted by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, Retained earnings which include interest rate assumptions. Unvested pension commitments Retained earnings includes profit for the year and the portion of untaxed reserves are entered as a liability at 60 per cent in both the Parent Company and the that constitutes equity. This also includes revaluations of defined benefit pensions Group. The unvested pension commitments pertain to a small number of in accordance with IAS 19 (net of deferred tax). The transfer pertains to an adjustemployees who have the option of taking early retirement at the age of 63. ment in deferred tax due to a change in the tax rate. The Parent Company complies with the statutes in the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act and the instructions of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority since that is a requirement for making tax deductions. Swedav i a A n n ua l r epo r t 2014 77 Notes The most significant differences compared to the regulations in IAS 19 are the way the discount rate is determined, the fact that the calculation of the Cost of defined contribution plans 85 80 83 78 defined benefit obligation is calculated based on the current salary level Payroll fee 21 19 20 19 without any assumption of future salary increases, and the fact that actuarial Cost of defined contribution plans 106 99 103 97 gains and losses are recognised in the income statement. The Parent Company’s total commitments for defined benefit pensions are covered by Total cost of remuneration after credit insurance with FPG/PRI. termination of employment in the profit for the year 135 134 13 110 Actuarial assumptions In the Group, the liability is calculated using a discount rate that follows the Group interest rate on mortgages with a maturity corresponding to the duration of the pension liability. The assumed interest rate for 2014 is 2.75% (3.75%), a Cost recognised in other comprehensive income 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 reduction attributable to the current interest rate situation. The assumption about future inflation has also been lowered compared to previous years, Defined benefit plans a reduction from 2.00% to 1.50%. The assumed interest rate has been Revaluation including payroll fee lowered based on current expectations of future inflation and on the fact that Actuarial gains (-)/losses (+) on the interest rate ceiling over the past ten years has been significantly lower change in financial obligations 71 -47 than Sweden’s Riksbank’s 2% inflation target. Tax -16 10 Group Parent Company Recognised in other comprehensive income 55 -37 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Actuarial assumptions Group The following important actuarial assumptions have been applied in 2014 2013 calculating the obligations: (weighted Sensitivity analysis Increase Decrease Increase Decrease average values) Discount rate 2.75% 3.75% 0.80% 0.40% 0.5 per0.5 per0.5 per0.5 percentage centage centage centage Future changes in price base amount Change in discount rate points points points points (inflation) 1.50% 2.00% 2.00% 2.00% Effect on obligation -66 57 -53 59 Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations Group Obligations as of January 1 749 784 1,069 1,085 Obligation broken down by members in the plans as Payments made during the year -28 -26 -28 -26 follows 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Cost of vesting, current period 1 1 1 1 Active members 82 195 Interest expense 28 27 4 4 Paid-up pension policyholders 2,861 2,856 Actuarial gains (-)/losses (+) 57 -37 -75 5 Pensioners 442 422 Obligation as of December 31 807 749 971 1,069 Total number of obligations 3,385 3,473 The remaining vesting period for active members is 6.8 years (6.9 years). Group Parent Company Cost recognised in profit for Effect of payments for the pension liability on the Group’s the year 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 cash flow: 2014-12-31 Defined benefit plans Within 1 year 30 Cost of pensions vested during the Between 1 and 5 years 124 year 1 1 1 1 More than 5 years 1,114 Actuarial gains (-)/losses (+) – – -75 5 Effect of discounting -461 Payroll fee – 7 -20 3 Total 807 Interest expense 28 27 4 4 Cost of defined benefit plans 29 35 -90 13 78 Swedav i a A n nua l r epo r t 2014 Notes Group 2013-12-31 Deferred tax asset Deferred tax liability Note 35. Other provisions Temporary difference goodwill -22 – Group Parent Company Temporary difference tangible fixed assets -41 – 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Temporary difference biological assets – 8 Restructuring costs, opening balance 20 80 20 80 Temporary difference financial Provisions for the year 8 3 8 3 instruments -44 – Reversal of restructuring costs -21 -63 -21 -63 Temporary difference untaxed Restructuring costs, closing reserves – 345 balance 7 20 7 20 Temporary difference pensions – 86 Offset 107 -107 Social security fund, opening balance 17 17 17 17 Total – 332 Social security fund, closing balance 17 17 17 17 Parent Company 2014-12-31 Deferred tax asset Deferred tax liability Other provisions, opening balance 117 116 95 92 Temporary difference tangible fixed Provisions for the year 66 5 26 5 assets 28 – Reversal of other provisions -27 -4 -6 -1 Other temporary differences 3 – Other provisions, closing balance 156 117 115 96 Total 31 – Of which current portion -4 -20 – – Parent Company 2013-12-31 Deferred tax asset Deferred tax liability Total other provisions 176 134 140 133 Temporary difference tangible fixed assets 25 – SEK 7 M (20) of provisions pertains to restructuring costs, some of which Total 25 – are considered to be current; the remaining provisions are considered to be non-current. Other provisions consists mostly of costs for any restoration of land. Note 37. Interest-bearing liabilities Group Parent Company Note 36. deferred tax Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Group 2014-12-31 Deferred tax asset Deferred tax liability Temporary difference goodwill -15 Liabilities to credit institutions – 2,400 – 2,400 Temporary difference tangible fixed Medium-term notes issued 3,096 3,895 3,096 3,895 assets -22 Liabilities to leasing companies 12 13 12 13 Temporary difference biological Total 3,107 6,308 3,108 6,308 assets 8 Temporary difference financial instruments -85 Current interest-bearing liabilities 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Temporary difference untaxed reserves 433 Liabilities to credit institutions 347 518 300 518 Temporary difference pensions 46 Medium-term notes and commercial Other temporary differences -3 paper 3,446 1,691 3,446 1,691 Offset 124 -124 Liabilities to leasing companies 7 7 7 7 Total – 363 Total 3,800 2,217 3,753 2,217 Swedav i a A n n ua l r epo r t 2014 79 Notes Note 38. borrowings Note 41. accrued expenses and prepaid income Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Bank borrowings 347 2,918 300 2,918 Accrued expenses, construction projects 20 50 20 50 Medium-term notes 4,096 3,895 4,096 3,895 Accrued staff-related expenses 116 155 115 153 Commercial paper 2,446 1,691 2,446 1,691 Accrued interest 45 47 45 47 Total 6,889 8,504 6,842 8,504 Accrued property costs 17 71 2 49 Capital market programme Prepaid aviation income 56 37 56 37 Swedavia has a medium-term note (MTN) programme denominated in SEK for medium-term borrowing in the Swedish capital market. The limit is set at Prepaid property income 61 141 60 60 SEK 5,000 M, and borrowings via notes issued totalled SEK 4,096 SEK. In Prepaid income retail, addition, Swedavia has a Swedish commercial paper programme. The limit food & beverage 44 39 44 39 is set at SEK 5,000 M and borrowings under this programme totalled SEK Prepaid parking revenue 13 13 13 13 2,446 M. The average maturity on borrowings as of December 31, 2014, was 1.7 Prepaid advertising revenue 14 10 14 10 years with an average interest rate of 2.7 per cent. As of December 31, 2014, Other accrued expenses and prepaid the share of borrowings at a fixed rate was 82 per cent and the average income 74 83 66 101 lock-in period was 2.8 years. Total 460 646 434 559 Note 39. overdraft facilities Note 42. Financial risks Group Parent Company The Group is exposed to a number of different financial risks in its operations, 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 which in turn have an impact on the company’s profit, cash flow and valuation. Financial risks arise when there is a change in foreign exchange rates, Overdraft facilities approved 210 200 200 200 commodity prices and interest rates or when prevailing market conditions and Unutilised portion 210 182 200 182 capital structures give rise to refinancing and credit risks. The Group’s financial Credit amount used 0 18 0 18 operations and risk management are centralised in the Corporate Finance unit, and operations are carried out following a financial policy adopted by the As of December 31, 2014, Swedavia had overdraft facilities at SEB of SEK Board of Directors and characterised by a low risk level. The aim is to minimise 210 M, SEK 0 M of which was utilised on the balance sheet date. the Group’s capital cost through effective financial solutions and the effective management and control of the Group’s financial risks. To reduce the Group’s exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, electricity prices and exchange rates, various types of derivatives are used. Note 40. Other liabilities Exchange rate risks Exchange rate risk is defined as the risk that movements in currency prices Group will have a negative impact on the Group’s profit, financial position and/or cash flow. Since all subsidiaries are Swedish and use the Swedish krona (SEK) as 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 their currency, there is no translation exposure. Current tax liabilities 47 9 Other liabilities 109 98 Transaction exposure Most revenue is not affected by any foreign exchange fluctuations since Total 156 107 invoices are largely denominated in SEK. When invoicing is in a foreign currency, an internal match against supplier invoices is made in the corresponding foreign currency. For other payments in foreign currencies, currency hedges are entered into that match the foreign flow. Currency hedges are entered into in conjunction with the signing of a contract or upon receipt of an invoice. 80 Swedav i a A n nua l r epo r t 2014 Notes Interest rate risks in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income during the year was Interest rate risk is defined as the risk that changes in market interest rates SEK 186 M (112). The ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement will have a negative impact on the Group’s net interest income/expense. during the year was SEK 0.3 M (0.2). As of December 31, 2014, Swedavia had external borrowings of SEK A 1 per cent increase/decrease in the price of the unhedged volume of 6,889 M (8,504), which is almost half of the balance sheet. This means the electricity would not have a material effect on profit, less than SEK 0.2 M, company is sensitive to changes in interest rates. To reduce the sensitivity to given the current level of hedging. interest rate changes, Swedavia works actively to hedge the risk exposure on some of its borrowings through interest rate swaps. On the balance sheet Liquidity and refinancing risk date, the nominal amount of interest rate swaps was SEK 4,382 M (4,403) Liquidity and refinancing risk refers to the risk that financing opportunities with a fair value of SEK -373 M (-178). will be limited and the cost will be higher when loans are to be re-negotiated. Based on those hedges, a 1 per cent increase/decrease in the interest It also comprises payment obligations that cannot be met due to insufficient rate would have a SEK 13 M (29) effect on income. liquidity. The Group’s target capital structure is to have the Group’s fixed Under Swedavia’s financial policy, interest rates shall be fixed for a period assets funded by equity and have no more than 40 per cent of borrowings of 3 years ± 1 year. On the balance sheet date, the fixed rate period was 2.8 maturing in the same twelve-month period. years (2.9). The liquidity risk is minimised by Swedavia having a diversified loan portfolio, which ensures access to capital and flexibility. In accordance with the Commodity price risks financial policy, the Group has overdraft facilities of SEK 500 M (500). Swedavia’s commodity price risk is concentrated on the purchase of elecOn the balance sheet date, there was an unutilised bank loan guarantee tricity, and the way this is handled is governed in its financial policy. There of SEK 500 M (500) and overdraft facilities of SEK 210 M (200), SEK 0 M (18) is continuous hedging of electricity prices in accordance with the financial of which was used. The Group believes there are no risks associated with its policy. Hedging is done through electricity derivatives as well as through refinancing potential. bilateral agreements with producers. The hedge ratio was 78 per cent (74) of The following tables show the discounted cash flows for financial liabpredicted use. ilities as well as net settled derivatives at the prices on the reporting date. Floating interest rates on borrowings and interest rate swaps in effect on Hedge accounting the reporting date are assumed to apply for the remaining maturity of the The Group applies cash flow hedging for its interest rate risk, foreign respective instruments. exchange risk and electricity price risk. The effective portion of the changes Group 2014-12-31 Financial liabilities (including future interest expenses and derivative instruments) – Maturity structure < 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years > 5 years Total Interest-bearing liabilities 3,806 745 42 2,037 209 217 7,055 Liabilities to leasing companies 7 12 – – – – 19 Trade payables 339 – – – – – 339 Other liabilities 9 – – – – – 9 Derivative liabilities 113 101 83 64 47 34 442 Total 4,274 857 125 2,101 256 251 7,864 Group 2013-12-31 Financial liabilities (including future interest expenses and derivative instruments) – Maturity structure < 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years > 5 years Total Interest-bearing liabilities 2,312 3,494 753 48 2,038 206 8,852 Liabilities to leasing companies 7 14 – – – – 21 Trade payables 490 – – – – – 490 Other liabilities 8 – – – – – 8 Derivative liabilities 86 85 76 62 48 62 420 Total 2,903 3,593 830 111 2,086 269 9,791 Swedav i a A n n ua l r epo r t 2014 81 Notes Credit risks and counterparty risks The Group’s commercial and financial transactions give rise to credit risks Note 43. pledged assets and contingent against its counterparties. Credit risk or counterparty risk refers to the risk of liabilities loss if the counterparty does not meet its obligations agreed. The credit risk Group Parent Company that Swedavia is exposed to consists of financial credit risk and credit risk for 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 customer receivables. Pledged assets – 0 – 0 Financial credit risk The credit risk for financial transactions arises when the Group invests liquid Group Parent Company assets as well as in the form of counterparty risks when the Group enters into an agreement on financial instruments with banks. The maximum credit Contingent liabilities 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 risk consists of the book value of financial assets including derivatives with a Company-owned endowment insurance 6 6 6 6 positive market value. The Group’s policy is to work with banks with a good credit rating, and Swedavia has entered ISDA master agreements with its Swedavia has contingent liabilities (contractual liabilities in the Parent counterparty banks. Company) in the form of pension commitments in company-owned endowment insurance plans. The Parent Company, Swedavia AB, has a guarantee Credit risk in customer receivables to cover losses in the associated company Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB, for The credit risk for commercial transactions arises when there is a risk that which it is not possible to measure the value of the commitment. Swedavia customers will not meet their payment commitments to the Group. This also has contingent liabilities stemming from environmental requirements for risk is managed by the Group assessing customers’ creditworthiness on a running airport operations. frequent basis. For trade receivables, operations are run in accordance with Swedavia is a party to ongoing litigation and disputes. The disputes have a provision regulating credit terms and working methods. Terms of payment arisen as part of the business operations carried out by Swedavia. Legal proare in most cases net 30 days. As of December 31, 2014, there was no sigceedings and disputes are unpredictable by nature, and the actual outcome nificant credit risk. The quality of credits appears to be good based on credit may deviate from the assessments Swedavia has made. assessments carried out in accordance with the Group’s credit policy. Group Parent Company Age analysis, receivables Note 44. cash flow past due, not written off 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Group Parent Company Trade receivables not due 390 462 337 441 SEK M 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 2014-12-31 2013-12-31 Trade receivables past due 1–30 days 117 26 106 15 Adjustments for items not i Trade receivables past due ncluded in the cash flow 31–90 days 4 6 2 3 Profit from holdings in associated/ Trade receivables past due >90 days 40 9 15 6 Group companies -349 -8 237 – Total 551 503 459 465 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses 946 940 912 888 Change in pension provisions 58 -35 -98 -16 Doubtful receivables 2014 2013 2014 2013 Change in other provisions 42 -57 7 -57 Doubtful receivables, opening balance 11 10 11 10 Change in value of financial instruments -4 -32 – – Provision for bad debts 5 1 5 1 Other 25 49 -6 -49 Doubtful receivables, closing Total 718 857 1,052 766 balance 16 11 16 11 Interest paid and dividend received Dividend received – – 16 14 Interest received 6 4 5 3 Interest paid -221 -259 -220 -240 Beginning in 2014, short-term borrowings (maturity of 3 months or less) that are raised and repaid during the same month are offset. Comparative periods have not been restated. Profit from holdings in associated/Group companies pertains to capital gains in the Group from the sale of the company that owns the hotel property at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. In the Parent Company, for the item impairment loss on shares in subsidiaries, see the information in Note 24 “Holdings in Group companies”. 82 Swedav i a A n nua l r epo r t 2014 signatories to the annual report signatories to the annual report The undersigned certify that the consolidated accounts and Annual Report The Report of the Directors gives a true and fair picture of the performance have been prepared in conformity with international financial reporting of the Group’s and the Parent Company’s operations, financial position and accounting standards (IFRS) such as have been adopted by the EU in line results and describes significant risks and uncertainty factors faced by the with generally accepted accounting principles and give a true and fair picture companies included in the Group. of the financial position and results of the Group and the Parent Company. Stockholm-Arlanda March 20, 2015 Ingemar Skogö Chairman of the Board Karin Apelman Adine Grate Axén Lars Backemar Board member Board member Board member Anna Elgh Hans Jeppsson Jenny Lahrin Lars Mydland Board member Board member Board member Board member Lottie Svedenstedt Lars Andersson Robert Olsson Board member Board member Board member Employee representative Employee representative Torborg Chetkovich CEO Our Audit Report was submitted on March 20, 2015 Ernst & Young Magnus Fagerstedt Authorised Public Accountant The income statements and balance sheets of the Group and the Parent Company will be subject to approval at the Annual General on April 29, 2015. Swedav i a A n n ua l r epo r t 2014 83 audit report Audit Report To the Annual General Meeting of Swedavia AB (publ), Swedish corporate identity number 556797-0818 REport on the annual accounts and consolidated of its financial performance and cash flows for the year in accordance with accounts International Financial Reporting Standards such as have been adopted We have audited the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts of by the EU and the Annual Accounts Act. The Report of the Directors is Swedavia AB (publ) for the year 2014. The annual accounts and the conconsistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and the consolidated solidated accounts are included in the printed version of this document on accounts. pages 40–83. We therefore recommend that the Annual General Meeting adopt the Income Statement and Balance Sheet for the Parent Company and the Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the President Group. for the annual accounts and consolidated accounts The Board of Directors and the President are responsible for the preparation REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY of annual accounts that give a true and fair picture in accordance with the REQUIREMENTS Annual Accounts Act, for the preparation of consolidated accounts that give In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, a true and fair picture in accordance with International Financial Reporting we have examined the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or Standards such as have been adopted by the European Union and the loss and the administration of the Board of Directors and the President of Annual Accounts Act, and for the internal control the Board of Directors and Swedavia AB (publ) for the year 2014. the President determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstateResponsibilities of the Board of Directors and the President ment, whether due to fraud or error. The Board of Directors is responsible for proposing appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and the Board of Directors and President are Auditor’s responsibility responsible for administration under Sweden’s Annual Accounts Act. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts and consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in Auditor’s responsibility accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance on the auditing standards in Sweden. Those standards require that we comply proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and on the adminwith ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasistration based on our audit. We conducted the audit in accordance with onable assurance about whether the annual accounts and consolidated generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. As a basis for our opinion accounts are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s profit procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in or loss, we examined whether their proposal is in accordance with the the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. The procedures selected Swedish Companies Act. As a basis for our opinion concerning discharge depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of from liability, in addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolmaterial misstatement of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, idated accounts, we examined significant decisions, actions taken and whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor circumstances of the company in order to determine whether any member considers internal control relevant to the company’s preparation and fair of the Board of Directors or the President is liable to the company. We also presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts to give a examined whether any member of the Board of Directors or the President true and fair picture in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate has, in any other way, acted in contravention of the Swedish Companies in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. We believe that the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit also includes the audit evidence we have obtained as described above is sufficient and evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasappropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. onableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors and the President, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the annual Opinions accounts and consolidated accounts. We believe that the audit evidence we We recommend to the Annual General Meeting that the profit be approprihave obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit ated in accordance with the proposal in the Report of the Directors and that opinion. the members of the Board of Directors and the President are discharged from liability for the financial year. Opinions In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, a true and fair picture of the financial position of the Parent Company as Stockholm March 20, 2015 of December 31, 2014, and of its financial performance and cash flows Ernst & Young AB for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have also been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, a true and Magnus Fagerstedt fair picture of the Group’s financial position as of December 31, 2014, and Authorised public accountant 84 Swedav i a A n nua l R epo r t 2014 Statement of Compliance Auditor’s Review Report on Swedavia AB’s Sustainability Report To Swedavia AB Introduction and Quality Control and other generally accepted auditing standards in We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of Swedavia AB to Sweden. The procedures performed in a review consequently do not review Swedavia’s Sustainability Report for the year 2014. Swedavia enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all signifi­ AB has defined the scope of the Sustainability Report as those areas cant matters that might be identified in an audit. The conclusion expressed referred to in the GRI index on pages 96-100. based on an examination thus does not have the assurance of a conclusion based on an audit. The board of directors’ and executive manageOur review is based on the criteria selected by the Board of Directors ment’s responsibility for the sustainability and executive management, which are defined above. We consider these report criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. We believe The Board of Directors and the executive management are responsible that the evidence we obtained during our review is sufficient and approprifor preparing the Sustainability Report in accordance with the applicable ate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. criteria, which are presented on page 96 in the Sustainability Report, and consists of those parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines opinion (issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) at are applicable to Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us the Sustainability Report, and by the accounting and valuation printo believe that the information in the Sustainability Report has not, in all ciples produced by Swedavia AB. This responsibility also includes the material respects, been prepared in accordance with the above-stated internal control considered necessary to enable the preparation of a criteria. Sustainability Report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on our review. Stockholm March 20, 2015 We have performed our review in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance Ernst & Young AB of Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. A review consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other review procedures. A review has another aim and is substantially less in scope than Magnus Fagerstedt Charlotte Söderlund an audit conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing Authorised public accountant Authorised public accountant Swedav i a A n n ua l R epo r t 2014 85 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate Governance Report Swedavia AB (publ) corporate governance Swedavia’s corporate governance is regulated by external legal Swedavia AB is a Swedish limited liability company frameworks such as the Swedish Companies Act and other applicwith its registered office in the Municipality of able Swedish laws, the State’s ownership policy and the Swedish Sigtuna. Swedavia’s operations are described in Code of Corporate Governance (the Code). The Government conveys the company’s Articles of Association as financing, its position on important matters of principles concerning corporate owning, managing, operating and developing governance of all State-owned companies in its ownership policy. airports with their appurtenant buildings and Among other things, the decision has been made that all companies facilities. Swedavia shall also take an active part in in which the State owns a majority shall apply the Swedish Code the development of the Swedish transport sector of Corporate Governance. The overall objective of the Code is to and help achieve the transport policy goals set by contribute to the improved governance of Swedish limited liability Parliament based on sound business principles. companies. The Code is applied based on the “comply or explain” principle, which means that deviations from the Code are allowed but All shares in Swedavia AB are owned by the Swedish State. must be explained. The Ministry of Finance represents the Swedish State’s shares The Board of Directors is responsible under the Swedish at Swedavia’s Annual General Meeting and thereby nominates Companies Act and the Code for Swedavia’s internal control. The Board members in Swedavia. Board has decided that Swedavia shall apply a framework for documentation and analysis of internal control issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Swedavia’s structure for corporate governance is illustrated in the picture below. External auditors shareholder Swedavia’s external framework Laws, environmental permits, Swedish Transport Agency and other Board regulations, Swedish Code audit committee remuneration of Corporate Governance, committee the Swedish State’s ownership policy etc. Internal auditing president Group compliance and ceo Elects/appoints Risk Control Reports to/informs Swedavia’s internal control Articles of Association, the Board’s Rules of Procedure, Group policies, control activities, communication etc. 86 Swedav i a 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Code requirement Deviation Explanation/comment Code rules 1.3-1.4, 2.1-2.7, 8.1 and 10.2 No Nomination Committee has The Nomination Committee has been replaced by the owner’s nomination The company has a Nomination Committee that been set up. process. represents the company’s shareholder. Code rules 4.5 and 4.6 Dependency relationship with The State’s ownership policy states that the relevant provision in the Code The Corporate Governance Report shall include major shareholders is not is mainly aimed at protecting minority owners in companies with dispersed information about whether Board members are reported. ownership. In State-owned companies, there is no reason to report such independent of major shareholders. independence. deviations from the code broad recruitment base. Once the process has ended, the nomSwedavia is wholly owned by the Swedish State, and the principles inations are announced in accordance with the provisions of the that the Swedish State applies in its ownership policy are generally Code. in agreement with the rules in the Code. However, under the State’s ownership policy, Code regulations regarding the selection of board of directors Board members and auditors are replaced by a special nomination According to the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors process that applies to companies wholly owned by the State. The shall consist of at least six and no more than nine members, primary reason for deviations from the Code is that Swedavia has excluding deputy members. Under Swedish law, employee organonly one owner whereas the Code is aimed at listed companies isations are also entitled to appoint regular members and their with dispersed ownership. deputies. Swedavia’s Chief Legal Counsel is the Board secretary. The State’s ownership policy also deviates in reporting the The President and CEO is not included on the Board but makes independence of Board members relative to major shareholders. presentations at the Board meetings. None of the Board members The State’s ownership policy specifies that the relevant provisions is on the executive management team. For information about the in the Code are primarily aimed at protecting minority shareholders appointment and removal of Board members, reference is made to in companies with dispersed ownership so there is no reason to the Swedish State’s ownership policy. report such independence. The work and responsibilities of the Board annual general meeting According to the Swedish Companies Act and the Swedish State’s Swedavia’s Annual General Meeting 2014 will be held April 29 at ownership policy, Swedavia’s Board is responsible for the company’s Stockholm Arlanda Airport. The Annual General Meeting (AGM) organisation and management of the company’s operations. The is the company’s highest governing body, where shareholders Board establishes the Rules of Procedure each year for the Board’s exercise their influence. The matters considered at the AGM are work, instructions for the division of labour and responsibilities regulated by the Swedish Companies Act. between the Board and the President and CEO, and instructions for According to the Swedish Companies Act, the Annual General economic reporting to the Board. The Board’s Rules of Procedure Meeting shall be held annually no later than April 30. Members of also regulate the Chairman’s duties and information to the Board. Parliament are entitled to take part in the meeting and ask quesUnder the Board’s Rules of Procedure, at least eight statutory tions in conjunction with this. The general public shall also be given Board meetings apart from the statutory Board meeting shall be the opportunity to take part in the meeting. The AGM shall, among held per calendar year. Additional meetings may be held when other activities, appoint the Board and auditors, decide on remujustified by events of major importance. The Board is responsible neration to them and adopt the income statement and balance for financial reporting and has regular meetings through the Audit sheet. The Board shall also present principles for the remuneration Committee with the company’s auditors. In addition, the auditors to executive officers at the AGM. meet the full Board at least once a year. The decisions of the AGM are made through a simple majority The Board assesses the President and CEO’s work on a convote. However, for any change in the Articles of Association, a tinuous basis and gives particular consideration to this matter at qualified majority is needed. least once a year, when no one from the executive management team may be present. the nomination Process for the board of directors For companies that are wholly owned by the Swedish State, a Composition of the Board nomination process that complies with the Swedish State’s ownIn 2014 Swedavia’s Board consisted of nine members elected ership policy is applied, replacing the Code’s rules for appointing at the AGM, including the Chairman. In addition, the Board had Board members and auditors. two regular employee representatives and their two deputies. An The nomination process for Board members is managed and account is given on pages 92–93 of each Board member’s age, coordinated by the State ownership unit at the Ministry of Finance. education, main work experience, other important duties outside A working group analyses the need for talent based on the comthe company and number of years as a member of Swedavia’s position of the Board and the company’s operations and situation. Board. The AGM elected nine Board members, of which four are After this, it is determined whether there are any recruitment needs men and five are women. The employee representatives in 2014 and recruitment work is initiated. Members are selected from a were two men. The average was 56 years. Swedav i a 2014 87 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Chairman of the Board of the Board is paid a fee of SEK 440,000, and each member is The Chairman of the Board is elected at the AGM. Under the Rules paid SEK 220,000. It was also decided at Swedavia’s AGM that of Procedure for Swedavia’s Board of Directors, the Chairman shall no specific remuneration should be paid to the Board’s employee ensure that the Board’s work is managed effectively and that the representatives or members employed in the Swedish Government Board fulfils its duties. The Chairman’s duties include organising Offices. It was decided at Swedavia’s AGM that remuneration and managing the Board’s work, keeping in regular contact with the should be paid to committee chairs and members. The Chair of the President and CEO and ensuring that the Board is given sufficient Audit Committee is paid a fee of SEK 35,000 and the committee information and material to make decisions in its work. The Chairman members are each paid SEK 20,000. A fee of SEK 25,000 was is also responsible for coordinating the Board’s views in relation to decided for the Chair of the Remuneration Committee and SEK the owner on issues of critical importance to the company, and for 20,000 each for the members. receiving the owner’s views and conveying them to the Board. the president and CEo and the executive The Board’s work in 2014 management In 2014, the Board held 16 meetings, one of which was statutory. The Board of Directors appoints the company’s President and CEO. The President and CEO is responsible for the day-to-day manageThe main issues in 2014 were: ment of the company in conformity with the Board’s guidelines • Strategic development and instructions. Within the bounds determined by the Board, the • Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s environmental permit President and CEO manages operations and keeps the Chairman of • Sustainability targets the Board continuously informed about significant business matters. • Access and new routes The President and CEO shall organise the company’s manage• Sale and development plan for Real Estate operations ment to meet the aims set for governance and control of opera• Development plan for Stockholm Arlanda Airport tions. Other executive officers are appointed by the President and • Development plan for Bromma Stockholm Airport CEO. The executive management team is a forum for information, • Internal control discussions and decisions for Group matters. The team’s meetings • Development of Säve Airport are chaired by the President and CEO and are held each month. • Risk management and risk assessment Swedavia’s executive management, including the President and CEO, is presented in more detail on pages 94–95. The Board’s committee work Swedavia’s Board of Directors has two established committees – Remuneration to executive officers an Audit Committee and a Remuneration Committee. The comAt Swedavia’s AGM on April 29, 2014, the owner decided on the mittees prepare matters for the Board meetings. Guidelines for the principles for remuneration and other terms of employment for committees’ work are found in the Rules of Procedures for each executive officers. For remuneration and other terms of employcommittee. ment, Swedavia shall apply the principles decided in the “Guidelines The Audit Committee’s tasks include being responsible for prefor Terms of Employment for Executive Officers in Companies under paring the Board’s work to quality assure and prepare the company’s State Ownership” adopted by the Government. Similar principles are financial reports and maintain an ongoing dialogue with the comapplied in Swedavia’s subsidiaries. Swedavia does not use variable pany’s auditors. Minutes for each committee meeting are attached remuneration for executive officers. to the minutes for the following Board meeting. In 2014, the Audit Committee held seven meetings for which minutes were kept, which Subsidiaries were all attended by the company’s auditors. The members of the Swedavia had four subsidiaries at year-end 2014 – Swedavia Real Audit Committee since the AGM include the Board members Karin Estate AB, Arlanda Development Company AB, Bromma Stockholm Apelman as Chair, and Anna Elgh and Jenny Lahrin as members. Airport Fastigheter AB and Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB. There is The Remuneration Committee’s task is to prepare matters conan officer from Swedavia’s executive management represented on cerning remuneration and other terms of employment for executive the Board of every subsidiary and associated company in the Group. officers. Minutes for each committee meeting are attached to the Swedavia’s owner directive is applied for all subsidiaries in order minutes for the following Board meeting. In 2014, the Remuneration to have uniform management principles in the Group. Committee held five meetings for which minutes were kept. The members of the Remuneration Committee since the AGM include auditors Ingemar Skogö as Chair, Jenny Lahrin and Lottie Svedenstedt as External auditing members, and Robert Olsson as employee representative. Under the Swedish State’s ownership policy, responsibility for electing auditors in companies owned by the State always lies with the owner. Evaluation of the Board’s work, 2014 The final decision on the choice of auditors is made by the owner at During the year, the Board’s work was evaluated through a meththe AGM. The auditor’s duties are to examine the financial reporting odical, structured process which among other things is aimed at of the company and the Group as well as the administration of the developing a good basis for the Board’s own development work. company by the Board and the President and CEO. At Swedavia’s AGM on April 29, 2014, the auditing firm Ernst & Young was elected as Remuneration to the Board auditors. Auditing duties are to be performed until the end of the AGM Compensation to the Board is decided by the AGM. The Chairman being held in 2015. Authorised public accountant Magnus Fagerstedt 88 Swedav i a 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT was elected as the principal auditor. Magnus Fagerstedt has no Control environment duties at the company that affect his independence as an auditor for The basis of Swedavia’s internal control consists of the control Swedavia. Remuneration has been paid to the auditors and auditing environment, which consists mainly of the organisational structure firm for auditing and advice. and governing documents. The control environment is aimed at providing operations with the conditions for carrying out their tasks Internal auditing in a clear way in accordance with the Board’s objectives, targets The Board has a special internal auditing function at Swedavia to and intentions as well as influence control and risk awareness in the support the Board in carrying out its oversight and assessment of the organisation. This is done by delegating responsibility and authorcompany’s operations which reports to the Board. The Board has ity to the managers and employees of the company. The control adopted instructions for internal auditing, which in 2014 consisted of environment consists essentially of external documents such as three auditors. laws, agreements, generally accepted accounting principles, the ownership policy and guidelines as well as other internal governing the board’s reporting on internal control over documents. The control environment also consists of the Board’s financial reporting Rules of Procedure and instructions to the President and CEO. In Under the Swedish Companies Act and the Code, the Board is addition, the Board has adopted two policies that have an effect on responsible for internal control of financial reporting. Under the financial reporting, a financial policy and a credit policy. The comCode and the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the Board must pany’s President and CEO has delegated responsibility and authorsubmit a description each year of the most important features of ity to members of the executive management team in specific rules the company’s system for internal control and risk management of procedure concerning their mandate to enter agreements, make over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting decisions on investments and authorise invoices. The executive is aimed at providing reasonable assurance as to the reliability in management has also adopted additional governing documents in the external reporting in the form of financial statements, quarterly the form of policies and guidelines aimed at the company’s employreports and annual reports and that the external financial reportees. All governing documents are available on the company’s ing is prepared in compliance with laws, appropriate accounting intranet, which employees have access to. principles, specific requirements from the owner and other requirements for limited liability companies. Risk management This Corporate Governance Report has been prepared in The Board has ultimate responsibility for the company’s risk accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Code management and has assigned the President and CEO the task of of Corporate Governance and is restricted to internal control over managing this operationally. Swedavia’s risk management is aimed financial reporting. at identifying potential events that can affect the organisation’s abilThe Board has decided that Swedavia shall follow the estabity to achieve the objectives and targets set. The method used by lished COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the the company for risk management is based on a model with three Treadway Commission) framework for internal control. The COSO lines of defence. The first line of defence consists of the company’s framework consists of five interdependent components: control operations, in the form of airports and Group-level functions that environment; risk assessment; control activities; information and have responsibility for identifying, assessing and reporting risks on communication; and monitoring and assessment. a continuous basis. Facts about the Board Attendance, Year Attendance, Attendance, RemunerMembers elected at the AGM Main Board Board meetings elected Audit Committee ation Committee Ingemar Skogö Chair 16/16 2010 5/5 Karin Apelman Member 13/16 2010 6/7 Lars Backemar Member 13/16 2010 Anna Elgh Member 16/16 2010 6/7 Adine Grate Axén Member 11/16 2010 Hans Jeppsson Member 16/16 2010 Jenny Lahrin Member 16/16 2012 7/7 5/5 Lars Mydland 1 Member 12/16 2014 Lottie Svedenstedt Member 16/16 2010 5/5 Employee representatives Lars Andersson Member 15/16 2010 Robert Olsson Member 16/16 2010 Mats Abrahamsson Deputy member 0/16 2010 Agne Lindbom Deputy member 0/16 2010 1 Lars Mydland was elected as a member of Swedavia’s Board at the Annual General Meeting 2014. Swedav i a 2014 89 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The second line of defence consists of the company’s Risk in financial processes and in the financial reporting. The Audit Manager, whose task is to facilitate and develop support for the risk Committee also has the possibility to conduct in-depth dialogue management processes and methods used in operations as well and follow-up on accounting matters with the company’s CFO and as consolidate and report on the company’s risks. auditors taking part in the committee’s meetings. The third line of defence consists of the company’s internal auditing, which examines Swedavia’s operations and reports to the Information and communication Board. Risks are monitored on a continuous basis by the airports Swedavia is a State-owned company and under the Swedish and corporate functions and are reported to the Risk Manager, who State’s guidelines shall follow the same regulations for accounting together with the Risk Committee consolidates them on a quarterly and reported as publicly listed companies. Swedavia has issued basis. Swedavia’s greatest risks are then compiled in a risk report financial instruments listed on the Nasdaq OMX exchange, which which is approved by the President and CEO and then prepared by means the company is obliged to apply Nasdaq OMX’s regulations the Audit Committee before it is adopted by the Board. Financial for issuers as well as other regulations that arise regarding this. risks are always reported as part of the risk report. A more detailed Swedavia has therefore developed a Communication, Information description of Swedavia’s risk management process can be found and Insider Policy that regulates the spread of information internally in the Annual Report for 2014 on pages 42–43. and the disclosure of information to the market. Swedavia’s public financial reports consist of four interim reports and Swedavia’s Control activities and monitoring Annual and Sustainability Report. External financial reporting shall Swedavia’s control activities for financial reporting consist of three be characterised by openness and transparency and is aimed at parts – monitoring and analysis of economic results, the risk report giving the company’s different stakeholders a relevant picture of and monitoring of key controls in the process. operations. The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) monitors and analyses economic results on a monthly basis and reports this to the President Monitoring and assessment and CEO. The CFO also monitors and analyses processes for The executive management team meets on a monthly basis and bookkeeping, financial statements and financial reports on a reviews operations and related risks. The Board also evaluates the quarterly basis through a special monitoring programme in which development, economic results, financial position and cash flow key controls are self-assessed and reported. of operations on a monthly basis. At the Group level, there are Swedavia’s Board of Directors receives reports of economic corporate functions, including a control and accounting unit, that results with analysis and comments from the company’s President analyse and monitor results compared to the budget and forecasts and CEO on a monthly basis. Swedavia’s public reports are comwhich are reported to the company’s President and CEO and to piled by the CFO and the President and CEO for preparation in the the CFO. All people with responsibility for business units regularly Audit Committee before they are adopted by the company’s Board report results and annual forecasts to the company’s President and of Directors and then published. In addition to the Annual Report, CEO and to the CFO. The Board evaluates the information provided at least one of the interim reports is examined by the company’s by the President and CEO on a continuous basis. There is also an auditors, who report on their review work to the Audit Committee internal auditing function that serves as an independent examinaand the Board of Directors. Swedavia’s internal audit function tion function. also conducts reviews in different areas in order to ensure quality Included in operations 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence executive management RISK and COMPLIANCE INTERNal auditing Responsible for maintaining Responsible for providing Responsible for performing good internal control and sufficient tools, evaluating independent examinations risk management and supporting operations and ensuring that the Risk in its work with risk and Compliance function management works in a satisfactory manner monitoring 90 Swedav i a 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Stockholm-Arlanda, Sweden March 20, 2015 Ingemar Skogö Chairman of the Board Karin Apelman Adine Grate Axén Lars Backemar Anna Elgh Board member Board member Board member Board member Hans Jeppsson Jenny Lahrin Lars Mydland Lottie Svedenstedt Board member Board member Board member Board member Lars Andersson Robert Olsson Board member Board member Employee representative Employee representative auditor’s opinion on the corporate Governance Report To the Annual General Meeting of Swedavia AB (publ), corporate identity number 556797-0818 The Board of Directors is responsible for the Corporate examination of the Corporate Governance Report is Governance Report for 2014 on pages 86-91 and for different and substantially less in focus and scope than ensuring that it has been prepared in accordance with an audit conducted in accordance with International the Annual Accounts Act. Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing We have read the Corporate Governance Report and, standards in Sweden. based on that reading and our knowledge of the comIn our opinion, the Corporate Governance Report has pany and the Group, we believe that we have a sufficient been prepared and its statutory content is in accordance basis for our opinions. This means that our statutory with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Stockholm March 20, 2015 Ernst & Young AB Magnus Fagerstedt Authorised public accountant Swedav i a 2014 91 board of directors Swedavias Swedavia’s Board of styrelse Directors 1 2 3 4 5 Ingemar Skogö Adine Grate Axén Lars Backemar 1 Chairman of the Board (elected 2010), 3 Member (elected 2010) 4 Member (elected 2010) Chair Remuneration Committee Born: 1961 Born: 1950 Born: 1949 Other Board duties: Sky Ltd, Sampo OY, Other Board duties: Backemar Other Board duties: Fordonsstrategisk 3 (HI3G Scandinavia), SOBI AB, Seventh Consulting AB (Chair), City i Samverkan AB Forskning and Innovation (Chair) and Swedish National Pension Fund (Deputy (Chair), Retailmentorerna (Chair), Arosgruppen Sensys Traffic AB. Teologiska Högskolan i Chair), Madrague AB, Dansmuseet (Chair), Fastigheter Fjärdingen AB, Arosgruppen Stockholm AB (Chair). Base23 and Formmuseets Vänner. Holding AB, Fastighets AB Velocipeden. Education: BS in Economics, Lund Education: BS in Economics, Stockholm Education: Business administration University. School of Economics; Executive MBA (AMP), and marketing, Köpmannainstitutet, Work experience: Governor, Västmanland Harvard University. Stockholm; marketing and consumer policy, County Board. Formerly Director-General, Work experience: Own company; Chair, Uppsala University. Vägverket; Director-General, Luftfartsverket; NASDAQ Stockholm Listing Committee. Work experience: Senior Advisor, Backemar Undersecretary of State, Ministry of Formerly Executive Vice President and Consulting AB. Formerly various executive Communications; Mayor, Municipality of Managing Director, Investor AB; Vice positions at Hufvudstaden, Jones Lang Södertälje; department advisor, energy, President Corporate Finance, Gota Group LaSalle. Ministry of Industry; administrator, Budget and Hägglöf & Ponsbach. Formerly member Department, Ministry of Finance; Swedish of Swedish Securities Council, Carnegie Anna Elgh National Audit Office. Investment Bank AB, Gambro AB, Grand 5 Member (elected 2010), member Audit Hotel Holdings, Ericsson Project Finance AB, Committee Karin Apelman EDB ErgoGroup A/S, Spray Ventures BV, Born: 1963 2 Member (elected 2010), Chair Audit Swedish Industry and Commerce Stock Other Board duties: None. Committee Exchange Committee and Government Education: Master’s of Engineering, KTH Council for Reduced State Ownership. Born: 1961 Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm; Other Board duties: EKN (Swedish Executive MBA, Instituto de Empresa Madrid. export promotion agency), Swedish Credit Work experience: CEO Svenska Retursystem Insurance Association (KFF), financing AB. Formerly Business Area Manager, Elder delegation for Swedish Radiation Safety Care Private Management Vardaga, Vice Authority; advisory council for Swedish President Supply Chain and Group Logistics Legal, Financial and Administrative Services Director, Lantmännen; Supply Chain Director, Agency (Kammarkollegiet), Kåpan Pensioner SAS Component; various executive positions (deputy member). at Svenska Statoil AB. Education: BS in Economics, Stockholm School of Economics. Work experience: Director-General, EKN. Formerly CFO, Luftfartsverket; Deputy CEO, Saab Aircraft Leasing; Manager Leasing and Project Financing, Scandinavian Airlines. 92 Swedav i a 2014 board of directors 7 6 9 8 11 10 Hans Jeppsson Lars Mydland Lars Andersson 6 Member (elected 2010) 8 Member (elected 2014) 10 Employee representative (elected 2010) Born: 1956 Born: 1954 Born: 1953 Other Board duties: Jeppsson Business & Other Board duties: mydland ehrling AB Other Board duties: Chair, SEKO Government Consulting AB and Stockholm (Chair), SESAR Performance Partnership Swedavia Group trade union. Business Region AB (deputy member). (Chair). Education: First repairman. Education: BS in Economics, Lund Education: Fighter pilot training RNAF/USAF, University; MA in Economics, UCLA. Norwegian Air Force. Robert Olsson Work experience: Senior Advisor, Work experience: Consultant, mydland 11 Employee representative (elected 2010) Vinnova; consultant, Jeppsson Business ehrling AB; Senior Consultant, IATA; Special Born: 1966 & Government Consulting AB. Formerly Adviser to Managing Director, Veling Ltd., Other Board duties: Section Chair ST. special investigator, Innovation Procurement, Formerly SVP & Accountable Manager Education: High school, trade union Government Official Report, Ministry of Scandinavian Airlines, airline captain, SAS; training etc. Safety officer/security guard, Health and Social Affairs and Innovation CEO, SAS Flight Academy AB; fighter pilot Swedavia. Procurement, Ministry of Enterprise, Energy and officer, Norwegian Air Force. Formerly and Communications (international trade), member SAS Commuter AB, SAS Sverige AB, Undersecretary of State, Ministry for Foreign SAS Norge AS, SAS Danmark AS, TFHS, IATA Affairs; Director, Stockholm Chamber of OPC, SAS Technical Services (STS). Formerly Commerce. Chair EAC (Spain), Norwegian Aviation Collage AB. Jenny Lahrin 7 Member (elected 2012), member Lottie Svedenstedt Remuneration Committee, member Audit 9 Member (elected 2010), member Deputy members Committee Remuneration Committee Agne Lindbom Born: 1971 Born: 1957 Born: 1961 Other Board duties: Vattenfall AB and AB Other Board duties: MiL Institute (Chair), Göta kanalbolag. Uppstart Helsingborg (Chair), K-Utveckling Mats Abrahamsson Education: Bachelor of Laws, Uppsala Engineering AB (Chair), Byggmax AB, Born: 1958 University; Master of Laws in European ITAB Shop Concept AB, Vanna AB, Åhus Business Law, Amsterdam School of Studiodata AB and Decidokompetensor AB. International Relations; Executive MBA, IFL, Education: Law degree, Uppsala University. Auditors Stockholm School of Economics. Work experience: Formerly CEO, Kid Work experience: Deputy Director, Division Interiör A/S; Business Area Manager, IKEA Magnus Fagerstedt for State-Owned Enterprises, Ministry of of Sweden; Deputy General Manager, IKEA Principal auditor Ernst & Finance. Formerly commercial lawyer, Systems BV; CEO, Inter IKEA Systems A/S; Young AB Division for State-Owned Enterprises, Ministry Regional Director, H&M AB. Born: 1957 of Finance; Chief Legal Counsel, Veolia Transport Northern Europe AB; and a lawyer. Swedav i a 2014 93 executive management Swedavia’s executive management 1 2 3 4 6 5 7 Torborg chetkovich Per Arenhage MiCHael Persson Gripkow 1 President and CEO since August 2010 3 Chief Technical Officer since July 2011 6 Director of Aviation, Customer & Born: 1967 Born: 1956 Marketing since August 2011 Education: BS in Economics, Uppsala Education: MS in Engineering, KTH Royal Born: 1961 University; MBA, IMD Lausanne, Switzerland. Institute of Technology, Stockholm. Education: BS in Economics, Uppsala Work experience: Formerly CEO, MTR Work experience: Chief Operating Officer University; Advanced Management Program, Norden; Deputy CEO, Veolia Transport and Chief Technical Officer, Stockholm Stockholm School of Economics; Executive Sweden AB; Division Director, Veolia Arlanda Airport; CEO, Uppsala Stadsnät Program, EMI, Stockholm; Brand Strategy Transport Sweden AB; Marketing Director, Song; Head of Business Area, City Systems RMI-Berghs School of Commerce, Stockholm. ConnexTunnelbanan AB; various executive Vattenfall Connection; Chief Technical Officer, Work experience: Director of Marketing, positions, SJ. Uppsala Energi. VisitSweden AB; Director of Global Marketing Board duties: Chair, Swedavia Real Board duties: None. Communications, Volvo Cars Corp; Senior Estate AB; Board member, Almega and Director Marketing, The Absolut Company; ACI Europe. Lennart Bergbom Brand Manager SAS and Product Manager, 4 Strategic Director since December 2010 SAS Flight Shop, Scandinavian Airlines; Karl Wistrand Born: 1969 Service Manager, Vingresor AB. 2 Deputy CEO of Swedavia since July Board duties: None. Education: BS in Economics, Uppsala 2012, Director of Commercial and Real Estate University. since February 2014, and CEO of Swedavia Work experience: Head of Strategic Peder Grunditz Real Estate AB since January 2013 Development, Stockholm Arlanda Airport; 7 Airport Director, Bromma Stockholm Born: 1957 investigator and market analyst, Luftfartsverket; Airport since December 2013 Education: Degree in corporate and Desk Officer, Ministry of Finance. Born: 1963 business management law, School of Board duties: None. Education: Executive MBA, M-gruppen. Business, Economics and Law, University Work experience: Director of Regional of Gothenburg. Anna Bovaller Airports; various duties at LFV including Work experience: Formerly CEO, Coop 5 Chief Legal Counsel since April 2010 Airport Director, Visby Airport and acting Sverige AB; Deputy CEO and CFO ICA AB; Born: 1963 Division Head; Director of Passenger various positions at ICA. Education: Law degree, Lund University; Services Malmö Aviation; Director of Ground Board duties: Board member of IHM Master in Leadership and Executive Operations, Braathens Sverige; Head of Traffic, Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB and Airport Management Program, IFL at Stockholm Transwede Airways. City i Stockholm AB. School of Economics. Board duties: Board member of Work experience: Chief Legal Counsel, Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB. LFV; Assistant Chief Legal Counsel, Posten AB; commercial lawyer, Posten AB; lawyer, Dahlman Magnusson Advokatbyrå; law clerk, Nacka District Court; legal assistant, Michelsons Advokatbyrå. Board duties: None. 94 Swedav i a 2014 executive management 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 Anders Lennerman Susanne Norman Kjell-Åke Westin 8 Director of Security and Safety since 10 13 Airport Director, Stockholm Arlanda Airport Director, Regional Airports since October 2010 December 2013 and Airport Director, Åre Airport since September 2011 Born: 1953 Östersund Airport since November 2008 Born: 1957 Education: Swedish National Police Born: 1966 Education: Aviation College of Sweden, FTS Academy; Criminology, Stockholm University. Education: BS in Information Systems, Mid Swedish Air Force, War College F20. Work experience: Head of Security, Sweden University, Östersund. Work experience: Swedish Air Force; SAS Stockholm Arlanda Airport; Management Work experience: CEO, Recall AS Oslo; Head of Flight Academy; CEO, Skyways Express AB; consultant, Mercuri Urval International; Production/Site Manager, Recall AB Sverige; Head CEO, Direktflyg AB, President, Aviation College various positions with the Swedish Security of Sales, Central Region, Cap Gemini AB; of Sweden; CEO, Örebro Airport AB; Airport Service, particularly in counterespionage; operations developer, Jämtkraft AB. Director, Bromma Stockholm Airport. various positions with the Swedish Police in Board duties: Chair of Destination Östersund AB, Board duties: Board member of Destination Stockholm County. Board member of Peak Business & sports AB, Mid Sigtuna AB and deputy member of Airport City Board duties: Board member of ACI Europe Sweden Science Park AB and Visit Östersund. Stockholm AB. Aviation Security Committee, Swedavia Airport Telecom AB and mp3Consulting AB. Marie Wiksborg Mats PåhlsoN 14 11 Chief Financial Officer since August 2014 Chief Human Resources Officer, Swedavia Charlotte Ljunggren since October 2013 and HR Director, Stockholm 9 Airport Director Göteborg Landvetter Born: 1963 Arlanda Airport since August 2013 Education: Economics, Växjö University. Airport since August 2012 Born: 1965 Work experience: CFO AcadeMedia, CFO Born: 1967 Poolia, CFO Lernia, CFO AGA S/A Brazil, CFO Education: BS in Economics, School of Education: Controls & Law, IHM Business AGA Gas Sverige. Business, Economics and Law, Gothenburg School, Gothenburg. Board duties: Board member of BMP Ledning & University. Work experience: Route Director and Utveckling AB. Work experience: HR Director, Stockholm Onboard Manager, Stena Line Scandinavia AB; Arlanda Airport; Director of HR and Employees, Route Director, SeaCat AB; Finance & HR KF Group, including Coop; Business Support Manager, Sea Containers LTD, various posiLinda Sjödin Director, KF Fastigheter AB; HR Director, 12 Chief Communication Officer since January tions at B&B Fondkommission AB. Sheraton Stockholm Hotel & Towers; Training Board duties: Board member, Swedish 2012 Director, Sheraton Stockholm Hotel & Towers. Exhibition and Congress Centre, Born: 1976 Board duties: None. Börssällskapet i Göteborg and Thomas Education: Communication Executives Program, Concrete Group AB. Stockholm School of Economics; Masters of Media in IT, Stockholm; BS in Media and Communication, University of Gävle; political science and sociology, Örebro University. Work experience: Head of Communication Services at Vattenfall; various positions in the SAS Group, including Head of Information, SAS Sverige AB; journalist on the news and sports desks, TV4. Board duties: Board member, Svenskt flyg Intresseaktiebolag. Swedav i a 2014 95 GRI Index GRI – Content and indicators Swedavia’s Annual and Sustainability Report focuses on our strategy, dioxide gas. Emissions of fossil carbon dioxide are calculated based on objectives, targets and results for the past year. Swedavia’s general fuel consumption and energy use reported in the Group’s environmental objective is for the report to be transparent, relevant and comparable. reporting system, SMIL. Reporting includes Swedavia AB (10 airports) Swedavia has used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s guidelines and Swedavia Real Estate AB. Data for minority-owned subsidiaries or since 2010. For 2014, Swedavia has decided to report its sustainability associated companies, the office in Norrköping and Göteborg City Airport work in accordance with GRI’s updated guidelines, G4, at the Core are excluded. Energy purchased for the office in Norrköping is not measlevel. Reported indicators have been chosen based on our stakeholders’ ured by Swedavia’s landlord since it is included in the rent. Emissions are perspective and reflect our shared view of what is material and what thus calculated under Scope 3 in accordance with principles of scope in is important for developing long-term sustainable operations. GRI G4 Airport Carbon Accreditation Guidance, which applies the Greenhouse enables Swedavia to focus its report on the sustainability areas that are Gas Protocol for carbon dioxide certification to airport operations. As of relevant to the company and its stakeholders. That means the report December 18, 2014, Göteborg City Airport is wholly owned by Swedavia, contains fewer indicators than in previous years, but those that are which is why emissions were considered to be negligible for the period reported are more material to Swedavia. December 18-31, 2014, relative to total emissions. PR 5-Swedavia continuously measures customer satisfaction among Process for identifying the content of passengers, airlines and tenants at its larger airports. Swedavia is part the report of the ASQ Programme of passenger surveys administered by Airport Swedavia’s materiality analysis was developed to identify and underCouncil International (ACI). The survey measures departing passengers’ stand issues that are critical to Swedavia’s economic, environmental and attitudes to and experiences at the airport. For Stockholm Arlanda Airport, social value creation. The process is based on: Göteborg Landvetter Airport and Bromma Stockholm Airport, reporting is • Studies of megatrends/drivers that affect Swedavia’s offering, operaon a quarterly basis. Reporting for other Swedavia airports is done every six tions, products, services, market and customers. months. The airline survey is carried out once every two years and meas• Industry insight and analysis of impacts and competitors’ priorities. ures the airline customers’ satisfaction with the airports. The most recent • Internal expertise on sustainability, brand, customer insights and survey was carried out in the autumn of 2013. The tenant survey is carried business strategy. out at Stockholm Arlanda Airport, Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Bromma • Interviews with selected stakeholder groups. Stockholm Airport and Malmö Airport. The survey is carried out once a year and uses an established method of measurement in the real estate industry, Swedavia’s material issues are those ranked highest by both internal and with ten questions and an overall customer satisfaction index (CSI). external stakeholders. GRI aspects and indicators have been chosen for Employee satisfaction is measured as an employee satisfaction index some of these topics. For other material issues, Swedavia has chosen (ESI), which assesses the work climate in the working group. ESI is measto report its own indicators, which reflect how Swedavia integrates ured in conjunction with Swedavia’s employee survey, which is carried out its stakeholders’ expectations for its goals and strategies in a more once a year in February. The survey also measures the ability of leadership relevant way. to lead, communicate, manage and develop operations (communicative On the opposite page, results from a materiality analysis are presenleadership index or CLI), the likelihood that our employees would recomted. The y axis indicates how each issue affects the stakeholders’ view mend Swedavia as a workplace to a friend (net promoter score or NPS), of Swedavia, and the x axis indicates how the issue affects Swedavia’s and what percentage of our groups are efficient and profitable (engagement value creation. index or EI). The number of international destinations is determined by the total report boundaRies number of cities outside Sweden that can be reached by direct flights in Swedavia has limited the report to areas in which the company has total scheduled or charter operations from Swedavia’s airports. Threshold values control over data collection and information quality, which means the have been used in the calculation in order to filter out such charter flights entire group is included unless otherwise indicated. that take place on an ad hoc basis and for which the general public cannot purchase tickets. reporting principles See page 102 for definitions. Indicator EN 19 reports emissions reductions under the framework for Swedavia’s target of zero fossil carbon dioxide emissions, broken down External ASsurance in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol into Scope 1, 2 and 3. The sustainability information in the integrated report for 2014 was subject to The year 2005 was chosen as the base year for reporting because since a general review by Swedavia’s auditors, Ernst & Young. It was subsequently 2006 there have been resources with the dedicated task of working approved by Swedavia’s Board of Directors. strategically with climate and energy issues in Swedavia’s operations. Emissions are reported in tonnes of fossil carbon dioxide. Emissions for 2014 calculated in carbon dioxide equivalents were about 3,140 tonnes, about one per cent higher than the emissions of carbon 96 Swedav i a 2014 GRI Index Swedavia’s materiality matrix Brand, corporate governance and relations 7 30 1 Attractive brand 2 Customer engagement Swedavia’s material aspects 3 Relations with residents in the vicinity Ethics 4 Transparency Strategic partnerships 5 Position in sustainable business Capacity 6 Corporate culture based on ethical guidelines 19 16 Climate 7 Stakeholder dialogue International exchanges 8 Sustainability requirements for suppliers and outsourcing 37 Safety and security 9 Responsible investments 10 Strategic partnerships Environmental permits 11 Refurbishment and change Socioeconomic value creation 12 Experience of sustainability engagement 47 Brand 13 Corporate governance 18 1 Stakeholder dialogue 14 Risk and compliance 10 6 Focus on customers 15 Corruption 16 Keep environmental permits 39 Brand, corporate governance and relations 17 Financial strength and resilience 18 Sufficient capacity 19 Socioeconomic value creation 20 Many direct routes 21 Contribute to Swedish tourism industry 22 Increased productivity 23 Pricing 7 30 100 Human rights 24 Discrimination 20 25 Diversity in the workplace 19 16 21 45 37 Labour practices and decent work How the issue affects stakeholders’ views of Swedavia 26 Health and safety 27 Reasonable remuneration and working conditions 47 4 18 38 17 1 28 Competency development 10 6 23 11 24 40 39 75 29 Work-life balance 42 Environmental aspects 25 15 43 44 30 Climate 22 14 41 31 Intermodality 9 27 3 2 32 Atmospheric emissions 31 12 28 8 33 Waste, recycling and material use 34 Water 13 5 26 46 50 35 Energy 33 29 32 35 36 Chemical handling Product responsibility 36 34 37 Safety 38 Emergency preparedness 39 Focus on customers 40 Commercial product development 41 Friction-free travel 42 Innovation 43 Experiences at the airport 44 Meeting place Social 45 Development of destinations and regions 46 Social value creation 47 Support international exchanges How the issue affects Swedavia’s value creation Swedav i a 2014 97 GRI Index Cross-reference table Standard information G4 information Description Page Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from most senior decisionmaker 10–11 Organisational profile G4-3 Name of the organisation 40 G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services 40 G4-5 Location of organisation’s headquarters 57 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of 6 countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 6, 57 G4-8 Markets served 57 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization, including number of employees, number of operations, net revenue, total capitalisation (broken down in terms of debt/equity) 3 G4-10 Number of employees broken down by employment contract, gender, region, permanent and seasonal 36 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 100% of Swedavia’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements G4-12 The company’s supply chain 26 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, 40 ownership and the value chain G4-14 How the precautionary principle is applied by the company 42 G4-15 External sustainability principles and initiatives that the organisation 37 supports G4-16 Membership in associations such as industry associations 37 AO:G4-7 Environmental permits and other regulations in effect 42, Note 1 page 57 AO:G4-8 Catchment areas for cargo and passengers Note 1 page 57 AO:G4-9 Direct destinations and other information about airports’ size etc. 15 At Swedavia’s airports there are a total of 14 runways ranging in length from 800 to 3,350 m. The total number of employees in 25,000. Transit times at the airports vary between 15 and 55 min. 116 airlines performed 411,000 take-offs/landings. 98 Swedav i a 2014 GRI Index G4 information Description Page Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Business units included and not included in the report Note 2, 23, 24 G4-18 Process for defining report content 18, 97 G4-19 Identified material aspects 18 G4-20 Boundaries of each aspect within the organisation 18, 97 G4-21 Boundaries of each aspect outside the organisation 18, 97 G4-22 Effect of change in information from previous reports Effect of any change is noted for the indicator concerned G4-23 Changes from previous reporting periods concerning scope and Any changes are noted for each indicator boundaries Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups 19 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 18 G4-26 Organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including fre18, 97 quency of engagement, specifically for preparing the report G4-27 Key topics and concerns and the organisation’s response to those key 18, 97 topics and concerns, including through its reporting Report profile G4-28 Reporting period for the information provided 2 G4-29 Date of the most recent previous report 2 G4-30 Reporting cycle 2 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report and its contents 2 G4-32 GRI content and scope 96 G4-33 Policy for external assurance 88, 96 Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees and 86–91 Board responsibility for economic, environmental and social impact Ethics and integrity G4-56 Values, principles and codes of conduct 26, 36 Swedav i a 2014 99 GRI Index Specific standard information Product and service labelling G4 PR5 15, 30 G4-DMA 12, 30 Emissions G4-EN19 15, 33 G4-DMA 12–13, 32 Sufficient capacity Punctuality 25 DMA 12, 25 Satisfied employees ESI 15 DMA 12–13, 35–36 Aviation safety Accidents and serious incidents 31 DMA 12–13, 30–31 100 Swedav i a 2014 UN Global Compact UN Global Compact cross-reference table Starting in 2012, Swedavia supports the United Nations Global Compact and its ten principles. Swedavia’s Annual and Sustainability Report 2014 also constitutes Swedavia’s Communication on Progress (COP), which is an annual update on how the Group complies with the ten principles. The table shows where each Global Compact principle can be found in Swedavia’s Annual and Sustainability Report 2014. UN Global Compact: Ten principles Page and comments Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in the spheres they can influence 26, 36 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 26, 36 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 26, 36 4. Businesses should work to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour 26, 36 5. Businesses should work to abolish child labour Swedavia complies with the regulations in effect in laws and agreements for the protection of underage workers in the labour market. Children under 15 are not employed at Swedavia. 6. Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 26, 36 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 32–33 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 32–33 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 32–33 Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 26, 36 Swedav i a 2014 101 Definitions Definitions accidents and serious incidents comparative data Operating capital The terms are defined by Regulation (EU) no In contexts where Swedavia is mentioned Equity including interest-bearing liabilities 996/2010. In simple terms, an accident means before the Group was formed on April 1, 2010, minus liquid assets. (i) the death or serious injury of a person in refers to airport operations under LFV. This has conjunction with an aircraft during the flight, been done to obtain comparative data. operating margin except from natural causes, (ii) damage to an Operating profit as a percentage of net aircraft that seriously affects its performance or Debt/equity ratio revenue. (iii) an aircraft that is completely inaccessible. Net liabilities divided by equity. A serious incident means an incident involving PASSENGER circumstances indicating that there was a high earnings per share A passenger is defined as a statistical event, in probability that an accident with an aircraft Profit after tax divided by the average number which a person has departed from or arrived could have occurred during the flight. of shares. at an airport by air. A traveller is defined as an individual who departs from or arrives at an airport operations equity/assets ratio airport. Airport operations is one of Swedavia’s two Adjusted equity as a percentage of total assets business segments. Owns, operates and on the balance sheet date. profit for the year develops Swedavia’s airports. Profit after tax. ESI anl Employee satisfaction index. Regional airports Aircraft noise level, a weighted equivalent noise Swedavia’s regional airports consist of Kiruna level in which noise events in the evening and GRI Airport, Luleå Airport, Malmö Airport, Ronneby at night are assigned a heavier weight in the The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sets Airport, Umeå Airport, Visby Airport and Åre calculation. guidelines for what a sustainability report Östersund Airport. should include and how it should be prepared ASQ as well as what indicators should be reported. return on capital employed Airport Survey Quality, a passenger survey Operating profit for the period plus financial administered by ACI in which some 150 airIFRS income as a percentage of average capital ports around the world take part. Beginning January 1, 2012, Swedavia prepares employed for a rolling 12-month period. its consolidated financial reports in conformaverage number of employees ity with the International Financial Reporting return on equity The average number of employees is calStandards (IFRS) issued by the International Profit for the period as a percentage of average culated based on hours worked, restated Accounting Standards Board (IASB). equity for a rolling 12-month period. as total number of hours worked divided by normal annual working hours as defined by the international direct destinations return on operating capital Swedish Accounting Standards Board. The number of international destinations Operating profit plus income from holdings in is determined by the total number of cities associated companies for a rolling 12-month Aviation Business outside Sweden that can be reached by direct period divided by average operating capital. Services and infrastructure aimed at airlines flights in scheduled or charter operations from and ground handling companies, such as Swedavia’s airports. Threshold values have SCI take-off and landing services and security been used in the calculation in order to filter Satisfied customer index. screening. out such charter flights that take place on an ad hoc basis and for which the general public TSFS cabin factor cannot purchase tickets. The Swedish Transport Agency’s regulations. Cabin factor is a measure of the aircraft’s utilisation rate and is calculated by dividing ISO 14001 UN Global Compact the number of passengers by the number of ISO 14000 is an umbrella term for the internaThe UN Global Compact consists of ten prinaircraft seats available. tionally accepted standards for environmental ciples based on the UN’s Universal Declaration management. of Human Rights, the International Labour capital employed Organization’s conventions on human rights in Total assets minus non-interest-bearing liabi­ National basic infrastructure working life, the Rio Declaration and the UN’s lities (including deferred tax liability). Sweden’s national basic infrastructure consists Convention against Corruption. Under the UN of the ten airports the Government has deter­ Global Compact, businesses are encouraged Commercial Services mined Swedavia should own. The decision is to embrace, support and enact, within their Services connected to the airports such as aimed at securing long-term operations under sphere of influence, a set of core values in the rental of premises for commercial activities, the auspices of the State and a long-term areas of human rights, labour standards, the offices, hotels, storage and logistics as well as sustainable air transport system that guaranenvironment and anti-corruption. leaseholds, parking operations and rental of tees basic inter-regional access throughout advertising space. the country. 102 Swedav i a 2014 PRODUCTION Swedavia in partnership with Concept and management: Christa Antas Form: Eva-Stina Bolin Kind Text: Eric Österberg Translation: Susan Long Photos: Daniel Asplund, Jonas Herjeby, Jörgen Hildebrandt, Peter Phillips, Magnus Sandberg Printing: Arkitektkopia Swedavia AB 190 45 Stockholm-Arlanda Visiting address: Tornvägen 1 Tel: +46 10 109 00 00 Fax: +46 10 109 05 00 E-mail: info@swedavia.se Coordinates: 59°39’14.06”N 17°56’21.51”O www.swedavia.se
