＊This report uses forest-certified paper and eco-friendly soy ink . CSR REPORT 2014 Towards the Realization of a Resource-Recycling Society DOWA’s CSR The DOWA group conducts business based on the corporate philosophy of:, “Through our deploying business on our earth, we seek to contribute to a high standard of living and the emergence of a resource-recycling society.” 〈Editorial Line〉 DOWA CSR Report 2014 reports the CSR philosophy and the major business ■Target audience activities of the DOWA group of the year in an easy-to-understand way to all This report is intended for our customers, stockholders, investors, clients, stakeholders. local communities, researchers, students, employees, rating & evaluation agencies, governmental agencies, NGO’s, NPO’s and all stakeholders of the (1) Areas covered in this report DOWA group’s business activities. ■Target organizations ■Target period DOWA Holdings and subsidiaries (both in Japan and other countries) that are The report mainly covers activities conducted from April 1, 2013 until March 31, included in our consolidated accounting are selected in these reports. Data on 2014 (Fiscal year (hereinafter referred to as “FY”) of 2013), partially including some of our efforts are only associated to DOWA Holdings and other major the past background and previous activities to provide more accurate information. companies of the group. ■Reference guidelines Our overseas subsidiaries of Kunshan Dowa Thermo Furnace Co., Ltd, The UN Global Compact (UN GC) JIANGXI DOWA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CO., LTD., DOWA ISO 26000 ECO-SYSTEM SINGAPORE PTE. LTD was added to the data collected for Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 by Ministry of the Environment this report in 2014. (Government of Japan) ■Target areas to report The report consists of four areas of DOWA’s CSR policies: Governance, Safety, (2) Publishing of a web version Environment, and Society. It covers each of these policies, current implementation This report highlights and reports CSR activities of the DOWA group, focusing on status of its major issues and the activities by the above-mentioned organizations. some important points, to provide an overview of those activities in an 1 DOWA group is committed to conducting business based on the CSR activities, considering the future of our earth and society to contribute to resolving social problems through business activities. We are also promoting a variety of CSR activities to increase transparency of our business and gain trust from our stakeholders. Contents 01 DOWA’s CSR 01 Editorial Line 03 CSR Management 03 Message from the Management 05 About DOWA group 07 Our Operating Companies DOWA ECO-SYSTEM DOWA METALS & MINING DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS DOWA METALTECH DOWA THERMOTECH 17 DOWA’s Business and Social Issues 19 CSR Policy and Plan 21 easy-to-understand way. For more details, visit our website (to be posted in2014). Check our website for detailed information about the topics with mark. If DOWA’s Initiatives on each CSR field errors are found after publication of the CSR report, they will be reported on our website with errata notes. 21 Governance (3) Basic information ■Publication Date June 2014 27 Safety ■Due Publication Date of the Next Report June 2015 ■Responsible Department CSR Department, DOWA Holdings, Co., Ltd. 31 Environment ■URL http://www.dowa.co.jp (in Japanese) 39 Society http://www.dowa.co.jp/index_e.html (in English) 47 ■Contact CSR Department, DOWA Holdings, Co., Ltd. 22nd Floor, Akihabara UDX Bldg, 4-14-1 Voice from Stakeholders Sotokanda, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0021 JAPAN Phone: (+81) 3-6847-1104 / Fax: (+81) 3-6847-1277 47 Questionnaire Results E-mail address: info_dowa@dowa.co.jp 48 Opinion of a Third Party DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 2 This year marks the one hundred and thirtieth year since our establishment in 1884. We have evolved into a unique resource-recycling company consisting of five core business areas, responding agilely to wildly fluctuating global market. We continue to be committed to resolving social problems through our business activities in this rapidly changing global market. President and representative director, DOWA HOLDINGS, Co., Ltd. Masao Yamada 3 Message from the Management Contributing to Resolving Problems of Global Society through Business Activities Responding to Changes in order to region. This project was aimed at strengthening promotion Continue Growth of excellent safety initiatives horizontally across the group to improve the safety level of the entire DOWA group. This While there is some indication of economic recovery in initiative also started in 2013 in DOWA’s companies outside US and Europe, the growth rate of economy in emerging of Japan. nations such as China and India are slowing down, alThere are no shortcuts to safety. Each employee, inthough it continues to grow. Japanese economy shows cluding the management, will confirm that safety is the a recovery trend as a result of correction of the extreme top priority again to continue this initiative in which all yen appreciation and government economic policies. As employees participate. for business environment around the DOWA group, the demand for products for automobiles, smart phones and Enhancement of CSR across the Supply Chain renewable energy is increasing, while the metal price is weakening in general and the general weakness of the Demand increases for promoting CSR activities across yen is continuing. We have steadily implemented various the supply chain as the DOWA group deploys business on measures for improving productivity and increasing the a global basis. We revised our CSR procurement policy, number of orders along the Mid-term Plan V. As a result based on universal rules of the UN Global Compact our revenue and profit increased in 2013 and continued to guidelines, considering human rights, work safety and expand business. Responding to rapidly changing external conservation of environment. Promoting responsible proenvironment, we endeavor to continue our business in a curement of minerals is a very important issue for us as we steady but agile manner. are engaged in handling of metal products. We announced Our group celebrates the one hundred and thirtieth our policy on conflict-free minerals in 2012 and we have anniversary of incorporation. Our mining, refining and built a management system to examine usage status and smelting business in Akita has evolved into a unique sources of raw materials of DOWA. We are also committed resource-recycling company consisting of five core to obtaining certification by third parties for conflict-free business areas, through diversification, selection and minerals. concentration since the 1980s, responding to rapidly These initiatives are all based on close cooperation with changing business environment. We will continue our our clients. We will make every effort to enhance risk efforts, capitalizing on our long cherished experience. management, monitoring and education across the group and promote CSR activities across the supply chain so that our customers can safely use our products without anxiety. Confirming that Safety is the Top Priority This report conveys our initiatives for CSR to all stakeDOWA’s CSR policies focus on four major areas: Govholders as well as to make each and every employee to be ernance, Safety, Environment and Society. All employees aware and thoughtful of CSR. We would be very grateful voluntarily take part in safety activities to promote risk if you could send your opinions and comments on this management and corporate-wide safety education to improve report. It will be very helpful for us to resolve social issues the level of health and safety in the workplace, based on through our business activities. our basic philosophy of, “Safety is the top priority.” In 2012 we started a project across the group to promote safety (see P.28), which is a joint initiative across businesses in each DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 4 About DOWA group Our resource-recycling business consists of five core business areas deployed globally. The DOWA Group is engaged in our Nonferrous Metals Corporate Profile business where we extract useful metals from natural resources. In our Metal Processing and Heat Treatment ● Name DOWA Holdings, Co., Ltd. ● Incorporated March 11, 1937 business we add value to the extracted metals. In our Elec● Head Office 22nd Floor, Akihabara UDX Bldg, 4-14-1 tronic Materials business we further improve the functions Sotokanda, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0021 JAPAN of metal materials and, in our Environmental Management ● President and Representative Director Masao Yamada & Recycling business we detoxify waste, separate and ● Common Stock 36,437 million yen collect metals from waste. ● Employees Approximately 5,700 persons We are committed to resolving social problems such as global issues of the environment and resources through our unique resource-recycling business—from production of non-ferrous metals, highly value-added products and to their recycling. Our Business Locations DOWA ECO-SYSTEM CO., LTD. DOWA METALS & MINING CO., LTD. DOWA METALTECH CO., LTD. DOWA THERMOTECH CO., LTD. DOWA HOLDINGS CO., LTD. 5 2013 Business Results by expanding waste disposal business in South East Asia and the starting up of a heat treatment business unit in Indonesia. In 2013, we implemented a variety of measures for improving Yen devaluation favorably contributed to our non-ferrous metals productivity and increasing orders including sales expansion business, resulting in consolidated net sales of ¥443,985 million, of new products and investment in equipment and facilities, as 6% increase, consolidated net operating profit of ¥31,794 million, demand for automobiles, multi-functional mobile devices and 29% increase and consolidated current income of ¥35,055 million, renewable energy sources has increased. Outside Japan, we 29% increase from the previous year. enhanced our competitiveness in expanding overseas markets Change of Sales and Operating Profit Operating Profit per Business Unit Consolidated sales Consolidated operating profit (0.1 billion yen) (0.1 billion) Heat treatment Other 1% 5,000 500 business unit 4,439 6% 4,193 3,924 4,000 3,798 400 Metal Processing Environment & business Recycling business 3,074 350 28% 3,000 300 16% Operating profit in the FY 272 of 2013 2,000 233 200 3.5 billion yen 209 Electronic Materials business Nonferrous Metals 1,000 138 100 22% business 27% 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) Sales Operating profit DOWA ECO-SYSTEM Co., Ltd. DOWA METALS & MINING Co., Ltd. DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS Co., Ltd. DOWA METALTECH Co., Ltd. DOWA THERMOTECH Co., Ltd. DOWA HOLDINGS Co., Ltd. DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 6 Waste treatment plant Soil remediation work Dowa Environmental Management Co., Ltd in Suzhou, China Mobile phones as recycling materials Silver Home appliance recycling plant Final disposal site DOWA ECO-SYSTEM DOWA ECO-SYSTEM Environment and recycling business DOWA ECO-SYSTEM has been engaged in environmental and recycling business since the 1970s, providing a complete service from delivery to final disposal in the fields of waste treatment, soil remediation and recycling. We started business related to environment outside of Japan earlier than any other Japanese companies focusing on Asia. This contributed to environmental improvement in Asia and making DOWA a leader among Japanese companies engaged in environment and recycling with our cutting edge technologies. Business Fields Main Products and Services Waste treatment and disposal, managed final waste treatment, Waste disposal Soil remediation Recycling business soil remediation, recycling of metals, home appliances and business business automobiles, environment-related consulting and cargo transportation, etc. 7 〈Introduction of One of the Main Plants of DOWA Eco-system〉 Ten Years of Reliability and Achievements as the First Japanese Recycling Plant We have recovered a cumulative amount of approximately 3,800 kg of gold through our recycling business. We are committed to achieving both resource-recycling and conservation of environment in China as an advanced business model with cutting-edge recycling and environment-related technologies. VO I C E Dowa Environmental Management Co., Ltd. Address: No.28 Sanlian Street, Suzhou New District, Jiangsu 215129 CHINA 〈Hydro-metallurgic and Employees: 76 (As of March 31, 2014) pyro-metallurgical processing plant〉 Wu Chunfeng, Assistant Division Manager Contributing to Resolving Social Issues In the pyro-metallurgical processing plant, we in China by Serving as an there is no recycling plant in China that can contribute to environmental conservation of local Environmental Business Model Company recycle and process simultaneously, we accept communities by properly incinerating hazardous requests from seven other recycling plants in wastes. We also reduce amount of TV substrates China faces lack of resources as a result of Suzhou, thereby contributing to reduction of from home appliance plants through incineration rapid economic growth, while increasing wastes environmental load in China. to make them materials for copper smelting. and environmental pollution are becoming Those substrates have parts that contain valuable major social issues. We have been committed to Safety Initiatives by the Three Chinese elements other than copper. Additional operation actively reducing environmental burdens by of a pre-treatment process has enabled us to Home Appliance Companies of DOWA introducing treatment facilities compliant with recover elements much more than could have exhaust gases and effluent regulations including been by traditional incineration methods which dioxin. These are aimed at achieving both The Act on Management of Recovery and also contributes to increased revenue. In the effective use of resources and the conservation Treatment of Disposed Home Electric and hydro-metallurgical processing plant, we focus on of environment. Electronic Appliances was enacted in China in our gold washing and recovering business. We In 2010 we started up the first recycling 2011. This act requires recycling of five kinds collect gold from LED and other electronic parts model plant in China that has three functions: home electric and electronic appliances; TV sets, manufacturers’ jigs that contain gold and contribhome appliance recycling, hydro-metallurgic refrigerators, washing machines, air conditioners ute to increasing amount of recovered gold. processing and pyro-metallurgical processing. and PCs). Now DOWA group has deployed home This plant enabled not only metal recycling appliance recycling plants also in Tianjin and from a variety of types of materials, but also Jiangxi. These three companies have started up enabled pyro-metallurgical processing of CFC the Chinese Home Electric and Electronic 〈Home appliance disassembling plant〉 from home appliances and effluent from Appliance Association and are now jointly Tan Zunsheng, hydro-metallurgic processing. It has evolved promoting workplace safety, one of important Assistant Division Manager into an ideal plant for optimal processing measures of our CSR policy. Local staff also through combination of these processes. Since participated in the association to review work standards, select appropriate I am now in charge of disassembling plant of Used home appliances Electronic scrap protective gear and conduct safety used home appliances. Our monthly goal is to Electronic scrap patrols. Education and training Office automation devices and containing copper disassemble 50,000 units. The number of items other electronic appliances Gold quality programs are put in place and that legally require disassembling will eventually High concentration Low concentration selected local members are sent to increase from present five to fourteen categories. Home appliance plant Hydro-metallurgic Pyro-metallurgical DOWA plants in Japan to raise their We will prepare a proper disassembling proceprocess plant processing plant Disassembling, separation and shredding Peeling, electrolyzation Incineration, safety awareness. dure, taking safety into consideration. and refinement thermal decomposition As the first recycling plant, we The temperature goes up close to 40 ℃ in Copper Electronic parts Residue would like to play a leading role not summer in Suzhou. I am involved in improving Pure gold Waste effluent containing copper Salt Aluminum Refrigerant CFC Scrap after peeling only with technologies but also work environment during this hot season. We Iron Resin Heat insulating CFC with safety, capitalizing on our are also considering to achieve both safety and Mineral oil accumulated know-how and efficiency for improvement of TV set disasRecycling Final treatment technologies sembling lines. s 2 0 1 3 To p ic In 2013 we celebrated the tenth anniversary of foundation our facility. As a model recycling company in China, we have accepted many visitors including The Tenth Anniversary VIPs from the political and business worlds. Celebrating the tenth anniversary, of Foundation and we renewed our exhibition. We would like to use this exhibition space as a Opening up of our training facility in the Technical and Educational Center in Suzhou New District. The exhibition has a floor focusing recycling processing with videos, instructive Exhibition to Pubic panels and full-sized home appliances exhibition. The exhibit is designed for visitors to learn importance of resources and important aspects of recycling through the displays showing our environmental measures. As a cutting-edge company that co-exists with local communities, we would like to make full use of this exhibition in order to show the way of resource-recycling and contribute to raising environmental awareness of local people. DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 8 TSL furnace Zinc electrolyzation plant Indium Kosaka Smelting & Reﬁning Co., Ltd. Gold Zinc processing plant Electrolytic copper DOWA DOWA METALS & MINING METALS & MINING Refining and smelting business DOWA Metals & Mining conducts refining and smelting, which is the core focus of the DOWA group. Metals & Mining has established a recycling, refining and smelting complex consisting of a network of several refining and smelting plants, based on our long cultivated technologies for mining, smelting and refining. Metals & Mining contributes to building a resource-recycling society through recycling, refining and smelting of twenty-some metals recovered from a wide variety of raw materials. Business Fields Main Products and Services Gold, silver, copper, zinc, zinc alloy, lead, platinum, palladium, Precious metal and copper business Rare metal business Zinc business indium, gallium, germanium, tin, antimony, crude nickel sulfate, bismuth, tellurium, sulfate, etc. 9 〈Introduction of one of the Main Plants of DOWA Metals and Mining〉 A World-leading Combined Recycling, Refining and Smelting Plant that Handles Diversified Raw Materials We have established an operation system with concerted efforts to tackle with an extensive transformation to shift to a refining and smelting process focusing on recycling materials. Kosaka Smelting & Refining Co., Ltd Address: 60-1 Otarube, Kosakakouzan, Kosaka-machi, Kazuno-gun, Akita 017-0202 Employees: 314 (As of March 31, 2014) VOI CE Advanced Combined Recycling, 〈Copper Smelting Department〉 Refining and Smelting Process Takehiro Muramatsu, Precious Metal Division Kosaka Refining and Smelting changed its method from a blast furnace and flash smelter method to the TSL (Top Submerged Lance) Employees on our production site have been furnace method in 2008. It was an extensive making concerted efforts to achieve improvetransformation that had not been accomplished ments such as productivity of the material before in Japan or in anywhere else in the processing furnaces in the precious metal world. Kosaka not only changed the process but plants to increase silver production. As a result, also the materials from mined minerals to material processing throughput increased 1.5 mainly recycled materials. The DOWA group times, contributing to our being the top silver overcame various problems with concerted producer in Japan. efforts and was able to establish a safe Although there are still many challenges in operation. To be able to handle a wide variety of connection with shifting to recycled materials materials including recycled ones, Kosaka including diversification of the composition of started to collect crude nickel sulfate and tin in raw materials, we are steadily working to overthe fiscal year of 2011 and is now increasing the come the problems. number of recovered metals. In 2013, Kosaka succeeded in increasing production of silver through further improvement of silver refining Conflict-free Mineral Refining and and smelting process. Smelting Plant 〈Production Control Department〉 Kosaka Refining and Smelting carries out its Tetsuro Tokumoto, Production Control Division social responsibility to a full extent as a company to supply non-ferrous metals at the upper stream of the supply chain. Kosaka was the first Japanese Kosaka Smelting and Refining has transcompany that obtained the CFS (Conflict Free formed its usage of raw materials from mined Smelter) (See P. 22) certificate from EICC/GeSI minerals to recycled materials in connection with in 2012 and obtained the renewed certificate in environment changes to produce non-ferrous 2013. Kosaka is committed to further conducting metal bullion. To respond now to these changes risk management of conflict minerals, in and carry out our responsibilities appropriate to cooperation with suppliers of mineral and the times, Kosaka obtained the CFS certificate to recycled materials, not only for its direct be a responsible manufacturer. customers we supply gold bullion but also for We will continue to respond to environmental end-user companies of gold at the lower end of and social needs agilely and flexibly to make Silver the supply chain. reliable products. s 2 0 1 3 To p ic Kosaka Railways used to be the main means of transportation of minerals and sulfuric acid when Kosaka Smelting and Refining used the flash Donation of smelter. It ceased the operation in 2009. Kosaka assigned diesel Locomotives and locomotives, old station building and railway site of Kosaka Railways free of Station Building of Old charge to Kosaka town in March 2014, in response to the request from local Kosaka Railways to communities to make use of locomotives and Russel snowplows as tourism resources. The town will use these resources to show its industrial heritage Kosaka Town and there are plans to build a railway theme park focusing on customer experiences of operating locomotives themselves as well as exhibitions. DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 10 LED Carrier powder plant Compound semiconductor wafer DOWA F-Tec Co., Ltd. Silver powder Nitride plant Deep ultraviolet LED DOWA DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS ELECTRONICS MATERIALS Electronic materials business DOWA Electronics Materials started its business through development of new applications of diversified metal by-products that were collected in mining, refining and smelting business and making them into very fine powders with very high purity. Electronics Materials is now developing them for advanced electronic appliances, providing materials for semiconductors, conductive and magnetic materials that require high performance and function. DOWA accounts for a large share of these materials in the world. Business Fields Main Products and Services Highly pure gallium, indium, compound semiconductor wafers, Semiconductor Electronic materials Functional materials business business business LED, silver powder, copper powder, silver oxide, metal powder, Carrier powder, ferrite powder, etc. 11 〈Introduction of one of Main Plants of DOWA Electronics〉 World Top Magnetic Property Using Ferrite Powder for Bonding Magnetic ferrite is indispensable for manufacture of automobile and electric appliances. We are leading the world by deploying advanced technologies gained in our long history of making ferrite powder. We respond to the global needs for high performance products and innovative applications with our world’s top technology of ferrite for bonding. VOI CE DOWA F-Tec Co., Ltd. Address: 1045, Kichigahara, Misaki-cho, Kume-gun, Okayama 708-1523 Employees: 36 (As of March 31, 2014) 〈Development Department〉 Yasunobu Mishima, Department Manager Contributing to Automobile Environmental Performance with Its Proprietary Technology Ferrite powders developed and manufactured by F-Tec are only used for compound that DOWA F-Tec uses hard ferrite powders for is mixed with resin. Developing ferrite powbonding magnets suitable for use mixed with ders with high flow properties using particle resin. The powders are widely used for magnet size distribution and particle shape control rollers of printers and copying machines and for technologies enabled dense filling and high magnets for motor sensors of automobiles and orientation (higher magnetic intensity brought home appliances. They have more advantages by aligning orientations of crystal faces) compared to the universally used sintered improved by approximately 20%. These powmagnets in that it has: ders are now being used in the fields where 1. More precise dimensioning Our Challenge for Energy Reduction only ferrite sintered magnets and rare earth 2. More flexible shaping through Heat Recovery System of Our Own magnets can be used. We will try to widen the 3. Hardly cracked or chipped possibility of ferrite powders through continuThese properties enables them for use in an Ferrite powders are made by heating ferric ous improvement. electrically driven water pump that is used for oxide and then making them react with alkali cooling engines of eco-friendly cars such as earth metals. This process requires a large amount hybrid automobiles. Casting into one form of fossil fuel, which causes a major problem in enables to reduce the number and volume of terms of energy saving and reduction of CO2. To 〈Production Department〉 pump parts to achieve a smaller size and less solve this problem, F-Tec has developed its own Hideki Katayama, noise. Smaller size resulted in better fuel heat recovery system to recover heat to the Department Manager consumption and reduction of CO2. Many motors maximum extent. and sensors are installed in automobiles for high There were a variety of problems to solve at environmental performance and comfort. F-Tec the start of development; however after repeated A large amount of heat and electricity are used will continue to contribute to developing comfort trial productions and improvements F-Tec started for reaction and crushing in the production process and environmental performance through ferrite the full operation in the summer of 2013. The of ferrite powders. Not only the cost but also the technologies. system recovers exhaust heat made in the process environmental burdens could change, depending of treating raw materials under high temperature. on how effectively energy is used. In addition to This heat is used to preheat combustion air the improvements in heat recovery we made last required in the other process, resulting in less fuel year, this year we will try to improve our quality consumption. It is also used to dry the sediment control system by further achieving energy recovered from effluent and this action savings. to meet the increasingly rigorous demands contributed to reducing wastes from production. from customers. We would like to remain a comCombination of F-Tec’ s creative and innovative pany that can contribute to society, by manufacturmind-set and manufacturing technologies enabled ing world-leading products both in cost and quality energy saving and reduction of CO2. while reducing environmental burdens. s 2 0 1 3 To p ic DOWA F-Tec is committed to improving workplace environment by our risk assessment method of sampling and improving hazardous facilities Risk Assessment and equipment, and endeavors to achieve employees’ safety. In June 2013 F-Tec’s “Measures Preventing from Being Caught in and Stuck in Initiative when Demineralized Pellets are Recovered and Returned from Bucket Conveyers” was awarded as the best measure among 69 applicants in the DOWA group’s risk assessment presentation. We will continue to make improvements, aimed at achieving safety workplace without any accident or disaster. DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 12 Silver plating facilities Metal ceramic PCB Copper alloy strips DOWA METALTECH THAILAND Forged products from brass bar Products plated with precious metals Metal rolling equipment DOWA METALTECH DOWA METALTECH Metal processing business DOWA METALTECH provides high quality copper alloy, plated products and metal ceramic PCBs focusing on automobile and electronic parts. Metaltech is developing cutting-edge technologies and products while watching over what our customers need as well as keeping an eye on market trends related to new materials and electroplated coating. Metaltech has established a global supply system that can respond to market needs on a timely basis by expanding business bases focusing in Asia. Business Fields Main Products and Services Copper, brass, copper alloy strip, nickel alloy strip, brass bar, Metal processing Plating business PCB business business forged product from brass, products plated with precious metals, metal ceramic PCB, etc. 13 〈Introduction of one of Main Plants of DOWA Metaltech〉 Diversified Plating Lines, Responding to Wide Range of Needs In 2006 DOWA METLTECH participated in Thai market where Asian electric, electronic and automobile manufacturers gather. As a wide-ranging manufacturer of metal solutions, METALTECH established an agilely responsive, local production and supplying system, with wide variety of silver, nickel and tin plating lines. VOI CE DOWA METALTECH (THAILAND) CO., LTD. Address: Gateway city Industrial Estate, Chachoengsao Province, Thailand Employees: 66 (As of March 31, 2014) 〈Supervisor in Charge of Production〉 Pattaya Krongwaeng Supporting for Globalization of lighting system and also use of natural ventilation Japanese Companies and light. I am responsible for the line for precious metal plating where copper strips are plated with silver DOWA METALTEC (THAILAND) is located Building a Resource-Recycling and nickel. As a supervisor, I handle any abnorin Gateway city Industrial Estate, Chachoengsao mal conditions that occur in the process for qualiSystem on a Global Basis Province, processes coil-shaped copper and ty improvement. For example, we added a new copper alloy called copper and copper alloy strip equipment that has a separate mechanism from and provide silver, nickel and tin to local Japanese Metaltech Thailand has established a recycling the existing drying facility and reduced in-process automobile parts manufacturers. Metaltec flow of metal scrap generated in the production losses. This enabled us to achieve zero defects Thailand has the cutting-edge equipment and process utilizing the network of the DOWA related to insufficient drying that used to occur facilities equivalent to those in Japan, Metaltec group. Precious metals for plating are recovered after the plating process. I will handle the expanThailand supports Japanese companies in in the smelting and refining plants in Singapore sion of existing lines or starting up of new lines, Thailand through promoting local procurement and Japan, while copper is recovered as base capitalizing on my experience. by offering the same level of mass-production material in Dowa Metal in Shizuoka Prefecture quality found in Japan. Imported copper materials and used again in Metaltech Thailand as raw from companies within the DOWA group ensures material. This wide-range recovery system consistent quality from raw material to the end covering Thailand, Singapore and Japan is the plated products. strength of the DOWA group that conducts its 〈Safety Officer in Charge of Environment〉 Metaltech Thailand will expand its plant and business on a global basis. Napaporn Bootamkha increase its equipment and facilities, responding to Asian automobile markets that are expected to have continuous growth. The new plant will be Promoting “Reduce, Reuse and Recycle” twice as large as the present one and employ systematically is an important philosophy of our environmentally-friendly design, with all LED company that aims at being a sustainable and eco-friendly company. For example, as part of customer service, we buy back copper and brass scrap for recycling of the material that we originally sold to them. Proper preparation of documents and permits for this purpose is part of environmental conservation and at the same time increases the trust from customers. It is one of our Metaltech Thailand reports to Thai Governenvironmental initiatives based on our business ment every year on traceability from transportapolicy: “to comply with laws, continue to save tion to transshipment, delivery to plants and each energy and promote 3R’s activities as part of recycling process clearly and promotes recycling environmental conservation and aim at an under properly managed recycling system. eco-friendly company.” s 2 0 1 3 To p ic DOWA METALTECH (THAILAND) puts in place a paid internship program and accepts several intern students from a local university (Rajabhat Rajanagarindra University) in Employing Intern Chachoengsao every year. We accepted three students in 2013 and they experienced Students from a Local on-the-job training for three years in the machine maintenance department and accounts University department. We employed intern students in past and some of them are still working in the maintenance department DOWA stays rooted deep in local communities and we work together on developing local communities. We are committed to creating employment and improving nurturing human resources, aimed at to be a workplace where local staff want to work for a long time. DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 14 Heat treated products Plasma nitriding treated products Heat treat furnace CEMM Co., Ltd. Heat treat furnace Heat treated products Heat treatment process DOWA THERMOTECH DOWA THERMOTECH Heat treatment business DOWA THERMOTECH provides the top notch service in Japan to manufacture and process industrial furnaces for both size and quality. THERMOTECH is a pioneer of heat treatment technology that is indispensable for improving durability of metal parts. THERMOTECH promotes development of competitive and productive heat treatment furnaces and new surface treatment technologies in the industrial furnace business. In the heat treatment and processing business we aim at being an integrated global heat treatment manufacturer, armed with cutting-edge technologies including carbonizing heat treatment, and we actively promote worldwide deployment. Business Fields Main Products and Services Heat treatments, surface treatment, designing, manufacturing, Heat treatment and processing business Industrial furnace business selling and maintaining heat treatment equipment and facilities and ancillary equipment 15 〈Introduction to one of the Main Plants of DOWA Thermotech〉 Top Class Plasma Nitriding Processing in Japan CEMM has established a dominant place for its diversified heat treatment lineup in Nagoya, the center of heat treatment since 1956. This heat treatment lineup includes proprietary plasma nitriding treatment. After becoming the member of the DOWA group in 2006, CEMM plays a leading role of the DOWA heat processing business. CEMM Co., Ltd. Address: 19-1, Ukishima-cho, Miizuho-ku, VOI CE Nagoya-shi, Nagoya 467-0854 Employees: 98 (As of March 31, 2014) Focusing on Plasma Nitriding 〈Quality Control Department〉 Treatment Kotaro Kawamura CEMM succeeded in developing the plasma nitriding treatment in 1974 and started to offer We reconstructed the plasma nitriding treatthe treatment services to other companies using ment and the carbonizing plants and reconthe special furnace dedicated to the treatment. structed the aging buildings in our three-year As of now, DOWA THERMOTECH has the project. For smooth progressing of the recononly one plasma treatment plant: CEMM treats struction schedule, in our concerted efforts, we The Renewal of the plant have improved 5 million units a year focusing on automatic succeeded in constructing buildings, proposing transmission parts for automobiles It is the Safety, Quality and Productivity process changes to our clients, checking qualilargest in Japan as a single treatment plant. ty and managing changes along with the CEMM deploys all-around nitriding treatment, It has been already half a century since the request simultaneously. responding to needs of the automotive industry establishment of CEMM. CEMM had difficulty We will take the momentum from this in terms of cost and scope of treatment. in coping fully with the current needs from indusrenewal project to further improve quality and Besides the automotive industry, uses range try due to aging of its plant buildings that were respond to a wide range of industry needs. from construction machines, industrial robots, constructed thirty or forty years ago. Also the ships and aviation. Proper systems are put in layout of the plant buildings were not suitable for place to respond to the various needs of a wide responding to its current expanding business. In range of industrial needs, including a variety of 2011, CEMM started the three-year renewal heat treatments for aluminum alloys as well as project for major two plants (S2 plant for plasma gas carbonizing treatment, in addition to plasma nitriding and N2 for gas carbonization) to ensure 〈Production Technology Department〉 nitriding treatment. a long lasting business base in the Chukyo metroNaruhiro Kono politan area centered on the city of Nagoya in Aichi Prefecture. In S2 Plant, sixteen plasma nitriding furnaces I was mainly in charge of construction of S2 used to spread over three different locations, but Plant in 2011 and of N2 Plant this time, for a in the renewal project, they will be integrated into total of three years. We had to construct a new one place, to eliminate wasteful movement of plant while continuing operation of the plant. operators and increase productivity through As a result we had to operate under a range of enhanced equipment management. We will stop restrictions in terms of time and areas. The lifting of products by cranes from the first floor to work did not progress as planned; however, we the second floor for higher safety. In N2 Plant, a were able to complete the work successfully. I layout review enabled us to eliminate wasteful would like to thank all concerned. in-plant transportation, separate in-process prodI am sure all the members of CEMM who ucts from finished products as well as heat treathelped successful construction will be able to ment equipment from workplace. This improved improve their plants even further. I would like the workplace environment to a great extent and to continue to make improvement together increased safety, quality and productivity. with all the members. s 2 0 1 3 To p ic CEMM encourages employees to obtain qualifications such as heat treatment specialist certificates and the like. CEMM has three female Won Gold and Silver heat treatment specialists (Class 1) and ranks No.1 in the DOWA Awards at the QC THERMOTECH in terms of the number of employees with specialist Activity Presentation certificates. Capitalizing on these qualifications and skills of employees, Conference in 2013 CEMM aggressively conducts improvement activities. As a result, CEMM team won the Gold and Silver awards last year at the QC activity presentation conference. CEMM also submitted the largest number of proposals for the past four years. We will promote these activities, aimed at achieving better goals. DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 16 DOWA’s Business and Social Issues Recognizing Business Risks The DOWA group addresses risk manout our social responsibilities and further Department is responsible for the CSR risks agement to properly control risks that may increase our sustainable corporate value. in cooperation with other departments. hinder realization of our business philosophy The board of directors is mainly responsible and achieving our business plans: To carry for handling business risks and the CSR Business risks Global economic status External risks that may affect business results, stock price and financial conditions are as Metal exchange, currency exchange described to the right. For details, visit our website for the Annual Report of the DOWA group. Public regulation http://www.dowa.co.jp/en/ir/library_results.html Stock price movement Interest rate change Disaster and /or electric power failure CSR risks increase of midand long-term risks. We outside of Japan. identified major risks for each business We will identify every major risks of The DOWA group started identifying entity and operating company. Major risks each company within the group, and plan and reevaluating risks related to our conidentified in 2013 are as follows: and implement their measures, based on cerns for the Environment, Society and the results of the survey. We will strive to Governance to assure further sustainable ○ Risk of overseas business establishment enhance and improve risk measures of each business activities. The CSR department In addition to the above mentioned company by monitoring the progress of conducted the risk survey for each business risks, crisis management and prevention the measures and conducting improvement entity in the group to find out existing of fraud in terms of governance are conactivities continuously. risks, their measures and the possibility of sidered to be major risks in our businesses Major Risks Aspect Risk Measure Changes in domestic laws, changes of regulations and standards, and collecting information and responding to international regulations Legal including REACH rules/RoHS directives and laws and regulations concerning business Environment establishments and products as a whole. Environmental Air quality, water quality, noise, odor measures, chemical substance control, measures to conservation fight against global warming, etc. Safety, hygiene zero accidents, zero fatality, measures for and health mental health, etc. Product Quality Ensuring and improving quality, establishing a quality control system, etc. Social Employee education, preparation of a training Education system, transferring knowledge, support for careers, etc. Prevention and reduction measures for fatality Governance Large scale disaster from earthquakes, tsunami, floods, etc. 17 Initiative to Resolve Social Issues through Business Activities Initiative for “Sustainable Multidimensional Approach such as a proper establishment of a social system which enables effective collection Utilization of Limited Metal to Resource-Recycling of recycle materials, and cost and efforts Resources” Society put into treatment of diverse materials. The The purpose of social responsibility is Mineral ores are natural resource and DOWA group conducts a wide range of defined as “to contribute to sustainable will be eventually exhausted if people recycling business in and outside Japan, development” in the international standard continue to use them. Resource-recycling including precious metals, home appliances, of CSR, ISO 26000 in 2010. Society faces is an important solution; however it recars and used small home appliances. In diversified problems, including environquires technologies and infrastructure to addition to recycling, DOWA strives to ment, water, food, poverty and the like. effectively recover metals, and to properly solve issues related to effective utilization “Effective utilization of resources” is the treat the hazardous substances and nonof resources, considering various aspects, most relevant issue to DOWA, as utilization usable substances produced in the recovby making best use of its own waste from of metal resources is the core of our ery process. This includes technical and its intermediate processing facilities, labobusiness. It is also an important social issue. economic issues which need to be solved ratories and transportation business units. Examples of DOWA’s Approach to Social Issues Reduction of Environmental Promotion of Recycling Load of Mines ● Home appliance recycling ● Development of mines considering the ● Automobile recycling conservation of natural environment ● Precious metal recycling ● Consideration for biodiversity upon ● Used small home appliance recycling examining and excavating mines Social Issues concerning ● Used cooking oil recycling Effective Utilization of Resources ・Depletion of resources ・Ubiquity of resources Securing Procurement of Improvement of Technology ・Environmental burden along with ● Recovery of 22 elements development of mines and smelting Materials for Recycling ● Support for recycling small amounts of ・Globalization of market, increasing ● Recovery of automobile catalyst at diversified materials demand European and US business bases ● Improvement of metal recovery ・Surge of mineral prices (increased efficiency in mines outside of Japan demand, market situation, ● Highly effective recovery of trace fluctuation of foreign exchange, elements etc.) Control of Environmental Risk ・Reduction of waste ● Proper processing of heavy metals and CFC contained in materials for recycling Securement of Rare Metals ● Reduction of wastes by promoting ● Recovery of platinum from used resource-recycling automobile catalyst ● Recovery of cerium from the abrasive compound for glass Support for Conflict-free Minerals Global Resource-Recycling ● Obtaining the certificate for a smelter Overseas Expansion ● Recycling in DOWA’s business bases outside of Japan of conflict-flee minerals ● Home appliance and precious metal ● Proper recycling in DOWA business bases in Japan ● Raw material management based on recycling in China when recycling outside of Japan is difficult in terms of the DOWA group’s management ● Precious metal recycling in Singapore technology, equipment and facilities policy on conflict minerals The DOWA group is committed to contributing to sustainable utilization of metal resources through its business activities, by directly confronting and solving these issues. DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 18 CSR Policy and Plan CSR Policy and Focus Measures The DOWA group’s CSR Policy was prepared to promote CSR activities from a long-term point of view, based on the Dowa Group’s Corporate Philosophy and Standards of Conduct, referring to the rules of United Nations Global Compact guidelines. We will carry out our responsibilities for society through our CSR activities with the management based on this policy. We endeavor to share the policy across the whole group, utilizing the group’s in-house newsletters and the Intranet to implement our CSR efforts in a practical manner. We evaluated ourselves based on the key focus of ISO 26000 when we set forth our CSR Policy. We then set forth a priority list of CSR that the DOWA group should address in implementing the policy. We are committed to promoting sound business management through implementation of the policy as a responsible company. CSR Policy Focus Measures ● We will aim to be an open and transparent company. ・We will strengthen internal control and ● We will endeavor in anti-corruption efforts Governance governance including anti-bribery measures taking into consideration international agreement. ・We will prepare the CSR procurement guidelines. ● We will take CSR into consideration in our procurement. ● All employees will take part spontaneously in safety activities to improve the level of health ・We will improve our risk assessment. Safety and safety in the workplace, based on our basic philosophy of “Safety is the top priority.” ・We will enhance our safety education program throughout the group. ● We are committed to preventing accidents at work and supporting health of our employees. ● We will provide customers with products and services that contribute to building a resourcerecycling society. ・We will promote environmentally● We will reduce environmental burdens and risks friendly products and renewable energy Environment in our business activities. ● The management and employees together take fields. ・We will conduct a survey on biodiverpart in environmental conservation activities. sity and prepare guidelines. ● We will promote business activities considering biodiversity. ・We will promote diversity and worklife balance. Society ● We will promote social contributions, reflecting unique characteristics of each local community. ・We will promote CSR education. ・We will contribute to local community. 19 Main Activities in 2013 The DOWA group sets up the goals of our CSR activities in four areas, based on our CSR Policy and Priority List of CSR to promote CSR activities. We will continue to improve our activities, based on our achievements and progresses made in 2013. We will report the details of major initiatives in 2013 and major issues in 2014 on the next page and for each initiative. 〈Main activities in 2013〉 Focus Goal Measures Evaluation* Main Results Page ● Support for internal control activities of newly in cooperated companies to our consolidated accounting Enhancement of internal ● Encouragement to visit to our business establishments in China and South East Strengthening of internal P21 control of overseas A Asia for training control and governance business establishments ● Conducting a briefing on internal control (approximately 260 persons participated) Governance ● Preparation of the basic policy on procuring conflict minerals Promotion of CSR Formulation of CSR ● Obtained Certificate for the Gold Conflict-Free Smelter program P22 A+ procurement Procurement Policy ● Preparation and publication of CSR Procurement Policy P26 Promotion of CSR － － － activities across the group Enhancement of risk Starting up of the Group ● Briefing across the group (Kick off meeting) A ● Starting up of district meetings P28 management Safety Activity Project Strengthening the ●S  upport for safety activities on logistics in South East Asia P29, A ● I mprovement of activities related to Safety Conference in China Safety programs outside Japan 30 Enhancement of safety education program Continuous throughout the group implementation of ●S  upport for educational courses to experience risks (306 persons took the A course.) P27 educational courses to experience risks Reduction of total amount ● Emission of greenhouse gas: 1.718 million CO2 ton. of greenhouse gas C Emission of greenhouse gas for domestic companies: 16% increase compared to P35 emission last year Global warming measures Promotion of information ● Questionnaire on progress status of global warming measures by business entity sharing on global warming B and present status P35 measures in the group ● Increased production of silver Promoting resourceEnhanced development of ● Improvement of copper electrolytic techniques A P10 recycling recycling technologies ● Increased collection of materials for recycling from North America and Asia P31 Environment Selection of LCA items C ●L  CA not implemented P31 Promoting environmentally-friendly ● I ncreased production of metal ceramic PCB for renewable energy related prodP38 products and renewable ucts A ● I ncreased orders related to solar power generation and offshore wind generation energy fields in the environmental consulting field Formulation of ● Conducted biodiversity survey and formulated biodiversity conservation guideBiodiversity Conservation A+ line Conservation of Policy P32 biodiversity Continuous afforestation ●P  romotion of Forest management (Planted 5,400 broad-leaf trees in Kosaka-maA chi, Akita Prefecture and promotion of forest management) and forest management Promoting employment of ● Revision of the re-employment system to hire experienced retired employees A for them to work with motivation across the group. Promoting diversity elderly people P45 management Promoting employment of ● I mplemented measures to achieve the legally stipulated employment rate InB creased number of re-employed employees after mandatory retirement disabled people ● Preparation and publication of the action plan to support fostering the next generation A ・Raising awareness of childcare program P46 Preparation of the action ・Promotion of joint efforts of labor and management to reduce working hours Promotion of work-life plan to support fostering and thorough management of working hours by introducing a new system balance Society the next generation ● I mplementing the questionnaire to the newly employed A ● I mplementing initiatives to increase the number of employees to take paid P46 leaves of absence, including scheduled annual leaves of absence Promoting social ● Collecting information on local contribution by business entities outside Japan P40 Contribution to local contribution, reflecting A ● Holding and operating events with local communities (Marathon, cross-country communities unique characteristics of P43 each local community ski competition, cherry blossom festival) ●P  ublication of E-mail news Promoting in-house CSR Improvement of in-house ●P  ublishing explanation on focus measures of CSR (CSR procurement or safety A P39 education CSR portal site labor, etc.) *Evaluation: A+: More than expected, A: accomplished, B: Fair, C: Not Accomplished DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 20 Aimed at Improving Business Management Governance The DOWA group puts enhancement of corporate governance as one of the top priority of the management and strives to set in place and operate an efficient and effective internal control system, based on the Dowa Group’s Values and Standards of Conduct. Recently importance of our activities through the supply chain has increased along with our globalization. CSR Policy ● We will aim to be an open and transparent company. ● We will endeavor in anti-corruption efforts including anti-bribery measures taking into consideration international agreements. ● We will take CSR into consideration in our procurement. Progress of Activities Following is the progress of our corporate governance activities and issues in 2014. Goals of corporate FY of 2013 FY of 2014 governance/ Governance Measures Evaluation* Main results Issues Target ● Support for internal control activities of newly incoEnhancement of oporated companies to our consolidated accounting Strengthening of Support activities for individual 10 business internal control of ● Encouragement to visit to our business establishments internal control and A business establishment in and establishments in overseas business in China and South East Asia for training governance outside Japan and outside Japan establishments ● Conducting a briefing on internal control (approximately 260 persons participated) ● Preparation of the basic policy on procuring conflict Preparation of CSR Procurement minerals Guideline Promotion of CSR Formulation of CSR ● Two companies obtained Certificate for the Gold Promotion of in-house CSR proHolding a A+ procurement Procurement Policy Conflict-Free Smelter program curement education briefing ● P reparation and publication of CSR Procurement Operation of conflict minerals manPolicy agement system Promotion of CSR Establishment of mid-term CSR activities across the N/A N/A N/A goals group Review of focus measures *Evaluation: A+: More than expected, A: accomplished, C: Not Satisfactory, D: Not Accomplished free recycled gold to our customers who Strengthening of Internal CSR Procurement are committed to procuring conflict-free Control and Governance We reviewed our procurement policy, minerals. We conducted on-the-place training at the prepared and published a new one, taking companies in China and South East Asia in CSR into consideration. In 2014 we will Promotion of CSR Activities 2013. We also held a briefing to the Japanenhance internal education and explanation across the Group based companies to deepen understanding to our suppliers in order to put the CSR We will review the mid-term CSR goals of internal control and approximately Procurement Guideline in place and impleand focus measures, based on the results 260 persons participated. In 2014 we will ment this based on the policy. and progress status of CSR activities so far, support individual companies both in and Eco-System Recycling, following to strengthen them through our business outside Japan according to their needs as Kosaka Smelting and Refining, obtained activities. part of our initiative to strengthen internal the Certificate for the Conflict-Free Smelter control. program. We started offering conflict21 Conflict Free Smelter was awarded The DOWA group is promoting “CSR procurement” as a focus measure of our entire supply chain. We obtained the CFS (Conflict Governance Free Smelter) certificate from EICC/GeSI* to promote conflictFocus Measures free minerals together with our customers, as we mainly handle metal resources. *Note EICC: Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition GeSI: Global e-Sustainability Initiative the Securities and Exchange Commission als and smelters. Conflict Minerals to disclose whether or not their products We started to prepare measures for conConflict Minerals refer to gold, tantacontain Conflict Minerals. flict minerals in 2011. We prepared our lum, tin and tungsten that are produced policy on conflict minerals and published in the Democratic Republic of the Congo Our Initiative through Our in August 2012. We also started to estaband the surrounding countries where Supply chain lish a management system to implement revenues from their sale may be used to The DOWA group is not listed with the a survey on our use status and our supplifinance armed groups and anti-governUS SEC. Therefore, we are not obliged to ers of those minerals and suppliers. We ment groups in those countries. In USA, comply with the reporting rule on conflict also started our initiative as a responsible the Securities and Exchange Commission metals. Even so, our products are used in smelter to offer metals that are not from (SEC) adopted the Dodd-Frank Wall a vast number of products including autoconflict minerals by obtaining the third Street Reform and Consumer Protection mobiles, electronic and electric appliances. party’s certificate. Act in August 2012 and the final rule reTracing the origin of raw materials will quires manufacturers who file reports with eventually reach to suppliers of raw materiDOWA’s Conflict Mineral Management Policy The DOWA group disclosed “Conflict Free Mineral Procurement Policy” (no use declaration) in 2012 which was revised to “DOWA’s Conflict Mineral Management Policy”, disclosed in December 2013. www.dowa-csr.jp/en/csr/procurement_policies.html (in English) DOWA’s Conflict Mineral Management Policy www.dowa-csr.jp/about/procurement_policies.html (in Japanese) nizations inspect procurement policies, We will continue to promote risk manCFS Obtained for Responsible standards of conduct, analytical processes agement, monitoring of business activities Mineral Procuremente of procured materials and how to select and education not only across our business As it is difficult to investigate whether suppliers. They confirm whether the establishments but also across the entire conflict minerals are contained or not in definition of materials for recycling of group. a huge number of products, EICC, which those smelters are appropriate or not is an organization to promote CSR in the through local auditing and relevant docuelectronic industry. and GeSI, which is ments. an organization to promote economic, We started preparation to obtain the gold environmental and social sustainability certificate as a smelter to offer conflictin the ICT sector. offer the Conflict Free free minerals in 2012. Smelter (CFS) certificate program to Kosaka Smelting and Refining obtained audit smelters that are closest to the upper the CFS certificate for Gold in August stream of minerals. In this program metals 2012 and cleared the renewal audit in shipped from these certified smelters August 2013. Eco-System Recycling that are regarded as conflict free. Third party is engaged in precious metal recycling organizations evaluate procurement ac(secondary refining) obtained the CFS tivities of smelters and refineries and certificate for gold in December 2013. determine whether all minerals handled Understanding and cooperation from by those are from conflict-free mines or our suppliers enabled DOWA to obtain the recycled. More specifically, these orgacertificate for conflict-free minerals. DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 22 Governance Corporate Governance System Corporate Governance System (As of March 31, 2014) The DOWA group adopted the executive officer system to soundly and effectively operate organizations, fasten decision-making and for effective Type of organization Company with auditors management. The group also adopted the holding company system to No. of directors 6 (No. of directors designated in the article of incorporation: 13) separate business units from the holding company as subsidiaries. Of which are outside the company 1 (Designated as independent We also strive to ensure sound business management, focusing on endirectors officer) hancement of corporate governance through internal controls. This is done Term of office of directors designated 1 year in the article of incorporation to improve quality and efficiency of management to implement open, Chairman of board of directors President highly transparent management, based on the Dowa Group’s Values and No. of auditors 4 (No. of auditors designated in Standards of Conduct. the article of incorporation: 5) Of which are outside the company 2 Annual Meeting of Shareholders Elect, dismiss Elect, dismiss Elect, dismiss Board of Directors Board of Auditors 6 directors 4 auditors Independent auditors (including 1 outside Director) Audit (including 2 outside directors) Audit Audit Audit Business Execution | Holding Company | DOWA Holdings Lawyer President Business Strategy Committee Board of Directors Advice Business Execution Committee Board of Directors and officers* DOWA Consultation Desk (outside lawyer) Planning, PR, HR, Human Development, Administration and Legal, Accounting and finance, CSR, Technology and Information System departments. Notice Management Report Instruction, Audit Report | Group of Operating Companies | | Support Companies | Operating Companies* DOWA ECO-SYSTEM Co., Ltd. DOWA Technology Co., Ltd. DOWA METALS & MINING Co., Ltd. offers technical support. DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS Co., Ltd. DOWA METALTECH Co., Ltd. Support DOWA Management Service Co., Ltd. DOWA THERMOTECH Co., Ltd offers clerical support. Instruction, Audit Report * President of an operating company serves Each Subsidiary of Operating Companies concurrently as a non-fulltime executive director of DOWA Holdings. their own activities which shall exploit trol to prevent and discover errors and Internal Control Activities each company’s uniqueness. This ensures unfair conduct at an earlier stage. We will To strengthen corporate governance, effective and efficient internal control continue to promote proper implementation we encourage each company in the group based on the holding company system. of the system, responding flexibly to changto share the basic policy and the system As part of implementing and operating es of our business and social environments. of internal control with DOWA Holdings internal control, we set up DOWA Conand also entrust each company to conduct sultation Desk and conduct internal con23 Relations with Stakeholders The DOWA group communicates in many ways at each offices and sections with our stakeholders, which are mainly our customers, shareholders, investors, partners, local communities and employees. Main stakeholders Our Responsibility Activities ○ Ensuring quality and safety of our products and ○ Seminars and exhibits All customers who use the services ○ Plant inspection events Customer products and services offered ○ Providing eco-friendly products ○ PR activities on environment by the DOWA group ○ Pursuit of Customer Satisfaction (CS) ○ Disclosure of information on our website ○ Protection of customer information ○ General shareholders’ meeting Shareholders Individual or institutional ○ Maximization of corporate values ○R esults briefing and periodic presentations to investors and investors including our ○ Dividends ○ Preparation of annual reports and business reports investors shareholders ○ Disclosure of information and dialogue ○ Disclosure of information on our website ○ Seminars and exhibits All partners who collaborate ○ Selection of procurement sources based on fair and ○ Plant inspection events with us for provision of the unbiased basis Partners ○P resentations to partners including green procurement products and services offered ○ Support for CSR and environmental activities in our supply chain ○ Quality and environment audit by the DOWA group ○ Corporate ethics contacts ○ Environment conservation activities ○ Plant inspection events for local people People in local communities ○ C ontribution to regional development through ○ Participation in local groups Local who we interact with through support for cultural and sports activities ○ H osting, participation in and support for local communities our offices and main business ○ Educational activities events activities ○ Disclosure of information and dialogue ○ Risk communication ○ Proper evaluation and treatment Employees ○ Management meeting ○ Ensuring diversified human resources Employees who work in the ○ Management-labor interviews (including ○ Promotion of work/life balance DOWA group and their family ○H uman resource education and environmental education their family ○ Ensuring health and safety of workplace members ○ In-house newsletters & portal site ○ Human development members) ○ Events for family members of employees ○ Respect for human rights Relationship with Central The DOWA group participates in committees and forum sponsored by central and local governments and the industrial community and promote activities related to public policies and Local Governments and including reviewing proposals and measures, formulating and reviewing legal systems and Industrial Groups international cooperation, aimed at resolving social concerns.  President and representative director Masao Yamada February 2013 until present: Member the Central Environment Council, Ministry of the Example of Environment participation December 2012 until present: Chairman of the Waste Recycling Subcommittee, the Environmental Safety Committee, Nippon Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) April 2012 until present: Director of the Center for Eco-Mining  We actively participate in international conferences held by Japanese and other oversea governmental agencies and contribute to preparing policies from the viewpoint of the industrial world. Lecture at the 3rd EU, US, Japan Critical MaterialsWorkshop The 3rd EU, US, Japan Critical Materials Workshop was held in Brussel, Belgium, under the sponsorship of EC, US Department of Energy and Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in May 2013. In the workshop, Mr. Shiratori, head of the Environmental Solution Office, DOWA Eco-System delivered a lecture on characteristics and comparison of recycling in EU, US and Japan as well as the latest trend of recovery of critical metals. In this workshop, it was confirmed that technical development of rare earth excavation and extraction, reduction and recycling and alternate technologies are important. It was agreed upon that a trilateral cooperation system should be put in place through a concerted effort of government officials, industries and researchers. Participation in International The DOWA group has been participating in the UN Global Compact (UN GC) since March 2009. The DOWA group is committed to respecting and implementing the GC’s ten Organizations and principles in four areas of the Global Compact of human rights, labor, environment and antiConsortiums corruption—these are geared towards sustainable development of society. ○ Global Compact Japan Network http://www.ungcjn.org DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 24 Governance Our Efforts for Human Rights and Corruption Prevention The DOWA Group is committed to prohibiting discrimination against nationality, race, ethnic group, religion, sex, age and disability; child labor; forced labor; and tackling corruption under the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. We strive to understand the circumstances relating to human rights by conducting surveys in our subsidiaries both in Japan and other countries. In 2013 we did not receive any report of discrimination relating human rights, child labor, forced labor and actual cases of corruption. The DOWA group will continue to respect human rights and promote anti-corruption measures. Compliance The DOWA group places strict “Compliance” as the basis of our corporate management and is promoting such measures as strengthening of internal control and education, based on the standard of conduct of our group. Standards of Conduct of the DOWA group http://www.dowa.co.jp/en/about_dowa/cvision.html The DOWA group set forth Standards of Conduct to attach importance to the philosophy that a company is part of society, which comply with laws and regulations and take a sensible course of action, and continues to work independently towards creating a good life for all and building a resource-recycling society. ● Established an in-house corporate ethics office. ● Hold a monthly compliance meeting to confirm compliance status. Our efforts ● Notify various regulations and guidelines without fail in in-house group meetings. in Japan ● Offers in-house study sessions, lectures to the public, correspondence education programs on compliance. ● Prepares and notifies manuals on the handling of non-compliance cases. ● Delivers in-house educational programs on the DOWA group policies and standards to all employees (in China). ● The Standards of Conduct of the DOWA group was translated into Chinese and posted on the Our efforts wall of each of our business entities (in China). outside ● Built a system for employees to directly communicate and consult with management (in China Japan and Thailand). ● Set out a comment box for any employee to make proposals and complaints (in China). ● Prepared a company rulebook (in USA). workplace safer and more comfortable. and partner companies for those employees DOWA Hotline Desk Through this Hotline Desk employees can to use and thus be able to build sound relaWe set up the DOWA Hotline Desk and consult their problems in the workplace tionships outside our company. inform the existence of the Desk through directly with corporate lawyers. The DOWA in-house posters for the purpose of making Hotline Desk is open even for our customers 25 Supply Chain Management The DOWA Group, as part of our CSR management that we promote together with our stakeholders ,aims for the CSR supply chain management that involves our partners,. In 2013 we revised our procurement policy to promote CSR across the entire supply chain. We discussed the matter with the CSR department and other relevant departments. We established our CSR procurement Policy by adding “Sustainability” to existing “Quality, Cost and Delivery (QCD),” as our effort for social responsibility for environment, human rights and labor safety. We will establish a guideline based on this policy and deliver the guideline in-house as well as our partners. CSR Procurement Policy The DOWA group endeavors to deepen understanding of our partners comprehensively, fairly and impartially. our partners of CSR procurement policy. When we select our partners, we will consider Q (Quality), C (Cost) and We will strive to build a mutually reliable relationship D (Delivery) plus S (Sustainability) that is their social with our partners who produce excellent products properly responsibility effort for environment, human rights and meeting the needs of our customers, aiming at mutual proslabor safety. With this in mind, we will evaluate and select perity. 1 Legal compliance and fair trade We consider not only compliance but also fairness and impartiality as the top priority and we endeavor to conduct fair trade with our partners. We ask all our partners to comply with relevant laws and in-house rules and regulations before starting trading with us. 2 Optimal quality and fair price We will ensure quality required by our customers and provide our products at a fair price in collaboration with our partners. We ask our partners to put their quality assurance system in place and provide us with materials and services that are competitive in the market. Establishing a stable supply system 3 We endeavor to prepare Business Continuity Plans (BCP) in each business entity in the group and ensure stable supply of products to our customers even in emergencies. We ask our partners to build a stable supply system of materials and services and conduct risk management for emergencies to ensure timely delivery. 4 Sustainability We will try to recycle resources based on 3R’s (Reduce, Reuse and Recycle) to contribute to sustainable society and promote purchasing of resources and materials with less environmental burdens (Green Procurement). We ask our partners to ensure environmental conservation, respect for human rights, and workplace health and safety. When we select our partners, we place value on the management system that can continuously improve sustainability. Information Protection 5 We will not disclose confidential information of our partners to third parties without permission. We ask our partners to keep confidential and personal information obtained in the course of business with our group in strict confidence and not to disclose such to in-house and external third parties without permission from us. 6 CSR Procurement Guideline We are promoting procurement, based on the DOWA group’s CSR Procurement Guideline. We ask our partners to implement CSR procurement as part of our supply chain, notify their relevant parties of this policy to deepen their understanding and obtain cooperation from them. DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 26 Raising the Level of Safety Activity across the Group Safety The DOWA group put in place a “safety and health committee” in each of its business entities in Japan and other countries to promote safety activities according to the annual health and safety plan, based on our basic philosophy of “Safety is the top priority.” We started up the Safety Activity Project across the Group last year and enhanced joint efforts per district. We are committed to raising the level of safety activities across the group. CSR Policy ● All employees will take part in safety activities with their own initiatives to improve the level of health and safety in the workplace, based on our basic philosophy of “Safety is the top priority.” ● To prevent work-related accidents and support the sound health of employees. Progress of Activities Following is the progress of our safety activities and issues in 2014. FY of 2013 FY of 2014 Safety/Goals of Safety Measures Evaluation* Main results Activity Target Half the number Starting up of the To enhance district activities. Enhancement of ● Briefing across the group (kick off meeting) of accidents Group Safety Activity A Follow-up the development of the risk management ● Starting up district meetings. causing absence Project project of each business entity. of work Strengthening the ● Support for safety activities of logistics in South East Accepting 20 Asia Start programs to visit Japan for programs s outside A persons for the ● Improvement of activities related to Safety Confertraining Enhancement of Japan first trainees ence in China safety education throughout the Continuous To continuously implement educa300 persons take group implementation ● Support for educational courses to experience risks tional courses to experience risks A the course educational courses to (306 persons took the course.) To promote such education to business entity outside Japan annually experience risks *Evaluation: A+: More than expected, A: accomplished, C: Not Satisfactory, D: Not Accomplished tion to local employees of business entities Enhancement of Risk Management Enhancement of Safety of DOWA outside Japan and to raise safety We held the briefing across the group as Education across the Group awareness of those in charge of safety a kick off for the first half of Fiscal year Outside Japan, we promoted support for outside of Japan. 2013 to develop the Safety Activity project safety activities for logistics business in We will continue offering safety courses across the group. We set up a secretariat South East Asia (Thailand and Indonesia) that TABMEC has been providing since (sponsoring business entity) per district in and encouraged all of our business entities 2010 as part of educational courses to gain the latter half of FY and started up district in China to participate in the Safety Conferunderstanding of risks, improve sensitivity meetings to share information on the status ence. to these risks and raise safety awareness. of the activity of each company in each In 2014 we will start up a training proWe are planning to offer educational district and for mutual consultation. gram for local employees outside Japan courses to gain understanding of risks, In 2014 we will promote these activities in the Technical Training Center of the utilizing Safety Training Center of DOWA per district mainly focusing on those DOWA group (Handa City, Shizuoka PreMetals and Mining for local employees district meetings. fecture), Japan. outside Japan in 2014. The program shall provide safety educa27 Safety Activity Project across the Group Safety The DOWA group started the “Safety Activity Project across the Group” in September 2012 and placed this project as a focus project for safety. Safety activities are being implemented in Focus Measures all business entities in and outside Japan including health and safety committee and patrols. However, some business entities have more accidents than others. We reviewed such differences and discovered a great gap between the attitudes and methods of safety activities employed at each entity. This discovery made us define across the group what the most effective safety activity is, based on the successful cases. We formulated a policy to raise the level of safety of the DOWA group by adopting the most effective activity for all the establishments across the group. Safety Activity Project To determine standard activities and their details, based on good practice Policy cases of safety activity in the group and develop them across the group. • Integration of the “top down” (instantaneous effect) and the “bottom up” (continuous effect). Key ideas • Improvement of effectiveness of the safety activity. • Safety activities in which all employees participate and can clearly identify of their roles. Formation of the safety standards of the DOWA group which is the “ideal image” of safety activities, worked mainly by the project members Confirming the gap between Planning and implementing Raising the safety level in “ideal image” and the present an improvement plan status by each entity to reach the “ideal image” constant upwards spiral Important factors to be Mutual checking and enhanced Planning and discussion of the from now on implementing a further results of improvements improvement plan within the district Spread out the good and leading-edge practices throughout the group, which will raise the level of the Safety Activity. With the slogan of “No One Is Hurt—No One Hurts follow up the individual activities in each of our business Others” the person in charge of safety activities in major entities. Our companies in Japan were organized into business entities in Japan was appointed as a member of this district blocks, regardless of their operating company, and project. They discussed under the supervision of a director in each district a secretariat for safety was established. The from the headquarters in charge of safety, the “ideal image” secretariat shall function as a place to share information of safety activities, including potential accident prevention of safety activity status of each company by district and measures, risk assessment and safety patrols for almost a also for mutual consultation. This will further strengthen year. We held a whole group briefing on the standard in deployment and spreading out of safety activities in each August 2013 as a kick-off event to fully spread out the company and also raise the level of safety of each district safety standard of DOWA that consists of 10 items such as: through mutual consultation. potential accident prevention measures, risk assessment and In 2014 we will further enhance activities of each district safety patrols. (joint patrol and audit in each district) centering on the We started up a district meeting, discussion group ordistrict meeting. ganized according to districts, in the latter half of 2013 to DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 28 Safety Our Efforts for Occupational Health and Safety We had offered “Joint Cross-Checking Safety Patrol” sessions, safety environmental compliance seminars and risk assessment Promotion presentations jointly with our business entities in Japan of safety every year on a periodic basis and promote safety activities activity throughout the whole Holdings group even before the this Safety Activity Project started. Risk assessment presentation Our activities in Japan Environment and Safety No. of Compliance Seminars Place Date Participants We strive to raise awareness of employees Eco-System Chiba July 27 23 on the environment and safety through Compliance Seminars for safety and enSeptember Eco-System Sanyo 13 vironment by outside lecturers, through 10 case studies of environmental accidents of Kosaka Smelting November other companies, and role-play exercises of 30 and Refining 28 environmental accidents. These compliance seminars have been held since 2010. In 2013 CEMM January 22 15 we held them at four places and a total of Environmental safety compliance seminar 81 persons participated. Details of 2013 compliance seminars Joint Cross-Checking Safety Patrols Place Date No. of Participants Joint safety patrol sessions are held jointly with our business entities in the Northern, Eco-System Chiba August 23 17 Kanto, Chukyo and Western districts in Japan once a year as a rule. We try to raise Kosaka Smelting September 13 the safety level of each establishment and and Refining 19 increase sensitivity to risks of participants in DOWA Hightech October 29 17 safety patrol by identifying un-safe situations and behaviors from the third party’s viewHanda Plant, December 14 point. This patrol is organized beyond the Thermotech, 17 boundary of an operating company to which Description of 2013 safety patrol Joint Cross-Checking Safety Patrols each business belongs. Sixty-one participated in the patrol in 2013. The DOWA group promotes safety activities also outside Japan, especially in Asia where our Our activities outside Japan presence has increased dramatically. We promote exchange and communication on safety activities among our business entities outside Japan, especially in Thailand and China. the company they belong to. Concluding Thailand the activities of last year, a conference The four operating companies of the to present the results of safety activities DOWA operate in five different places in called “DOWA Safety Award” was held Thailand, where many industries gather as in a hotel in Bangkok, Thailand. Some a major marketplace in South East Asia. applications for this award were from Safety activities similar to those in Japan Indonesia and China. All participants also started as a joint activity of all five rated the presentations and top three were companies in Thailand. Each company awarded. We shall continue to promote organizes joint safety patrol and holds exchange and communication programs safety related conferences in turn. Local among those companies and we are DOWA Safety Award in Thailand employees in charge of safety have built a committed to raising the level of safety all human network beyond the boundaries of over Thailand. 29 accidents from each company and discuss the China problems. The CSR department of DOWA The DOWA group has seven business Holdings sent people to the conference in entities in China. They have held the “Safety 2013 and delivered a presentation on the Conference in China” in turn two or three safety activities in Japan and exchanged times a year since 2011. The management opinions with local employees. We will and employees in charge of safety in all further promote exchange programs on DOWA businesses in China participate in the common issues and concerns among all of conference. There they deliver presentations those companies and joint study session for Joint Cross-Checking Safety Patrols (China) about joint safety patrols and recent cases of local employees. Status of Occupational Accidents [2013 accident incidents at the DOWA group’s production sites] The frequency of accidents at DOWA group’s production sites was compared to that of other companies of similar scale listed in the occupational accident statistics by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. DOWA’s frequency rate was 1.30 compared to that of the 2.89 of other companies and the severity rate was 0.06 which other same scale companies was 0.28, which showed that the accident rates were lower than the same scale companies. Note: These rates are compared to those confirmed values of the accident statistics in 2012 for a company with 30 to 99 employees (average number of employees in each one of DOWA group’s production bases). Evaluation from Society awarded because there were no occupational The Industrial Safety and accident occurred in 2012. Also recognized Health Administrator Award was its contribution to preventing labor for Groups Conferred accidents in constituent production sites, DOWA Okayama (9 operating subsidincluding presentation on supervisor iaries in the same site) received the Group education by a unique curriculum and Industrial Safety and Health Administrator studies on risk assessment of shipment of Group Award from the Okayama branch of fuming sulfuric acid in the National Safety the Okayama Labor Standards Associations and Health Conference held in Toyama that in May 2013. The DOWA Okayama was the company delivered last year. Chairman Award for Individuals. Mr. Sato, The Labor Standards in charge of safety and health has been Associations Chairman Award engaged in planning and implementing for Individuals Conferred the annual activity plan since 2002. He The 60 th Akita Industrial Safety and has been promoting safety education Health Conference was held in October such as risk assessment to employees 2013. Mr. Sato, Work Group Leader, Proenthusiastically and endeavored to prevent duction Department, Akita Zinc Solutions accidents. His dedication is the reason of received the Labor Standards Associations the award. We will continue to maintain the group’s record of no accident or disaster, ensure safety and health of employees and increase business results by promoting and improving safety and health activities. DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 30 Reduction of Environmental Burdens and Risks from Business Activities Environment The DOWA regards environmental conservation as a key issue in our business management and is committed to its promotion. In our environmental activities we are responding to environmental and social issues directly through our main business and at the same time we are reducing the environmental burden produced by our business. We will strive for environmental conservation and to create economic value of the conservation activity at the same time. CSR Policy ● We will provide customers with products and services that contribute to building a resource-recycling society. ● We will reduce environmental burdens and risks in our business activities. ● The management and employees together take part in environmental conservation activities. ● We will promote business activities considering biodiversity. Progress of Activities Following is the progress of our social activities and issues in 2014. Environment/Goals FY of 2013 FY of 2014 of Environment Measures Evaluation* Main results Activities Target Reduction of total amount of emission Total ● Emission of greenhouse gas: 1,718 ton of CO2. Reduction of total amount of of greenhouse gas emission D ● Emission of greenhouse gas for domestic companies: greenhouse gas emission Increase of electricity generated by and electricity Global warming 16% increase compared to last year renewable energy sources (solar, water) generated measures Information sharing on System ● Questionnaire on progress status of global warming global warming measures in C Sharing by information visualization implementameasures by business entity and present status the group tion ● Increase of silver production Promoting Enhanced development of ● Improvement of copper electrolysis technologies Amount of A Expansion of material recycling resource-recycling recycling technologies ● Increase collection of recycling materials from North recycling America and Asia Promoting Selection of LCA items D ● LCA not implemented environmentally● Increased production of metal ceramics PCB for friendly products renewable energy related products and renewable A Expansion into renewable energy field Sales ● Increased orders for services on solar generation and energy fields. offshore wind generation on the ocean ImplementaFormulation of Biodiversity ● C onducted biodiversity survey and formulated a To conduct a survey on present status tion of survey A+ of biodiversity Conservation Conservation Policy biodiversity conservation guideline and Conduct water risk assessment Conservation of assessment biodiversity Continuous afforestation ● Promoted forest fostering (Planted 5,400 trees in Numbers of To continue afforestation and forest A Kosaka-machi, Akita, Promotion of forest managetrees to be and forest management management ment planted *Evaluation: A+: More than expected, A: accomplished, C: Not Satisfactory, D: Not Accomplished friendly products; however, we were unable Global Warming Measure Promoting Resourceto successfully select the targeted products Emission of greenhouse gas increased Recycling in 2013. As for the renewable energy field, to 1,718 tons of CO2 as compared to 1,490 Kosaka Smelting and Refining recovers production of silver for PVs recorded the last year, although we tackled with global copper, gold and silver using furnaces dedihighest and the survey on and technology warming measures focusing on energy cated for recycling. Those furnaces can even due-diligence of solar power generation saving in the production process. Increase of recover electronic scraps. Kosaka ranked expanded in our environmental consulting emission of greenhouse gas for companies in the top in Japan for silver recovery. Kosaka business. These contributed to introduction Japan is mainly due to increased fuel usage in also stabilized its operation by improving and implementation of renewable energy connection with expansion of production and the copper electrolysis process in 2013. In sources. We strive to develop innovative processing throughput. However, the increase 2014 we endeavor to improve recycling technologies and energy saving technologies of the commercial electricity emission factor technologies and expansion of resourceas well as diversify our business fields. contributed to the increase partially. We are recycling within the group. committed to further reducing fuel usage and Conservation of Biodiversity at the same time increase usage of in-house Promoting Eco-friendly We formulated DOWA’s basic policy and renewable power generation such as hydraulic Products and Renewable course of action of biodiversity in 2013. In and solar generation. Energy Fields 2014 we will acquaint all employees of the policy thoroughly and conduct a survey for We planned to promote LCA (Life cycle preparation of biodiversity conservation plan. assessment), aimed at expansion of eco31 Our activities towards Biodiversity Environment DOWA enjoys the blessings of nature through purchasing raw materials and consuming water and Focus Measures energy, but, on the other hand, our business activities affect nature directly and indirectly in terms of emission of wastes, effluent, chemical substances and CO2. We recognize both sides of our business and conduct our business activities in a way to contribute to biodiversity and environmental conservation. Greening and reconstruction of vegetation biodiversity. Sustainable Use of of those areas is our mission and we have For this purpose we formulated DOWA’s Biodiversity and Ecosystem been actively engaged in those activities. basic policy and course of action of Service These conservation activities also played biodiversity in 2013. We will help make Our activities on biodiversity and ecoa great role to increase communication our employees understand the relationship system conservation have been concenand exchange between DOWA and local between our business activities and the trated on protection of nature and local communities. ecosystem as well as trends on biodiversity. contribution through management of our Increasing importance of biodiversity We also will reflect the contents of the own forests and planting trees. We once requires business to quickly respond to policy and the course of action into our destroyed forests in our mining business. conservation needs and sustainable use of business activities across the group. The Basic Policy of Biodiversity DOWA recognizes that it enjoys the blessings of nature brought by biodiversity for its business activities and that it is important to conserve biodiversity to enjoy them on a sustainable basis. DOWA strives to continuously and vigorously promote biodiversity conservation and its sustainable use. Our Action Policy on Biodiversity Conservation Identification of business impacts on biodiversity and implementation of activities 1 We identify and analyze what type of ecosystem services* our business activities depend and have impact on, and make an effort to avoid and reduce the impacts. Awareness of employees 2 We carry out education and awareness-raising of biodiversity on our employees. Corporate management for sound material cycles 3 We strive to create a culture of sound material cycles through sustainable resources use, energy saving and 3R, and to conserve biodiversity through such comprehensive business activities. Collaboration with various stakeholders 4 We promote communication and information sharing on biodiversity conservation, and seek sustainable use of biodiversity with various stakeholders related to our business activities. In 2014 we will review which activities We will continue to hold a tree-planting We will conduct multidimensional we should place priority on; how we ceremony and educational courses activities including CSR procurement should conserve biodiversity from the on forests for parents and children, in through our supply chain and understandstandpoint of relationship between our cooperation with local communities to ing of risks involving water that is our business activities and ecosystem. deepen their understanding of our business very important natural resource. and ecosystem conservation activities. DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 32 Environment Material Balance of DOWA Group The DOWA group identifies the input of resources and energy into the business activities of the DOWA group (“INPUT”) and the output of products produced and the discharged amount of substances imposing environmental burden (“OUTPUT”) in each stage of its lifecycle in a quantitative way and conduct business considering material balance. Resource-Recycling in Society and Our Resource-Recycling INPUT Energy Compared to +11％ We can look at our business from two sides: previous year product manufacturing business where metal 17.4 PJ materials and semiconductors are produced and Fossil fuel consumption 124（1,000 KL） environmental business of wastes recycling, processing and soil remediation. Electricity We not only contribute to society through our business activities but also make use of most of Purchased power 1,266 GWh the waste generated in the product manufacturing Thermal power generation 1.4 GWh business as raw materials after they are recycled Hydraulic power generation 67.8 GWh in the environmental business. Also in the environmental business we effectively utilize heat Solar power generation 303 MWh generated when waste are incinerated in the waste treatment process. This waste heat is recovered Purchased steam 578 GJ as steam and electricity and we use them in other processes as energy. These examples show we use materials and energy within the group and conduct our business with consideration of resource-recycling. Raw and Packaging Materials Compared to +6％ previous year 1,006 （1,000 t） Material Balance of 2013 792（1,000 t） Raw material Environmental burden outside Japan increased Subsidiary material 142（1,000 t） compared to last year, as three new companies Materials for heat treatment started operation outside Japan in 2013. on consignment 69（1,000 t） ○ INPUT Packaging material 2.3（1,000 t） The amount of purchased power and fossil fuel consumption increased in connection with increased production and treatment. Total amount Compared to 1.03 previous year －2％ Water resource million m3 of energy input increased by 11% compared to previous year. As for total material input, accepted waste increased by 9% and amount of materials used increased by 4% compared to previous year. Accepted wastes Compared to Recycled +9％ previous year ○ OUTPUT 1,122（1,000 t） Total emission of GHG (greenhouse gas) Wastes 991（1,000 t） increased by 16% compared to previous year as a result of increased energy input and worse Contaminated soil 131（1,000 t） electricity emission factor in Japan. As for total waste recycling that occurred, material recycling Destructed CFC 41 t increased dramatically by 29% compared to previous year, while the amount of wastes decreased by 5 % compared to previous year. For details of each item, see following pages. 33 DOWA group OUTPUT Greenhouse gas Compared to +16％ previous year 1,718（1,000 t） （as converted to CO ）2 （1,000 t) Derived from electricity 752 （as converted to CO2） R&D Derived from fuel 343（1,000 t) （as converted to CO ） 2 （1,000 t) Procurement of raw materials Derived from wastes 624 （as converted to CO2） Compared to Discharged chemical +10％ previous year substances 2,526 t Products 569（1,000 t） Product Environmental Compared to 2.2 GWh +1％ previous year Manufacturing Sold power Business Business Amount of waste and recycling 1,362（1,000 t） Compared to +19％ previous year Amount of recycling 845（1,000 t） Power generation 74 GWh Thermal recycling 471（1,000 t） by waste heat Directly from the DOWA group 438（1,000 t） Outside the DOWA group 33（1,000 t） Power generated from recovered heat 719 TJ Material recycling 374（1,000 t） Compared to Directly from the DOWA group 156（1,000 t） +8％ previous year Outside the DOWA group 218（1,000 t） Treated Waste 517（1,000 t） Amount of material Compared to 104 million m + previous year 8％ Effluent 3 In-house recycling DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 34 Environment Our Measure to Fight against Global Warming The DOWA group set a goal of “15% reduction of specific consumption of CO2 by 2020, compared to 1990” according to the Action Plan to Implement Low Carbon Society by Nippon Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) and the Japan Mining Industry Association (published as of January 2013) as a measure to fight against global warming. 〈Derived from electricity〉 ○ Changes of Emission of GHG CO2 emission (1,000 t) Basic unit (100 t/¥0.1 billion) The CO2 emission derived from GHG in 2013 was, 1,718,000 800 4.0 t–CO2 (1,677,000 t-CO2 in Japan and 40,000 t-CO2 outside Japan). 700 GL The CO2emission from GHG in Japan increased by approximately 600 3.0 ES 16%. It is attributable to increase of power consumption resulted 500 MM from the increased zinc production in Akita Zinc and increase 400 2.0 EL of fossil fuel consumption in connection with the increased 1.7 300 1.6 1.5 MT processing of wastes in Eco-System Okayama. Outside Japan, 1.4 1.3 200 1.0 TH mainly CO2 emission derived from fossil fuel increased. This is HD attributable to addition of three plants in Asian countries in 2013. 100 We will continue to promote measures for effective use of 0 0.0 Basic unit 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 energy and conduct activities to reduce CO2 emission on a daily (FY) basis. 〈Derived from fossil fuel〉 CO2 emission (1,000 t) Basic unit (100 t/¥0.1 billion) We accept wastes from other companies outside the DOWA 400 4.0 group for incineration in our plants. Therefore, their CO2 emission GL accounts for a large part of our CO2 emission. As it is difficult to 300 3.0 ES control the amount of wastes we receive from other companies and reduce CO2 emission, we try to increase thermal recycling MM 200 2.0 through power generation using heat and steam from incinerating EL those wastes. MT We also use heat from incinerated wastes for destruction of 100 0.9 0.8 0.8 0.8 1.0 TH 0.7 CFC that destroys the Ozone layer and alternative for CFC such HD as HFC and PFC, which are the cause of global warming. 0 0.0 Basic unit 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) 〈Derived from wastes only in Japan〉 CO2 emission (1,000 t) Basic unit (million t/¥0.1 billion) 700 7.0 600 6.0 GL 500 5.0 ES MM 400 4.0 EL 300 3.0 MT 200 2.0 TH 1.4 1.4 1.4 Our CO2 Reduction Efforts in 2013 1.3 1.3 1.0 100 HD 0 0.0 Basic unit We changed the type of fuel and introduced LED lighting for 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) our equipment and facilities. We stopped a new capital investment and reduced the temperature of air conditioning to save energy. We made a modal shift to railways and ships that emit less CO2. We also tried to collect and deliver products more effectively. ● Conversion of fuel for equipment from Amount of CO2 reduction Note: CO2 is calculated by multiplying grid-purchased electricity, fossil fuel heavy oil to natural gas 116t/year consumption and amount of accepted waste by emission factor set forth in the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. However, CO2 emission ● Replacement of compressors to new ones Amount of CO2 reduction derived from accepted waste does not always correspond to the value submitted to to reduce the number of compressors used 7,600t/year administration authorities, because part of the prerequisites used in the method for this ● Energy saving by recovering heat from Amount of fuel reduction report differ from that for the reports to administration authorities. As segregation of incinerated wastes 37.9 kl/year waste differs between Japan and other countries, it is difficult to set a proper emission ● Increased cooling efficiency of air coolAmount of CO2 reduction factor to such emission. Therefore CO2 emission derived from waste shown here are ing chillers by sprinkling water 8.6t/year only from our business entities in Japan. 35 Utilization of Renewable Energy The DOWA group is aggressively promoting use of renewable Renewable energy is produced from natural power and by energy that has less environmental burden as well as energy effective use of disposed energy. This enables reduction of fossil saving and conversion of fuel as part of global warming measures. fuel usage and CO2 emission. ■ Power generation from wastes 74.3 GWh Power generation from wastes effectively utilizes wasted heat. Heat generated when wastes are incinerated is used to generate steam and in turn steam run turbines to generate electricity. It is an excellent system to reduce consumption of fossil fuel such as oil, resulting in reduction of CO2 emission. Four business entities in Japan and one outside Japan are engaged in power generation in the DOWA group. Amount of electricity generated from wasted heat increased by approximately 20%, amounting 74.3GWh compared to previous year in 2013. ■ Hydraulic power generation 67.8 GWh This utilizes water flow to generate electricity, and is purely a domestic energy with less environmental burden. Kosaka Smelting and Refining started power generation in 1879 to produce gold, silver and copper. Kosaka has six hydraulic power plants in Akita Prefecture now. Power generated in 2013 increased by approximately 13%, amounting to 67.8GWh compared to previous year. These are major power sources of smelting business of DOWA. ■ Solar power generation 300 Four companies of DOWA implemented the solar power generation system MWh in Japan. The total power generated by these four companies is approximately 300MWh in 2013. Despite the fact output from the solar power generation system is dependent on weather conditions, output can be visualized in a display, thus, helping to raise employees’ awareness of energy-saving and to enlighten visitors on global warming and energy issues. ■ Biodiesel Biodiesel Okayama recovers used cooking oil from homes, convenient stores, restaurants and food manufacturing plants and produces BDF (Biodiesel fuel) jointly with Okayama City. The fuel is used for garbage trucks and buses of Okayama City and trucks and forklifts within the premises of DOWA companies as alternative fuel for diesel oil, contributing to CO2 reduction. The quality certification system of the Zenkoku Biodiesel Nenryo Suishin Kyogikai (National Biodiesel Fuel Promotion Council) recognized that the BDF of Biodiesel Okayama is of top quality. Evaluation from Society “Okayama Environmental Grand Prize” Awarded to Biodiesel Okayama’s Initiative Biodiesel Okayama received the Okayama Environmental Grand Prize for the field of promoting to build resource-recycling society in October 2013. The reason of the award is as follows: Its initiative to convert used cooking oil to biodiesel fuel contributed to building resource-recycling society; and its active environmental education program helped to enlighten people on importance and mechanism of recycling. DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 36 Environment Promoting Resource-Recycling The DOWA group is committed to contributing to build a sustainable society by restricting consumption of natural resources and promoting recycling of used resources. ○ INPUT ○ OUTPUT 〈Raw material〉The amount of raw materials used in 2013 is 1,006,000 t, 〈Products〉Products manufactured in 2013 is 569,000 t, 4% increase increase by 6% compared to previous year. compared to previous year. It is attributable to increased shipment of Raw materials (1,000 t) zinc and processed zinc products. Basic unit (100 t/¥0.1 billion) 1,200 6.0 〈Material recycling〉The amount of material recycling in 2013 is 1,000 5.0 GL 374,000 t, a dramatic increase by 29% compared to previous year. The ES 800 4.0 material recycled within the DOWA group accounts for 156,000 t, while MM that outside the group accounts for 218,000 t. It is mainly due to the 600 3.0 EL increased soil recycling and recycling of used oil. 2.4 2.3 2.3 MT 400 2.0 2.2 2.0 Material recycling (1,000 t) Basic unit (100 t/¥0.1 billion) TH 400 8.0 200 1.0 HD 350 7.0 GL 0 0.0 Basic unit 300 6.0 ES 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) 250 5.0 MM 200 4.0 〈Accepted wastes〉The amount of accepted wastes in 2013 is 1,122,000 t, an EL increase of 9% compared to previous year. This is attributable to increase 150 3.0 MT of accepted wastes of Eco-System Chiba and Eco-System Hanaoka. 100 2.0 TH 50 1.2 1.0 HD Accepted waste (1,000 t) Basic unit (100 t/¥0.1 billion) 0.9 0.7 0.7 0.9 1,200 6.0 0 0.0 Basic unit 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1,000 5.0 GL (FY) ES 800 4.0 〈Waste〉The amount of wastes produced in 2013 is 517,000 t, 5% MM 3.6 decrease from previous year. 600 3.0 3.0 EL 2.7 2.5 2.5 Waste produced (1,000 t) Basic unit (100 t/¥0.1 billion) MT 400 2.0 800 4.0 TH 200 1.0 GL HD 600 3.0 ES 0 0.0 Basic unit 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 MM (FY) 400 2.0 EL 1.9 1.7 〈Water resource〉Water resource input in 2013 is 103 million m3, MT 1.3 1.2 decrease by 2% compared to previous year. The top water usage is 200 1.1 1.0 TH cooling water, accounting for approximately 87% of the entire water HD usage. Sea water is used for cooling. Fresh water usage accounts for 0 0.0 Basic unit approximately 13 % of the entire water resource input. Fresh water is 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) used for production and clean water. 5% 〈Discharged water〉Total discharged water in 2013 is 104,000 t, 7% 1% increase from previous year. It is caused by the increase of discharged 3% 4% 5% Water intake from in-house resources rain water as a result of increased rainfall. It is also attributable to the Sea water increased use of sea water for cooling in connection to the increase zinc Water resource input River water production. Underground water 103 Other Discharged water (million m3) Basic unit (Million t/¥0.1 billion) million m 3 125 5.0 Purchased water 87% Clean water GL 100 4.0 Industrial water ES 3.4 75 3.0 MM 95% 2.6 2.6 EL 2.3 2.3 50 2.0 MT Resource Saving and Recycling Efforts in 2013 TH 25 1.0 ● Thorough operation control Reduction of usage of coke by 7% HD ● Expansion of usage of raw materials Reduction of purchased raw 0 0.0 Basic unit smelted in-house for iron manufacturing materials by approximately 16% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) ● Reduction of variation of plating thickness Reduction of raw material for tin by approximately 2% ● Recycling of face milling and shaping Increase of recycled materials by scraps 1,837 kg 37 Expanding into Eco-friendly Products and Renewable Energy Fields The FIT (Feed in Tariff) system started in Japan in 2012 for the purpose of expanding the use of renewable energy including solar power, wind power or biomass. This system has been steadily propelled implementation of solar and wind power generation. The DOWA group is committed to spreading renewable energy by providing products and technologies for various equipment in the field. ○ Metal Ceramic Printed Circuit Board (PCB) by DOWA DOWA̓s metal ceramic PCB circuit board is an insulating substrate for semiconductor devices that effectively control electricity. Our product is reliable with excellent insulation and heat dissipation properties and used widely for pressure resistant power modules used in industrial machinery. Power modules used for wind or solar power generation require better performance. As such, we endeavor to mass-produce products with high pressure resistance and reliability such as substrates integrated with aluminum bases to respond to expanding demands. DOWA’s Eco Products Contributing to Environmental and Energy Fields We are trying to develop materials that contribute to reduction of environmental burden and improve their technologies across the entire supply chain so that our client companies manufacture products that use our materials; and thereby realizing energy saving, resource saving and hazardous substance-free society. 〈Nitride-based HEMT epitaxial substrates〉 Material for power semiconductor devices Applications Power supply of home electric appliance, server and hybrid car Environmental performance Energy saving, electric resistance lower than silicon-based substrates and power loss control of one third. 〈Deep ultraviolet LED〉 LED that can output deep ultraviolet of 350 nm or less Applications Resin hardening, adhesion, drying, medical treatment, analysis, photocatalyst or water purification Environmental performance Energy saving, high efficiency, long life cycle, reduction of hazardous substances (lead-free) and wavelength (300nm or less) to realize disinfection and sterilization of water or material surface efficiently 〈MR (laminate) LED〉 High output infra-red LED chips with a bonding technology that bonds a highly functionalized epitaxial thin film substrate consisting of several tens of crystalline layers in a nanometer order to the substrate with a metal reflection part. Applications Proximity sensors for smart phones Environmental performance Energy saving/less power consumption by high output Evaluation from Society The Harunari Inoue Award for Nitride-based HEMT Epitaxial Substrates The nitride-based HEMT epitaxial substrates developed by the Semiconductor Business Unit of DOWA Electronics received the Harunari Inoue Award* in July 2013. DOWA Semiconductor Materials Laboratory developed the substrate as material for power semiconductor devices, based on the joint research with Professor Egawa of Nagoya Institute of Technology. Akita Semiconductor succeeded in commercial production. All those achievements are the reason for this award. *Harunari Inoue Award: This award is to recognize scientific The power semiconductor devices using the nitride-based HEMT epitaxial technologies that are developed and commercially produced substrates are the core parts of eco-friendly home appliances and eco-friendly cars to by business entities, based on the research and technologies developed by research institutions such as universities. The enable reduction of power loss and contributing to energy saving. award is given twice a year. DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 38 To Carry out Responsibility as a Cooperate Citizen Society The DOWA group enhances the relationship with society through CSR activities, aimed at being a company trusted by all stakeholders. We believe it important that not only each of our business entity but also each employee of DOWA is aware of his/her responsibility as a corporate citizen. We also regard that promotion of activities in local society is one of our focus fields. CSR Policy P romoting social contribution considering unique characteristic of each local community together with local people Progress of Activities Following is the progress of our social activities and issues in 2014. Society/Goals of FY 2013 FY 2014 Society Measures Evaluation* Main results Issues Target ●R evision of the re-employment system to hire Number of Promoting employment of To offer information on life planning A experienced retired employees for them to work with reemployed Promoting diversity elderly people after retirement (Holding seminars) motivation across the group. persons management Promoting employment of ●Implemented measures to achieve the legally stipuTo implement the plan to promote Progress rate C disabled people lated employment rate employment of the disabled of plans ●Prepared and published an action plan to support for fostering the next generation To promote implementation of the ●Raised awareness of the childcare program Progress rate A action plan to support for fostering the ●Promotion of joint efforts of labor and management of plans next generation Preparation of an action plan to reduce working hours and thorough management Promoting work-life of working hours by introducing a new system to support for fostering the balance next generation ●I mplemented the questionnaire to the newly emThe number ployed. To increase the number of employees of employees A ●Implemented initiatives to increase the number of to take paid leaves such as scheduled who took paid employees to take paid leaves such as scheduled annual leaves leaves annual leaves. Survey on To conduct interviews in our business Promoting social business ●Collected information on contribution to local comentities outside Japan and support for contribution, reflecting entities Contribution to munities in the business entities outside Japan local contribution activities in the A outside Japan local communities unique characteristics of ●Holding and operating events with local communities business entities outside Japan and the each local community (Marathon, ski competition, cherry blossom festival) To continue to promote events with number of local communities visits there Improving in-house portal ●Published E-mail news To expand CSR education Promoting in-house Frequency of A ●Posted explanation on focus measures of CSR (CSR To improve in-house portal site CSR education site renewal procurement or safety labor, etc.) To use group news letter *Evaluation: A+: More than expected, A: accomplished, C: Not Satisfactory, D: Not Accomplished plan contains plans to raise awareness activities of our business entities outside Promoting Diversity of existing support system and stricter Japan. Our CSR Department conducted We reviewed the existing system to control of working hours. We implemented interview in our business entities outside reemploy the retired and experienced emthe questionnaire to the newly employed Japan and extend support for social contriployees and changed a flat wage system to on what system they want to take such bution according to unique local cultures a wage system according to job rank. We as volunteer vacation or flex time or and characteristics in each country. believe the new system will better serve in how easily they can take leaves. We will terms of skills of each employee. We are introduce new systems to balance work Promoting In-house CSR committed to improve the system so that and life of employees and promote those Education the retired and experienced employees can initiatives. We tried to publish our policies, related demonstrate their skills again. laws and our initiatives on our website Employment of disabled people inContribution to Local in 2013. We will deliver CSR education creased in the DOWA group; however, it Communities on international standards such as Global has not reached the legally stipulated rate. We held various events with local comCompact and ISO26000 and other topics We will review the issue and consider more munities, including a marathon, a cherry such as CSR issues in the supply chain. In effective measures. blossom festival in Okayama Prefecture addition to offering information, we aim and a junior cross country ski competition at raising awareness of each employee Promoting Work-life Balance in Akita Prefecture in 2013. Many people on concepts and initiatives on CSR by We formulated a new action plan to participated in these events. We also conexpanding bidirectional educational opsupport for fostering the next generation ducted a survey and collected information portunities. in 2013. As mentioned above, the new on the present status of social contribution 39 Social Contribution outside Japan Society DOWA started mine development in more than twenty countries outside Japan in the 1920’s. This was DOWA’s first business deployment outside Japan. DOWA has continued business activities aggressively Focus Measures outside Japan, responding to changing markets and users. We have been expanding our business focusing on Asian countries who enjoy high economic growth, including China and South East Asia, especially since 2000. Survival and growth of DOWA’s business depend on sustainable development of those countries and regions where DOWA’s business entities are located. As such, we try to resolve social problems that those countries and regions face in cooperation with local communities. Local Contribution of Waste Treatment and Recycling Plant in Thailand Eastern Seaboard Environmental Complex (ESBEC) is engaged in waste treatment and recycling business of used oil and classification of valuable resources. This DOWA’s final treatment site meets the standard of US EPA (Environmental Protection Agency). The Complex conducts safe and stable operation as a facility considering environment around the site by completely processing effluent, recovering methane and preventing odor. Major Local Contribution Activities in 2013 ESBEC participates in the local community as a corporate citizen and believes it an important social responsibility to contribute to development of the local community through communication. Through various types of relationship with local stakeholders, ESBEC supports children who will play an important role in the next generation, and is aggressively propelling activities related to local contribution, emphasizing environment and health field that has a close connection to its main business. Education fund Environmental education Communication with local community Provided financial support to an education fund to Offered environmental education through plant Held many dialogue sessions and plant visits by dispatch sufficient number of teachers to three local visits and held an art event to make an eco-bag. local people to deepen their understanding and schools. promote communication with them. Scholarship Recycling Hygiene activities Offers scholarship to six local elementary and junior Donated segregation garbage boxes to promote Conducted sterilization and cleaning of school high schools to support for poor children to take recycling in schools. facilities on a voluntary basis to improve hygiene school education. environment of schools. DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 40 Society Relations with Society The DOWA group promotes communication with major stakeholders including our customers, shareholders, investors, partners, local people and employees using various tools in each business entity and department. Together The DOWA group endeavors to contribute to realization of a better society and also making with our good relationship with our customers through our products and services. We strive to improve customers satisfaction of our customers by providing products and services of high quality. classify, analyze and evaluate information those who manufacture parts and manuQuality control collected from each entity for improvement factures who manufactures components The DOWA group positions “quality” as and development of products and services. required for assembling. We endeavor to the core of our business in manufacturing provide technology in advance of needs products. The group’s major plants obtained Technology from our clients, looking ahead of future the ISO9001 certificates, the international Our clients are assemblers who assemble markets of our clients and future needs of standard on quality management system. parts and components as end products or consumers. We endeavor to improve quality of products and services by continuously operating this quality management system based on PDCA 【Technical Areas and Element Technologies of the DOWA Group】 (Plan Do Check Act). In our business management policy we set forth that we positions our cutting-edge technologies as the main driving force of our business. We seek for technologies that strengthen our competi○ Technology Center tiveness. We believe that R & D is one of the most important corporate differentiation strategies. Products provided by DOWA range from Production Analytical smelting to powdering, plating, semicontechnology technology ductor, heat treatment and recycling. We Smelting Pyrometallurgical Process Hydrometallurgic Process Chemical analysis Disassembling technology (Melting and forging) (electroanalysis) Process development Recycling must respond to defects, improve quality and refining and develop new products with high level Environmental Waste treatment Soil remediation and evaluation technology to maintain top class technology geological reconnaissance dissolution of iron powder quality in each area mentioned above. For this Surface analysis purpose, we have a technology center within Semiconductor each business entity with advanced analytical material technology Device design Crystal growth Surface treatment Equipment design and evaluation facilities and human resources to conduct chemical analysis, surface analysis and construction Nano-composition Functional material Magnetic property and physical property evaluation. Fine powder technology control ○ Contact and Response to Electronic material control Oxidation, reduction Device design Powder property Nanoparticle Comments and Opinions technology and production evaluation We make improvement responding imTextual control, composition control mediately to opinions and comments from Metallic material Alloy design technology our customers and strive to offer products Rolling process Plating System design, Environmental that satisfy them. We put the information sharing and management system in place, electricity control analysis Heat treatment Heat dissipation Material improvement Atmosphere control control technology Evaluation from Society The Japan Institute of Metals and Materials Technical Development Award Received The technology center of DOWA Metaltproducts selected among applicants who ech received the Technical Development submitted articles on their new technoloAward by the Japan Institute of Metals and gies and products. This control technology Materials for “Development of the Technolof texture is an important technology to ogy to Control the Texture of Precipitation improve trading-off properties to achieve Hardening Copper Alloy” in September strength versus workability required for 2013. The institute is one of the largest in copper alloy used for connectors of elecJapan for materials. Every year this award tronic parts. is given to excellent new technologies and 41 Together The DOWA group recognizes that explaining corporate and business management information withour stockholders to our stakeholders including shareholders and investors is one of the important points in terms and of our corporate governance and we are committed to timely and proper disclosure of the investors information. Our management holds results briefings on quarterly basis. We also offer opportunities to communicate with both Japanese and international investors directly on our business information. We try to make proper and highly transparent disclosure of information, by publishing our annual report and IR reports in Japanese, English and Chinese. ○ General Shareholders’ Meeting The DOWA group holds a general shareholders’ meeting in June at the Four Seasons Hotel Chinzanso, Tokyo every year and approximately 500 shareholders attended the meeting in 2013. After the meeting we hold a party so that we can better communicate with shareholders and they can talk to our directors. We have a booth at the venue exhibiting our products. ○ DOWA HD website (IR Information) http://www.dowa.co.jp/en/ir/ Information on DOWA Holdings is posted in this website in an easy-to understand way to our shareholders and investors. Continuous The DOWA group set up a Great Eastern Japan earthquake reconstruction team in Sendai City support for in May 2011 as part of our support initiative for the earthquake and has been supporting disposal the Great Eastern Japan and decontamination of wastes from the disaster. Each business entity continues support activities earthquake in 2013. Following are some of the examples: ○ Support for the Mobile Library Project with Our Original Eco Bag ○ Support for the Great Eastern Japan Earthquake Miyagi The DOWA group supports activities of the Shanti Volunteer AsChild Raising Fund at the In-house Bazaar. sociation that operates mobile libraries in areas affected by disaster. E&E Solutions, Inc. has been supporting reconstruction from These mobile libraries deliver books and provide opportunities for the earthquake since 2011. All employees participate in the support communication to the temporary housing in Miyagi Prefecture and activities for the affected people with their own initiatives. In 2013, Fukushima Prefecture in addition to the drastically affected area they brought in used books and held an in-house book bazaar for along the coast of Iwate Prefecture. The DOWA group delivers a CSR two days. They gathered more than 500 books for the bazaar and report to shareholders in an eco-bag at the Annual General Meeting many employees visited the bazaar. The money was donated to the of Shareholders every year, so we used these original eco-bags for the Miyagi Child Raising Fund together with the monetary donation visitors to put the borrowed book from the mobile libraries, Part of the from the company for orphans from the earthquake. expense for production of these eco-bags were donated. DOWA グループは[エコバッグ]を通じて東日本大震災の復興支援を行っています 実施主体：公益社団法人 シャンティ国際ボランティア会 図書活動を通じた東日本大震災被災地支援 移動図書館プロジェクトは、仮設住宅に住む人たち に本と接する機会を持ってもらおうと、岩手、宮城の 沿岸部、福島の仮設住宅を中心に巡回して図書 の貸し出しを行う（社）シャンティ国際ボランティア 会の活動です。 移動図書館を仮設住宅に住む方々の交流の場と して提供し、さらに現地書店での書籍購入や司書 の雇用など、自立的な復興に配慮して活動を行っ DOWA のエコバックは、図書 の貸し出しに使用されるほか、 ています。 製作費用の一部が移動図書 館の運営費に役立てられてい ます。 DOWA グループ従業員によ るボランティア宅本便（不要 になった書籍や CD を持ち寄り 売却して寄付）を通じた支 援活動も行っています。 ⇒ CSR 報告書 P.24 DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 42 Society Together The DOWA group positions contribution to local communities as a focus measure in our with local relationship with society. Every business establishment both in and out of Japan are actively communities participating in CSR activities including: participation in local get-togethers for communication and tree planting festivals, sponsorship and support for sports events, accepting visitors and interns to our plants, sponsoring various sports events, aimed at growing together with local communities. ○ Our Activities in 2013 Sponsoring Local Events  July The seventh Kosaka Household Town Afforestation Planting Ceremony and the “Akita Northern Happinets” basketball clinic (Akita Prefecture) November The 3rd Kojima Lake Blossom Corridor Exciting Health Marathon (Okayama Prefecture) February The twenty-fourth DOWA Cup Jr. Cross Country Ski Competition at Lake Towada (Akita Prefecture) March The 5th Kojima Lake Blossom Corridor Cherry Blossom Festival (Okayama Prefecture)  In addition to the above mentioned we take part in a wide range of activities rooted in local communities, including: cleaning of public spaces, planting trees, cooperation with traffic safety campaigns, and voluntary participation in local festivals and sports events by employees. ○ Corporate Visits company, was chosen for this in 2013. students who have concrete ideas on the Company visits by high school students After a briefing session and visiting future of their town. on their school excursion inside the building of the headquarters, After the presentation, all students perThirty-nine third graders of Kosaka Jr. the students delivered the group presentaformed their original dance named “ONE”. High School, Kosaka-machi, Akita Prefection on the topic of, “How do we want to It was an excellent performance like a proture visited the headquarters of DOWA in change Kosaka-machi in ten years’ time?” fessional. A Hip Hop teacher of the school Tokyo in May 2013 on their school excurTheir ingenious presentation was full of choreographed the music composed by Mr. sion. The educational goal of the school is ideas to make their hometown better. KoJiro Oma, a musician of famous Japanese to, “grow up strong, spiritually rich, comsaka-machi was the place of foundation Pop group “Off Course”. municate with friends and nurture dreams.” of the DOWA group. In addition to the We will continue to accept visits of stuThe school sends students on their school DOWA’s main plant of Kosaka Smelting dents as part of our support for school edexcursion to companies where the graduates and Refining, many of our business entities ucation to make students understand what of the school work to deliver a presentation engaged in environmental and recycling companies are. on a predetermined topic as part of its social business gather there. We learned and were education. DOWA, being a locally oriented stimulated a lot from those next generation Evaluation from Society “Contribution to Beautifying Local Environment Award” to Kojima Blossom Corridor Supporters Club Bizen Citizen Bureau of Okayama Prefecture conferred the “Contribution to beautifying Local Environment Award” to Kojima Blossom Corridor Supporters Club in November 2013. Planting Kawazu cherry trees (4,703 trees) and spider lilies (120,000 bulbs) together with local people was recognized as contribution to environmental improvement along Lake Kojima in Okayama City. We will continue those activities to beautify and revitalize local communities through events such as the Blossom Corridor marathon race. 43 The DOWA group sets forth in Standards of Conduct that human resources are the basis of Together with our business activities and employees should be evaluated with their ability to conduct their jobs employees regardless of education, age and gender. We are promoting various activities with the following goals so that employees can exercise their full potentials. ・Go back to the origin of organization function to create a competitive team. ・Make company a place where employees want to work, with their own initiatives. Employment Status capabilities necessary for our business. The number of employees outside Japan, As of March 31, 2014 we have total 5,411 mainly in Asia, increased due to our global The DOWA group tries to promote employees, increase of approximately 100 business deployment. There was an increase proper allocation of employees, considering persons compared to previous year. Of of approximately 100 employees involved our business plan and employ diversified those who were employed in Japan, 88% including those from Thailand and China. human resources who have talents and (4,397) are male and 12% (608) are female. 〈Employment status in Japan〉 FY 2011 2012 2013 Classification Male Female Male Female Male Female Directors 123 1 124 0 121 0 Regular employees Managers 681 8 707 8 715 9 in Japan Ordinary employees 2,699 288 2,727 294 2,703 296 Non-regular Dispatched employees 432 318 405 employees Part-time workers,temporary in Japan 826 265 846 291 859 405 workersand seasonal workers Total 5,323 5,315 5,411 〈Number of employees per region〉 FY Region 2011 2012 2013 Japan 5,323 5,315 5,411 Other Asian countries 1,325 2,520 2,622 Europe 4 4 10 North America 78 92 80 Central & South America 3 1 1 Total 6,733 7,932 8,124 Fair Evaluation and Treatment of Human Resources Under the philosophy to evaluate em● B oth an evaluator and an employee improve skills required for conducting ployees based on their ability to conduct should deepen understanding of the evaltheir jobs. business as stipulated in Standards of uation system and the criteria and make We offer training to newly appointed Conduct, the DOWA group strives to evalbest use of the system in evaluating and managers as an evaluator this year and uate and treat employees in a fair manner. fostering employee development. we will try to promote proper evaluation, We make use of our evaluation system in ● Employees should share organizationtreatment and fostering by continuously fostering employees under the following al goals and understand the skills and offering training opportunities. policies. capabilities required for each rank and DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 44 Society Development and Utilization of Human Resources The DOWA group aims at developing deavor to educate employees in each different job experiences (both planned professionals who can play an important workplace continuously, promote measures and adaptable personnel reshuffling) to our role in global markets and establishing to enhance On-The-Job Training (OJT) employees. a corporate culture to foster and develop programs for young employees and offer human resources. In this effort, we enopportunities for practical experience and ■ Main Achievements in 2012 【Education】 ○ Education according to work levels ・Next generation business Training to foster business leaders (16 persons for the period from April through December) leader (On going) ・Manager (On going) Training for new managers (Approximately 30 persons) and coaching training (Approximately 30 persons for the period from October through December) ・Mid-Career (On going) Proactive (leadership) training for newly promoted employees to Grade 5 (Approximately 50 persons for the period from October through December) ・Mid-Career Engineer (New) Strengthening the ability to think (7 persons for the period from October through August) ・Employees up to the third year Training for newly employed (from April to the middle of May), I – IV follow-up training of employment (Continued) and enhanced OJT (Approximately 130 persons) ・Global (On going) English presentation (Approximately 40 persons) and intensive training before being dispatched (Approximately 10 persons) ・Female career (On going) Basic career training (21 persons) ○ Exchange Program between Young Engineers and Universities We prepared an exchange program between our young engineers and Tohoku University in the Functional Materials Laboratory at DOWA Electronics Materials in July 2013. This program is offered every year, as a place for DOWA’s young engineers to discuss with outside researchers and gain new knowledge and insight from a different angle. Approximately twenty engineers in Okayama district participated in this program this year and actively discussed and presented research results. 【Utilization of Human Resources】 ○ Career Matching System We put the Career Matching System in place as part of our career support activities for our employees. Qualified employees can apply for in-house job opportunities directly without going through their supervisors or their own department. Promotion of Diversity ployees who want to continue working Instead, we try to increase the employment in the DOWA group. We revised the rerate across the entire group by improving Employees must respond diversified employment system by newly adopting environment for the disabled in business values and make use of diversified strengths a job rank system so that employees can entities that have already had those people to respond to global business deployment continue to fully exercise their skills and working or encouraging them to experience and expanding business areas. We believe capabilities they have cultivated. In 2014 a workplace. that employees with diversified talents we will further improve the system, for exercising their full potential will lead to the example, offering a seminar to provide 60 2.0 growth of a company. The DOWA group is information on how to spend life after now propelling forward the following activretirement. 50 50 ities. 45 41 1.5 ○ Employment of the Disabled 40 ○ Consideration at the Time of The number and the rate of employment 1.3% Recruitment of the disabled both increased in 2013 30 1.2% 1.2% 1.0 The DOWA group is now building a across the DOWA group and some of framework for employees to work on a companies achieved the employment rate 20 global basis regardless of nationality from stipulated by law; however the DOWA 0.5 the recruiting stage. group as a whole has not achieved the rate. 10 Our production sites are not built for the ○ Active Utilization of Experienced disabled to work comfortably. Therefore, 0 0 Employees we do not require each business entity of (person) 2011 2012 2013 (FY) （%） No. of the disabled We reemploy experienced retired emDOWA to achieve the same rate equally. employed Employment rate 45 Promotion of Health Work-Life Balance such as paid leaves of absence for taking care of sick children (up to five days) and The DOWA group considers it importThe DOWA group endeavors to improve a system to limit relocation of employees ant for all employees to enjoy an active the workplace for employees. Our workthat results in moving from their present life both in terms of body and mind and life balance program aims at helping all residence if they have reasons related to health as the foundation of developing employees to exercise their abilities to the raising children. In 2014 we will raise human resources. fullest extent according to their life style awareness of the system so that more emboth at work and at home. We implemented ployees can use it. ○ Physical Examination a more flexible working system like flexible We also try to reduce total working hours DOWA offers opportunities for emworking hours and leave of absence system of employees through strict control of workployees to take periodic physical examfor raising children and caretaking of family ing hours by promoting initiatives agreed inations and also subsidizes expenses for members. upon between labor and management and gynecological examinations for female implementing a new control system of employees. We also strive to increase the ○ Utilization of the System working hours, in addition to the existing number of employees’ dependents to take As a result of these efforts, users of these system of flex-time working hours without specific physical examinations. systems are increasing every year. In 2013, specified core working hours. In 2013 we offered compensation for 12 employees took child-raising leaves of the expenses for influenza vaccination. absence and four employees used shorter ○ Questionnaire working hours for raising children. Ten The CSR Department conducts a ○ Mental Health Initiative male employees and five female employees survey targeted for newly employed The DOWA group has put the mental took caretaking leaves for their children. every year. More than 40% wanted to health counseling in place and we have use the flex-time system and a day for educated management on mental health ○ Action Plan to Support for no overtime work in 2013, because they issues to protect the health of employees. Fostering the Next Generation wanted to use their time more for their We are now considering to introduce a We prepared a new action plan to supcareer development, including improving system for each employee to check his/her port fostering the next generation in 2013. language skills or obtaining qualifications. mental condition by a self-checkup. In addition to legally stipulated systems, We will continue to promote work-life we introduced specific support measures balance, considering those opinions. Working together Family members of our employees are also DOWA’s important stakeholders. We plan plant visits with our and events not only to notify our employees of CSR activities across the DOWA group but also for employees’ families their family members to deepen their understanding of the DOWA group. ○ Communication through an Ecoenvironment such as biodiversity and rethe headquarters but also encourage our event for Parents and Children cycling. We enjoy planning and operation business entities outside Tokyo to hold during Summer Vacation of such events. such events. The DOWA headquarters in Tokyo held We will not only hold such events in an eco-event for family members of employees in August 2013. Seventy-one (40 children and 31 parents) participated in this event from Akita and Kumamoto Prefectures and enjoyed a workshop called “Dream Factory” produced by an event company, “Chemical Entertainment.” In the workshop, children participated in an experiment of air foams and made LED lights turned on by wind power. This event started as part of our environmental education activities where children of our employees visit the workplace of their parents to gain insight on environment and also to raise environmental awareness together. Every year the CSR Department plans an event related to DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 46 Questionnaire Results Comments, Opinions & Requests for the DOWA group’s CSR Report 2013 We distributed our CSR reports to In addition, we also post all of our CSR them and the opinion of a third party our stakeholders including shareholders, reports published so far on our website. expert of last year in preparation for this investors, partners, customers and local The DOWA group conducted a survey report as follows. people at the general shareholders’ meetto ask comments and opinions from the ing, exhibits and environmental events. readers of our CSR reports. We reflect 7% Comments and Opinions for the Questionnaire We received many valuable comments and opinions Customers and partners from readers and we appreciate those replies very 33% Shareholders and investors 27% much. Following are those comments and opinions Status of those People who live near DOWA’s (overall comments were summarized). business entities who commented DOWA’s employees and their family Other comments 13% 20% ○ About our CSR report  Not enough Short Difficult to understand Enough 9% 8% Long 8% Easy to understand 91% Fair 15％ 61% 0% Richness of Length Explicitness the content (number of pages) Fair Appropriate 31％ Compared to the previous year 77% ○ What is Expected from Our Efforts for CSR  2% 2% 2% Promotion of recycling 2% Development of products and services useful 〈Overall comments〉 for environment and society Prevention of environmental contamination ・I can see the image of recycling business vividly 10% 22% in the pages that illustrate eco-products. Resource and energy saving ・I’m impressed with your all your efforts in addiWorkplace safety, work-life balance tion to your main business. 10% Expected efforts Fostering human resources ・I want you to combine the report with the busiGlobal warming measures ness report. 22% 14% Biodiversity, conservation of ecosystem Ethical, transparent activities, disclosure of 14% information Respect for human rights Main Improvements in CSR Report 2014, Reflecting Comments from Our Stakeholders We edited CSR Report 2014, reflecting the valuable comments ■ Third Party’s Opinion from our stakeholders. ・Only titles are stated for Goals and are not specific goals ■ From Questionnaire Results ⇒In 2014 a new column title of “Target” is added per issue in ・I have difficulty focusing on which items to read. four areas of “Governance”, “Safety”, “Environment” and ・More specific description is necessary on the focus measures. “Society”. ⇒We changed the structure of our CSR report this year to ⇒We added examples of our philosophy and initiatives in describe our activities per area of our CSR Policy and tried Relationship with Central and Local Governments and to be more specific on the focus measures. Industrial Groups on P. 24. We will review thoroughly your comments and opinions on our CSR efforts and reflect them in our CSR activities. 47 Opinion of a Third Party DOWA CSR Report 2014 About the CSR Report 2014 President Yamada explained in Message from the Management that DOWA’s business has evolved into a unique resource-recycling company consisting of five core business areas, responding agilely to changing external environment. The DOWA group continues to achieve increased revenue and profit as he mentioned. I presume the company does meet diversified needs for building a resource-recycling society through its business in the age when depletion of resources is anticipated as a result of worsening pressures of world population. I think a characteristic of the CSR report this year is the description of DOWA’s approach to social issues related to effective utilization of resources on the page titled as “DOWA’s Business and Social Issues.” However, it was positioned only as one of many features last year. I can see DOWA’s emphasis on CSV (Creating Shared Value) this year, where a company contributes to resolving social issues, while it connects its contribution to profit making. I am certain that more detailed explanation Chief Executive, E-SQUARE of the relation between its business and social issues will further promote reader’s understanding of Hiro Motoki how much DOWA is needed in society and that DOWA is a vital entity in society. E-SQUARE Inc. is a consulting company, aimed Another characteristic is the reorganization of main achievements in 2013 and the entire structure at realizing a sustainable society by supporting of the report according to four areas of CSR Policy. This way the CSR activities that the DOWA strategic CSR and environmental management group propels are presented in a more consistent way than before. Reorganization made the report of companies. The company supports many leading business establishments in the fields of simpler and easier to understand. strategy, communication, education and BoP business in developing countries. Mr. Motoki As for DOWA’s measures per topic, responding to conflict minerals is requisite as a company assumed his office of Chief Executive in October engaged in mining in the upper stream of the value chain in society. The DOWA group set up 2011. He has been working as a special lecturer for the Graduate School of Environment Studies, “DOWA’s Conflict Mineral Management Policy” and has worked to obtain CSF Certificates as Tohoku University since 2005 and also is a a conflict-free smelter. Those are extremely important steps forward in conducting sustainable frequent lecturer on CSR. business. The DOWA group is engaged in various other activities in each business field. Among others, it is worth mentioning that DOWA Metals and Mining succeeded in obtaining their raw materials from the tailings of mineral ores to recycling materials for the first time in the world. Towards Further Improvement The list of achievements are far easier to read than last year, as goals, measures and achievements are clearly separated and described. However, only titles are listed for goals. I think more detailed description is necessary, listing specific points to be reached by DOWA. It says that the CSR Procurement Guideline will be prepared in the future as a focus measure of CSR Procurement Policy. On the other hand in the CSR Procurement Guideline, it says, “We promote procurement, based on the DOWA group’s CSR Procurement Guideline.” It seems that the guideline is already put in place and misleading. I also think it better to mention something on “DOWA’s Conflict Mineral Management Policy” in the CSR Procurement Guideline. I believe that it desirable to report how the CSR Procurement Policy will be implemented specifically in the CSR Procurement Policy. My Expectation to DOWA’s Initiatives in the Future The DOWA group will review the mid-term goals of CSR and focus measures in 2014 and I am looking forward to their progress. I can see DOWA’s approaches to social issues and also awareness to connect them to revenue, through messages from managers and persons in charge in each business entity. I assume that support from those employees on site is the present strength of DOWA. I sincerely hope DOWA continues to pursue business development, by facing social issues directly. DOWA CSR REPORT 2014 48
