Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 Table of contents About EY 1 Introduction 3 Supporting our clients, Increasing the our profession and sustainability of Supporting our people 5 our marketplace 21 our planet 41 High-performing teams 6 Exceptional client service 22 Supporting clients 42 Diversity and inclusiveness 7 Strengthening our profession 23 Active involvement 42 Learning and development 10 Internal rigor and anti-corruption Our carbon footprint 42 policies 25 Developing leaders 11 Changing behavior 43 Supporting entrepreneurs 29 Addressing the challenge of youth unemployment 14 Increasing opportunities for women in business 34 Our workplace 16 Listening and communicating 17 Awards 18 Policies and frameworks that set a strong foundation 19 Human rights 46 Labor 46 Environment 47 Anti-corruption 47 UN Women’s Empowerment Principles 48 Upholding the UNGC principles 45 About EY EY is a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services. The insights and quality services we deliver help build trust and confidence in the capital markets and in economies the world over. We develop outstanding leaders who team to deliver on our promises to all of our stakeholders. In so doing, we play a critical role in building a better working world for our people, for our clients and for our communities. EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. For more information about our organization, please visit ey.com. Our combined global revenues for the financial year ending 30 June 2014 were US$27.4 billion. With a You can read more about our total headcount of 190,000 people, EY operates in commitments in our Global Review more than 150 countries around the world. Read our (www.ey.com/globalreview), Global Global Review, which can be found at www.ey.com/ Transparency Report (www.ey.com/ globalreview, to learn more about our financial transparencyreport) and EY Global performance and for further information about EY. Code of Conduct (www.ey.com/ codeconduct). Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 1 This Communication on Progress provides brief highlights of actions that EY is taking UN Global Compact on a global basis to address United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. The 10 principles are listed below, and throughout the report you will see how EY upholds them. Read pages 4548 for an overview of each UN principle and the correlating EY activity. Principles 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Human rights internationally proclaimed human rights 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Labor 5 The effective abolition of child labor 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Environment 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery www.unglobalcompact.org 2 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 Introduction As part of our journey toward Vision 2020, our strategic plan, we have been taking a close look at how the world is changing and how EY can play its part in building a better working world. We understand that globalization; evolving relationships among economies, institutions and nations; and accelerating technological innovation have created an interconnectedness and interdependency among business, people and communities. And we recognize that, as a result, collaboration will be fundamental to our success. As a proud member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we believe the 10 principles outlined by the UNGC align closely with our own purpose and values. We share a desire to build a sustainable and inclusive global economy that delivers lasting benefits to people, communities and markets. Mark A. Weinberger This will happen by delivering on our commitments and by fostering sustainable growth in Global Chairman and ways that we feel can have the biggest impact. And we do that in a number of important CEO, EY areas. We deliver insights and quality services that contribute to our clients’ success, strengthen the connection between service quality and market growth, and enhance public trust in capital markets. We create and support high-performing teams — teams that work across borders and cultures to deliver exceptional client service. And, we support our communities through entrepreneurship, and by developing a diverse and inclusive future workforce, including championing the role of women in business. Throughout this report, you can read about how EY is building a better working world in these areas and more, and upholding the UNGC principles in the areas of human rights, labor, anti-corruption and environment. I hope you will read it with interest. Building a better working world EY is committed to doing its part in building a better working world. The insights and quality services we deliver help build trust and confidence in the capital markets and in economies the world over. We develop outstanding leaders who team to deliver on our promises to stakeholders. In so doing, we play a critical role in building a better working world for our people, for our clients and for our communities. Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 3 4 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 Supporting our people At EY, our people are our only significant asset and success for us is dependent on the quality and commitment of our people and how they team together. That is why creating the highest-performing teams — attracting, developing and inspiring great people and promoting a culture that supports them in working together — is central to EY’s strategy. We know that bright, talented people are keen to develop personally and professionally. We work hard to engage and inspire our people, so that they can reach their goals and ensure their time at EY is valuable in terms of what they learn, the experiences they get, and the development of their own personal brand. To define this commitment, we have developed a unique proposition for our people. We promise that whenever they join EY, however long they stay, the exceptional EY experience lasts a lifetime. To support this promise, we are committed to a valuable recruiting experience, developing future leaders, seeking out and leveraging diversity, promoting learning and development, delivering flexibility and, above all, protecting the safety and well-being of our people. In this section, you will read about our award-winning culture, how we are developing our people and the ways in which EY is evolving to meet the changing needs of our workforce. In this section, see how we are addressing the UNGC principles focusing on Human Rights and Labor. Visit page 46 for further detail. Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 5 “High-performing teams are powerful because they harness energy and enthusiasm toward a common goal. This requires combining the right mix of people with the right leadership in a work culture that encourages collaboration and respects differences.“ — Nancy Altobello, EY Global Vice Chair, Talent Creating high-performing teams We know from experience and research that our best-performing To support these teams, we are committed to: teams are made up of highly engaged individuals from a diverse • Providing our people with training that develops their skills. range of backgrounds. These teams excel by being adaptable and • Delivering challenging client opportunities. flexible without losing focus and by welcoming diverse views. They consistently use best-in-class approaches, tools and methodologies; • Creating a diverse and inclusive workplace. undertake learning, experience and coaching; and are always • Ensuring flexibility and choice. focused on delivering the best results, rather than on where, when • Building a robust framework to guide our people through their or how the work gets done. career development. The exceptional EY experience We want the time people spend at EY to be more valuable than time spent with any other employer. And we believe the relationships people make and the experiences they have should start before they join us — and last a lifetime. Attracting great people and providing them with a best-in-class recruitment experience is vital if we are to be the employer of choice for future global leaders. We work hard to attract people who are curious and entrepreneurial, who thrive in international teams and who have a global mindset. If, and when, people choose to leave EY, we don’t see this as an end to the relationship, just the next stage. Wherever they go on to work, they will be a lifelong member of the EY alumni network. Above all, we want every interaction that people have with us to be positive so that even if they choose not to join us, or if we don’t make them an offer, they will still speak positively about our brand. 6 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 Maximizing the power of difference helps us create the highest-performing teams for EY and for our clients. Differences matter Globalization brings an influx of information from an increasingly Our journey to change diverse workforce. In this fast changing environment, every situation and context brings its own set of challenges. The ability Our Area and Regional leaders take overall responsibility for to invite and learn from different perspectives is fundamental to D&I within EY. They are accountable for driving this through the driving innovation, building strong relationships and delivering the business — through hiring, succession planning and promotion — best approaches for our clients. and in leading by example. We ensure that our leaders communicate the importance of leading Diversity and inclusiveness (D&I) inclusively to our people. Specifically, articulating how to turn the diversity of our global organization into competitive advantage and At EY, we have a specific definition of D&I. how working inclusively will help our people build vital leadership skills. To support this: Diversity is about differences: each of us is different, and at EY • Our Global Executive sponsored the creation of a roadmap for we value and respect individual differences. Today, we think broadly success. EY’s Winning through diversity and inclusiveness: a about differences — they include background, education, gender, roadmap for success has been shared with our partners around ethnicity, nationality, generation, age, working and thinking styles, the world to support their D&I activities. religious background, sexual orientation, ability and technical skills. There are also differences according to service line, sector • Our leadership programs across the globe develop the skills of all and function. our people to team and lead inclusively. These programs explore the impact of unconscious bias, develop inclusive behaviors, and Inclusiveness is about leveraging those differences: it is about inspire our current and future leaders to practice how to value creating an environment where all of our people feel, and are, and leverage differences. valued, where they are able to bring their differences to work • We embed core principles of inclusiveness in all our processes and each day, and where they contribute their personal best in every across our entire organization, so that D&I is a part of everything encounter. This ultimately achieves better business results. we do. “Successful leaders integrate different viewpoints into their decision-making. They include the whole world, not just pieces of it. We believe this approach is the only way to succeed in today’s global economy.” — Karyn Twaronite, Global Diversity and Inclusiveness Officer Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 7 The workforce has never been more diverse and, as a global Promoting internal and external networks organization, we have leaders, training, tools and initiatives that reflect and support this change: EY has networks that help encourage and support different groups of employees. These include women’s networks, lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) networks, black networks, EY A Global D&I leader parents’ networks, disability working groups, faith networks, Far East networks, South Asian networks, Latino networks and Pan-Asian EY’s first Global Diversity & Inclusiveness Officer was appointed in networks, as well as networks that support people affected by illness, 2014, reflecting how vital D&I is to our business. caregivers and members of military families. Tailored training Sponsorships and collaboration • We provide Enhanced Cultural Intelligence Training for teams in • EY sponsored the: EY that work across cultural borders on a day-to-day basis. This • Tokyo Rainbow Pride Parade, which promotes better integration training explains the importance, and advantages, of D&I. of the LGBTA (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and allies) • We all bring social stereotypes and cultural experiences into community into society. how we make decisions, but it is possible to improve decisionmaking by recognizing the possible unconscious biases that • Annual lecture of the Kaleidoscope Trust on International Day might be at play. To help our people do this, we have developed Against Homophobia and Transphobia. The Kaleidoscope Trust an unconscious-bias toolkit and related training, which more than promotes diversity and LGBT rights, internationally. 14,000 employees have completed to date. • Inspirational Role Model category at the European Diversity Awards. These awards recognize and celebrate organizations Smart tools and individuals that have shown innovation, creativity and commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion. We provide tools that support D&I at work. These include GlobeSmart®, which provides business-related cultural information • First LGBT global summit held by Out & Equal. This event brings on more than 85 countries, helping our people in their day-totogether delegates from the world’s largest businesses to day interactions with colleagues, clients and others from other discuss making workplaces safe and equitable for LGBT people countries. The tool allows our people to: and to share ideas for the future. • Use five defined dimensions of culture to learn about their • Annual Precious Awards for six years. These UK awards preferred work styles recognize and celebrate talented women of color who have • Compare their profiles with other individuals, teams and average demonstrated exceptional determination, innovation and country profiles entrepreneurial skills in business. • G ► et advice on how to adjust their styles to work more effectively • Women’s Forum and the Forbes Women Summit. with different cultures • Paralympic Games 2016, Rio. • In the UK, we are supporting the local representative for UN Women in their mission for gender equality and the empowerment of women through education and awareness, along with lobbying governments and raising funds and support for worldwide UN Women projects. 8 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 Diversity recruitment subsequently returned to us. In FY14, 7,615 people globally came back to us. It means adding to the mix of people at EY who have EY was the first of the Big Four to assign full-time, partner-level experiences within and outside the organization. leadership to diversity recruiting. We are committed to embedding D&I into our recruiting practices around the world. For example, in the US, we are focused on attracting women, ethnically diverse students, Programs and networks professional hires, LGBT people, veterans and people with disabilities. • Around the world we have developed programs and networks to In Europe, Middle East, India and Africa (EMEIA), we focus on gender help our high-performing women achieve their goals. For example: and increasing the number of females we recruit at all ranks. • EMEIA Women’s Leadership Program: aimed at senior women with the potential to make it to partner-level, this program looks Building diverse leadership teams by increasing the number of at the personal challenges the participants face and any selfsenior women leaders is a key focus for us, and we continue limiting beliefs that might hold them back. The program focuses to make progress in terms of representation: on increasing confidence and using the support of networks throughout the business. For example, by using small coaching In FY14, out of the 675 people groups, it encourages women to work through personal issues who were admitted as new partners and helps them identify recurrent themes and challenges that are across our global organization, 26% unique to them. of them are women. This figure is up 26% • Career Watch program: senior leaders act as advocates for from 18% in 2008; and although we high-potential women and minorities of either gender. They know we need to do more, we are 18% ensure participants receive mentoring and are given challenging making progress. 2008 client assignments and opportunities to network with other senior leaders. Career Watch operates in Austria, Belgium, the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), Germany, India, the Our Global Advisory Council Mediterranean area, the Netherlands, the Nordics, Switzerland, (GAC) is made up of partners the UK and the US. GAC from all of our geographic Areas and four directors from outside • Navigator program: despite the strong representation of women 25% of EY. The GAC advises our joining EY at graduate entry level, our profession still struggles Global Executive on important to retain women at manager-level and above. To address this we operational and strategic developed the Navigator program, which creates opportunities decisions. Approximately 25% of for female managers to develop their networks and to debate the the GAC are women. issues they face in advancing their careers. • Internal networks: our EY women’s networks exist to share best 7 practices, successes and ideas; create opportunities to connect with sponsors and role models; and bring a sense of community. We run these networks around the world — for example, in Australia, Africa, Belgium, Canada, China, India, Italy, Ireland, the Our Senior Leadership team Nordics, the Netherlands, Poland, the UK and the US — and we includes seven women. continue to expand. Tracking progress To ensure we are tracking progress, each of our geographical areas is looking at its D&I metrics and actively looking at leadership and partner pipelines and promotion processes around the world. Enabling mobility and cross-border opportunities In EMEIA, for example, we have introduced a gender reporting template for each of EMEIA’s 12 Regions, covering a range of Many of our people undertake international assignments or transfers metrics including gender, promotions, recruitment, leavers, in order to fill a business need and to develop their careers. performance ratings and engagement scores. The data are reviewed on a regular basis with leaders so that trends can be identified and addressed. Welcoming back our boomerangs More broadly, we measure how people feel about our work culture We are very proud that a relatively high proportion of our people through our biennial Global People Survey. are what we call “boomerangs” — people who have left EY but have Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 9 Developing and supporting our people through world-class learning We want our people to get the most out of their time at EY, whether Training to suit individual needs they are here for two years or twenty. Helping our people to learn, develop and lead is fundamental to creating value for our people We provide our people with access to high-quality formal learning and our clients. To support this, we have a unique global career through a structured organization-wide curriculum that contains development framework called EYU, which stands for “EY and You” technical content. It is accessible in a variety of formats, including: and focuses on learning, experiences and coaching. • Face-to-face: through case studies, lectures and simulations Our people can find all the information they need about EYU, • On-the-job training regardless of their location or service line, through our dedicated • Virtual: through web-based, videos, webcasts internal EYU website. Our web-based global learning management system enables people to Monitoring and strengthening performance organize their learning. They can use it to search for content, identify where gaps in their learning might exist, and develop a “learning map” EYU links to our global Performance Management and Development to meet future needs. Process (PMDP). PMDP helps our people monitor and direct their performance and align their efforts to our strategic priorities. The Through our World-Class Learning Program, we are working to ensure most important element of PMDP is the conversations our people our people receive the same baseline level of high-quality learning have with their counselors as they build their careers at EY. across the globe. Our global team develops a learning curriculum that is relevant across our entire organization, as well as specific programs To make it easier for people to adjust goals and to seek and share for each of our service lines. The program blends classroom, mobile feedback as an ongoing activity throughout the year, we created and electronic learning. My Development Site. This global online system features a list of the experiences that are currently available to people in a given location. With one click, individuals can select an experience that they think Coaching meets their development needs and send details to a sponsor who will help them to gain that experience. In addition to technical content, our people develop through coaching. We encourage as many coaching conversations as possible throughout the year, and our global coaching curriculum enables people to develop their coaching skills as they progress within EY. 10 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 Developing leaders Developing leaders is fundamental to our future success and Implement strong leadership programs we want to be the employer of choice for future leaders. We We deliver tailored programs to develop our leaders, including: are committed to developing our people and nurturing lifelong • Global NextGen — prepares future partners for their very relationships: creating outstanding leaders who bring their vision important leadership role in a motivating and structured way. and skills to EY and may also go on to other roles in industry, The two-year program gives potential partners the opportunity government and academia, joining our alumni network of to respond to a series of real-life challenges that develop their 750,000 EY brand ambassadors. leadership and entrepreneurial skills. Global NextGen also provides structured development for prospective partners and This is why we: delivers transparency around the partner promotion process. Organize milestone events • Global Exchange Program — provides high-performing seniors Newly promoted seniors, managers, senior managers and executive and managers the opportunity to go on 18to 24-month directors are invited to milestone events. These face-to-face international assignments before returning to share their learning events follow a global format and combine a mixture of learning with colleagues. and celebration. Members of the leadership team, right up to our • New Horizons — gives high-performing seniors the chance to Chairman and CEO, play an active role at these events. For example: undertake a three-month period of employment in another • More than 3,000 new senior managers and associate directors country. participated in milestone events within their Areas in 2014 last year. Focusing on future leaders • Our program for newly promoted managers and assistant directors brought together more than 6,000 participants at 2014 events. As part of our commitment to building a better working world, we also engage, develop and learn from young people who we believe • The Global New Partner Program (GNPP), September 2014, will become future leaders — within or outside of EY. brought together more than 625 newly admitted partners and their guests in Istanbul, Turkey, and combined celebration and We are helping the future workforce and future leaders develop inspiration with goal setting, orientation and learning. the skills and characteristics required to enable businesses and societies to thrive through a variety of opportunities. For example, around the world we run skills workshops or leadership development training at schools and universities. At the same time, we also mentor young people who may be at risk of dropping out of education to better understand their opportunities and to see their future in a different way. Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 11 “For us, developing future leaders is not only about helping those who will join us, it’s about reaching as broad a group of high-school and university students as possible. That’s how you build a better working world.“ — Shirley Jackson, EY Global Recruitment Leader Our programs for young people include: EY Degree — is run in collaboration with Lancaster University, UK, and provides accountancy students with a bursary, paid work Campus activities — with 28,316 graduates hired in FY14, we know experience and the chance to complete some of their chartered how important it is that our future leaders understand and share accountancy examinations — helping them make a head start in our values. This is why we developed a global toolkit to help those their career. involved in recruiting on-campus explain EY’s values to students and the opportunities and lifelong experiences available at EY. EY scholarships for university students — we are helping young students through a variety of bursaries, scholarships and, in some Cadet Program — our Australian firm runs this challenging locations, paid work experience alongside financial support. These program, which combines full-time work with part-time university scholarships are run locally in mainland China, India, New Zealand, studies for students with determination and focus. By providing Russia, Singapore, Taiwan, the UK, Ukraine and the US for talented extensive training, coaching, detailed guidance and skills and ambitious students. development throughout the program, we’re helping young people set themselves up for success and expanding their networks. The EY Young Tax Professional of the Year Program — is aimed at program is run out of our Sydney, Brisbane and Melbourne offices. finding the tax leaders of tomorrow. The worldwide competition gives participants the chance to make connections with tax and Discover EY — is an innovative two-day program run specifically for business leaders, to understand the key trends and challenges for university students from underrepresented minorities. It provides the profession and to share experiences with people from a range an insight into what a career in audit or tax has to offer through of backgrounds. interactive workshops, case studies and one-to-one networking opportunities with EY people. Global Student Experience — our new program gives selected interns around the world an opportunity to see how EY’s exceptional client service is delivered on a global scale, while they gain valuable international experience by living and working in a different location. Internship Program — around the world we’re helping EY interns gain practical experience of working and building their credentials and networks. With 14,936 interns in FY14, we are proud of our program. And each year, we celebrate and inspire young people at the EY International Intern Leadership Conference (IILC). The four-day annual event is open to EY interns from around the world, where they have the chance to network and hear presentations from senior EY leaders, including the Global Chairman and CEO. Leadership Academy Program — over the past four years, the EY UK & Ireland student recruitment team has run a successful leadership academy for high performers in their first or penultimate years at university. We work with leading management development tutors to deliver a four-day residential leadership program, designed to provide high-potential students with an understanding of their leadership potential. The program helps participants develop self-awareness and influencing skills and better understand their strengths and the different paths to leadership. The program is set to expand in 2015, helping us attract the brightest and most talented future talent. 12 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 Pathfinder program — EY Germany’s “Pathfinder” initiative gives Programs or scholarships for those joining EY from high young people exposure to the working world. Each year we give school — in Mexico, our assurance practice offers scholarships to three young disadvantaged people the opportunity to complete a high-potential students to support them during the last year of commercial apprenticeship at EY, helping young people develop their high-school education as they train for full-time positions at through new experiences. Next year the program will expand to EY. In the UK, our School Leaver Program provides the chance our six largest offices in Germany. Since Pathfinder began in 2007, for young people to join the workplace after high school, where 18 pathfinders have been through the program. they can develop valuable technical skills and gain a professional qualification over a five-year training program. We want to build relationships with people that last for their whole lives. We know that these relationships begin even before people join our organization. And someone who isn’t quite ready to join us now might be one of our future leaders, or could be a potential client one day. That’s one reason why building a lifelong relationship is so important. Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 13 Helping young people explore options for their future “In addition to the thousands of young people we hire, we help thousands more develop the skills needed to join the working world as employees or as young entrepreneurs.” — Nicky Major, EY Global Sustainability Leader At a time of unprecedented rates of youth unemployment, EY is Junior Achievement (JA) — we’re working with JA in a number using its intellectual capital to help address this intractable issue, of countries, directly with students. We’re proud to be supporting and is committed to helping young people gain the skills necessary the world’s largest organization dedicated to educating students to become work ready. Why? Because we believe that we can about workforce readiness, entrepreneurship and financial literacy make our most significant impact on society by supporting global, through hands-on programs. regional and local economic stability and growth. Pathways to Education, Canada — every year, thousands of Our people act as mentors, coaches and buddies around the world — Canadian students make the life-altering decision to drop out of helping young people stay on track, gain new skills and raise their high school — with more than 50% choosing to do so in some of the aspirations. For example: country’s most vulnerable neighborhoods. EY Canada is a founding sponsor of Pathways to Education, a program that helps youth in Focus, Australia — our people act as mentors on this awardlow-income Canadian communities graduate from high school and winning Australian Business Community Network program, which successfully transition into post-secondary education. It provides focuses on delivering leadership skills for female students from comprehensive academic, financial and social support to young high-needs schools. Our people are helping students understand people and has reduced high school dropout rates by as much their futures differently: helping to bridge the gap between different as 70%. socio-economic, cultural or demographic groups. 14 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 Smart Futures, UK — helps disadvantaged young people at school. The Edge Education Foundation’s Program for After Class Developed in-house by our people, the program identifies ambitious Enrichment (PACE), Malaysia — our people collaborate with and motivated young students from underprivileged backgrounds The Edge Education Foundation to mentor young people from who have the academic ability and raw talent to make it at EY but economically disadvantaged backgrounds, acting as role models who hadn’t considered that kind of career as an option. and teaching them basic financial literacy and entrepreneurial skills. And to promote additional engagement and awareness, we invite As part of the 10-month program, students take part in a wide the PACE students and their parents to our office to help them range of activities designed to increase their chances of securing better understand the benefits of continuing education and the employment. They also gain three weeks’ paid work experience at opportunities and possibilities available to them. EY and are given a mentor, networking opportunities and links to our recruitment channels. The program aims to help young people see their futures differently, and our mentors are there for them Solutions through collaboration every step of the way. Many apply to join EY when they complete their education. We’re proud of our initiatives around the world. Nationally and locally we are helping young people to access College Mentoring for Access and Persistence (College MAP), education, become work ready, gain work experience and US — we understand that an education can mean the difference find employment, and we are helping young entrepreneurs between just getting by and succeeding in life. Yet for many create jobs for themselves and others. students in the US, going to college seems too far out of their reach. That’s why in 2009, EY US created College MAP. In Europe we’ve joined the Alliance for Youth and announced our plan to offer 55,000 traineeships and Through College MAP, we help demystify, and assist in, the 35,000 internships for young people across the continent process of applying to and affording college, encouraging students by 2020, and to help thousands with work readiness or who might not have considered applying for college to do so. In starting their own company. addition, we work with students to build the skills that will help them persist in completing post-secondary education. Since In the US, our Clinton Global Initiative commitment to the program’s inception, 660 EY professionals have mentored expand the College Map Program reflects our ongoing aim more than 1000 students. In that time, EY US has also raised to help underserved young people access higher education US$678,000 in scholarships for College MAP scholars. In 2014, we and plan their future. announced our expansion of the program as part of a Commitment to Action at the Clinton Global Initiative meeting. In the past year www.ey.com/youthjobcreation alone, the program has expanded from 22 cities to 26 cities in the US. We expect the program’s success to continue as more EY professionals seek to help disadvantaged students prepare for a Read more about how we are developing the workforce of the future in: more prosperous future. Empowering our people, strengthening our communities — 100 examples from around the world, www.ey.com/cr. Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 15 We recognize that sitting at the same desk for eight hours each day isn’t always the best route to exceptional client service. And we know many of our people want to work differently, so we work hard to deliver flexibility and choice. A dynamic and flexible work environment We want our people to succeed personally and professionally and means our people will have increasing flexibility around where and aim to create a workplace that supports them in doing so — one how they work and a greater ability to adapt their working patterns that supports flexible working practices and boosts collaboration to meet their client and personal commitments. between people and teams. High-performance teaming relies on creating the right environment Transforming office space for our people, and our Workplace of the Future (WOTF) initiative is helping us improve the way we team, connect and perform across Creating the right workplace environment is helping our people teams and borders. As part of this initiative, we are developing a work smarter. After initial pilots in 2013, we have followed up by trust-based, output-focused environment: introducing new IT and transforming our office spaces in Alpharetta, Atlanta, Bucharest, communications technologies and innovative space design, and Groningen, Indianapolis, Johannesburg, Prague, San Francisco, supporting the health and well-being of our people. Ultimately, Sydney and Utrecht. Our people at these locations are enjoying the these changes will help us to continue to deliver the quality service focus on flexibility and collaboration that these changes support. By that our clients expect and support a culture of flexibility and early fiscal year 2015, around 20 more EY offices around the world empowerment that helps to attract and retain great people. will have also undergone a major redesign. Flexibility and choice Supporting health and well-being Flexibility is an increasingly important issue for our people and Health and well-being programs at EY are not just about keeping fit — potential recruits — specifically the ability to combine a career they cover broader issues relating to work-life balance. Reflecting with other aspects of their lives such as family commitments, this, in 33 countries we run assistance programs tailored for the local volunteering in the community or sports. market, more than half of which provide counseling and lifestyle support. In the US, for instance, we have a program called EY Assist, which covers fitness and wellness, academic coaching, convenience Seamlessly connecting our people services, legal support, and clinical assessment and referral. Flexible work practices need the right technology to support them. Our Messaging and Collaboration Program is overhauling our Safety technology capabilities. By accessing new and exciting technological capabilities, our people can connect with each other more easily The safety of our people is our priority, wherever they are located. than ever before. For example, videoconferencing will soon be Our dedicated team oversees EY’s rigorous and clear policies, which possible from individuals’ laptops or mobile devices with just a few have been developed to protect our people and assets against clicks of a button, and cloud technology will support enhanced and reasonably foreseeable threats that might result in injury, loss, instant access to global information, networks and knowledge. This damage or impairment. 16 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 Engaging with our people Engaging with employees means listening, sharing, recognizing Transparent communications: at EY, we believe in being and rewarding them for their energy and commitment. Around the transparent with our people: no organization can engage its world, we do this in a variety of ways. people without communicating with them clearly and regularly. And in turn, we expect our people to demonstrate this culture of transparency with their stakeholders. Some of the ways we connect Valuing and rewarding our people with our people around the world include: EY operates in more than 150 countries worldwide, and we believe Social networking tools: in 2014 we introduced a new social in providing our people with highly competitive compensation networking tool, Yammer, which allows us to share our best in keeping with local needs, the prevailing employment market practices, successes and suggestions with each other worldwide. circumstances and relevant business conditions. It enables greater networking across ranks, service lines and cultures, and helps people to share ideas. So far we have more Although compensation is a local matter, we have deployed a global than 100,000 users in more than 140 countries sharing over a compensation administration tool to more than 80 countries to thousand messages a day. Our Yammer network is also expanding enable a more accurate comparison of pay data. This is a significant opportunities for partners and other senior leaders to communicate step forward in how we maintain a fair and efficient reward process with everyone in EY. for our people. By housing all our employee reward data in one place, the tool allows our reward professionals and managers to We also connect with our people through: determine and apply salary increases and bonus payments more • Your EY Daily News: our daily internal email newsfeed efficiently than in the past. • Magazines published by our service lines • Internal newsletters targeted at specific global groups Recognizing achievements • Frequent opportunities to engage with our colleagues and leaders Through our Chairman’s Values Award (CVA), we celebrate those • Counselling families who live our values in their day-to-day lives. This is our way of helping our people nominate and acknowledge the inspiring • Town halls individuals around them who have gone the extra mile for their • Twitter accounts clients, their colleagues and their communities. • Our own global YouTube channel www.youtube.com/user/ErnstandYoungGlobal Sharing, listening and responding We are committed to engaging our people, understanding their views, asking for feedback and acting on it. To do this, we use: Listening tools: EY’s Global People Survey (GPS) is one way we listen to our people. As part of the survey, which takes place every two years, we ask all our people how they think EY is doing. Questions cover our strategy and leadership, quality, recognition and rewards, inclusiveness, development and corporate responsibility. The survey has been in place for more than 10 years and provides our leadership with valuable feedback on what is working and what we can improve on. In addition to the GPS, we keep the lines of communication open by asking for feedback through face-to-face meetings, spot surveys, polls and focus groups. In 2014, we conducted a “pulse” survey. This is a shorter, more focused version of the GPS, concentrating on engagement and the priority action areas identified in the 2013 GPS. The pulse survey is intended to measure the current feeling within our organization and provides an early progress-check on movement and trends since the 2013 GPS and before the 2015 GPS. Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 17 EY is the world’s most attractive professional services employer — and second most attractive employer overall — in Universum’s 2014 World’s Most Attractive Employer ranking. “No company has been able to better articulate its deep commitment to creating an inclusive workplace both globally and domestically than EY.” — DiversityInc magazine ranked EY third on its global Top 50 list in 2014 Our commitment to our people and our workplace has • Mexico’s Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare named EY an Awards and recognition been recognized through various awards: Inclusive and Responsible Family Company (EY Mexico) • Australian Workplace Equality Index Silver Tier Employer • NTUC Women’s Development Secretariat’s Best Companies for Mums and Best Supportive Colleagues awards (EY Singapore) • Australian Human Resources Institute’s Diversity Award • Opportunity Now and Race for Opportunity Top 10 private sector • Business Disability Forum’s Best Talent Award (EY UK organizations for both gender and Black and Minority Ethnic and Ireland) (BME) diversity and inclusion • Catalyst Award for EY’s dedication to the recruitment, • Opportunity Now and Race for Opportunity Top Ten Private Sector development and advancement of women Performer, recognizing our work in race and gender equality (EY UK and Ireland) • Corporate Research Foundation Institute’s Best Employers (EY South Africa) • SG Enable’s Enabling Employer award in support of persons with disabilities (EY Singapore) • DiversityInc’s Top 10 Companies for Diversity for seven consecutive years • Singapore’s 100 Leading Graduate Employers, second place • DiversityInc’s Top 10 Companies for Executive Women • Stonewall’s European Diversity Award • ET Now’s Diversity Impact Award and Talent Leadership • Stonewall’s Star Performer inaugural member Award (EY India) • Stonewall’s Top 100 public and private sector employers for gay, • FORTUNE’s 100 Best Companies to Work For list® for lesbian and bisexual employees (EY UK and Ireland) 15th year • The National Association for Female Executives Top 10 Companies • InBusiness Best Workplace in Cyprus • The Times Top 50 Employers for Women (EY UK and Ireland) • Great Place to Work Institute’s Top 25 World’s Best Multinational Workplaces • The Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency’s Employer of Choice for Women for 11 consecutive years (EY • Great Place to Work Institute’s Best Companies to Work Australia) For (EY Mexico and EY UK) • Working Mother’s Best Companies for Multicultural Women • Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equity Index gave EY 100% rating for the ninth consecutive • Working Mother’s Top 10 Companies for Working Mothers; year (EY US) 100 Best Companies for Working Mothers for 15 consecutive years • MediaCorp’s Best Diversity Employers for five consecutive years for EY Canada 18 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 Our values create a strong foundation Like any responsible and sustainable business, our values are Shared values the fundamental beliefs of our global organization. They are the bedrock of our culture and they guide our actions and behavior. Our shared values inspire our people and guide them to do the right Specifically: thing, and EY’s commitment to quality is embedded in who we are and in everything we do. We are: • EY’s senior leaders set the tone from the top • People who demonstrate integrity, respect and teaming • Our values are shared by our people • People with energy, enthusiasm and the courage to lead • EY’s Code of Conduct and policies provide guidance on how we should behave and what we should expect from others • People who build relationships based on doing the right thing Code of Conduct EY/Ethics Hotline The Code provides a clear set of the standards that guide our We support the Global Code of Conduct with our EY/Ethics Hotline actions and our business conduct. Organized into five categories, that can be used confidentially, either anonymously or on a disclosed the Code contains principles that are to be followed by everyone basis, to report an activity that may involve conduct that is unethical, within EY. And we ask everyone at EY, no matter where they are in illegal, in violation of professional standards or otherwise inconsistent the world, to make a personal commitment to abide by our Global with our Global Code of Conduct. Employees, clients and others Code of Conduct. Specifically: can contact the hotline by telephone or internet using their local language, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. • Working with one another • Working with clients and others When a report comes into the EY/Ethics Hotline, it receives immediate and careful attention. Depending on the type of issue, • Acting with professional integrity people from Risk Management, Human Resources, Legal or other • Maintaining our objectivity and independence functions are involved to address it. Although we encourage • Respecting intellectual capital people to raise any concerns with their counselor, mentor, local partner or any other person of trust first, the hotline is available for circumstances where other channels of communication are inappropriate. www.eyethics.com Updated people numbers In FY14 we recruited 60,000 people around the world, taking our total headcount to an all-time high of around 190,000. EMEIA Japan 90,564 7,266 people people Americas 58,411 Asiapeople 32,051 people Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 19 20 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 Supporting our clients, our profession and our marketplace Fundamental to building a better working world is our commitment to promoting increased trust and confidence in business, sustainable growth, within and beyond EY, development of talent in all its forms and greater collaboration. An important way we do this is through our services — which help build trust and confidence in the capital markets, around the world. This is why our efforts to support our clients, our profession and our marketplace are underscored by working together with stakeholders. We are proud to work with governments, policymakers, nonprofits and regulators to create positive, long-term change. Our multi-pronged approach reflects our belief that our profession plays a vital role in promoting investor confidence in financial reporting and the world’s capital markets. We recognize the importance of this role and take seriously our commitment to executing high-quality professional services. EY’s reputation for quality is fundamental to this. Through globally consistent policies and practices, independence processes and our Global Code of Conduct, we continue to set the bar for service quality. Additionally, around the world, we are committed to helping support economic growth and job creation that is driven by entrepreneurs and the increased participation of women in business, as well as contributing to developing the next generation of talent. Through this focus we believe that we have a significant role to play in supporting sustainable economic growth and in addressing some of the world’s most pressing issues such as youth employment — one of the most intractable issues affecting business, society and the economy today. In this section, see how we are addressing the UNGC principles focusing on anti-corruption. Visit page 47 for further detail. Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 21 Building a better working world through our services At EY, we believe that through every audit, every tax return, every Advisory service line, we focus on improving clients’ performance advisory opportunity, every interaction with a client or colleague, by helping them to translate their strategy into reality through our people are making the working world a better place than it was better risk management, improved finance functions, and better before. And our services are helping to build trust and confidence — supply chain and customer management. directly and indirectly. For example, through our: Advisory’s sub-service lines include: Performance Improvement, Assurance service line, we help build confidence to stakeholders. Risk, and IT Risk and Assurance. It has deep competencies in risk, Auditors play a vital role in the efficient functioning of our capital finance, supply chain and customer and information technology. markets by promoting transparency and supporting investor confidence. Our standing in the market has been recognized by external organizations around the world: Assurance has five sub-service lines: External Audit, Financial • Best Audit Services award for Asia Hedge Fund Services by HFM Accounting Advisory Services (FAAS), Climate Change and Awards Asia Sustainability Services (CCaSS), Accounting Compliance and Reporting (ACR), and Fraud Investigation and Dispute Services • AsiaRisk’s Consulting Firm of the Year, for FSO APAC (FIDS). • Excellence in Productivity & Innovation at the Singapore Accountancy Awards (EY Singapore) Transaction Advisory Services (TAS), we help our clients raise, preserve, invest and optimize capital — and to work more efficiently • Alternative Investment Audit & Advisory Firm of the Year by and effectively. Wealth & Finance Magazine (EY Luxembourg) • Best management consulting firm by BRW Client Choice Awards TAS has three sub-service lines: Transaction Support, Capital (EY Australia) Transformation and Transaction Tax. • First for Risk Management, Banking and Securities and Insurance Tax service line, we are dedicated to helping clients meet their by Gartner complex tax obligations around the globe and to understand risks • First for Business Consulting, GRC, Organization & Change, Public associated with their tax decisions. Sector, Life Sciences by IDC Tax has several sub-service lines: Business Tax Services, • Winner of Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise Award for the Global Compliance and Reporting, Human Capital, Indirect Tax, 16th time by Global Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (MAKE) International Tax Services and Transaction Tax. 22 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 Promoting transparency and trust Helping clients report transparently We take our public interest responsibilities seriously, and we work hard to maintain an open and frank dialogue with our stakeholders Around the world, we are helping clients with sustainability as part of our broader commitment to building a better working reporting. This often requires companies to measure world. When meeting with our stakeholders, we seek to better processes and impacts they have not measured before. understand their points of view and provide our perspective. We In addition to creating greater transparency, this can also support improvements in corporate governance, financial reporting help in efforts to reduce the use of natural resources, and other matters that affect our capital markets more broadly. increase efficiency and improve operational performance. Specifically: Transparent reporting can also help companies to strengthen their reputation, increase access to capital, and meet the Through engagement — We are engaging increasingly with global expectations and increase the trust of their stakeholders. organizations including the: At EY, we recently introduced a global sustainability report • Financial Stability Board template, promoting greater transparency and consistency in our own reporting. • International Forum of Independent Audit Regulators • Basel Committee on Banking Supervision Tackling fraud and managing risk • Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Our more-than-2,000 fraud investigation and dispute • International Organization of Securities Commissions professionals around the world are helping clients deal with complex issues of fraud, regulatory compliance and We also participate in global forums, such as those held by the business disputes. We do this by assembling teams who World Economic Forum in Davos and elsewhere, that bring together bring their broad sector experience, their deep subjectthought leaders on issues important to us and our stakeholders. matter knowledge and the latest insights from our work And we have enhanced our engagement with the OECD as it works worldwide. By helping our clients manage their fraud risk and to revise its Corporate Governance Principles. compliance exposure better, we are helping to build trust in the marketplace. In 2014 we have met regularly with investors, regulators, legislators and other stakeholders to discuss the latest issues and opportunities affecting our profession. Investors are among our key stakeholders and EY has continued to increase our investor engagement around the world to make sure we understand their perspectives on auditing, financial reporting, corporate governance and other capital market issues. Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 23 Convening stakeholders — We are committed to proactively • A member of leading organizations including the Asian Corporate bringing together key stakeholders. For example, EY held a Governance Association. workshop with investors in the UK to discuss aspects of EY’s audit • A frequent sponsor of International Corporate Governance methodology, governance and other key topics. And we have Network conferences and a sponsor of Transparency continued to hold private dialogue dinners with investors and other International’s Corruption Perception Index. stakeholders from around the globe to foster discussion about ways to improve corporate governance. These dinners are independently • Signatory to the World Economic Forum Partnering Against moderated and held on a Chatham House Rule or off-the-record Corruption Initiative (PACI). PACI’s mission is to develop multibasis to encourage frank discussion. industry principles and practices that will result in a competitive and level playing field based on integrity, fairness and ethical Supporting networks and associations — EY is: conduct. • An active participant in the Global Auditor Investor Dialogue, an informal network of leading global institutional investors and major global auditing networks, to exchange views on current financial reporting and auditing issues. Engagement with stakeholders enhances our perspectives on a wide variety of policy matters. We value the opportunity to better understand the views of others. We are proud to support our clients to promote transparency and trust through our international development team. Around the world our international development team focuses on stimulating economic growth through governmental reform and financial management; the provision of infrastructure; and providing support to the emerging private sector. In achieving this, the team works primarily with leading non-governmental organizations, development banks, intergovernmental organizations and aid agencies to strengthen countries as they achieve their development targets. 24 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 Walking the walk Our organization is built on strong internal structures and frameworks. The structure of the EY organization and our global policies and These include policies that set the foundation for us as an organization. procedures on quality follow the organization of Article 40 of the They guide the behavior of each EY person, help us limit risk, ensure European Union’s 8th Company Law Directive. independence and support measures like anti-corruption. Executive and Regions A globally integrated approach EY is organized into the Executive and Regions. The Executive Over the past decade we have transformed our organization to includes the Global Executive, our highest management body, its keep in step with globalization and the changing needs of EY’s committees and teams. It sits across 28 Regions, which are divided people and clients. Today, global integration is one of our greatest into four Areas: Americas, Asia-Pacific, EMEIA (Europe, Middle East, strengths. India and Africa) and Japan. It enables us to implement our global strategy effectively and helps The Executive is responsible for our global approach to strategy, our member firms deliver consistent quality and exceptional client quality, risk management, business planning, investments and service. Other benefits include a greater scale of resources and priorities. We operate through our Regions and this model allows more opportunities for our people. In terms of audit, our integrated for greater focus on our stakeholders, ensuring that EY can build approach helps us to apply global audit standards, enhances audit stronger relationships and be more responsive to local needs. quality, and supports the consistent application and inspection of our audit and other service methodologies. But the benefits go EY’s global organization structure includes: beyond just audit. Importantly, an integrated focus on quality and risk management, including independence, across all service lines • Global Advisory Council increases our ability to produce clear, consistent guidance and • Global Executive related training in a timely way. • Global Executive Committees Benefits of our global approach include: • Global Practice Group • A strong, global, diverse leadership team with one global • EYG member firms strategy, complementing local accountability • The ability to look across EY, resulting in improved quality and risk management F  or more information, read page 8, EY Global Transparency Report 2014, www.ey.com/transparencyreport. • A broader view of the market for investment purposes and to address specific client issues • Sharing knowledge and experiences from external and internal Our Code of Conduct inspections to enhance audit quality • Consistency of services and better access to specialist resources EY’s Code of Conduct, explained in detail earlier in this report, sets out our principles and guides our behavior across all areas of activity. • A higher level of quality assurance for cross-border companies More detailed information is provided on page 19. • The ability to support the development and effectiveness of Our stance will always be that no client is more important than global International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), professional reputation — the reputation of EY and the reputation of integrated capital markets, industry and other subject matter each of our people. resource networks “The Code provides a clear set of standards for our business conduct. It presents each of us with an ethical and behavioral framework to guide our response to the challenging and sometimes difficult choices we face.” — Beth Brooke-Marciniak, EY Global Vice Chair — Public Policy Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 25 Our independent non-executive Global risk management representatives (INEs) EY’s Global Vice Chair — Risk Management is responsible EY has invited world-class leaders in related fields to serve as INEs on for enterprise-wide risk management, including overseeing the Global Advisory Council (GAC). They provide an independent voice organization-wide quality initiatives across EY’s four service lines in to the highest levels of management and insight into the interests Assurance, Advisory, Tax and Transaction Advisory Services. of EY’s key stakeholders. EY follows the UK Audit Firm Governance Code model for INEs by selecting individuals who command respect The Global Vice Chair — Risk Management is also responsible and collectively enhance shareholder confidence by virtue of their for establishing globally consistent risk management execution independence, stature, experience and expertise. priorities and enterprise-wide risk management. These priorities cascade to member firms, and their execution is monitored through a formal Enterprise Risk Management Program. EY’s INEs For more information, read page 13, EY Global Transparency Report • Shyamala Gopinath 2014, www.ey.com/transparencyreport. • Sir Richard Lambert • Klaus Mangold Tackling bribery and insider trading • Mark Olson Insider trading For more information, read page 10, EY Global Transparency Report 2014, www.ey.com/transparencyreport. Our Insider Trading Global Policy reaffirms the obligation of our people not to trade in securities with insider information, provides detail on what constitutes insider information and identifies with whom our people should consult if they have questions regarding their responsibilities. Anti-bribery The Anti-bribery Global Policy provides our people with direction around certain unethical and illegal activities. It emphasizes the obligation of our people to comply with anti-bribery laws and provides greater definition of what constitutes bribery. It also identifies reporting responsibilities when bribery is discovered. In recognition of the growing global impact of bribery and corruption, efforts have been increased to embed anti-bribery measures across EY, and training is mandated for all our people. 26 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 Complying with legal requirements success as independent auditors. We continue to invest in initiatives to promote enhanced objectivity, independence and professional Trade sanctions: EY monitors sanctions issued in multiple skepticism. For example, we have: geographies and provides guidance to our people on impacted • Designed a comprehensive set of global audit quality control activities. policies and practices that meet the requirements of the International Standards on Quality Control, issued by the Data privacy: the Global Personal Data Privacy Policy sets out the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). principles to be applied to the use and protection of personal data, including data relating to current, past and prospective personnel, • A Client Acceptance and Continuance Policy that sets out clients, suppliers and business associates. principles to determine whether to either accept a new client or engagement or to continue an existing client or engagement. Document retention: EY member firms apply their retention policies These principles are fundamental to maintaining quality, to all engagements and personnel. Documents must be preserved managing risk, protecting our people and meeting regulatory whenever any person becomes aware of any actual or reasonably requirements. anticipated claim, litigation, investigation, subpoena or other government proceeding involving a member firm or any of its work. • A Conflicts of Interest Global Policy that defines global standards for addressing categories of potential conflicts of interest and Visit EY’s Global Transparency Report 2014, page 22, for more a process for identifying them. It also includes provisions for information. www.ey.com/transparencyreport. managing potential conflicts of interest as quickly and efficiently as possible through the use of appropriate safeguards. • A Global Audit Methodology (EY GAM) that provides a global Internal quality control systems framework for delivering high-quality audit services through the consistent application of thought processes, judgments and Providing high-quality professional audit services independently, procedures in all audit engagements. objectively and ethically is fundamental to EY member firms’ • The Global Tool for Acceptance and Continuance (GTAC) — EY’s intranet-based system for efficiently coordinating client and engagement acceptance and continuance activities in line with global, service line and member firm policies. GTAC takes users through the acceptance and continuance requirements and identifies the policies and references to professional standards needed to assess both business opportunities and associated risks. • The Global AQR program — the cornerstone of our process to monitor audit quality. All EY member firms execute the Global AQR program, report results and develop responsive actions plans. The program’s primary goals are to determine whether global and member firm quality control systems are appropriately designed and followed in executing audit engagements and to provide member firms reasonable assurance of compliance with policies and procedures, professional standards and regulatory requirements. As part of Vision 2020, EY is spending US$400m on improving audit methodologies and tools to continue to enhance audit quality. At the same time, a major investment in technology and services, of US$1.2b, is delivering transformational technologies to help EY member firms better connect with their clients. Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 27 Independence practices Audit partner rotation Auditor independence is fundamental to the quality of audits and EY supports audit partner rotation because it provides a investor confidence in financial reporting and more broadly in the fresh perspective and promotes independence from company capital markets. We have a number of policies and systems in place management, while retaining expertise and knowledge of the to support this. Examples include: business. Audit partner rotation, combined with independence requirements, enhanced systems of internal quality controls and • EYG Independence Policy — this sets out the independence independent audit oversight, helps strengthen independence and requirements for member firms, professionals and other objectivity. Together, they are important safeguards of audit quality. employees. EY member firms comply with the audit partner rotation • Global Independence System (GIS) — an intranet-based tool that requirements of the code of the International Ethics Standards helps determine the listed entities from which independence is Board for Accountants (IESBA), each individual country’s standard required and the independence restrictions that apply to each. setter and/or regulator, and the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) where required. • Global Monitoring System (GMS) — an important global tool that helps identify proscribed securities and other impermissible For more information, read page 22, EY Global Transparency Report financial interests. 2014, www.ey.com/transparencyreport. • Audit committees and corporate governance — EY recognizes the important role audit committees and similar corporate governance bodies play in overseeing auditor independence. Through our Supply chain rigor quality review programs, we monitor and test compliance with our standards for audit committee communications, as well as the We also look at our supplier relationships both to make our supplier preapproval of services, where applicable. base more diverse and to raise supply chain standards. Our Global Procurement Policy includes a Supplier Code of Conduct to ensure • Service Offering Reference Tool (SORT) — this includes guidance that those organizations that supply us with products or services around which services can be delivered to audit and non-audit operate to the high standards that we expect of ourselves. clients, as well as independence and other risk management issues. • Business Relationship Evaluation Tool (BRET) — supports our business relationships’ compliance with independence requirements. Our people are required to use BRET in many circumstances to evaluate and obtain advance approval of any potential business relationship with an audit client. 28 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 Strengthening our communities We believe we can make our most significant impact on society Programs for entrepreneurs by concentrating our efforts on the areas where society’s needs intersect with our own business strategy and the distinctive At EY, we believe in supporting entrepreneurs at their many stages skills, services and experience of our people. By extending the of development through programs delivered by our people, and in reach of our core business and competencies in the areas of some cases designed by them. The programs, highlighted below, entrepreneurship, the next generation of talent and a diverse support small and medium-size entrepreneurs, including: and inclusive society, we can support global, regional and local • Small entrepreneurs in low-income countries economic stability and growth and address some of the major issues that the world is facing. • High-impact entrepreneurs in emerging markets • Budding student entrepreneurs Supporting entrepreneurs By sharing their time, experiences and skills, our people help EY has been advising, supporting and championing entrepreneurs entrepreneurs to make a difference to their businesses and their for decades and we are proud of our role in helping them succeed communities. At the same time, we recognize that our support of and grow sustainably. Entrepreneurs drive innovation and create mediumand small-scale entrepreneurs enables our people to develop jobs and wealth for their communities, which results in broader new skills and experience how a business operates in its entirety. economic growth and other social benefits in the marketplace. This is why we are committed to helping entrepreneurs — big or small — We also believe that by supporting entrepreneurship — through achieve their potential. teaching, collaboration and our intellectual capital — we can address the issue of youth unemployment. This is why, in addition to the thousands of young people we hire, we help thousands more develop the skills needed to join the working world as young entrepreneurs or to become more valued employees. Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 29 Enterprise Growth Services Accelerate Helping entrepreneurs change lives Developing the most promising social enterprises Enterprise Growth Services (EGS) extends EY’s long-standing Accelerate focuses on providing business acumen and expertise to commitment to advising, supporting and championing the social enterprise sector in order to drive operational efficiency entrepreneurs. EGS is a corporate social enterprise, bringing the and in turn increase social impact. best of our people, services and expertise to organizations that would not ordinarily be able to work with us. Accelerate supports young social entrepreneurs (18–30) and social enterprises with a focus on supporting young people into Our teams help job-creating small businesses and the social employment, training or enterprise. entrepreneurs who use the power of the market to improve health, education and access to energy in their communities. We’re building The program includes access to a business advisor who provides a better working world in areas of real need, and giving our people tailored one-to-one support for each of our social entrepreneurs; exceptional experiences that last a lifetime. bespoke workshops targeted at increasing knowledge and www.ey.com/EGS understanding of the core business challenges faced by the cohort; and the opportunity to pitch for business troubleshooting support through a resource investment panel. www.ey.com/accelerate Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship Inspiring and engaging the next generation We are proud to support the Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship (NFTE), an organization that has, over the past 25 years, provided entrepreneurship education to more than 500,000 young people worldwide at risk of dropping out of school. NFTE helps students see the relevance of their studies through a series of fun and engaging activities that teach the concepts of entrepreneurship and business. Mentored by our people, students create business plans for their ideas and take part in classroom, city-wide and national competitions. Our people volunteer their time — whether mentoring students, supporting teachers by acting as guest speakers, judging business plan competitions or participating on the NFTE board. We have supported NFTE in Belgium, Chile, China, Colombia, Germany, India, Ireland, Israel, New Zealand, Saudi Arabia and the US. To date, EY has granted college scholarships to top NFTE US graduates totaling more than US$300,000 since 1998. www.nfte.com In 2014 we announced our collaboration with the Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship (NFTE) on a new Entrepreneurial Mindset Index (EMI). This index identifies the presence of entrepreneurial characteristics — traits such as initiative, flexibility, problem-solving and opportunity recognition — in youth in different countries. The index will enable governments, employers and youth groups to focus on developing all the necessary characteristics in young people to enable them to become entrepreneurs or better-skilled employees. We believe the EMI will help develop and shape the next generation of entrepreneurs and employees. 30 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 EY Vantage Program G20 Young Entrepreneurs Alliance Leading change in emerging markets Convening young entrepreneurs The EY Vantage Program works in collaboration with nonprofit EY is proud to sponsor and facilitate the annual meeting of G20 organizations like Endeavor and Power of Youth to provide support Young Entrepreneurs Alliance (G20 YEA). As a collective of leading to high-impact entrepreneurs at no fee, promoting social and entrepreneurship non-governmental organizations (NGOs), G20 economic growth in emerging markets. YEA represents more than 500,000 entrepreneurs across G20 countries and the European Union, who have already created an We dedicate our most valuable resource — our talented people — to estimated 5 million jobs. work alongside entrepreneurs in emerging markets. EY Vantage Advisors spend six to seven weeks assisting entrepreneurs and working with them to identify and address their key business Chrysalis LEAP experience challenges. Since 2005, more than 181 of our top-performing midSculpting innovators into future leaders career have served as EY Vantage Advisors. They have enhanced their skills, developed their potential as leaders and increased EY’s EY is the main sponsor of this new initiative in Cyprus. Chrysalis visibility and reach in the entrepreneurial sector. LEAP aims to teach aspiring entrepreneurs how to develop their www.ey.com/Vantage business plans, find investors and transform their ideas into profitable businesses. Qualifying teams start the program with an intensive boot camp and later attend highly specialized workshops. The program culminates in teams pitching their ideas to a panel of industry experts. www.chrysalisleap.com Youth Business International Encouraging young entrepreneurs around the world We work with Youth Business International, an NGO that coordinates a global network of charities that provide loans, training and mentoring to young entrepreneurs who can’t access finance from other sources. We help the young entrepreneurs directly and have also supported YBI in developing its thinking and capability around performance measurement and data analytics. www.youthbusiness.org Enactus Using the power of entrepreneurial action to transform lives Enactus is a global community of students, academics and business leaders that uses the power of entrepreneurship to transform lives and build a more sustainable world. Through Enactus, university students deliver community outreach projects to help people in need, gaining leadership skills at the same time. They are guided by academic advisors and people from EY and other businesses. EY has been a platinum sponsor for several years, playing a key part in Enactus’ annual national competitions where young students showcase the life-changing projects they have completed. www.enactus.org For more information on how EY people are supporting entrepreneurs, read Empowering our people, strengthening our communities — 100 examples from around the world, www.ey.com/cr. Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 31 Over the past 28 years, EY Entrepreneur Of The Year™ has recognized and celebrated the achievements of tens of thousands of entrepreneurs around the world. The publicity it creates doesn’t just benefit the business community; it benefits our people, who tell us they feel a sense of pride from the linking of our name to leading entrepreneurs and innovators, and to such strong role models. EY Entrepreneur Of The Year™ As the first and only truly global award of its kind, our program celebrates those who are building and leading successful, growing and dynamic businesses, recognizing them through regional and national awards programs in over 150 cities in more than 60 countries. Each nation’s winner then competes for the title of EY World Entrepreneur Of The Year™. Our Global Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation’s annual survey for 2014 highlights the impact of the winners on local and global economies. For the third straight year, our global survey of Entrepreneur Of The Year winners revealed that they expect their employee numbers to increase by 19% for 2014. This is up from 16% in 2012 and 2013. And 76% expect to add to their global workforce this year. www.ey.com/jobcreation www.ey.com/weoy EY World Entrepreneur Of The Year™ winner A focus on inclusive growth On 8 June 2014, Uday Kotak, Founder, Executive Vice Chairman and Managing Director of Kotak Mahindra Bank, was named EY World Entrepreneur Of The Year 2014. In the 1980s, Kotak saw great potential in investment in India. He turned down a coveted position with a large conglomerate to start his own finance company instead. Through innovative partnerships and bold expansion, Kotak has turned his US$250,000 in seed money into a highly diversified international bank with US$2.8 billion in revenues. The Chair of the EY judging panel said, “We were impressed with his strong focus on inclusive growth, providing low-cost services to rural customers that have a tangible impact on people’s lives.” www.kotak.com 32 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 EY centers and academies NextGen Academy — a unique one-week training event designed for young successors in family businesses, held around the world. EY has created centers and academies that draw on our 30-plus We know that to succeed for generations, family businesses must years of experience of working with the world’s most dynamic and ensure that the pioneering values shared by those who established ambitious companies — from start-ups and emerging enterprises the business continue to flourish down the generations. Regardless to rapid-growth companies and market leaders. The centers serve of whether program attendees are planning concrete projects both established entrepreneurs and those just starting out, and for their entrepreneurial future or want to widen their personal include our: network, we help these young adults explore their interests and make a difference as visionary leaders. Now in its sixth year, with Global Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation — an online more than 250 alumni, the NextGen Academy helps young people platform that provides guidance to entrepreneurs and innovators from family businesses accelerate their potential. on planning for the future and growth and how best to access www.ey-nextgen.com funding. The platform includes details of entrepreneurial programs, conferences and forums, and it provides access to an extensive global network. Fast-growing companies can also use the platform to connect and share perspectives and experiences. Sharing our voice www.ey.com/entrepreneurship We believe in sharing our experience as broadly as possible to Global Family Business Center of Excellence — designed to inspire and develop entrepreneurs around the world. That’s support family businesses, their owners and their managers. It why we have a regular feature on Forbes, known as EYVoice, brings together advisors from around EY to share knowledge and www.forbes.com/sites/ey. insights for family-owned companies, wherever they operate in the world. www.ey.com/familybusiness Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 33 Identifying and increasing opportunities for women EY understands the value women bring to business, society and Given public sector leaders make decisions affecting the welfare the economy. That is why we are proud to support and convene of millions of citizens, it is imperative that women are an integral inspiring women around the world through collaboration, part of this decision-making process, and in a way that reflects the sponsorship and networks, covering the public and private sector. gender balance within society. And even before women begin their career, we are helping girls access the right skills so that they can become inspiring young We are helping to address this gender imbalance through: women and future leaders. In this section, you can read how we are • Our Worldwide Women Public Sector Leaders Network, which helping to empower women and also upholding the UN Women’s gives women leaders in the public sector visibility of each other, Empowerment Principles. enabling them to connect with other women in similar positions at a global level, and facilitates exchange on leading practices. We Why women? believe that by sharing best practices, these leaders can identify increased opportunities for women in the public sector. Put simply, we know that women have the potential to play a greater role in the world’s economic and social success than • Our research — the Worldwide Index of Women as Public Sector they currently do. And over the next decade, women will have Leaders has identified certain actions that, when taken together, an enormous influence on business, politics and society — as lead to greater representation of women in leadership roles. producers, entrepreneurs, employees and consumers. www.ey.com/worldwidewomeninpublicsector Here are some of the ways we are helping women achieve their potential: Global Women in Business Advisory Council (GWBAC) Worldwide Women Public Sector Leaders Network EY’s GWBAC is a network that helps to promote, support and better understand women in business. Women business owners and With one billion women expected to join the workforce, start leaders are able to benefit from: businesses and take up leadership positions in the next few years, • A forum to exchange ideas and experiences women are now seen as the next big emerging market — and one that governments around the world need to account for. • Mentoring opportunities Our research shows, however, that despite women constituting • One-to-one coaching a significant part of the overall public sector workforce in many countries, they are significantly underrepresented at leadership • Access to a wide network of peers and thought leadership levels: only 20% of women hold cabinet positions worldwide. relevant to them 34 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 The EY Entrepreneurial Winning Women™ Program Independent research conducted by Babson College found North Now in its eighth year, the program identifies women entrepreneurs American program participants with promising high-growth businesses and connects them to an elite business network and customized executive leadership average 20% revenue growth program that helps them think bigger and set bolder plans in annually. In the second year of motion. Results show the program is spurring rapid growth – according to an independent impact assessment directed by the participation, revenue growth Babson College Center for Women’s Entrepreneurial Leadership, can be upwards of 50%. North America program participant companies’ total 2013 revenue was 63% higher than their total revenues in the years before they joined the program. • Strengthen their executive leadership and business skills and identify opportunities to grow through meetings with senior Winners are introduced to an influential network of entrepreneurs, advisors and seasoned entrepreneurs corporate leaders, investors and advisors, as well as potential partners, strategic alliances, customers and suppliers who can help • Increase national and regional visibility for themselves and their them scale their companies. The program’s year-round activities are companies among corporate executives, investors and the media designed to help women entrepreneurs: Now rolled out in more than 25 countries, including Australia, • Expand their knowledge with the latest information, research and Asia-Pacific, Brazil, Canada, Indonesia, Israel, Japan, New Zealand, executive dialogues about business strategies and practices South Africa, and the US, the program has made a significant • Identify potential partners, strategic alliances, customers and difference through its strategic support of women entrepreneurs. suppliers, as well as prospective sources of private capital The program will continue to expand across EMEIA and into certain • Access informal, one-to-one guidance and support MENA countries. Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 35 “The EY Entrepreneurial Winning Women™ Program has helped me to be bolder — I’m now setting my sights on a 300% growth plan. The opportunities that presented themselves once I gained access to this elite network enabled me to begin building a public profile, seek advisors and utilize new tools and insights, all of which have literally changed my life and erased any doubt of what’s really possible as a leader.” — Kari Warberg Block, CEO of Earth-Kind and member of the Entrepreneurial Winning Women Class of 2012 EY Entrepreneurial Winning Women™ program case studies Inspiring and educating young women in Several leading companies have come to Redwood Classics for Indonesia and beyond their quality and commitment to social responsibility — and this commitment to quality and community has led to many accolades Believing that every girl has great potential, Nina Juliana Moran and including a place on Apparel Magazine’s list of top 10 innovators. her two sisters wanted to create a teen girl magazine in Indonesia that was smarter than most: inspiring and educating in its articles Cheng’s success is a testament to strong vision and leadership. and fashion spreads. Unlike any other teen magazines, GoGirl! She has modernized an old trade, creating a strong framework of aims to educate its teen readers and includes heavier subjects like human rights and social responsibility. politics, the environment, economics, women’s empowerment and entrepreneurship. Hear from EY Entrepreneurial Winning Women™ participants Monthly magazine Gogirl! has a circulation of 180,000 copies directly in our video, which shares their personal and business in Indonesia, with many other Asian countries interested in growth success stories, and read our Force Multipliers report, distributing it. Meaning that Nina’s dream for the magazine to www.ey.com/winningwomen. expand to new regional markets is about to become reality. Challenging the odds and exceeding expectations When Jacqui Spice returned to New Zealand after a decade abroad, she identified that there was a lack of high-level service being offered to high-net-worth people travelling or investing in the country. This prompted her to investigate creating a concierge service. In September 2005, out of sheer determination to lift herself out of unemployment, Spice started her personal concierge business — Touch of Spice. With simple core values — be available 24/7, never say no, think outside the box and exceed expectations — the business has grown from strength to strength. Today the company is the market leader for luxury short-term villa rentals in New Zealand and is recognized by Condé Nast Traveler as a leading villa rental company for four years in a row. The journey has not been easy — with professional and personal hurdles to overcome, but Spice’s success is the result of hard work, an unrelenting belief in her vision and a passion to deliver the best service. Protecting the human rights of workers Kathy Cheng of Redwood Classics, is the founder of an apparel manufacturer in Canada, one of the few to remain based there. With recent off-shore manufacturing tragedies, such as the Bangladesh factory collapse, and poor working conditions, Redwood Classics prides itself on providing safe and clean working conditions, where employees are treated like family. 36 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 The Women Athlete Business Network 400 women executives. Respondents clearly indicated that a sports background benefits a woman’s career. Nearly three-quarters (74%) We established our Women Athlete Business Network (WABN) as part agree that a background in sports can help accelerate a woman’s of our sponsorship of the Rio 2016 Olympic Games. The network leadership and career potential. Close to two-thirds (61%) say that aims to help women athletes find meaningful and fulfilling careers past sporting involvement has contributed to their current career when they retire from sport. It works by connecting the athletes with success and has a positive influence on their hiring decisions. former professionals who have made a successful transition out of competitive sport and with top women leaders in business. Creating mentoring opportunities: The WABN’s new mentoring program — created together with the International Women’s The initiative fits perfectly with our existing efforts to support Forum — pairs 25 current and former elite female athletes with women in business, and it is inspiring for our people to know that top women in business. The mentors will teach, guide and inspire we are working with some of the greatest athletes of all time. Our these athletes — just as their coaches have — throughout 2015, structured approach means that we are: helping them convert the passion, leadership and discipline learned through sport to success in business. The mentees — women who Delivering research: WABN recently collaborated with espnW on a represent 17 sports from 14 countries — will have a local EY liaison new research report that dives further into the connection between and access to the WABN global online community, which provides sport and women’s leadership. Making the connection: women, further networking opportunities and specialized leadership sport and leadership, www.ey.com/press, includes a global survey of development content. Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 37 Positive and sustainable social change • EY has joined She Works, an IFC-led partnership to advance women’s employment in the private sector. Together with is driven by the power of collaboration. nine other major organizations, EY has pledged to improve That’s why we actively work with employment opportunities for more than 300,000 women over the next two years. The She Works partnership includes measures government, nonprofits and other such as mentorship programs, flexible working arrangements and corporates to advance opportunities leadership training to increase diversity in management. for women around the world. • Supporting the development and advancement of women-owned businesses. The CGI commitment supports the development of 15,000 women entrepreneurs outside the US and an increase in corporates’ supply-chain spend with women-owned businesses Supporting civic and business organizations by at least US$1.5b annually. We will help prepare women for entering into large corporate supply chains through initiatives We support a wide range of organizations and initiatives that work such as mentoring and providing access to networks. to improve opportunities for women around the world. For example, we are: Founding members of: Leading the debate: at the World Economic Forum, for the eighth • WE Connect International — an organization committed to helping year in a row, EY convened business, government and NGO leaders to women entrepreneurs around the world gain access to global celebrate women’s leadership and the important role women play in supply chains. We are also local members in Canada, Chile, Costa sustaining and building the global economy. Our Chairman and CEO Rica, China, Europe, India, Mexico and Nigeria. Mark Weinberger delivered opening remarks where he highlighted the business impact of D&I. In addition, Beth Brooke-Marciniak, our • The Third Billion Campaign — a global alliance of corporations, Global Vice Chair, Public Policy, was one of 120 influential leaders governments, nonprofit organizations, academic institutions and who participated in an open forum discussion on Faith and Gender individuals helping to prepare women to more fully participate in Equality: Mind the Gap, on women empowering women. the global economy. Committed to action: as members of the Clinton Global Initiative For more information, read pages 8–10, Women: the next emerging (CGI), we announced our participation in several multi-stakeholder market, www.ey.com/women commitments. Two of our most recent are directly focused on developing women: 38 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 Celebrating International Women’s Day, 2014 To mark this day, our Women Athletes Global Leadership Network hosted a live global webcast on 10 March 2014 and we believe the program will create a network of innovative, attended by more than 2,600 EY people and clients. Entitled ethical leaders with a passion for the continent’s development. “Playing to win: lessons from women athletes and leaders,” participants heard from many of the greatest female The program currently runs in the Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal champions of sport and business, including Beth Brookeprovinces of South Africa and will be launched in Cape Town in 2015. Marciniak, our Global Vice Chair of Public Policy; tennis legend Martina Navratilova; Dame Kelly Holmes, British double Olympic champion and Founder of the DKH Legacy Trust; and Helena Morrissey, CBE, founder of the 30% Club. They Research and analysis shared their lessons of success and failure — on the field and As part of our commitment to leading the dialogue around the in the workplace — discussing topics including the leadership advancement of women, we have been prolific publishers of qualities critical to success, overcoming obstacles and research papers dealing with women’s workplace and business adversity, the greatest challenges women still face and making issues, including: mentorship work. • The Vital entrepreneur: www.ey.com/global • Force Multipliers: www.ey.com/sgm • Women: the next emerging market: www.ey.com/women Developing future generations • Unleashing the power of women entrepreneurs: www.ey.com/ Our NextGen Africa Program is designed to create a network womenentrepreneurs of support for the next generation of women leaders in Africa. • Worldwide Index of Women as Public Sector Leaders: www. It provides leadership skills training, extra tutoring, mentoring ey.com/womenleadershipindex and financial assistance for tertiary education. So far, more than 100 schoolgirls (aged between 15 and 18) have been selected • High achievers — Recognizing the power of women to spur based on their overall grades and leadership skills. business and economic growth: www.ey.com/highachievers • Women of Africa — a powerful untapped economic force: www. The curriculum prepares girls for university, and beyond, and ey.com/womenofafrica includes an innovative three-part experience that consists of “leadership camp” courses. Our people are involved at every step, • Global Point of View, Women on Boards: www.ey.com/global Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 39 40 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 Increasing the sustainability of our planet We believe the biggest contribution we can make to minimizing the negative effects of climate change is to support our clients and the market in moving toward a lowcarbon economy. Through our Climate Change and Sustainability Services (CCaSS) and Cleantech practices we are helping our clients around the world operate more sustainably. At the same time, we’re challenging ourselves to work in a more environmentally sustainable manner and to find new ways to reduce our carbon footprint and waste stream. In this section, see how we are addressing the UNGC principles focusing on the environment. Visit page 47 for further detail. Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 41 Supporting our clients on their lower-carbon journey Our Cleantech and CCaSS professionals help governments and • Our Global Cleantech Center comprises professionals, drawn from organizations around the world address the environmental, social across the world, in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory and economic impacts of climate change. They help clients reach services who understand the business dynamics of cleantech and their sustainability goals and transition to a lower-carbon economy help clients innovate in technology, business models, financing by providing a range of skills and services. For example: mechanisms, cross-sector partnerships and corporate adoption. • We help clients identify their entire carbon footprint and help • We also advise clients on meeting energy-use targets, helping to them prepare for, and respond to, risks around prolonged them to reduce carbon emissions and enhance their corporate drought, sea-level changes and adverse weather patterns. reputation. • Our global CCaSS practice helps organizations to understand the components of a sustainability strategy and improve their performance in this regard. We have developed best practices to help clients address the most important sustainability factors, including managing risk in a resource-constrained economy. Positively influencing change As a leading provider of sustainability services, we continue to We led the development of the “Value Creation — Background Paper contribute to the sustainability debate and share knowledge with for the IIRC” and have built on this relationship by holding joint EY/ our clients and the broader business community. It is through these IIRC roundtables in France and Brazil. debates that we can positively influence change, working closely with key regulatory bodies and industry standard setters. For example: We contribute to technical sustainability working groups aimed at standardizing definitions and approaches, such as the Global Our Global CCaSS practice organized and hosted the third Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Sustainability Accounting Standards Sustainability Summit, bringing together key figures from the Board (SASB) and the American Institute of Certified Public worlds of government, business and academia. Accountants (AICPA). We are among a select group of organizations supporting the We were a major sponsor of the Global Reporting Initiative Global International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) through our Conference. participation on the Board, the Council, working groups and secondments (with an EY person serving as Deputy to the CEO). Our global carbon footprint We continue to build out our greenhouse gas measurement and We also continue to increase the energy efficiency of our offices reporting. Working with our own in-house Climate Change and and, although travel is critical to our business, we are investing Sustainability Services professionals, we have established a global in travel alternatives, like Telepresence videoconferencing and methodology for calculating our environmental impacts. enhanced desktop and mobile options. As we continue to refine it, we are looking for ways to allow our methods to continue to evolve and to employ leading practices to Increasing efficiencies make sure we have a credible global footprint. By globalizing many of our core business functions, such as IT, real In addition, we are working with our stakeholders to lay the estate, procurement and travel, we are increasingly able to share foundation for improved centralized data collection to streamline insights and progress around the world. This allows us to improve our work and improve the quality of the energy and business travel the environmental sustainability of our operations by sharing data gathered. This will enable us to set meaningful goals and best practices to set global environmental goals and to measure reduction targets across the globe in the future. progress through our newly created environmental scorecard for global functions. 42 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 Explanatory notes EY’s carbon footprint Our carbon footprint is calculated in line with the EYG Carbon Footprint Methodology, which is based 918,000 on the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol. tCO2e We have used 2014 CO2 conversion factors published by DEFRA/DECC in the UK, or locally published 5.13 factors where appropriate, to calculate our emissions. The conversion factors used to calculate tCO2e / FTE emissions from air travel include the impact of “radiative forcing.” For further details please refer to http://www.ukconversionfactorscarbonsmart.co.uk/ We collect activity data from a selection of our global operations to estimate our emissions. This data Scope 1 and 2 emissions from office is then extrapolated to provide an estimate of our total global emissions. Specifically: energy consumption and EY owned vehicles • Emissions from office energy consumption are estimated using activity data collected from 22 of our member firms, representing 64% of our office portfolio. 22% • Emissions from air travel are estimated using distance data that represents 91% of our spend on air travel. • Emissions from ground transportation (including rail travel and business travel in EY owned, rental and employee vehicles) are estimated using fuel consumption and distance data for approximately EY’s total travel emissions 75% of our employees. 78 During the course of FY14 we have made a number of changes to the way we collect our carbon % footprint data. These changes relate to the number of EY offices for which energy data is collected and the ongoing implementation of a multi-year global travel procurement program. Our carbon footprint does not therefore represent a like-for-like comparison with global carbon footprint data we Further information in the explanatory notes have published previously. We will continue to develop our approach to carbon reporting in FY15. Engaging and educating Around the world, we are seeking to reduce our environmental footprint by engaging with and educating our people. Examples include: EY offices participated in Earth Hour 2014 in Argentina, Australia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, China (including Hong Kong), Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Finland, Hungary, India, Israel, Italy, Mexico, Montenegro, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Spain, Turkey, the UK and the US. Local campaigns such as environment week or zero-waste initiatives engage our people to make small changes that have a big impact. In the US, our EcoCare network comprises more than 1,000 EY volunteers who constantly find new ways to make us greener. And in the UK, volunteers in almost every office, known as “environment champions,” educate their peers about leading practices relating to travel, energy use and reducing waste. Working with NGOs like Earthwatch allows our people to increase their environmental awareness. Our people conduct scientific research on a week-long expedition with Earthwatch and provide skill-based volunteer services to a local entrepreneur or organization. Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 43 44 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 Upholding the UNGC principles “Our purpose is to help build a better working world. Our commitment to corporate responsibility, including how we reflect the UNGC Principles, is an important element on how we deliver on our purpose across the world.” — Lou Pagnutti, EY Global Managing Partner — Business Enablement Throughout this report, we have shared many examples of how EY is upholding the UNGC principles. Specifically: • Human rights • Anti-corruption • Labor • UN Women’s Empowerment Principles • Environment Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 45 Human rights UNGC principles: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Please refer to the following sections to understand how EY upholds the UNGC human rights principles Section Page Section Page Health and well-being 16 EY/Ethics Hotline 19 Safety 16 Shared values 19 EY Code of Conduct 19 Global Procurement Policy 28 Labor UNGC principles: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor, the effective abolition of child labor, and the elimination of discrimination with respect to employment and occupation. Please refer to the following sections to understand how EY upholds the UNGC labor principles Section Page Section Page High-performing teams 6 Workplace of the future 16 Our people culture — the exceptional EY experience 6 Compensation 17 Recognizing the achievements of Diversity and inclusiveness 7 our people 17 Diversity and inclusiveness training, sponsorships, collaboration 7 Listening, responding and sharing 17 Diversity recruiting 9 Encouraging feedback 17 Learning and development Sharing knowledge, creating opportunities 10 transparency 17 Empowering current and future leaders 11 Awards and recognition 18 Addressing youth unemployment 14 EY/Ethics Hotline 19 Safety 16 Shared values 19 Health and well-being 16 EY Code of Conduct 19 Encouraging flexibility and choice 16 Increasing opportunities for women 34 46 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 Environment UNGC principles: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Please refer to the following sections to understand how EY upholds the UNGC environment principles Section Page Section Page Helping clients transition to a lowercarbon economy 42 EY’s global carbon footprint 43 Sustainability reporting 42 Changing our behavior 43 Engaging with stakeholders — regulators, governments and Educating our people and raising nonprofits 42 internal awareness 43 Creating a global sustainability report template 43 Anti-corruption UNGC principle: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Please refer to the following sections to understand how EY upholds the UNGC anticorruption principles Section Page Section Page Engaging with stakeholders — regulators, governments and Independent non-executives nonprofits 23 Anti-bribery 26 Helping our clients tackle fraud and manage risk 23 Global Policy Sustainability reporting 23 Insider Trading Global Policy 26 Our structure 25 Global risk management 26 EY Code of Conduct 25 Independence practices 28 Limiting risk and promoting strong integration, globally 25 Supply chain rigor 28 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 47 UN Women’s Empowerment Principles EY is a signatory of the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles, a set of principles for business that offer guidance on how to empower women in the workplace, marketplace and community. They are the result of collaboration between the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and the United Nations Global Compact. The principles are 1. Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality Section Page Section Page Diversity and inclusiveness 7 Awards 18 Tracking our progress 9 2. Treat all women and men fairly at work — respect and support human rights and nondiscrimination Section Page Section Page Code of Conduct 19 Global Procurement Policy 28 Our shared values 19 3. Ensure the health, safety and well-being of all women and men workers Section Page Section Page Safety 16 Health and well-being 16 4. Promote education, training and professional development for women Section Page Section Page Increasing opportunities for women Diversity and inclusiveness 7 in business 34 5. Implement enterprise development, supply chain and marketing practices that empower women Section Page Section Page Supply chain 28 Clinton Global Initiative 38 WE Connect 38 6. Promote equality through community initiatives and advocacy Section Page Section Page Diversity and inclusiveness — including Increasing opportunities for women in UN Women UK 8 business 34 7. Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve gender equality UN Global Compact www.ey.com/ungc Women: the next emerging market www.ey.com/women Section Page Section Page Tracking our progress 9 Awards 18 48 Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 Americas EMEIA India Bangladesh, India Canada Africa Mediterranean Angola, Botswana, Cameroon, Chad, Central (US) Italy, Portugal, Spain Congo, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Middle East and North Africa Financial Services Organization Guinea, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Madagascar, Afghanistan, Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Oman, Pakistan, Cayman Islands, United States Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Seychelles, Palestinian Authority, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Israel South Africa, South Sudan, Tanzania, Syria, United Arab Emirates Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe Mexico and Central America Nordics Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El BeNe Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Belgium, Netherlands Nicaragua, Panama UK & Ireland Central and Southeast Europe Republic of Ireland, United Kingdom Northeast (US) Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Estonia, South America Greece, Hungary, Kosovo, Latvia, Lithuania, Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, FYR of Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Montenegro, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Asia-Pacific Venezuela Slovakia, Slovenia, Turkey Asean Brunei, Cambodia, Guam, Indonesia, Laos, Southeast (US) CIS Malaysia, Maldives, Myanmar, Aruba, Barbados, Curacao, Jamaica, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, N. Mariana Islands, Philippines, Singapore, Trinidad and Tobago Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Ukraine, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Vietnam Uzbekistan Southwest (US) Financial Services Organization Financial Services Organization West (US) Greater China FraMaLux Mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau, Algeria, France, Luxembourg, Monaco, Mongolia, Taiwan Morocco, Tunisia Korea GSA Austria, Germany, Liechtenstein, Oceania Switzerland Australia, Fiji, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea Japan Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2014 49 EY | Assurance | Tax | Transactions | Advisory About EY EY is a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services. The insights and quality services we deliver help build trust and Contact confidence in the capital markets and in economies the world over. We develop outstanding leaders who team to deliver on our promises to all Nicky Major of our stakeholders. In so doing, we play a critical role in building a better EY Global Corporate Sustainability Leader working world for our people, for our clients and for our communities. nmajor@uk.ey.com EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of Office: +44 (0)20 7951 1132 the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited Follow on Twitter: @nickymajor by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. For more information about our organization, please visit ey.com. © 2015 EYGM Limited. All Rights Reserved. EYG no. FY0011 EMEIA Marketing Agency 1001465 ED None In line with EY’s commitment to minimize its impact on the environment, this document has been printed on paper with a high recycled content. This material has been prepared for general informational purposes only and is not intended to be relied upon as accounting, tax or other professional advice. Please refer to your advisors for specific advice. ey.com
