SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2014 contents 01 4 About this report .......................................................................................................................................................................... 02 8 Executive summary ................................................................................................................................................................ 03 20 Our business .............................................................................................................................................................................................. 04 32 Our material matters .......................................................................................................................................... 05 36 Our strategic sustainability objectives ........................................ 06 40 Our strategic response ............................................................................................................................. 07 70 Stakeholder Engagement .................................................................................................................. 08 78 Our performance ........................................................................................................................................................... 09 98 GRI Index ................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 10 106 appendices ............................................................................................................................................................................................... 4 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 5 ABOUT THIS REPORT Scope Navigating this report 6 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 7 Scope Our Business Thank you for reading the third annual sustainability report of Safaricom For an overview of our GRI application, please refer to the GRI content Limited, covering our fiscal year of 01 April 2013 to 31 March 2014. index in Section 9. In addition to the GRI guidelines, our reporting is This report builds on our last sustainability report for the year ending also influenced by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), 31 March 2013. As part of our sustainability journey, we aim to present the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the Kenyan all of our stakeholders with a consolidated view of our strategy and Capital Markets Authority (KCMA) Corporate Governance Framework. operations in Kenya, our material matters, how we manage these, and our related performance. We engaged an independent external assurance provider to undertake external assurance over some of our material sustainability key Our Strategy Our Material In order to determine our most material matters1 and, in turn, inform performance indicators (KPIs). Please refer to Appendix B for a copy of Partner of choice for business Delighting our customers Matters the content and boundaries of this report, we held a series of internal our external assurance statement. There have not been any significant Network quality Best Network in Kenya workshops. During these workshops, we discussed and reviewed our Energy security changes during this reporting period in the size, location, structure or Democratising data Innovation sustainability context, stakeholder issues, and the associated risks and ownership of our organisation or our supply chain. YOLO: youthful, original, local, Customer experience opportunities for Safaricom Limited (hereafter referred to as ‘Safaricom’). outstanding Our employees We do not believe that there are any material economic, social or Deepening financial inclusion Environmental performance environmental impacts of the organisation that have been excluded Navigating this report Staying ahead of the curve Business partners from this report. For a description of our material matters, please refer Regulatory issues to page 32. Our sustainability reporting continues to evolve in order to provide Ethics and values a richer, more consolidated view of our sustainability performance. We have compiled this report in accordance with the Core criteria of This year, we have reframed our imperatives and opportunities as our the G4 reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). ‘strategic sustainability objectives’, see Section 5 (page 36), and we have defined our strategic response, relative to these objectives, in Section 6 (page 40). Our performance, in relation to each of our 1 Throughout this report we refer to our material matters. These include both G4 Aspects material matters, is described in Section 8 (page 78). and Safaricom-specific topics that have been determined as material. We value your views and feedback on our sustainability Our Strategic Objectives reporting. Contact us on: sustainability@safaricom.co.ke Deliver the best network by maintaining and enhancing network quality Minimise business disruptions by rolling out alternative energy solutions and enhancing energy security for future growth Develop transformational products and services relevant to different customer segments Remain innovative to service a growing youth sector Actively participate in improving financial inclusion and growing the wealth of Kenyan citizens Protect our customers privacy and promote positive customer experiences at all touch points Maintain a productive, supportive and safe working environment Manage our environmental impact Promote sustainable practices within our business ecosystem Ensure continued regulatory compliance and influence our regulators to ensure a fair business environment Promote ethical and good corporate governance in our business ecosystem Our Strategic Response Our Performance 8 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 9 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 10 Performance highlights 16 Message from our Chairman 18 Message from our CEO 10 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 11 Performance highlights Base stations 3 140 2G-enabled base stations of which 1 847 are also 3G-enabled (59%). 3140 2905 2690 2501 Innovation highlights 1604 1847 1439 New sites deployed 1140 M-PESA 160 2G 12 3G Wimax 126 193 187 203 203 2g 3g No. of new 15 478 services launched no. of m-pesa FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 outlets opened during the year 3 103 283 81 025 Energy consumption minimum number of TOTAL no. of registered users of our new m-pesa outlets innovation services* Electricity (MWh) 19.3 Million *Excluding M-PESA. no. of registered m-pesa customers fy13 96 362 fy14 113 800 Diesel (Litres) Infrastructural investment fy13 5 748 197 fy14 6 833 590 Water (m3) FY Capex Coverage fy13 43 234 fy14 48 963 KSh Billion 27% Kenyan Landmass 30% 30 24% 19.2% Environmental performance 25% 20% 20% 15% 70% 25% 10% FY Capex Capex intensity 2g 3g 5% Carbon Footprint Environmental Impact Assessments: Environmental Audits: 25.48 25.74 24.88 27.78 185 349 0 0% FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Population Scope 1 emissions 34 341 tCO2e Capital expenditure of KSh 27.78 billion spent in: Scope 2 emissions 37 387 tCO2e 90% 58% • Fibre 770km completed Scope 3 emissions 3 634 tCO2e • A further 640km of fibre in progress in key metro areas Nairobi, Nakuru, Mombasa and Kisumu. 2g 3g Total 75 362 tCO2e E-waste collected: carbon 50 tonnes • 2G and 3G capacity growth modernisation and upgrades • Information systems upgrades footprint 12 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 13 Alternative energy solutions Ethics and values Implemented during FY14 Anti-corruption measure No. of employees Issued with warning letters 16 Dismissed 56 Solar and wind Power cubes Free cooling units Low-voltage Auto Deep cycle batteries energy solutions (efficient hybrid installed: Phase Selectors (APS) installed: Reported to law enforcement agencies 7 deployed: energy systems) deployed: deployed: 127 SITES 75 SITES 77 SITES 75 SITES 79 SITES Our employees People Survey RESULTS: Our business partners Compared to last year’s people survey all indices approved as shown below. Number of suppliers undertaking sustainability self-assessment: Average supplier sustainability self-assessment score: 2 005 2 032 Response rate Engagement Index 88 93 Number of Number of 74 77 174 76.6% permanent permanent Manager Index 73 76 women men Employee Net 57 59 Promoter Score *Safaricom Way 77 80 o 2o 4o 6o 8o 10o Financial sustainability 2013 2014 Total revenue KSh Billion Total revenue growth KSh Billion Total customers Million 7.2% 16.5% orange airtel 8.5% 144.67 144.67 OSH yu-essar 124.29 Performance 124.29 21.57 11.1% 0.07 Fatalities 1 3.16 4.72 19.07 19.42 3.47 17.18 Subscriber Lost-Time 8.96 market share 6 Dec 2013 Injuries (LTI) FIFR 0 16.4% LTIFR 0.05 67.9% OSH Occupational Safety and Health Safaricom FIFR Fatal Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate FY13 FY14 FY13 Voice SMS Data M-PESA Devices FY14 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 14 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 15 Progress Highlights In the 2013 Sustainability Report we listed a number of initiatives that we would undertake going forward. The table below shows some of the more significant sustainability initiatives and our progress to date. Our initiatives Progress to date Energy security Create enough energy redundancy to guarantee operational business continuity Building Management Systems installed in 100% of facilities and shops LED lighting installed in 100% of facilities and shops Network quality Deliver the ‘Best Network in Kenya’ by November 2013 Customer To be the number one enterprise integrated services and fixed data provider experience To be the clear market leader from a customer perspective Our employees Production of a safety and health induction video Development of a safety page on the intranet Implementation of an automated ‘permit to work’ tool integrated into site access procedures Roll-out ISOMETRIX system Environmental Achieve IS0 14001 certification performance Include more emission sources in our Carbon footprint Expand the E-waste programme Create waste generation targets Create water consumption targets Achieved In progress Not acheived 16 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 17 Message from our Chairman Expanding the conversation to There is still much to do and learn, of course, but it is deeply We have also shared our commitment to strong ethics and values with make it more inclusive satisfying to see that sustainability is an area of increasing interest and engagement among Kenyan companies. We are delighted to be able our business partners. We communicated our stance, as well as the benefits and value that we believe can be created by operating ethically, As Chairman of the Board, it is to play such an active role in helping to shape the discussion and to be partnering with a growing number of organisations to address the at our annual Business Partners Forum. We are also developing an ‘ethics starter pack’ to assist smaller business partners. my great pleasure to present mutual challenges we face. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the team to you our third sustainability on attaining ISO 22301 and 27001 certification for our Business report. The last 12 months have Strong economic performance Continuity programme and Information Security Management systems, been a dynamic, developmental respectively. Certifying against these globally recognised standards is Even though economic growth fell slightly short of projected targets further confirmation of our drive to achieve world-class standards. period for us as an organisation, during the year, relatively stable interest and exchange rates secured a favourable business environment and there appears to be sustained during which our sustainability interest in Kenya as a business hub and destination for investors. Coming together as a nation ecosystem has grown and we Against this backdrop, we are pleased to be able to report strong While we face many challenges as a nation, it is always gratifying to have expanded our sustainability economic performance in all aspects of our business. Our core voice witness the passion and energy with which Kenyan communities come conversation to include UN revenues grew by 12% and, significantly, non-voice revenues grew by 28%, reflecting the success of our revenue diversification strategy. together in response. It’s an attitude that is clearly apparent in the work of the Safaricom Foundation and, as it celebrates over 10 years of agencies, academia, NGOs and We have been recognised as the Tax Payer of the Year for the fifth year partnerships with Kenyans, I would like to commend the organisation on CBOs, as well as regulators and in a row and contributed KSh 47.61 billion in taxes, duties, spectrum its achievements. Together with the M-PESA Foundation, it has become fees and dividends to Government during the financial year. an important contributor to sustainable development in Kenya. other corporates. Regulation and devolution Moving sustainability up the agenda We operate within a complex, ever changing regulatory environment In closing, it is pleasing to observe that we are no longer tackling and it remained an area of importance and concern during the year, sustainability on our own. As we have expanded the conversation particularly as the momentous devolution process enters its next and reached out, we have been welcomed, and this is reflected in the decisive phase. We have developed a Charter to guide our interactions deepening partnerships we are developing with different organisations. and ensure that we build constructive, respectful, open and transparent It seems that sustainability is moving up the agenda and we would like relationships with all regulators. While we will remain compliant with to urge Government to assist these efforts and to continue to develop all regulation and applicable laws, we will continue to adopt a firm policies that will drive and support responsible businesses approach on issues that may be detrimental to industry growth and are in Kenya. currently engaging with the new County administrations in that regard. Governance and ethics As part of our continuing focus on maintaining strong governance and ethical business practices, we introduced a rigorous Board Charter and Nicholas Nganga successfully concluded the Board Audit Committee self-assessment Chairman & Non-Executive Director process during the reporting period. A reflection of our unwavering Safaricom Limited commitment to the highest standards of corporate governance, I am confident that these accomplishments will guide us to new heights of ethical, accountable leadership and governance. 18 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 19 Message from our CEO Sustainability cannot be From a sustainability perspective, our material concerns have not I am also particularly satisfied to report our continued adoption of achieved in isolation changed significantly since our last report, but our approach has continued to evolve and significantly, we have begun to engage with environmentally friendly, alternative energy solutions, such as solar power, power cubes and deep cycle batteries. I am delighted to welcome our business ecosystem more actively. In terms of our approach, we have engaged an independent assurance provider to undertake external Innovation remains an important part of our business strategy and I was the publication of this report, assurance over some of our material sustainability indicators, refined our especially interested in two of the initiatives that were launched during the reporting period that will significantly improve the lives of many which serves as an expression carbon footprint calculations, and compiled this report in accordance with the new G4 reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. Kenyans. The first is Lipa na M-PESA, which gives M-PESA customers of our ongoing commitment to a fast, safe and convenient way of paying for goods and services at no fee, and the second is Linda Jamii, an affordable micro-health insurance sustainability and the principles We recognise that sustainability is not something that can be achieved service offered in partnership with Britam and Changamka that will in isolation and that we have a responsibility to reach out to partners, of the United National Global suppliers and other companies so that we can tackle the challenges widen the bracket of the population with access to medical care. Compact (UNGC). It has been that face us together. One way we have begun this task is through our supplier sustainability self-assessments and I am pleased to be able to The right time to widen the conversation a year of sustained growth and report a much greater response this year, covering the majority of our development for Safaricom and, largest suppliers. Now that the conversation has begun in earnest, As sustainability becomes an integral part of what we do as an we are planning to support suppliers with training that will help them organisation, it also seems the right time to start turning our attention to as we continue to mature as an achieve the objectives they have identified and prioritised. the wider business ecosystem and communities in which we operate. I organisation, it is pleasing to see am excited about this next phase and looking forward to widening the conversation and engaging in a dialogue with the broader community sustainability becoming ever more Building a better world about creating responsible businesses, in Kenya, and for Kenya. meaningfully embedded into our In September 2013, I was delighted to participate in a UNGC Leaders I would also like to thank the many organisations and people that are daily interactions and operations. Summit in New York. The theme of the Summit was ‘Architects of already interacting with us on sustainability. It is the robust debate and a Better World’ and it had a particular focus on Africa as the lack of vigorous questioning we receive during forums and interactions that resources, skills gaps and conflicting business pressures that plague the helps guide and challenge us. We consider sharing our experiences, continent have prevented many African governments and corporations exchanging ideas and questioning and probing each other to be one of from embracing sustainability collectively. the real values of partnership and we look forward to many more such exchanges in the future. We know that business and society are interdependent and that each has a considerable impact on the other. We also know that sustainable development priorities are actually compatible with long-term business goals. The challenge presented to us as African leaders is to start working together to craft solutions that reflect this knowledge and that Bob Collymore will benefit our companies, our communities and the environments in Chief Executive Officer which we operate and live. Safaricom Limited As a result, one of my personal priorities for the year ahead is to share the concepts and messages of the UNGC Summit with as wide an audience as possible, to open up the discussion and to exchange ideas about sustainable business with other Kenyan leaders and the broader corporate community. Investment and innovation Our strong commercial and financial performance has been underpinned by continued investment and innovation. We invested KSh 27.78 billion of capital expenditure in our infrastructure this year, Want to get up close and personal? with 86% of our radio and 78% of our transmission networks now Use this QR code to visit the Safaricom website and watch a short video clip modernised, 770km of fibre optic network already laid and of Chief Executive Officer, Bob Collymore, presenting his message. an additional 640km underway, 3G coverage extended to 58% of the population and 2G coverage now provided to 90% of Kenyans. Get the free mobile app at http:/ / gettag.mobi 20 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 21 our business 22 What we do 24 Our business model 26 The value we’ve created 28 How we are managed 22 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 23 what we do As an organisation, we have annual revenues of KSh 144.67 billion and have Safaricom is an integrated We operate solely in Kenya and our headquarters are located at 21.57 million communications company, Safaricom House in Nairobi. We consist of a number of operating divisions, including: customers in Kenya, providing voice and data • Chief Executive Office which represents an increase communications services to • Profit Centres of 11.1% in customers from the consumers, businesses and ○ Enterprise business unit previous year. ○ Consumer business unit public sector clients. ○ Financial services Our shareholding structure is composed of the Government of Kenya • Corporate Centres (35%); Vodafone (40%) and free float (25%). We are listed on the Nairobi ○ Risk management Stock Exchange, trading in the telecommunications and technology ○ Internal audit segment. Safaricom Ltd has 4 subsidiaries, which are 100% held and ○ Customer care are disclosed in note 19 of the Annual Financial Statements on page ○ Marketing 111 of the 2014 Annual Report. These subsidiaries are covered by the ○ Corporate affairs disclosures in this report. ○ Finance ○ Resources 25% ○ ○ Technology Strategy and Innovation free float Our operations consist of Safaricom House 1 and 2, the Safaricom Care Centre, the Jambo Contact Centre, 40 retail stores and 3 140 40% 2G-enabled base stations of which 1 847 are 3G-enabled. shareholding Vodafone As an organisation, we have annual revenues of KSh 144.67 billion and have 21.57 million customers in Kenya, which represents an increase of structure 11.1% in customers from the previous year. Our M-PESA money transfer service continues to grow and is used by over 19.3 million registered customers. For further information on the direct and indirect value we provide to society, refer to page 26. 35% We have provided an overview of our business, our strategy, and the Government stakeholders we engage with in the diagram on page 24. For further of kenya information on how we engage with our stakeholders, please refer to Section 7 of this report. 24 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 25 OUR BUSINESS MODEL Shareholders Regulators Our shareholders provide us Our relationships with with capital, which supports regulators impact our our growth. ability to manage our risks and retain our license to Voice Our operate. KSh 86.3 billion Customers Prepaid and Postpaid voice plans. They are vital to the SMS sustainability of Safaricom. They drive us to develop innovative solutions KSh 13.62 billion SMS bundles, MMS, call back SMS notifications for missed calls and ‘please call me’ messages. Business Our strategy Partners Business Partners They are a key part of (Dealers & Agents) how we engage with our customers and the overall customer experience. We engage with Customers Our customers are vital to the sustainability of Safaricom. our customers They provide feedback on our products and services through: and allow us to develop innovative solutions. Our employees Our employees are the face of Direct Safaricom and ambassadors for the company. They (Retail & Call centre) continue to drive innovation and ensure that we acheive our company objectives. Data KSh 11.88 billion Society High speed data connectivity for access Provides us with a to the internet through fixed and mobile conducive operating Devices broadband. environment and a market for our products and Future KSh 4.95 billion services. Media Generations Mobile handsets, mobile broadband modems, routers, tablets, notebooks Financial services Media provides us with a Future generations will and laptops. KSh 26.56 billion platform through which M-PESA a fast, safe and affordable influence the future to communicate with our mobile money transfer method. environment within which customers, in Kenya and we operate. globally, and also influences our brand and image. 26 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 27 The value we have created Direct and Indirect Value to Society Awards We create direct and indirect value for all of our stakeholders through our business operations. Our indirect contributions are more difficult to quantify. Our direct value created, and how it was allocated, is shown in the Value-added Statement below. Best OperatorCompany of Health Care Led Mobile Money the Year Delivery Value-added Statement Service All values are in KSh Billions 2013 Africa Investor (Ai) 2013 Mobile Money Google Innovation PYPer Year Index Series Awards Global Awards Awards Safaricom was awarded the AI 140 Company The Safaricom M-PESA service was The Safaricom TB Care Program of the Year Award due to the value of its accorded the Best Operator-Led Mobile Management, dubbed ‘TIBU’, was shares (measured by market capitalisation and Money Service, beating operators from awarded the Google Innovation HANDSET OTHER liquidity, calculated using the average daily Afghanistan, UAE, Qatar and the USA, Award for Health Care Delivery on 4.95 3.20 value traded in US dollars). in recognition of the success of M-PESA May 29, 2013. and its potential to transform lives. PY 4.93 PY 2.69 M-PESA 26.56 PY 21.84 FIXED SERVICE Value Agricultural Industry Social Media 2.57 created Application Awards Awards PY 2.11 146.51 PY 125.68 IT News Africa Africacom OLX 2013 Awards Best Mobile Awards 2013 MOBILE DATA VOICE iCow was rated as the best African Best Mobile Money Service Excellent Customer Service via Twitter 9.31 86.30 Mobile Agricultural Application by IT News Africa In November 2013. Rural Telecoms Award (M-KOPA) Corporate Twitter Account of the Year PY 6.61 Industry Personality of the year Best use of Social Media in Events PY 77.34 Betty Mwangi-Thuo MESSAGING 13.62 PY 10.15 Employees Marketing Fourth Globally Overall Corporate 10.09 Dealers & agents Awards most of the Year Other operating costs socially devoted PY 8.40 20.25 brand in 2013 33.01 PY 17.39 Marketing Society of Kenya Social Media awards kenya 2013 PY 30.95 Social Bakers Socially Best Integrated Digital Campaign: Devoted Awards Landlords Safaricom Ultimate 7s 2013 1.56 Digital Campaign Winners: Value Okoa Newbie Campaign PY 1.18 License fees allocated 7.96 146.51 Suppliers PY 7.38 PY 125.68 10.99 Shortlisted for the Okoa Shortlisted PY 9.95 for the Shorty Newbie Campaign Awards 2014 Government as tax Retained for growth 11.97 29.97 Kenya Revenue Facebook Studio Awards 2013 Shorty Awards 2014 PY 7.91 Authority PY 27.28 Best use of social media for Dividend Finance expenses Biggest Tax Payer customer service. of the Year 18.83 1.88 PY 12.40 PY 2.84 For more details on our financial performance refer to our 2014 Annual Report. 28 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 29 how we are managed Governance Accountability Good governance is the foundation upon which we build and sustain value. Board of Directors Integrity is fundamental to commercial sustainability and investor trust. Our Board of Directors and Executive Committee (ExCo) remain committed to the highest levels Board Committees of corporate governance, ethical management and responsible control — and regard this as being vital to our success and continued market leadership. We have developed a Governance Charter and regard the following as characteristics of good corporate governance: Discipline: Transparency and disclosure: nomination & The commitment by senior audit ethics management to adhere to The ease with which an outsider is committee renumeration committee behaviour that is universally able to access information relating to the organisation and to make committee recognised and accepted to be correct and prudent. meaningful analysis of the actions of the company, its economic fundamentals and pertinent nonIndependence: financial aspects. The extent to which mechanisms have been put in place to minimise or avoid potential conflicts of interest. Accountability: Executive Committee That individuals or groups within a company, who make decisions or take actions on specific issues, need to be accountable for their decisions and actions. Adherence to laws and regulations: Enterprise Consumer Financial The Board must act responsively and responsibly, Business Business Business complying with all relevant laws and regulations, and allowing for corrective action and the penalising of Fairness: non-adherence or mismanagement. The systems within a company must Marketing Finance Risk Management be balanced and take into account all those that have an interest in Social responsibility: the company and its future. The Corporate Affairs Customer care Resources A well-managed company will rights of various groups have to be be aware of, and respond to, acknowledged and respected, and social issues, placing a high the company must continually focus Strategy & Innovation Technology internal audit priority on ethical standards. on stakeholder value engagement. We foster a culture that values and rewards the highest ethical standards and personal and corporate integrity. All directors and employees are expected to act with honesty, integrity and fairness, in accordance with the laws of Kenya and with respect to the cultures of the Kenyan people. For further detail regarding the governance structure of the organisation, please refer to our Annual Report SL and website SF . AR AR 30 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 31 Ethics The Board The Board is heavily involved in approving the strategic plans of the We are committed to ensuring that ethics and integrity underpin organisation, which includes factors affecting sustainability. During day-to-day business practices in Safaricom. It is of such importance, the reporting period, the Board met twice to review strategy, and we consider it to be one of our material matters. We have constituted an the CEO updates the Board on economic, social and environmental Ethics Committee to inform and drive this agenda within the organisation performance every quarter. The CEO is responsible for social, economic and have signed up to the Kenyan Businesses Code of Ethics as and environmental performance and is the sustainability champion a company. This ambition is supported by a series of ethics and on the Board. A Governance Charter has also been approved. The corruption-related policies. Charter outlines the mechanism for evaluating board performance on a continuing basis. This evaluation includes an assessment of the effectiveness of the full Board, the operations of Board committees Risk management and the contribution of individual Directors on all relevant issues, including sustainability. The results of the assessment of the Board Risk management is considered everyone’s responsibility at Safaricom. and its committees are reported to the full Board. Results of individual The Risk Management Division carries out periodic risk assessments to assessments are given to individual Directors to help them enhance their monitor our environment and performance. We benchmark ourselves contribution. against other leading telecommunications operators and independent assurance is provided through both internal and external audit functions. The Safaricom Board consists of 9 members, 8 non-executive As a company, we endeavour to apply the Precautionary Principle to and one executive director . The Board undertakes conflict of interest all of our activities to ensure that we continue to act as a responsible declarations and any potential conflicts of interest are discussed during corporate citizen. meetings of the Board; if applicable, these conflicts are disclosed appropriately. All employees at Safaricom also make declarations, in terms of employee relations and/or business relations. The Nomination Remuneration and Remuneration Committee (REMCO) recommends and nominates individuals for Board interviews. Members of the committee consider Our remuneration policy aims to attract and retain leaders of the highest Enlightened corporate specific skills (technical, telecommunications, financial and general calibre. Compensation for the highest governance body, executives citizenship management) and gender when assessing potential candidates. Shareholders also nominate people to the Board. and senior managers is linked to performance indicators that include social and environmental performance, as well as strategic and Our CEO, Bob Collymore, remains a committed, active member financial deliverables. Group Executive Committee (ExCo) members of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Board. The UNGC also volunteer their time and expertise to organisations and charities, encourages companies to benefit the economies and societies serving communities in need through the Safaricom Foundation World of in which they operate by committing to 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This Difference programme. The annual pay increases awarded to executive sustainability report is also a reflection of our UNGC commitment to directors are kept in line with overall employee pay increases. report honestly and transparently on our implementation of the 10 principles. In September 2013, Bob Collymore participated in a series of UNrelated speaking engagements in New York, including the UNGC From left to right: Esther Koimett Non Executive Director and alternate to Henry Rotich, ‘Architects of a Better World’ Summit, the UN Private Sector Forum Enid Muriuki Company Secretary, Nancy Macharia Non Executive Director, John on Africa and the UNICEF Children’s Rights and Business Principles Tombleson Executive Director and alternate to Robert Collymore, Michael Joseph Initiative. Non Executive Director, Sunil Sood Non Executive Director, John Otty -Non Executive Director, Serpil Timuray Non Executive Director, Susan Mudhune Non Executive Director, Robert Collymore Executive Director & CEO, Nicholas Nganga We are also members of the following industry associations: Kenya Chairman & NonExecutive Director Association of Manufacturers; International Telecommunication Union; GSM Association; and the Kenya Private Sector Alliance. 32 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 33 Our material matters 34 Network quality 34 Energy security 34 Innovation 35 Customer experience 35 Our employees 35 Environmental performance 35 Our business partners 35 Regulatory issues 35 Ethics and values 34 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 35 In order to determine our most Network quality Customer experience Our business partners material matters, we undertook The coverage and quality of our network needs The experience of our customers at all touch points We need to work with our business partners to a series of workshops to discuss to keep up with the growth in customers and the and on all products and services needs to remain understand their sustainability challenges and increased demands of new technology. exceptional. support them on their sustainability journey. and review our sustainability context, stakeholder issues, Our network is core to our business. It allows us to differentiate As our customer numbers continue to grow, and the industry becomes Our business partners include suppliers and dealers and are an ourselves in a competitive market and is the medium through which we more competitive, it is important that we maintain an exceptional important part of our value chain. We rely heavily on our partners from and the associated risks and transform lives. The quality of our network is an important part of our customer experience. This creates satisfaction and trust and both an operational perspective and also in terms of our reputation. It is opportunities to Safaricom. business and ensures that we are able to deliver a satisfactory service to encourages customers to retain our services. We consider two aspects essential that we manage our relationships with our business partners to This section of our sustainability our customers. Spectrum is allocated evenly among network providers in Kenya. This limitation means that the coverage and adequacy of our when managing our customer experiences. The first is to implement the right processes and procedures to ensure consistent, satisfactory ensure mutually beneficial and sustainable associations. report describes each of our network is put under pressure as our number of customers continues interactions with Safaricom services, products and staff. The second is material matters and how they to grow. We strive to provide the Best Network in Kenya and to meet all to use a combination of service excellence and appropriate marketing to Regulatory issues regulatory Quality of Service targets. create delighted customers who are happy to be ambassadors for the influence us as an organisation. brand and to advocate our products and services. Embedding evolving regulatory best practice in our business requires proactive involvement in There have been no significant Energy security policy formulation, understanding policy objectives, changes to the scope of our Our employees balancing the interests of different stakeholders, The reliability and growth of our network is material matters from last year. dependent on access to reliable and cost effective Our business performance is enhanced by and managing the costs of compliance. As part of the G4 requirements, energy. productive, motivated staff and we are committed The regulatory environment in which we operate is increasingly complex. we have described our The quality of our network is directly influenced by the availability of to providing a safe and supportive working The nature of our industry and the types of products and services that we provide, require us to remain compliant with a wide range of environment. material matter boundaries in energy. Any interruption in energy supply, such as grid electricity outages different rules and laws, including license conditions, sector regulations, Appendix A. This table describes and national shortages of diesel fuel, pose a direct challenge to the continuity of our operations. As we look to grow our network, access to Our employees are essential to the sustainability and success of Safaricom. Our vision of transforming lives begins with transforming by-laws and government legislation. Failure to comply with regulations can damage our reputation and expose us to penalties, onerous fines whether a matter is material reliable and cost–effective energy is an important consideration in our the lives of our employees. One aspect of this vision is to create a and other remedial sanctions. As a result, we consider public policy to, and being managed by, planning processes. supportive working environment that allows us to attract, develop and lobbying an important task and a vital way of ensuring that the operating retain the best staff. Another aspect of this vision is to safeguard the environment for the provision of telecommunications services in Kenya Safaricom, an entity outside of safety and health of everyone, not just of our employees, but also of our remains constructive. our organisation, or both. Innovation contractors, visitors and anyone in contact with our infrastructure and operations. Our business transforms lives through continuous Ethics and values innovation. Innovation is central to achieving our strategic objectives, retaining our Environmental performance We uphold and promote ethical business practices. competitive edge and ensuring that we continue to grow. Innovation Acting in an ethical fashion is not only a key responsibility of ours The environmental impact of our business must be allows us to transform lives by developing tailored and transformational as a good corporate citizen, it also makes business sense. Ethical managed to enhance value creation and maintain products and services. Our innovations are either ‘social’ in nature practices bolster the reputation and trust enjoyed by an organisation, compliance with regulation. (designed to improve the lives of Kenyans directly), promoting financial strengthening employee engagement and improving stakeholder inclusion (providing formal financial services to the unbanked) and/or Over the next few decades, businesses are going to face a growing sentiment and interest. We view ethical business practices as nonnew products or services relevant to different customer segments. number of social and environmental demands and tests, posing new negotiable and continue to promote these principles throughout our challenges and creating new opportunities. We understand that we value chain and the wider business ecosystem in Kenya. have an impact on the environment and that we have a responsibility to mitigate our negative environmental impacts. We also recognise that effective environmental management can do more than simply help to reduce costs and that it can promote the kind of innovation that will make our operations more resilient in an increasingly resourceconstrained world. 36 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 37 Our strategic sustainability Objectives 38 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 39 Based on our vision and material matters, we have identified a number of strategic sustainability objectives that balance our short-term position with our long-term strategy. Achieving these objectives is also an important way of protecting our reputation, which is one of our most important assets as it helps us to attract and retain customers, investment capital and talented employees. The table below describes our strategic sustainability objectives. Our approach to managing each of these is described in Section 6 ‘Our strategic response’. Material matter Strategic sustainability objective Network quality The coverage and quality of our network needs to keep up with the growth in Deliver the best network by enhancing network quality. customers and the increased demands of new technology. Energy security The reliability and growth of our network is dependent on access to reliable Minimise business disruptions by rolling out alternative energy solutions and and cost efficient energy. enhancing energy security for future growth. Innovation Our business transforms lives through continuous innovation. • Develop transformational products and services relevant to different customer segments. • Remain innovative to service a growing youth sector. • Actively participate in improving financial inclusion and growing the wealth of Kenyan citizens. Customer experience The experience of our customers at all touch points and on all products and Protect the privacy of our customers and promote a positive customer services needs to remain exceptional. experience at all touch points. Our employees Our business performance is enhanced by productive, motivated staff and we Maintain a productive, supportive and safe working environment. are committed to providing a safe and supportive working environment. Environmental performance Ensure that our products, processes and operations are safe for the The environmental impact of our business must be managed to enhance value environment. creation and maintain compliance with regulation. Reduce energy usage and related greenhouse gas emissions, conserve water, reduce waste and explore opportunities for reuse and recycling. Our business partners The experience We need to work with our business partners to understand their sustainability challenges and support them on their sustainability journey. Promote sustainable practices within our business ecosystem. of our customers Regulatory issues Embedding evolving regulatory best practice in our business requires proactive Ensure continued regulatory compliance and engage with our regulators to at all touch points and on all involvement in policy formulation, understanding policy objectives, balancing ensure a fair business environment is maintained. products and services the interests of different stakeholders, and managing the costs of compliance. Ethics and values needs to remain We uphold and promote the highest ethical business practices. Promote ethical principles and good corporate governance throughout our exceptional. business ecosystem. 40 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 41 OUR STRATEGIC RESPONSE 43 Deliver the best network by maintaining and enhancing network quality 45 Minimise business disruptions by rolling out alternative energy solutions and enhancing energy security for future growth 48 Develop transformational products and services relevant to different customer segments 52 Remain innovative to service a growing youth sector 53 Actively participate in improving financial inclusion and growing the wealth of Kenyan citizens 54 Protect the privacy of our customers and promote a positive customer experience at all touch points 56 Maintain a productive, supportive and safe working environment 60 Manage our environmental impact 62 Promote sustainable practices within our business ecosystem 65 Ensure continued regulatory compliance and engage with our regulators to ensure a fair business environment is maintained 67 Promote ethical and good corporate governance throughout our business ecosystem 42 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 43 We have disclosed our work around child rights and Safaricom is committed to customer privacy Deliver the best network by maintaining and enhancing developing innovative, affordable and improved the detail and relevant products and network quality of our disclosures regarding services that help our customers the youth, dealers and to transform their lives. We aim agents in this report. Our approach to do this in a responsible and The quality of our network is fundamentally important to ethical manner and believe that our business as it ensures that we are able to deliver a satisfactory service to our customers. Two years ago, our integrity is good for business, Technology Division adopted the Information Technology good for individuals and good Information Library (ITIL) framework, a widely accepted industry framework, consistent with the Safaricom ISO 9001 for society. We apply the Quality Policy. Through ITIL, network quality is achieved and precautionary principle in our sustained through set processes and procedures that include active network monitoring, event management, outage actions and to the way in which management and addressing the root causes of failures. we manage our business. In November 2012, we launched the Best Network in Kenya (BNK) programme, which sets performance benchmarks that We believe that identifying our most material matters and strategic assist us to provide the best network quality to our customers. objectives enables us to manage our performance effectively and ensure that we continue to create and sustain value into the future. While there We have also begun rolling out fibre optic cabling to improve the have been no significant changes to the scope of our material matters coverage of our network and the stability of the M-PESA service. from last year, we have disclosed our work around child rights and customer privacy and improved the detail of our disclosures regarding the youth, dealers and agents in this report. Initiatives to deliver the best network by maintaining and enhancing network quality Our approach to managing each of our strategic objectives is articulated Best Network in Kenya programme in order to provide readers with an understanding of our strategic The BNK programme aims to provide our customers with an response. Performance against our strategic objectives is discussed in unmatched network experience in voice, mobile data, fixed Section 8: ‘Our Performance’. data and Value Added Services. We have focused on 13 major towns, Nairobi, Mombasa, Kisumu, Nakuru, Eldoret, Thika, Malindi, Nyeri, Meru, Embu, Nanyuki, Kakamega and Kisii, and a variety of initiatives have been implemented, including: • Initiatives to curb grid power instability and inaccessibility: Safaricom has invested in back-up power solutions to avoid any loss of service during grid power interruptions. We have also deployed solar and wind energy solutions at 68 sites and installed 70 ‘power cubes’ (an extremely efficient hybrid energy system) where grid power is not accessible. Other initiatives include free cooling, low voltage auto phase selectors and deep cycle batteries. For further detail on these initiatives, refer to our strategic response to Energy security on page 45. • Network modernisation: We have modernised our network equipment — our radio, transmission and core network platform, in particular — to achieve desired Quality of Service (QoS) levels and to activate certain features and capabilities that would otherwise be unavailable. 44 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 45 We focused on initiatives to upgrade the capacity of the M-PESA and During the reporting period, a total of 267 base Fibre roll out M-Shwari platforms. transmission stations (BTS) were modernised on Fibre instability — typically caused by road construction Mombasa Island, the North and South Coasts, and at and acts of vandalism — contributes to a substantial Kitale, Turkana, Kapenguria and Malaba; in addition, proportion of all network failures. In an effort to achieve a 500 microwave links for the transmission platform were more stable network, we have invested in our own fibre modernised across the country. network. This allows for increased redundancies, provides • Broadband capabilities: At the core of the BNK us with greater control of the fibre network, and provides programme is data performance. Our customers require enough capacity for both consumer and enterprise services. fast data speeds and a high quality data experience. We The phased roll out of our fibre network continues and, to upgraded core elements of our 3G sites and transmission date, implementation in Nairobi is almost complete, with links to ensure that high throughputs were achieved. As implementation in Mombasa, Kisumu, Nakuru and Eldoret a result, over 95% of our sites are able to achieve data well underway. speeds of 21 Mbps. Network coverage • Network capacity upgrades and optimisation: We continue to focus on the roll out of both 2G and 3G sites We implemented capacity upgrades across the radio, across the country. In terms of the 2G roll out, we are focusing transport and core platforms to ensure that service on remote areas that had no coverage or areas that are now accessibility is guaranteed, even during peak hours. experiencing degraded signal strength due to factors such For the radio platforms, upgrades on both the 2G and as the development of high rise buildings. While Safaricom 3G technologies were carried out. At the transport level, has the widest 3G footprint in Kenya, there are still areas that upgrades allowed us to achieve the full benefits of the are not covered. All major towns are covered and the focus radio and core platforms. is now on covering smaller urban centres and areas where • Core and transport network resilience: To ensure that coverage has shrunk because usage density has increased. QoS is maintained, we have invested in redundancies in the core network and the transport platform. We have also Additional 2G and 3G sites have also been rolled out to M-PESA stability Minimise business disruptions by rolling out alternative energy provide extra capacity in areas of especially high demand. During the reporting period, we focused on initiatives employed a technology known as ‘pooling’ for core data to upgrade the capacity of the M-PESA and M-Shwari and core voice network elements, which ensures that any During the reporting period, a total of 160 2G and 126 3G platforms. System optimisations were also carried out to solutions and enhancing energy failure of a network element is supported by other network elements, without the customer experiencing any service sites were rolled out. This has extended the coverage of our 2G network to 70% of the Kenyan landmass and 90% of the ensure an acceptable QoS for the M-PESA and M-Shwari security for future growth services. Going forward, we will continue to invest in the loss. The resilience of the transport platform has also been Kenyan population. Our 3G network currently covers 25% of M-PESA platform and ensure that it remains fortified, enhanced through the installation of more than one fibre the Kenyan landmass and 58% of the Kenyan population. resilient, robust and scalable. Our approach cable for connectivity of any major service. To fully achieve automatic switching between multiple fibre cables, a technology called Wavelength Switched Optical Kenyan Landmass The quality of our network and, in turn, our customer Networks has been employed in six major hubs. Awareness and training satisfaction is dependent on a secure and sustainable energy supply. This is becoming more important as we look to • Measures to curb vandalism: We continue to suffer 70% We invested over KSh 200 million in training our technology expand our network, particularly in rural areas that have less losses of equipment and service through acts of 25% staff during the reporting period. A total of 71 courses reliable access to grid electricity. We use energy throughout vandalism, which impacts our customers through service 2g 3g were delivered to 406 employees on different aspects of our business and manage it according to consumption in our disruptions. In order to mitigate these impacts, we have technology, such as fibre technology, 3G/UMTS technology, facilities or network. invested in security mechanisms, LED lighting solutions Core PS and Core CS training, and ITIL process governance and the caging of frequently vandalised items. We also courses. continue to lobby for the development and implementation Population of regulations to protect telecommunications infrastructure. • Innovative solutions: With the increase in data usage Responsibility and smartphones, there is a need to develop more 3G 90% 58% capacity. To meet this need, while still maintaining good 2g 3g Our Quality and Assurance Department, within the Technology Division, is responsible for co-ordinating, QoS, we successfully piloted an innovative solution in which the 2G frequency band is used for 3G. This allows delivering and maintaining the BNK programme. It is more subscribers to be served as 2G frequencies can overseen by a BNK Board, composed of the Director of propagate for longer distances than 3G frequencies. the Technology Division and the Heads of Departments, who reguarly report progress to the Safaricom Executive Committee. 46 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 47 Our network energy sources as of 31 March 2014 are Initiatives to minimise business disruptions • Low-voltage Auto Phase Selectors: The next phase Awareness and training as follows: by rolling out alternative energy solutions of the low-voltage Auto Phase Selectors roll out took place within the reporting period, during which a further During the reporting period, our staff underwent a number of and enhancing energy security for future Energy No. of sites 75 sites were installed and commissioned. An additional training sessions. These included: classification growth 203 units have been purchased and will be rolled out in • Solar and biofuels training: This training was provided Nairobi Eastern Western Total In our facilities, a number of initiatives have been undertaken the upcoming year. These units allow the sites to utilise by the Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM) and during the reporting period. We have now installed energygrid power at voltages as low as 110V, which significantly KPLC* 240 40 23 303 covered solar basics, design and component selection. efficient Building Management Systems and LED lights in reduces the instances in which generators run due to low No Diesel The training was attended by 10 operational and middle voltages. all facilities and shops. Solar water heating systems have level management staff. Generator also been installed in the cafeterias, gyms and in the Jambo • Deep cycle batteries: Seventy five sites were fitted with KPLC* Sites 767 904 895 2 566 • Energy auditing: Also provided by KAM, this training Contact Centre (JCC) and HQ1 at Safaricom House. deep cycle batteries during the reporting period. Deep covered auditing basics, audit preparations, audit 24/7 Diesel 1 15 2 17 cycle batteries allow the sites to run on stored energy In our network, we have undertaken the following initiatives: performing and audit reporting. The training was attended Generator when grid electricity is not available. These batteries by 10 operational and middle level management staff. • Power cubes: Seventy nine sites have now had 24/7 are more efficient, last longer and are less vulnerable to Solar/ Wind 7 38 20 65 theft and vandalism (as they are 2 volt batteries, which • Introduction to energy management: Again provided generators replaced with power cubes, up from 34 the hybrid are not useful for many other applications). Specific high by KAM, this training covered boilers and furnaces, previous year. A power cube is an extremely efficient Power Cubes 7 61 11 79 hybrid energy system in which all the power components temperature deep cycle batteries were also installed in compressed air systems, refrigeration, steam systems, are housed in one enclosure. The components (generator, areas that have high ambient temperatures to save energy electrical systems and lighting. The training was attended Traditional 2 2 9 13 by reducing the need to cool the battery compartments. by six operational and middle level management staff. fuel tank, DC power system, batteries and controller) are Diesel Safaricom has also installed 52 high density deep-cycle all factory integrated to reduce generator runtime, human • Certified energy manager training: This training was Generator interference, prolong battery life, reduce fuel theft and batteries (48V) at sites where there is not enough space provided by AEE Power, S.A. and covered life cycle battery hybrid enable remote monitoring. for a back-up generator, such as rooftops in urban areas. costing, auditing, and energy conservation technologies. 405 These batteries store a great deal of energy relative Pure solar 0 12 0 12 79 It was attended by four operational and middle level to volume and weight and can tolerate a high number management staff. Total 1 024 1 072 960 3 056 of charge-discharge cycles. The batteries are also environmentally friendly as they are made of Sodium* Kenya Power and Lighting Company (National Grid Supply) 278 Responsibility Nickel (instead of lead and sulphuric acid) and can be recycled. The Facilities, Safety and Health Department is responsible Energy use in Kenya is 34 • Power utilisation efficiency: Power Utilisation Efficiency for the management of energy consumption in Safaricom currently governed by the (PUE) is tracked in all of our datacentres to ensure that we facilities. The Regional Network Operations Department, are using and managing energy as efficiently as possible. within the Technology Division, is tasked with the Energy Regulations of 2012, 2013 management of network energy security. Both of these which give effect to the Power cubes Cooling units 2014 departments share resources, information and technology provisions of the Energy Act regarding the management of energy. of 2006. These regulations are in the process of • Free cooling units: We have increased the number of free cooling units from 278 to 405. These units reduce being updated. We have the cooling energy requirement by exchanging the warm developed a draft energy air inside the shelter with colder air from outside. As most of our sites are in areas of moderate temperatures, it has policy, which is currently been possible to achieve significant savings with these under review. units, especially at night. In the upcoming year we will be installing a further 235 units. • Extensions of the National Grid: We continue to work closely with the Kenya Power and Lighting Company (KPLC) and Rural Electrification Authorities (REAs) to take swift advantage of extensions to the national grid and use this power to supply our sites. We have managed to connect 100% of the sites that we identified and targeted for this reporting period. 48 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 49 We have begun installing 3G Wi-Fi routers in Public Develop transformational products and services relevant Service Vehicles to provide to different customer segments free Wi-Fi access Initiatives to develop transformational to commuters. Our approach products and services relevant to different Innovation is an integral part of our business. We have customer segments established an Innovation Department that deals with developer engagement, strategic partnerships, idea As part of our initiatives to develop innovative solutions, we management and embedding a culture of innovation. established the Zindua Café, an online portal where staff can submit ideas on products, processes and customer We have three focus areas when it comes to innovation: experience. At the moment, this portal is only open to Defend our core business: generate and execute Safaricom staff. Any external parties who wish to send an incremental improvements in our products and idea to Safaricom have to do so via innovation@safaricom. services, processes, customer experience and cost co.ke and are required to accept the specific terms and reduction initiatives conditions. In the future, the Zindua Café will be open to third parties. Submitted ideas are vetted and scored through Transformational innovation: explore new a defined process. Promising ideas are refined and then markets and capabilities through corporate alliances passed on to the appropriate Safaricom Business Unit (BU) and partnerships or to the Social innovation team for further development and Some of our new products and services that address the • 10 for 10 internet bundle: This package provides Build momentum with respect to emerging implementation. needs of our customers include: 10MB of data and 10 SMS for KSh 10. The objective is new business: extend our current competencies to provide affordable, flexible products, with a particular We have also nominated ‘Zindua Champions’, employees • SME business solutions: During the reporting period, into new, related markets and build and support focus on the youth and core markets. This is the fastest from different divisions that lead and drive the innovation Safaricom launched online solutions designed to enable entrepreneurship growing internet bundle in Kenya and, consequently, is agenda within their divisions. The Champions are supported Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) to access high-end helping to stimulate financial inclusion. These focus areas complement our ‘four lenses of innovation’, by ‘Zindua Ambassadors’, employees from the same promotional tools and business management software. The launched in February 2013. In combination, the four lenses divisions who help the Champions to execute innovation solutions provide SMEs with access to website, email, payroll • Jisort na Smartphone: This is a new initiative that allows encourage staff to (i) challenge orthodoxies, (ii) harness trends, initiatives within their divisions. and accounting software packages at competitive prices. customers to use Bonga loyalty points to pay towards (iii) understand needs and (iv) leverage resources. the cost of a new smartphone. The objective is to provide • Short-Term Pay Bill: This is an M-PESA Pay bill account In order to further encourage innovation, we have developed: affordable handsets to our customers and increase While we are currently developing an innovation policy, our that can be used for short-term fundraising purposes. ‘Zindua Galaxy’, an innovation reward and recognition smartphone penetration, particularly as Safaricom only innovations are guided through a gate process. The gate It is ideal for people who want to raise money over a short scheme; ‘Zindua Challenge’, where contests are run to stocks Internet-enabled phones in its retail stores and process helps to ensure regular evaluation and oversight period of time for a specific activity, such as a wedding, encourage specific business innovations; and ‘Zindua dealers. during product development and only allows a product funeral or to raise medical funds etc., with greater Inspire’, an annual event where we invite innovation leaders to move on to the next stage or ‘gate’ once the Gate transparency and safety. • Safaricom Guardian: This is a parental control to give guest lectures to our staff. committee, (CEO and Executive Committee) are convinced application that promotes safe internet browsing by that the product is ready to do so. The process follows • Internet Sambaza: This service allows customers to We support and reward developers through events such allowing specified websites, particularly those that contain normal project procedures and phases, although projects share and transfer data bundles between users and as the annual Safaricom AppWiz Challenge, through which adult content, to be blocked. The objective is to provide can be fast tracked due to urgency or technical readiness. devices. The objective is to promote flexible access we awarded six early stage mobile technology companies customers with peace of mind and safe internet access. The gates start at ‘concept overview’ and end at ‘project to internet services in a cost-sensitive market and, with a cumulative cash prize of KSh 3.7 million in November We are also developing a wider, network-based parental management and post implementation’. subsequently, stimulate internet usage. 2013. We participate in the annual Appstar Challenge, in control system that will work across a variety of different Social innovation is an important part of our business. It partnership with Vodafone. • Vuma online: Nairobi has over one million commuters, phones. involves the development of products and services that using matatus, buses and taxis, and spending, on We provide the developers with a chance to showcase and • Safaricom downloader (MyTunes): This application add value to the lives of subscribers in the areas of health, average, two hours a day in traffic. As a result, we make available their applications to Safaricom subscribers via allows Safaricom customers to download music without education and agriculture. Business service innovation have begun installing 3G Wi-Fi routers in these Public the Safaricom App Store accessible through the data menu having to pay data charges. Designed to increase encourages us to develop new products and services to Service Vehicles (PSVs) to provide free Wi-Fi access to *544#. internet usage, drive consumption of relevant content and address the needs of our business customers. commuters. The objective of this initiative is to use free encourage youth affinity, the application downloads music data access to encourage familiarity, brand loyalty and, To reflect the way that we have addressed our material We also have the Safaricom academy set up to provide during idle times on the network. ultimately, increase paid data usage. matters, social and business service innovation is described talented potential application developers an opportunity to under this strategic objective. For a description of innovations acheive thier dreams. related to the youth and financial inclusion, refer to page 52 and page 53, respectively. 50 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 51 During the reporting period, a seed replanting guarantee was added to the service, The following applications and products are examples of the social innovations we have developed during the reporting • TIBU: This is a comprehensive tuberculosis disease tracking and health information system, which seamlessly allowing farmers to obtain period, in the areas of agriculture, education, health and integrates treatment and monitoring between patients and humanitarian services. health facilities. TIBU was awarded the Google Innovation insurance against their seeds Award for Health Care Delivery in May 2013. Within four Agriculture not germinating. • Kilimo Salama: This is an innovative micro-insurance months of national roll out, TIBU captured electronic medical records for 75% of all Kenyan TB patients and the service for Kenyan farmers. During the reporting period, system has since managed the reimbursement of more a seed replanting guarantee was added to the service, than US$ 300 000 to patients via M-PESA. allowing farmers to obtain insurance against their seeds not germinating. Each year, 17% of farmers in Kenya Humanitarian experience a failed germination due to unpredictable • Refugees United re-launch: Refugees United is a weather and, without insurance, they can only afford to platform that helps families reconnect with missing loved plant low quality seeds, which limit future harvests and ones through a safe, secure search tool. The project was incomes. re-launched during the reporting period to enable toll-free, global access via voice, USSD and SMS. Education • Shupavu: Safaricom partnered with Eneza to develop a revision application for upper primary school children. Awareness and training The application allows students to revise subject content and test their knowledge through quizzes. Shupavu helps The senior leadership team and 140 innovation ambassadors ensure quality content is provided to students, teachers were trained on our innovation agenda, the four lenses of and parents. *291# is the short code innovation and the innovation process in November 2013. We continue to cascade the four lenses of innovation training Health sessions across Safaricom divisions. • Linda Jamii: This is an affordable micro-insurance health cover that will widen the bracket of the population with access to medical insurance. Launched in January Responsibility 2014 in partnership with Britam and Changamka MicroThe Innovation Department was established in August 2013 insurance, Linda-Jamii offers comprehensive family to act as a central portal for ideas relating to innovation in medical cover on an annual subscription. The cover caters Safaricom. This department registers all ideas and forwards for inand out-patient services, maternity, dental and them on to other teams in Safaricom for investigation and optical services, a hospitalisation income replacement development. The Innovation Department forms part of the benefit of KSh 500 per day and, in the case of death, Strategy and Innovation Division and the Director sits on the funeral expenses. A premium of KSh 12 000 per family Executive Committee. per year entitles them to inand out-patient cover of up to KSh 250 000, together with additional value added There are also a number of innovation teams working within benefits. Linda Jamii has adopted a micro-saving model the Enterprise Business Unit (EBU), the Consumer Business that uses M-PESA as the premium collection platform. Unit (CBU) and the Corporate Responsibility Department Through M-PESA, subscribers can pay premiums (CRD). These teams work with a number of different in instalments and can access partial benefits after departments in the business, including Technology, accumulating KSh 6 000 in contributions. HR, Call centre management and Supply chain. • M-PEP: This is a mobile application that uses SMS The Financial Services Business Unit (FSBU) is responsible technology to encourage healthcare workers to use Postfor business-related innovation within Safaricom. Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) services, following accidental exposure to blood. The purpose of the project is to prevent the medical transmission of HIV. After exposure, messages are sent that provide vital information, such as reminders to take PEP drugs and attend follow up testing, along with providing information on managing the side effects of the drugs. 52 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 53 Remain innovative to service Actively participate in improving • Lipa Kodi na M-PESA: This is a new rent collection and payment service that seeks to broaden financial inclusion a growing youth sector financial inclusion and growing in Kenya. It is designed to offer convenience and cost the wealth of Kenyan citizens efficiency to tenants, landlords and housing agents by providing them with a safe and reliable rent payment and Our approach collection mechanism. Under the new scheme, customers The youth, defined as those between the ages of 18 and 24 Our approach will pay KSh 6 for transactions of up to KSh 5 000 in value and KSh 220 for transactions of between KSh 50 000 and years old, are an important market segment for Safaricom. At Safaricom, we understand that it is important that we KSh 70 000. We will be recruiting estate agents, diasporaYoung people are attracted to the services we provide, are develop innovative products and services to cater for the based landlords, local authorities and private landlords in quick to embrace the potential of digital communications financial needs of the disadvantaged and the unbanked in the next financial year. and content, and have a substantial influence on the Kenya. We consider financial inclusion to be an opportunity spending habits of the household. We intend to capture new • M-PESA retail distribution: During the reporting period, for Safaricom to deliver on its mandate to transform lives customers at an early age and retain them by providing an we launched M-PESA retail distribution, which works and, accordingly, pay particular attention to the affordability excellent customer experience. The youth are a discerning through the M-PESA buy goods functionality and enables market and, as such, we need to price and position our of our products and services. distributors of fast moving consumer goods (FMCGs) to products and services in an innovative way. receive payments in electronic form; thus, eliminating cash within the supply chain. We already have over Initiatives to participate in improving 100 distributors using this service and transacting over Initiatives to remain innovative to service a Awareness and training financial inclusion and growing the wealth KSh 7 million each month. growing youth sector of Kenyan citizens Every other Friday, a group of Safaricom staff members are • Mobile banking: During the reporting period, there • Lipa na M-PESA: Since its launch, M-PESA has grown Safaricom has undertaken a number of initiatives during the taken on a field trip to interact with, and observe, the youth. was a service improvement on the platform that allows from a simple money transfer service to a robust payment reporting period to remain innovative to service a growing These ‘youth immersion programmes’ enable us to develop M-PESA customers to make mobile banking transactions platform and a driver of financial inclusion. M-PESA youth sector: a more comprehensive understanding of the needs of the instantaneously. Customers are able to withdraw funds has over 19 million registered customers, all of whom youth and, in turn, to develop more responsive and tailored from their bank accounts to M-PESA more efficiently. • Market probes: Safaricom staff conducted market consume goods and services offered by businesses. products and services. This follows a system upgrade to the Application research in to youth trends by speaking with various youth During the reporting period, we launched Lipa na M-PESA Programmable Interface (API) that has reduced the groups throughout the country. to give customers a fast, safe and convenient way of The Safaricom Consumer Insights and Research Department average transaction time from 2 hours to less than • Niko Na Safaricom Live: Six events were held during also undertakes ‘flow activation’ activities, designed to create paying for goods and services. This service promotes 30 seconds. The new platform also helps streamline the reporting period, featuring live music, gaming stations awareness of youthfulness within the organisation. the use of M-PESA and is part of the wider M-PESA operations for businesses that disburse staff salaries and customer care booths. agenda to create a more secure and convenient ‘cash through M-PESA and businesses that receive payments light’ economy. Traders can sign up for this service either through M-PESA and move the cash into their bank • M-Shwari: The M-Shwari product is popular with the youth Responsibility through Safaricom shops or Safaricom Agent outlets and accounts on a regular basis. because it enables them to get access to cash that they then manage cashless payments from our significant may not be able to obtain via traditional banking services. The Consumer Insights and Research Department, which customer footprint in an efficient manner. forms part of the Marketing Division, is involved in youth • Advertisements targeting the youth: Safaricom has Awareness and training research and monitors and tracks progress on specific Lipa na M-PESA is improving financial inclusion by flighted a series of advertisements that are tailored to the projects. The Marketing Director is a member of the expanding the size and type of merchants that can accept youth, known as ‘Masquembe adverts’. We have regular on-the-ground activations that allow Executive Committee. The Innovation Department provides electronic payments and collections, including those who customers to interact with brand ambassadors regarding • Career fairs: Safaricom attends career fairs to promote guidelines and direction on the idea management process. operate on daily market receipts. This has been achieved products and services. These are supplemented with the company as an employer of choice. by (i) aggregating the M-PESA buy goods service from customer awareness sessions to educate customers on the • Sambaza Internet: This service allows internet bundles a web-based service into a simple mobile-based till that benefits of financial inclusion through the use of products to be shared between devices and users. can be used by any kind of merchant to accept M-PESA that are affordable and easy to understand. These sessions payments, (ii) simplifying the process for obtaining a till, are targeted at women’s groups, the youth (through social • Vuma online: This service provides access to free Wi-Fi and (iii) allowing merchants to withdraw funds from the till media) and vernacular interviews in specific regions. on public transportation, such as trains, buses and to their individual M-PESA accounts or banks any time matatus. It builds brand familiarity, loyalty and encourages they want through a USSD service. internet usage. • Plans to boost M-Shwari: M-Shwari is a revolutionary Responsibility service that allows customers who might not otherwise The Financial Services Business Unit is responsible for the have access to formal financial services to save and management of financial inclusion at Safaricom. borrow loans against their savings. Safaricom and the Commercial Bank of Africa plan to increase the number of customers who can access M-Shwari. 54 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 55 Protect the privacy of our Awareness and training customers and promote a On arrival at Safaricom, new employees are trained on positive customer experience at customer experience as part of their induction into the all touch points company. We provide progressive training to employees and partners at different touch points based on gaps identified in the Customer Delight Index (CDI) and Enterprise Delight Our approach Index (EDI). We also work with our business partners to explain our vision and provide training on customer Customers are the backbone of our business and it is experience. important that we ensure the best customer experience possible. We endeavour to be the Partner of Choice to During the reporting period, our Consumer Business business in Kenya and seek to enhance customer loyalty in Unit (CBU) team undertook customer experience a competitive market by creating an exceptional customer management training, covering brand experience and customer experience mapping. experience. Our Customer Service Charter provides direction on how customer experience is managed. We also value the security and privacy of our customers’ Responsibility information. To this end, we have implemented a data privacy All teams are charged with providing an excellent customer policy that guides staff, customers and other third parties experience; however, key divisions that drive this agenda are on how we collect, process, use, safeguard and dispose the CBU, the EBU and the FSBU, supported by Customer of information at Safaricom. To keep this policy current, we Care and Marketing. For our business customers, customer monitor emerging regulations and re-evaluate the adequacy experience is managed by the Customer Experience section of our policies annually. of the EBU. This section reports to the General Manager of the EBU, who also sits on the Executive Committee. Initiatives to protect our customer’s Within Safaricom, there is also an initiative sanctioned by privacy and promote a positive customer the Executive Committee known as the CDI Taskforce, Protect the privacy of our Initiatives to protect our customer’s experience at all touch points through which all functions of customer experience meet to customers and promote a privacy and promote a positive customer In order to ensure compliance with customer data privacy exchange ideas and co-ordinate efforts to improve customer experience. positive customer experience at experience at all touch points policies and regulations, we align our systems and processes all touch points In order to ensure compliance with customer data privacy to protect the interests of customers, third parties and staff, in addition to our corporate information. There is a policies and regulations, we align our systems and processes disciplinary code in force at Safaricom that defines the Our approach to protect the interests of customers, third parties and consequences of violations of customer data privacy by our staff, in addition to our corporate information. There is a staff. Depending on the nature of the violation, staff may Customers are the backbone of our business and it is disciplinary code in force at Safaricom that defines the receive a warning letter (for the first breach) and/or face important that we ensure the best customer experience consequences of violations of customer data privacy by our summary dismissal. We also embed data privacy obligations possible. We endeavour to be the Partner of Choice to staff. Depending on the nature of the violation, staff may into our contracts with third parties to oblige them to business in Kenya and seek to enhance customer loyalty in receive a warning letter (for the first breach) and/or face maintain confidentiality. a competitive market by creating an exceptional customer summary dismissal. We also embed data privacy obligations experience. Our Customer Service Charter provides direction into our contracts with third parties to oblige them to on how customer experience is managed. maintain confidentiality. We also value the security and privacy of our customers’ information. To this end, we have implemented a data privacy policy that guides staff, customers and other third parties on how we collect, process, use, safeguard and dispose of information at Safaricom. To keep this policy current, we monitor emerging regulations and re-evaluate the adequacy of our policies annually. 56 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 57 Maintain a productive, Safaricom is committed to performance management as a Initiatives to maintain a productive, supportive When assessing and managing the performance of means of obtaining better results from the company, from and safe working environment our employees, we use the PIGEX Model (P=poor; supportive and safe working teams and from individuals by managing performance within I=inconsistent; G=good; E=exceeded expectations; X = environment an agreed framework of planned goals, objectives and We have a number of initiatives in place to maintain a productive, Exceptional). Depending on the level of the employee, competency requirements. The starting point of performance supportive and safe working environment. These focus on labour the line manager interacts with them to try and boost management in Safaricom is defining the expectations relations, learning and development, performance management, their performance, especially for poor and inconsistent Our approach placed on each individual. Each member of staff is made employee benefits and OSH initiatives. performers. If the performance of the employee doesn’t aware of his or her roles and responsibilities, which are improve, the manager places them on a Performance The strength of our organisation lies with our people. We Some of the labour relations initiatives we have undertaken during formalised into performance objectives and signed off at Improvement Plan (PIP) for a period of three months. focus on training our staff, managing their performance and the reporting period to encourage a fair and equal opportunity the start of each financial year. We have a Performance providing safe, fair and equal opportunity working conditions. workplace include: We provide a number of benefits to all of our employees, Management Policy, which guides our performance including: medical insurance and work/injury benefits, as Safaricom has focused on creating a fair, non-discriminatory management process. This policy was approved by the • Employee relation clinics to refresh our staff on policies that environment that encourages the employment of the best affect them and the role of the HR Department in enforcing well as annual, sick, maternity, paternity and compassionate Resources Director and the Executive Committee in April people, irrespective of gender or any special needs. Our these. leave with funeral expenses. Permanent employees are also 2013 and is reviewed periodically. Human Resources (HR) policy provides direction in this provided with a pension, car allowance, group life insurance, • Wheelchair maintenance/repair support, allowing disabled regard and is based on Kenyan labour standards. Safety is of prime importance and a core value social clubs, group personal accident insurance and stock staff to have their wheelchairs repaired free of charge. at Safaricom. We are committed to ensuring that ownership. We have an Employee Share Option Scheme Learning and development are an integral part of our the health, safety and wellbeing of our employees, • Changes to the leave policy, It is Safaricom’s policy to create (ESOP), through which share options were issued to all commitment to attract, motivate and retain talented contractors and the public is protected and promoted a work/life balance for its staff so that in turn, they may give permanent employees in February 2010. These were vested employees. We focus on: at all times. Strong performance in Occupational their best to the company. In this regard, employees are entitled in February 2013 and exercised by staff for a period of one Safety and Health (OSH) makes good business sense to vacations which are intended to provide a reasonable and year. • Developing the skills, competencies and knowledge as it results in cost savings, efficient operations and relaxing period of time each year free of job responsibilities. required to manage and grow our business; enhanced employee and contractor productivity. The ESOP closed on 26 February 2014 and no other issue • Developing the professional, commercial, technical, • Interactive HR open days to raise awareness of HR-related has been offered. We also have an outright grant, which is a management and leadership capabilities required to Safaricom has an approved OSH policy, which was recently issues. performanceand potential-based scheme pegged on talent maintain our competitive edge; updated to align with changes in the corporate vision of • Online green card initiative, allowing staff members to voice reviews. It is band-based and issued to senior managers the organisation. The policy is signed off by the CEO, who • Motivating and retaining high performing and high concerns on specific processes that may not be working or from band E to band SLT annually. Although not strictly an is, ultimately, responsible for OSH at Safaricom. The policy potential employees; and which may be affecting performance. These were introduced employee benefit, all members of staff were issued with a sets the tone for several standards and procedures, which to enable existing processes and performance to be improved handset and a post pay line based on employee band in • Entrenching a culture of continuous self-learning. have been developed to provide guidance on specific continuously. November 2013. There are no distinctions in salary between aspects of OSH performance, such as incident reporting and Safaricom has a Learning and Development (L&D) policy, men and women. Our workforce is remunerated based on investigations, work at height, electrical work and contractor • The Staff Council meets on a quarterly basis to address approved by the Director of Resources and the Executive wages that are subject to Kenyan minimum wage rules, and safety management. The documented health and safety issues and concerns raised by employees. It is chaired by the Committee, which provides a framework to ensure that our entry salary at Safaricom is higher than the minimum management system of the company has been developed in CEO and includes elected representatives from each division. Safaricom develops the requisite knowledge, skills and wage. line with the standards set out in OHSAS 18001. Safaricom attitudes necessary to support and grow our business. • Sema na CEO (‘Speak to the CEO’) chat room, which fosters OSH management includes an OSH plan, which sets out the We also have a comprehensive employee wellness program This policy is based on three main elements: engagement between members of staff and the leadership general direction for OSH in Safaricom, together with specific that not only focuses on supporting employees suffering • On the job training, which includes job rotations, job team. OSH objectives and targets. The plan is assured by the from chronic diseases, it also features a counselling service shadowing, mentoring, coaching and secondments; Vodafone Group Health, Safety and Wellbeing Team. A key new initiative this year was the race to stardom that and family assistance, financial wellness programmes, • Structured learning and development, which covers exposed staff to the customer experience journey through various nutritional health advice, as well as recreational, religious, We also have absolute safety rules focused on road safety induction, management development programmes, lenses. crèche/daycare and subsidised gym facilities. which all employees and contractors must comply with. technical skills development, education programmes and professional certifications; and Initiatives focussed on learning and development include a two year People Development Programme (PDP) tailored to the needs • Self-learning, which includes e-learning, distance learning of our different staff levels, from employees to managers and and access to our resource centre. leaders, and talent development programmes for our talent pool. 58 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 59 We have undertaken a number of OSH initiatives during the Photographic evidence of PPE adherence must also be staff members. The aim of this initiative is to equip staff members the Safaricom E-Learning portal. Many safety courses and reporting period, which include: provided by the staff member/contractor before access to for traffic-related emergencies and encourage them to be road awareness sessions were also held for members of staff, a site is granted. safety ambassadors. including capacity building training sessions offered to • Supplier safety management: Safaricom has Safaricom fire marshals, first aid teams and teams involved transformed its supplier engagement model and • Monitoring and prevention of occupational diseases: • Support for the National Transport and Safety Authority in tower climbing, along with training and seminars held for introduced safety as a key pillar in Supply Chain Many organisations are known to experience challenges in (NTSA): The Trust has seconded two staff members from its Management operations. In particular, we have made business partners. In partnership with the NTSA, the NRST connection with occupational diseases. So far none has secretariat to help the newly-formed NTSA set up operations. safety a key criterion in the supplier preand reproduced an awareness campaign on speed, drunk driving been reported in Safaricom, however we are aware that The two staff members support the authority in project qualification stages by giving it a 15% weighting. We and passenger empowerment for the 2013 holiday season, some of our call-center staff have reported experiencing management, public relations, media, and capacity also request the following safety-related information from which was conducted through outdoor, print and electronic challenges with their hearing and voice. building. In the future, the NRST will be working closer with suppliers: leadership responsibility for OSH; information media. In response to this, Safaricom has undertaken a the NTSA in developing technological solutions for road systems on OSH; safety statistics; sub-contractor safety call centre-wide medical surveillance programme to safety. Such initiatives will leverage on existing technologies management; OSH risk management process; competent understand the extent of the impact and to formulate in the mobile telephony sector to empower vulnerable road Responsibility personnel and provision of appropriate Personal strategies for prevention and the promotion of good users, such as passengers and pedestrians. Protective Equipment (PPE) and safety equipment. During health. We have also introduced pre-placement and exit The Human Resources Operations Department manages the tendering stage, we evaluate the safety proposition medical checks as part of the overall occupational disease human resources in Safaricom. It forms part of the of a supplier alongside the technical and commercial prevention strategy. Awareness and training Resources Division and the Divisional Director is a member of aspects of bids and, when awarding a contract, the OSH the Executive Committee. expectations are clearly communicated through the OSH Safaricom has an employee relations awareness programme that Safaricom is a founder member of the National Road schedule and OSH Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) creates awareness on employment issues, such as performance Safety Trust (NRST) and has a staff member seconded The Learning & Development Department of the Resources specified in contract agreements. OSH performance is and disciplinary issues. The programme takes the form of annual to work at the Trust secretariat. The objective of the Division is responsible for training at Safaricom. Safaricom also monitored throughout the duration of contract. When face-to-face sessions undertaken throughout Kenya. Awareness Trust is to curb deaths and injuries on Kenyan roads also has a HR leadership team, who meet on a weekly basis evaluating our suppliers, OSH is a key performance criteria is also undertaken through communications to staff on a quarterly through harmonising and co-ordinating the initiatives to discuss the ‘HR dashboard’, which tracks training and and can influence whether we re-engage the supplier. We basis. Should there be any changes in processes that are likely of various players in the private sector. The Toa Sauti other HR-related functions. continue to engage with our partners through supplier to affect staff — for instance, changes in the performance initiative, for instance, is a call to action for every Kenyan forums and other means to ensure that they adequately management programme — this will be communicated The Talent and Resourcing Department of the Resources to help eradicate accident-related deaths and injuries. understand OSH requirements and deliver on them. appropriately. Division is responsible for the overall management of talent Through the NRST, we have engaged in a number of acquisition and performance development at Safaricom. • Isometrix: Safaricom has implemented the Isometrix data We have undertaken a number of training initiatives on performance initiatives, including: Members of staff and managers across the company have management system for OSH data. management. These include: specific responsibilities for performance management as well, • Public Service Vehicles (PSV) driver wellness • Training on carrying out performance reviews and the • Safety and health induction video: An OSH induction as per our Performance Management Policy. Furthermore, video has been produced for staff, contractors and visitors campaign: This campaign was held in June and July implementation of calibration in performance reviews; each Division has a Human Resources business partner, to company premises. The video provides an overview of 2013 in Nairobi, Machakos, Thika, Nakuru and Eldoret. • E-class training; and who works with the managers in the Division on performance general OSH considerations and regulations while visiting Over 2 300 PSV drivers and touts received free check-ups • Performance management training on various topics, including: management. or operating on Safaricom premises. for diabetes, blood pressure, eyesight and weight (using why performance management is important; the objective the Body Mass Index or BMI) in partnership with Aga setting process, which includes setting SMART objectives; The Staff Council consists of representatives from all divisions • Safety page on the Safaricom intranet: Safaricom has how to conduct continuous, mid-year and full year reviews; the Khan University Hospital. The aim of the campaign was to and also includes representation from employees with special developed an OSH page on the internal intranet, which Safaricom Way objectives of speed, simplicity and trust; the sensitise the PSV drivers and owners to the contribution needs. The staff council presents issues that affect staff acts as a convenient, accessible repository for all OSHmanager/engagement index; conducting performance calibration their wellbeing makes to road safety. The findings from this members and discusses how best these can be managed. related policies, materials and concerns. meetings; assessing performance through the PIGEX Model; campaign have been shared with the PSV owners and the Issues range from social issues and employee benefits to any • Development of robust high-risk work control providing feedback after reviews; managing poor performance; challenges that are impeding employee engagement Government agency currently in charge of reviewing the procedures: We have developed framework documents and reward discussions. and performance. driver testing requirements for issuance of driving licences. for high-risk work, including driving, working-at-height and • Speed camera programme: In recognition of the fact The Learning and Development Department communicates all The Occupational Safety and Health team within the electrical work. that speed is the leading cause of accidents in Kenya, training events to staff (course name, venue, dates, content, and Facilities, Health and Safety Department is responsible for • Innovation and go live of the automated permit to trainer) via meetings, one-on-one sessions, email, text messages the NRST has continued to encourage corporates to managing OSH in Safaricom. This department is part of the work tool: An automated system has been developed and telephone. These messages are reinforced through daily donate speed guns to equip the traffic police department Resources Division. It is a statutory requirement in Kenya to put checks in place for all members of staff and bulletins, posters, promotions and the activities of HR business to monitor and control cases of speeding effectively. As of to have an occupational safety and health committee. contractors who climb towers. The system was developed partners. November 2013, 11 speed cameras had been donated to Safaricom also has OSH sub-committees in its facilities that in conjunction with the Technology team and restricts the traffic police. report to a steering committee headed by the Head of the authority to access a site unless certain criteria are met. Safaricom recognises that it is important to equip members of staff, contractors and other third parties involved in our operations with Department (HOD) of Technology. These committees play These criteria include: the presence of appropriate PPE for • Road safety merchandise sale to staff members: OSH knowledge. During the reporting period, we acquired licenses a key role in terms of embedding OSH into every aspect of working at height; suitable weather conditions; The NRST has negotiated a 25% discount on vehicle for over 25 online OSH courses that are available to all staff through business operations and in ensuring employee engagement. and a rescue plan. lifesavers, first aid kits and fire extinguishers for Safaricom 60 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 61 We also conduct awareness sessions on E-waste, where the hazards of Manage our environmental inappropriate impact E-waste disposal are explained Initiatives to manage our environmental Our approach impact We understand the importance of sustainable business We have undertaken a number of initiatives during the and its correct disposal is practices. We recognise that managing our environmental reporting period to promote sustainable practices within our encouraged. impact allows opportunities to improve efficiencies and operations and business ecosystem. These include: reduce costs to be identified. We have a number of initiatives • Launching the Isometrix environmental management in place that address our primary environmental impacts, system, which will help us improve the management of which are caused by the development of our infrastructure, our environmental disclosures. the use of natural resources and the generation of E-waste • We have increased the scale of our E-waste management and greenhouse gas emissions. programme, through educating other parties on E-waste, We have developed an Environmental Policy, which has been as well as collecting and sending E-waste for processing. approved by the Safaricom CEO and Executive Committee. Safaricom E-waste collection stations are located in all of Our Environmental Policy commits us to transforming the our retail stores, our main buildings, at the offices of the National Environment Management Authority (NEMA) and lives of our customers and stakeholders in our ecosystem in also at some of the county offices throughout Kenya. This an environmentally sound and sustainable manner, through initiative was recognised at the World Communications continuous environmental improvement in our operations. We Awards (WCA) in 2013 and received the ‘Green Award for are committed to managing and reporting our environmental an E-waste Management Programme’. performance in an open and transparent manner, in line with industry best practices. Safaricom recognises that • Safaricom continues to conduct Environmental environmental considerations are not separate from our core Impact Assessments (EIAs) on all new infrastructure business, but form part of our overall business strategy. developments, and to conduct environmental audits as required by NEMA and environmental legislation. Our Environmental Policy specifies that we ensure that (i) our • We have also endeavoured to manage any negative products, processes and operations are as environmentally noise impacts associated with our operations. We have safe as possible; (ii) we reduce energy usage and related installed 25 ‘super silent’ generators at a number of BTS greenhouse gas emissions; (iii) we conserve water; and (iv) sites due to noise complaints. We sound-proofed the we seek to reduce waste and explore opportunities for reuse Michael Joseph Centre to ensure compliance with noise and recycling. Our Environmental policy is currently being allowances during the reporting period and we continue updated. We are working on developing a Climate Change to obtain noise permits from the County Council of Nairobi Policy during the coming year. for any Safaricom functions where noise levels may be excessive. Awareness and training Responsibility • In terms of emissions, the refrigerant gas R22 was phased As part of the EIA Public Participation Process (PPP), and The Corporate Responsibility Department (CRD) is out in our air conditioners due to its environmental impact in areas where there are specific queries or complaints on responsible for managing the environmental performance and has been replaced by refrigerant gases that have a perceived Electro-Magnetic Frequency (EMF) concerns, we and carbon footprint of Safaricom. The department lower environmental impact. have conducted awareness sessions. falls within the Corporate Affairs Division, the Director of • To help us to reduce water consumption in our facilities, which is on the Executive Committee. The CRD engages 28 sensor taps were installed in the Safaricom Care We also conduct awareness sessions on E-waste, where with: the Technology team on the implementation of Centre (SCC), 28 push taps were installed in HQ1 and 32 the hazards of inappropriate E-waste disposal are explained improvement orders/corrective measures from environmental push taps were installed in HQ2. and its correct disposal is encouraged. To further promote audits; the roll out team on EIA approvals; the retail and awareness on this issue, we have produced an E-waste • All shredded paper from the business is collected by marketing teams on E-waste awareness and collection; leaflet, which has been endorsed by NEMA and the CA. Chandaria Industries for recycling. and representatives across the business regarding the Awareness is also created among dealers and agents at the Environmental Management System (EMS). The Corporate dealer and agent management forums. Responsibility team also engages with the Technology, Resourcing and Finance team in compiling the carbon footprint. 62 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 63 Our suppliers are important business partners and they Initiatives to promote sustainable practices impact on our ability to provide quality products and within our business ecosystem services in a responsible and ethical manner. We carefully select our suppliers through a thorough pre-qualification The theme of our Annual Partners Forum, held in February process. Companies are assessed on a number of criteria, 2014, was ‘Transforming lives through sustainable supply including: whether they have the required accreditations and chains’. During the forum, we explained the importance licenses; are financially sound; are compliant from a legal, of the supplier pre-qualification process, what we are insurance and regulatory perspective; and whether they looking for in our suppliers, and our supplier performance have the required policies in place, including OSH, customer management process. We also focused on the importance of service, staff integrity and a code of conduct, employment, ethics in business, the requirements of the Safaricom Code environmental, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and of Conduct, and how the independent ethics hotline and the waste management policies. The supplier pre-qualification Safaricom ethics helpdesk work. The Partners Forum also process also has specific provisions for issues such as covered the importance of business continuity management, bribes, conflicts of interest, gifts and other courtesies, how Safaricom manages sustainability, and why OSH is employment relations, including child labour, forced labour, important in the operations of our partners. disciplinary practices and elimination of discrimination, Every year, our suppliers are required to complete freedom of association, wages and benefits, occupational a sustainability self-assessment that evaluates their Promote sustainable practices health and safety, and environmental matters and the performance in the following areas: fraud and ethics; within our business ecosystem Category No. of suppliers community. human resources, including freedom of association and Building and construction 42 Safaricom has a network of over 500 dealers across Kenya employee benefits; health and safety; the environment; the Consultancy 30 that sell data, devices and airtime on behalf of Safaricom. community and corporate giving; and regulatory compliance. Our approach We also have over 87 000 M-PESA agents in Kenya that This year 174 suppliers completed the questionnaire. See Corporate services 56 assist with registering M-PESA customers, depositing ‘Our performance’ page 96 for a description of the results. Our value chain is made up of a number of business Facilities management & 98 cash into the M-PESA accounts of registered customers, partners, including suppliers, dealers and agents. We rely We also undertake a supplier performance evaluation on maintenance processing cash withdrawals for registered M-PESA heavily on our partners from both an operational perspective all of our suppliers on a quarterly or bi-annual basis. The Fleet management 18 customers, processing cash withdrawals for non-registered and also in terms of our reputation. We also understand that Safaricom user of the supplied product or service undertakes M-PESA customers, and customer education. Dealers and we can play an important role in encouraging sustainable the performance evaluations. Suppliers are measured against HR learning & development 41 agents are an important touch point for our customers and it practices throughout our business ecosystem and value the following indicators: cost of service; on time delivery HR services 27 is important that they understand the M-PESA product and chain, by engaging with our suppliers, dealers and agents. of service; flexibility to respond to unexpected Safaricom provide exceptional service on behalf of Safaricom. We have expanded our reporting parameters to include demands; quality of service; general responsiveness; IT infrastructure 81 a description of our supply chain this year. There are 974 customer support; value addition; documentation and We follow a thorough process when on-boarding dealers suppliers that service Safaricom by providing various Learning & development 52 and agents. There are a number of minimum requirements to invoicing; and communication skills. We have also added an products and services to our business. We categorise our Logistics 41 OSH assessment into this evaluation process. A performance become a Safaricom dealer or agent, which include: having a suppliers based on the nature of the product or service score is calculated, with a performance target of 80%, and Marketing and public 112 registered company that has been trading for a minimum of provided. We have also disclosed how many of our suppliers suppliers whose performance is below the performance relations 6 months; a CR12 document that names the directors of the are local or foreign, and the estimated monetary value of threshold are placed on performance improvement plans. company; a certificate of incorporation; a certificate of good payments made during the reporting period. There have Network infrastructure 52 conduct; and a minimum of three outlets. Safaricom reviews been no significant changes in our supply chain during the Network site maintenance 31 the documents provided by the potential dealer or agent, reporting period. undertakes a check with the credit reference bureau and Sponsorships 49 audits the prospective dealerships and outlets. If approved, Staff welfare 111 a dealer is on-boarded after signing a contract that stipulates Location of No. of Estimated monetary its contractual obligations. Dealers are provided with the suppliers by suppliers value of payments Terminals 26 required Safaricom material and branding and assigned region (KSh) Utilities 107 a dealer manager and a dealer support contact person. Foreign 184 23 646 798 400 If an agent is approved, the agent is on-boarded, issued Local 790 33 369 869 429 with M-PESA enabled SIM cards, Safaricom material and branding. 974 57 016 667 829 64 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 65 We have not yet assessed the sustainability performance of Safaricom dealers and agents through self-assessments, but issues that affect their businesses, such as bank guarantee management, commission reductions, performance, risk Ensure continued regulatory We continue to actively engage Government and the CA on various issues affecting the telecommunications industry. we work closely with our dealers and agents to help them and fraud, distribution tools, taxes and new products/ compliance and engage with The key public policy matters on which we have engaged develop resilient businesses. For our dealers, the Safaricom service offerings. Training for our dealers is tailored to our regulators to ensure a Government during the reporting period include: area sales managers ensure that every dealer branch has dealer staff, such as finance managers, shop managers, fair business environment is • Amendments to the Kenya Information and a sales target, sales tracker, route plan, route maps and product availability on a continuous basis. Dealers are also dealer sales agents and store managers. We normally train on subjects such as tax compliance, customer service, maintained Communications Act: In December 2013, the Kenyan Parliament passed the Kenya Information and issued with annual business plans that are used as a basis good trade marketing practices, risk and fraud pricing, Communications (Amendment) Act. The Act changed the for tracking dealer performance. Initiatives that have been Safaricom products and services, business acumen, financial Our approach identity of the Communications Commission of Kenya put in place include: availing a credit facility to allow dealers management and customer experience. (CCK) to the Communications Authority of Kenya (CA)2. to order enough airtime to cover for holidays; opening up Regulatory issues are important to Safaricom because The Act also expanded the scope of the CA to include We provide our agents with a range of training courses. Once of customer care desks in dealer outlets; and introducing of the dynamic regulatory environment affecting oversight of electronic media and prosecutorial powers. It an agent is on board, initial training on the Dealer Portal and a 30% motorbike subsidy to help dealers to invest in telecommunications operators. This environment requires also significantly increased the penalty for non-compliance M-PESA Web is undertaken by the Financial Services training distribution tools. Safaricom to comply fully with changes to governing with licence conditions from approximately KSh 500 team. M-PESA assistants are trained on common issues, legislation, regulations, licence conditions and by-laws. 000 to 0.2% of the gross turnover of the licensee. We also monitor customer experience at dealer outlets such as fraud and customer experience, as well as emerging Failure to meet prescribed compliance levels will expose Safaricom engaged the CA, Government and the National through ad hoc ‘mystery shoppers’, as well as feedback trends through quarterly Assistant Forums. Principal Forums Assembly on the impact of the new law through meetings, Safaricom to penalties and other remedial sanctions from received through the JCC. Feedback is also obtained from for M-PESA outlet owners are also organised by regional correspondence and through formal written submissions. sector regulators. dealers through a dedicated blog for dealers. sales managers to discuss new business opportunities on • Subscriber registration: This regulatory requirement a quarterly basis. Other support that we provide our agents The ‘Safaricom Way’, which advocates speed, simplicity Dealer Operating Standard Assessments (DOSA) are was enacted in January 2013 and revamped in includes visiting the outlets to observe whether more material and trust, guides how we manage regulatory issues. We undertaken by Safaricom staff to assess the infrastructure September 2013 to include stiffer penalties for nonis needed, check logbooks and advise on actions that can have also developed a Regulatory Charter, which states and performance of dealers. Area sales managers review compliance and to outlaw the hawking of SIM Cards. improve the management of their outlets, such as security that Safaricom will build constructive, respectful, open and dealers twice a year. To verify these assessments, a third Safaricom engaged Government and the CA on the practices and obtaining CCTV monitoring. transparent relationships with all regulators. While being party audits the minimum requirements for dealer outlets. impact of this regulation through formal memorandum and compliant with all regulation and applicable laws, Safaricom meetings. Once a year, Safaricom dealers are feted in a ceremony will adopt a firm approach on issues that may be detrimental called DOYA (Dealer of the Year Awards) where the Responsibility to industry growth. • Licensing: Safaricoms’ operating license was renewed outstanding performance of dealers is recognised and for a further term of 10 years on 1st July 2014. During the The Supply Chain Management Department is responsible rewarded. Dealers are vetted based on sales of airtime, renewal process we engaged the CA through meetings, for managing suppliers. The Department forms part of devices, data and best practice. Dealers are also rewarded Initiatives to ensure continued regulatory written memorandum and correspondence on the issue. the Finance Division, and interacts with all departments based on the number of shops, staff and distribution compliance and engagement with our • East African Roaming: In 2013, the Governments in Safaricom. The Finance Director sits on the Executive infrastructure they have deployed during the year. regulators to ensure a fair business of Uganda, Tanzania, Burundi and Rwanda imposed a Committee. environment surcharge on incoming international traffic. The effect of We assist our agents through the M-PESA Management Team, The Consumer Sales Department is responsible for the this surcharge was to increase the cost of calling and who manage the top 300 agents. Agent revenue targets are Safaricom has adopted the following strategies to manage management of Safaricom dealers and agents. There are roaming for subscribers in these countries. We engaged monitored, as well as the standard of the M-PESA outlets. regulatory issues: specific teams that are responsible for dealer support, which Government on this issue through meetings and formal involves on-boarding and supporting dealers, and dealer • Proactively ensure compliance with licence obligations, correspondence, highlighting the impact of this surcharge Awareness and training management, which involves communications to dealers, legislation, regulations, by-laws and the guidelines of on consumers of telecommunications services in the East logistical issues and account management. For agents, regulators; African region Awareness sessions for our business partners are there are specific teams who are responsible for agent • Actively engage with regulators through face-to-face undertaken through our Business Partner Forums, where administration, which involves on-boarding and supporting meetings, written submissions and memoranda when issues such as ethics, business continuity and sustainability agents, and agent management, which involves account changes to the existing business environment are under are discussed. management, retaining agents and developing new ideas. discussion; The Consumer Sales Department works with the Legal, We have also undertaken training for our suppliers on • Facilitate workshops and information sessions with Logistics, Finance, IT and Financial Services Divisions in the iSupplier, a system that allows for online communication of regulators, members of the media and affected management of agents and dealers. purchase orders, change orders and shipments, particularly stakeholders to discuss public policy issues affecting the for account managers. telecommunications industry; and In terms of our dealers, we have Dealer Bulletins that are • Attend stakeholder workshops and lobby on behalf of the distributed to all of our dealers through email. We also hold telecommunications industry. 2 The CCK and CA are both used throughout the report. They both refer to the same entity. Dealer Forums, where dealer principals meet to discuss 66 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 67 Safaricom is lobbying various County Governments to ensure that any legislation introduced is constructive from the perspective of the Promote ethical and good corporate governance • Address interventions within the thematic areas of the Foundation; telecommunications throughout our business ecosystem • Be implemented within the Republic of Kenya; industry. • Demonstrate positive impact on a broad population/ community and not an individual; Our approach • Demonstrate sustainability in the long-run; Ethics and values are an important part of the business • Demonstrate tangible, measurable outcomes at the practices of Safaricom. We view ethical business practices community level; as non-negotiable and continue to promote these principles • Demonstrate community ownership and participation; throughout our value chain and the wider business ecosystem in Kenya. • Be technically sound and viable; The ‘Safaricom Way’ of speed, simplicity and trust sets the • Have a budget that accurately reflects the nature of the overall framework for ethics and values in Safaricom. Each project to be implemented; and stakeholder group also has a code of conduct, which defines • Be submitted and be implemented by organisations that specific policies that are relevant to that stakeholder group. are registered charities, NGOs, CBOs and/or formally constituted groups. The code of conduct provides guidance to staff on matters related to integrity. The code of conduct includes guidelines Both Foundations do not fund any political activities. (standards) covering the following ethical issues: conflicts of interest; corruption and bribery; gifts and entertainment; As part of the way that we do business, Safaricom is duty to report; insider trading and corporate opportunity; committed to respecting and promoting the rights of all charitable contributions; and money laundering. people, including children. We recognise that we must avoid being complicit and/or responsible for the abuse of rights New employees are required to sign a conflict of interest throughout our business ecosystem, in our workplace, and declaration when they join Safaricom. An annual declaration through our corporate social investment partnerships, and is also required of all employees. This year, the requirements that we should play our part in promoting the enjoyment of were changed to ensure that everyone completed a rights and liberties. declaration, even if there were no conflicts to declare. Safaricom analyses the declarations and declarations Children’s rights are the human rights of children with deemed ‘high risk’ are presented to the Ethics committee, particular attention to: • Devolution: This is the process through which power Awareness and training which ratifies any decisions. Members of staff with ‘medium’ is being transferred from the National Government to • The rights of special protection and care afforded to Training is undertaken on specific regulatory issues and and ‘low risk’ declarations are monitored on an ongoing 47 newly created County Governments. Devolution minors, including their right to association with both changes that have implications for Safaricom; for instance, basis. Suppliers are also required to make a conflict of was introduced on 4 March 2013, with the onset of the parents; we trained staff on the impact of devolution on the business interest declaration during the supplier on-boarding process. general elections. Devolution presents both opportunities in the previous financial year. The Regulatory and Public • Their rights to food, education, and health care; and challenges for the business environment within Adherence to ethical practices and our values also applies to which Safaricom operates. Safaricom is lobbying various Policy team also receives external training on various issues, • Their right to be protected by criminal laws appropriate for the Safaricom and M-PESA Foundations. We adhere to the County Governments to ensure that any legislation such as network cost methodology, competition issues and the age and development of the child; anti-bribery policy of Vodafone and the Safaricom Foundation introduced is constructive from the perspective of the licensing. has an ISO procedure that describes the criteria that must be • Equal protection of the child’s civil rights; and telecommunications industry. met by any organisation wishing to be funded by Safaricom. • Freedom from discrimination on the basis of the child’s Responsibility The Safaricom Foundation Board of Trustees meets on a We intend to ensure continuous compliance with the race, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, national monthly basis to review all applications for funding and to current laws and regulations that affect our business, as origin, religion, disability, colour or ethnicity. The Regulatory and Public Policy Department is responsible agree on the projects to be funded, based on the following well as to advance positions that are favourable for the for managing regulatory issues on behalf of Safaricom. guidelines. Funded projects should: telecommunications industry. This department sits within the Corporate Affairs Division. The Department interacts with different teams across the business, in particular, the strategic business units (CBU, EBU and FSBU), Technology and the Risk divisions. The Corporate Affairs Director sits on the Executive Committee, which has oversight on regulatory issues. 68 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 69 We believe that we have a role to play in respecting children’s in fact and appearance, and that the external financial Develop and implement a framework to support Responsibility rights by avoiding any infringement of children’s rights reporting of Safaricom continues to be viewed as being targeted Corporate Social Investment (CSI) that will and addressing any adverse impacts in areas in which highly reliable and credible. Our Internal Audit function was support the fulfilment of children’s rights; The Ethics and Compliance Department is responsible for our business is involved. We further believe that we have also moved into its own independent division (previously, Develop a clear student worker policy; and managing ethics and values in Safaricom. This department a corporate commitment to support child rights through it was part of the Risk Division). Internal Audit now reviews Through the UN Global Compact, initiate a discussion forms part of the Risk Division and its Director sits on the voluntary actions, advocacy and lobbying. the Risk Management Department as well. among business leaders regarding the importance and Executive Committee. We also have ethics champions in impact of the application of children’s rights within the different divisions who have been trained on ethics and • Ethics Perception Survey: An ethics perception survey corporate sector. values and will act as the first point of contact in that division. Initiatives to promote ethical and good is undertaken every two years by an external party. The The Ethics and Compliance Department engages with all corporate governance throughout our purpose of the survey is to measure the ethical climate divisions in Safaricom. business ecosystem within Safaricom. The survey involves staff, suppliers, Awareness and training agents and key Government bodies that we interact with The Ethics Management Committee has oversight over • Comprehensive risk assessment: A comprehensive We undertake a number of different training and awareness regularly. ethics management and is composed of the CEO, CFO, risk assessment is undertaken twice a year on enterprise sessions on ethics and values in Safaricom. Director of HR, Director of Risk, Director of Strategy and the risk management, operational risks, strategic risks • Ethics and our Business Partners: At our annual Director of Corporate Affairs. The secretary to the committee and fraud risks per division. Mitigation plans are then Business Partners Forum, we communicated our stance Face-to-face sessions are held with different departments is the Head of Department for Ethics and Compliance. The developed to counter any identified risks. We also take on ethics and values, as well as the benefits and value across the business. These sessions are tailored to the risks mandate of the committee is to ensure that Safaricom acts proactive steps to identify cases of fraud. This includes that can be created by ensuring that businesses operate facing the team in attendance and focus on ethical conduct, ethically by: the use of a fraud management system to identify possible ethically. We are also developing an ‘ethics starter pack’ fraud risks within the respective departments, the code of cases of fraud and carrying out in-depth fraud reviews to assist smaller business partners that may be interested conduct, and the role of staff in promoting ethics. On the • Making decisions on ethical dilemmas/issues brought to determine whether fraud has occurred within key in formalising their ethics management. whole, the training uses an ‘ethical dilemma’ approach before it; processes. Thirteen fraud reviews were carried out during through which specific dilemmas are discussed. For high risk • Ethics Conference: Safaricom sponsored the • Recommending, reviewing and approving ethics-related the year under review. departments, 100% of all staff in the department must attend Strathmore Annual Ethics Conference in October 2013 policies; the training, while for medium and low risk departments, • Audit reviews: Thirty-two audit reviews were carried out and our CEO, Bob Collymore, was a keynote speaker. 75% of all staff must attend the training sessions. These • Reviewing ethical declarations, such as conflict of interest during the reporting period. The objective of the reviews • Children’s rights: We are in the process of approving a sessions are held on an annual basis. declarations; and was to obtain assurance on the adequacy, design and children’s rights policy that will address: child rights in our operating effectiveness of controls. Three additional • Providing oversight to the Ethics and Compliance business; child rights in our products and services; child The face-to-face sessions are supplemented by e-learning reviews were carried out that were special requests from Department. rights in our workplace; and child rights in our corporate sessions and quarterly ethics bulletins. Business partners management. Where unethical action was suspected, social investment. Within the next 12 months, we plan to: are also provided with training on ethics and values. For the investigations were undertaken. The investigations Undertake a business impact assessment to first time this year, ethics and anti-corruption training was covered various frauds, including asset misappropriation, understand fully our impact on children’s rights; undertaken by an external consultant for senior Safaricom fraudulent expense claims and corruption cases. The Review our existing policies and identify appropriate leadership including members of the Executive Committee, investigations led to disciplinary action against members opportunities to embed children’s rights in to relevant Heads of Departments and ethics champions. of staff and, in some cases, reporting cases to law policies; enforcement officers and prosecuting suspects. Ensure that respecting and supporting children’s rights • Board self-assessment: A Board self-assessment becomes part of the company culture and to provide process was undertaken during the reporting period. managers and employees with guidance in relation to The Board Audit Committee (BAC) self-assessment was matters that may impact the rights of children; carried out in March 2013 for members of the BAC. Include our child’s rights framework in our sustainability The assessment covered: BAC terms of reference and framework; meetings; training and resources; financial reporting; Develop a family-friendly work environment in more of internal audit process; external audit process; and the our facilities. BAC relationship with the Board. Key observations were Work with our business partners to build capacity in highlighted to improve the operations of the BAC. In the self-assessment of children’s rights and business February 2014, we also documented and approved the principles, and ensure that our business partners are BAC Terms of Reference, defining the BAC mandate, aware of the special considerations required to protect authority and responsibilities. children from potential risks; Launch products that address children’s online privacy • Policies: During the reporting period, the Policy for the protection and online safety, through a “make the Management of External Auditors was also documented, internet safer for children” initiative; to ensure that audit independence is maintained, both 70 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 71 stakeholder engagement 72 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 73 The Safaricom 2.0 ecosystem identifies the following eight stakeholder There are a range of stakeholders that we engage with to achieve our strategic groups and related Charters. objectives. The table below describes the specific issues on which we engage our stakeholders, as well as the format and frequency of engagement. Customers Employees We will communicate honestly, offer simple and We will provide a great place to work and grow, Name of stakeholder Key issues on which we engage Format and frequency of engagement relevant products and deliver on our promises to the where both individual accomplishments and team Customers • Network quality: Information regarding planned • Regular communication through Customer Care. customer with speed and consistency. effort will be rewarded. We will provide opportunities works and network failures is promptly disseminated • Regular communication through our toll free for personal empowerment and career growth in an to Customer Care for communication to subscribers. customer care lines, social media, SMS, email and atmosphere of trust, honesty and openness. interactive voice response (IVR) channels. • Customer experience: We engage our customers directly to obtain feedback on our products and • Online portals, such as web self-care, customer services, their views, complaints and suggestions. research and surveys. Shareholders We measure this through the Customer Delight Index • Customer forums are held on an annual basis. We will enhance shareholder value by adherence to Regulators (CDI), Enterprise Delight Index (EDI) and Net Promoter Scores (NPS). • Monthly retail CDI reports. the highest standards of corporate governance and We will build constructive, respectful, open and • Our quality team has an SMS number 4070, which world class management practice. Our shareholders transparent relationships with all regulators. While • Health and safety: Safaricom is committed to can be reached 24/7. should expect timely and accurate information and the being compliant with all regulation and applicable safeguarding the safety and health of customers and • Customer engagement on health and safety is opportunity to engage through various forums with us. laws, we will adopt a firm approach on issues that other persons who may be directly affected by our provisioned through various channels, including the may be detrimental to industry growth. business operations. Customer safety and health customer care helpline and email addresses, along aspects are addressed in risk assessments, safety with comments received by the safety and health and health audits, and safety and health committee desk through the email address HSHelpdesk@ inspections reports, among other activities. Business partners safaricom.co.ke. Our We will engage in mutually beneficial and sustainable relationships with all business partners in an Employees Staff engagement through Sema na CEO (‘speak with the CEO’) chat room, the annual People Survey Sema na CEO, People Survey and Staff Council: • Employees are able to raise concerns at any time Stakeholder environment of equity, mutual respect and honesty. and Staff Council meetings: The Staff Council is through the Sema na CEO chat room. Charters We are committed to growing Kenyan businesses chaired by the CEO and includes elected representatives • The Staff Council meets on a quarterly basis to and will offer preferential support to innovative local from each division. Some of the key issues that have address issues and concerns raised by employees. businesses. been raised during the reporting period include: • The People Survey takes place on an annual basis. • Parking spots for expectant mothers: Safaricom Innovation: Media has limited parking spots within HQ1, HQ2 and the • Frequent awareness meetings with strategy and SCC and these are allocated on a first come/first innovation; communication through the Zindua Society We will continuously and proactively engage the served basis. This posed a challenge to expectant Café; and through different campaigns, including the We will work closely with Kenyans to be a respected media in a factual, speedy and honest way, in order mothers who often had to seek alternative parking Zindua Challenge, which encourages Safaricom staff and empowering contributor to society. While we to participate in informing public opinion actively. We outside the facilities. During the staff council to share ideas that would help improve and innovate participate as an integral part in the upliftment will take a lead role in building industry knowledge deliberations, it was agreed that all expectant mothers operations around business processes, customer of society, our relationship will be built on the among various media groups and hold them to be allocated parking for the period of expectancy. experience and product development. principles of partnership, humility, openness and account for responsible reporting. • Access to facilities for physically challenged Ethical engagements include a mix of: professionalism. people: Some of our facilities are not accessible for • Formal, face-to-face sessions on an annual basis; physically challenged staff. This was raised through • E-mail bulletins, posters and informal discussions on Future generations the Staff Council and improvements have been made an ad hoc basis; and The future is now and our conduct and business to allow for easier access; for example, wall-mounted • Ethical dilemma discussions on an ongoing basis. practices today must be designed to create and access card buttons are now positioned closer to the shape a sustainable tomorrow. floor for wheelchair users. • Taxi service concerns: This year, our taxi services provider changed, which led to service delivery issues. These were raised on Sema na CEO. The resources team assessed these concerns and worked with the service provider to improve service delivery. 74 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 75 Name of stakeholder Key issues on which we engage Format and frequency of engagement Name of stakeholder Key issues on which we engage Format and frequency of engagement Employees (cont.) • Innovation: We engage with our employees on Customer experience: Business partners • Expected standards of behaviour, including health • Supplier forums are held on an annual basis. proposed ideas of improving customer experience and • Regular training and refreshers on Safaricom (suppliers, dealers, and safety standards, ethics, corruption, and bribery • Suppliers are issued with our Supplier Code of product and process development through the Zindua products and services. regulations. M-PESA agents) Conduct when first engaging with Safaricom. Café,we have innovation champions throughout the • Engagement is targeted and cross-functional, • Awareness of the supplier code of conduct. organisation; as well as an Innovation Department. based on the support needed to realise any ongoing • Annual supplier sustainability self-assessments. customer journey initiatives. • Providing suppliers with avenues to report unethical • Ethical values and standards: We assist members • Quarterly Principal forums, where agents are invited • We have annual team building forums to strategise matters. of staff with the resolution of ethical dilemmas. to discuss topical issues with Safaricom employees. and communicate our annual theme. • We constantly engage our marketing team to assist • Training on M-PESA fraud to ensure that they can Customer experience: We engage with our in campaigns to market our products and services. identify counterfeit money and protect themselves employees and internal stakeholders in our marketing, from fraudulent activities targeted at agents. product development, sales, service delivery and billing Health and safety: and payment teams, in particular, on: • Workplace inspection reports. Ethics and Safaricom has initiated discussions with the Ethics • Engagement takes place as and when required. • Developing brand ambassadors; • Quarterly meetings. Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Commission of Kenya on areas of • The role of employees in creating customer delight potential collaboration for promoting ethics. Commission and the contribution of employees to overall Performance Management Process: Safaricom objectives; • This takes place throughout the year. Credit Rating Bureau Verification of documents (e.g. company checks and • Meetings and email correspondence when on• The input of employees on the relevance and impact Director vetting) when assessing potential dealers and boarding new dealers or agents. of a ‘customer centric’ culture; M-PESA agents. • Customer education and campaigns; and • New products and services for specific customer Developers Developer engagement consists of various initiatives, • Developer engagement is through meetings, the daily segments. such as the Vodafone App-star Challenge and the Safaricom Innovation email and competitions. annual Safaricom AppWiz Challenge, through which we Health and Safety: Employee engagement is provide developers with mentorship and entrepreneurial provisioned through joint management-employee training. safety and health committees. The role of committee representatives is that of articulating employee OSH Third parties Safaricom engages with Government-approved • Assurance, due diligence or verification activities, as concerns. involved in auditors, as well as with approved ISO 14001 and defined by third party procedures. audits and other OHSAS 18001 auditors, to undertake audits of our Performance Management Process: We engage business operations for compliance or certification with all of our employees through the performance assurance/ purposes. These include audits of our safety and health management process. due diligence or standards and performance, environmental audits, verification Communications Network quality: • Meetings; energy audits and testing of EMF levels. We have also • CCK/CA QoS targets. exercises Authority of Kenya • Formal correspondence; and engaged an independent assurance provider to provide • Notification of all new products for approval. (fomerly The • Submissions . external assurance over selected sustainability data. Communications Regulatory & public policy interventions, such as: Frequency varies, depending on the nature of the issue. Network • Safaricom has agreements with other mobile operators • Meetings and correspondence, as required. Commission of • Licensing; to share some of its BTS sites, and vice versa. stakeholders Kenya) • Mobile Termination Rates (MTRs); (Telecommunication • Leases of land for putting up BTS sites. • Amendments to the Kenya Information and Communications Act (KICA); Service Providers; • Provision of grid power for telecommunications • Subscriber registration; and Landlords; Kenya Power equipment. • Management of E-waste. and Lighting Company (KPLC); renewable energy • Deployment of renewable energy solutions. Rural Electrification Safaricom engages with the Rural Electrification • Weekly email correspondence and meetings, as contractors; fibre cabling • Safaricom leases fibre from fibre optic providers Authority (REA) on planned grid extensions in rural areas required. Authority providers) and engages with these providers on service level before prioritising the energy mix for remote sites. agreements. Kenya Power Safaricom engages with Kenya Power regarding the grid • Regular email correspondence and meetings. network required for its infrastructure. Government • Obtaining Government feedback on public sector • Interviews once every two years. agencies perceptions of ethical practices at Safaricom. • Annual meetings. Innovation partners Innovation partners are engaged on value propositions • External stakeholder engagement is facilitated and include: mobile phone operators; universities; mainly through the daily Safaricom Innovation email, • Tax issues and tariffs. incubation centres; as well as various venture capitalists. through which members from the public and other vendors express their interest in sharing their ideas with Safaricom. 76 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 77 Name of stakeholder Key issues on which we engage Format and frequency of engagement Name of stakeholder Key issues on which we engage Format and frequency of engagement The Directorate The company engages with the Directorate of • Annual reports. Kenya Revenue • Excise duty on mobile money transfer services. • Meetings. of Occupational Occupational Safety and Health Services as required • Meetings, when required. Authority • VAT regime. • Formal correspondence. Safety and Health under the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 2007. • Prescribed DOSH letters and forms . The company submits annual reports regarding various • Compliance. • Submissions. Services (DOSH) audits undertaken by Government-approved auditors, in the Ministry On a case-by-case basis. including Safety and Health Audits, Noise Surveys, Air of Labour and The National • E-waste management. • Meetings. Quality and Fire Audits. These audits are undertaken Human Resource Environment to inform the Directorate of the level of compliance • EIA approvals. • Formal correspondence. Development Management of the company with OSH-related legal requirements • Energy management regulations. • Submissions. and best practices. Other forms of engagements Authority include annual workplace registrations, reports of • Lobbying on economic instruments for ‘green On a case-by-case basis. inspections of lifting equipment and pressurised vessels, investments’. medical reports, reports regarding the occurrence of • Environmental regulations. accidents, occupational diseases and other dangerous • Compliance. occurrences, and compensation matters. The Competition Competition issues, such as restrictive trade practices, • Meetings. The Betting Control Safaricom promotions. • Meetings. Authority of Kenya consumer issues and dominance. and Licensing Board • Formal correspondence. • Formal correspondence. On a case-by-case basis. • Submissions. On a case-by-case basis. The Kenya Civil • Acquisitions. • Monthly meetings. Aviation Authority • Construction of BTS. • Formal correspondence. The Central Bank of Mobile Money Transfer and other related issues. • Meetings. Kenya • Formal correspondence. Energy Regulatory Energy regulations released in 2012 require Safaricom • Annual reporting. Commission to undertake an energy audit every three years and • Correspondence, as required. • Submissions. provide an annual report on progress towards achieving any energy conservation measures identified in On a case-by-case basis. previous audits. Ministry of • Telecommunications Policy. • Meetings. Kenya Association of • Training of staff on energy matters. • Regular correspondence, as required. Information and • Spectrum Policy. • Formal correspondence. Manufacturers • Assisting KAM, as the host of the UNGC, with the • Regular meetings. Communications • KICA. • Submissions. sharing of best practice. • Quarterly workshops. On a case-by-case basis. Local communities Communities are consulted as part of the public • We engage with local communities through meetings, Capital Markets Safaricom engages the CMA as it is a publicly listed • Meetings. participation process during the EIAs of proposed as required. Authority (CMA) company. • Formal correspondence. projects. • Submissions. United Nations Safaricom partners with UNEP on environmental • Meetings, as required. Environment events, awareness events and sessions, such as World On a case-by-case basis. Environment Day and Clean up the World Day, Programme and through environmental and sustainability sessions Federation of Changes or improvements in labour laws. • Workshops. with local universities. Kenyan Employers • Correspondence, as required. Shareholders Vodafone shares information and best practices • Monthly meetings and teleconferences, as required. Ministry of Labour Employee statistics. • Monthly email correspondence. (Government of regarding new technologies in the areas of energy, technical network information and network quality. Kenya, Vodafone Plc, County Governments Finance Bills passed by the Counties. • Meetings. The Government engages the company through relevant and Public (NSE) • Formal correspondence. line ministries and departments. On a case-by-case basis. Third party • Provision of staff training. • Regular engagement, as required. contractors, vendors • Monitoring and evaluation of customer experience. County Council of Noise permits for any Safaricom functions. • Correspondence, as required. and suppliers Nairobi • Expert advice on network quality matters and operational engagements. • Independent benchmark measurements and reporting. 78 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 79 our performance 80 Network quality 82 Energy security 84 Innovation 87 Customer experience 88 Our employees 93 Environmental performance 96 Our business partners 97 Regulatory issues 97 Ethics and values 80 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 81 We measure our performance on As part of our BNK programme, an independent company, was contracted to carry out independent audits and tests to measure our material matters to ensure our network performance relative to other mobile service providers. that we are undertaking actions The table below shows our consolidated results for the 13 towns of Nairobi, Mombasa, Kisumu, Nakuru, Eldoret, Thika, Malindi, Nyeri, Meru, that enable us to reduce the risks Embu, Nanyuki, Kakamega and Kisii: and maximise the opportunities faced by our business. October April September Our performance measures consist of both qualitative and quantitative 2013 2013 2012 indicators that allow us to track how we are doing. Where there have been any data restatements, these are disclosed under the relevant Call Set Up Success Rate performance section. Dropped Call Ratio Network quality Speech Quality How we performed Mean Data User Data Rate – Download The CCK (now referred to as the CA) is mandated to ensure the provision of quality services by licensed mobile service operators. To meet this objective, the CA has developed eight Key Performance Mean Data User Data Rate — Upload Indicators (KPIs) to assess the QoS of mobile operators. The results of these assessments are released to the general public and can be found Mean Web Browsing Session Time on the CA website3. The table below details the various CA KPIs, and our performance against these KPIs for the past three years. Network Delay Table 1: CA QoS performance Best Network CA Target CA Results CA Results CA Results Second Best Third Best 2013* 2013 2012 2011 Completed Calls ≥95% We continue to be concerned with the results of the CA QoS results. Network quality is an important strategic objective for Safaricom and we Call Setup Success Rate ≥95% continue to engage with the CA in an effort to understand discrepancies Dropped Calls ≤2% between the CA QoS results and the independent results obtained through the BNK measurements. Blocked Calls ≤5% Speech Quality (MOS, PESQ Values) 95% of samples >3.1 Handover Success Rate ≥90% Call Setup Time <13.5 seconds RX Levels Outdoor – 105dBm *The targets for completed calls, call setup success rate, blocked calls, speech quality and handover success rate have become more stringent from 2012 to 2013. Achieved Not achieved 3 Communications Commission of Kenya, 2013: Report on the Quality of Service (QOS) Performance Assessment for Cellular Mobile Networks Period 2012-2013. Available from: < http://www.cck.go.ke/ consumers/other_info/downloads/REPORT_ON_THE_QUALITY_OF_SERVICE_2012-2013.pdf> 82 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 83 Monitoring and evaluating our performance Energy security In addition to the independent audits undertaken by the independant company, we monitor and evaluate our network quality performance in a How we performed number of ways: We consume both electricity and diesel in our network and facilities. The • 24/7 network monitoring through the Network Operations table below shows our total consumption data within our facilities and Centre (NOC). network. • Performance management using statistical data analysis on a daily basis to ensure that an acceptable QoS is maintained. • Customer Experience Management (CEM) tools ensure that the gap Electricity Total Total Total between the performance of network elements and the customer consumption FY14 FY13 FY12 experience is bridged. These tools are able to monitor the quality of Megawatt Hours 113 800 96 362 118 233 both voice and data services. (MWh) • Daily quality briefs where all quality-related aspects of the network are Gigajoules (GJ) 4 409 677 346 905 425 638 discussed and tracked for resolution. • Internal drive tests for optimisation purposes, which evaluate our performance, identify any gaps and resolve the identified gaps. • Internal drive tests for benchmarking purposes are carried out prior to Diesel Total Total Total the independent assessment by the independent company. We use consumption* FY14 FY13 FY12 internationally accepted methodology for evaluating both voice and data services. Volume (Litres) 6 833 590 5 748 197 8 424 563 • Customer surveys are undertaken by the Market Insight teams to understand the experience of Safaricom customers and their Gigajoules (GJ) 5 245 558 206 353 305 470 perception of the different touch points. One of the key areas *All fuel consumed is from non-renewable sources surveyed is the performance of the network. The results of these surveys are used to monitor performance and bridge any gaps During the reporting year, we also upgraded the cooling systems in our Monitoring and evaluating our performance Looking forward identified. data centres, which resulted in an improvement in our power utilisation Managing energy security requires that we have access to accurate Safaricom has a target of reducing its energy cost per site by 10% each • Reporting to the Vodafone Group and benchmarking with other effectiveness (PUE) performance to between 1.5 and 1.8. PUE is a energy data. Approximately 500 access sites are currently equipped with year, for the next 5 years. Future initiatives include an energy efficiency Vodafone operators. We undertake monthly reporting to the measure of how efficiently a data centre uses electricity. automatic meter readers to help relay grid power use accurately and to awareness campaign for the upcoming year. We will also be reVodafone Group on quality matters and are benchmarked against reduce meter reading costs. establishing our energy baseline in preparation for the upcoming energy other Vodafone operators. This provides a means of comparing our audits, which will guide our energy investments and fulfil statutory results with other operators, as well as an opportunity to share best Safaricom has commenced with an energy management program that requirements. Looking forward, another 1 300 automatic meters will be practices in view of improving network quality. will involve energy audits and benchmarking against other Vodafone deployed in the next year. We are also contemplating the deployment operators. This programme will allow us to set SMART energy of a comprehensive remote site management system that will further Looking forward management objectives. The foundation of the programme and audit improve data collection, reduce energy infrastructure theft, and reduce In the immediate future, we aim to: methodology has been agreed upon by the relevant stakeholders; energy associated failures. however, actual site measurements will begin in FY15. • Maintain our BNK status and add an additional two towns to the We are also procuring solar technologies for approximately 100 sites programme (Kitale and Machakos); in our network, which will be implemented in the upcoming year. Of • Complete the migration of BTS sites to our own fibre optic cabling, the 100 sites, approximately 50 are expected to be pure solar power, along with completing the fibre-to-buildings project; 25 will be a combination of solar power and power cubes, and the • Implement the fibre project in the towns of Mombasa, Kisumu, remainder will be hybrid solutions consisting of solar power, generators Nakuru and Eldoret; and batteries. • Focus on indoor coverage within major towns and the deployment of capacity and coverage sites throughout Kenya; • Deploy up to 50 sites in areas that have security concerns; and 4 FY14 conversions from MWh to GJ is undertaken using conversion of MWh*1000 = KWh and KWh/277.78 = GJ • Transform the M-PESA platform to ensure it is a fortified, resilient, 5 FY14 conversions from litres of diesel to GJ is undertaken using value of 35.9338MJ/litre calculated from diesel Net Calorific Value and density figures from DEFRA 2013 Fuel Properties robust and scalable system. 84 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 85 Innovation How we performed For our business service, social and financial inclusion innovations, we measure the impact of the innovation and track this against our targets. Project Impact Target number of users Project Impact Target number of users Short-Term Paybill Currently we have 172 accounts. We aim to grow the number of users by 200% in TIBU Currently, there are over 300 000 TB patients in We had a target of launching TIBU in all 47 counties A health information system for the upcoming year. Kenya managed through the program. We have in Kenya, which was achieved by December 2013. management of TB patients 60 central office staff and over 300 field staff and Internet Sambaza Our current performance is at 10 terabytes (TB) per The target for this product was to share 1TB of partners. A service that allows customers to week. The impact of Internet Sambaza has been data per week. Since the launch, over 250TB of share and transfer data bundles an increase in internet usage and growth in data data has been shared using the service against a Refugees United re-launch We currently have 298 000 users. Our global call We had a target of 200 000 users by June 2014 bundle purchases. target of only 10 TB. There have been in excess of centre handles approximately 1 000 calls per day. which was exceeded. 3 million Internet Sambaza transactions to date. Lipa-na M-PESA We have signed up over 122 000 merchants on The target for March 2014 was 100 000 merchants, Vuma online Currently, over 2 000 Public Service Vehicles (PSVs) The target was to ensure that 1 000 PSVs have the Lipa na M-PESA so far. Previously, the total number which was exceeded. have been fitted with Vuma online, including taxis, Vuma service connected. We have exceeded this of Merchants accepting e-Payments (predominantly tour buses and college buses. The impact of Vuma target two fold. cards) was less than 20 000 (despite presence of online has been an increase in internet usage, debit and credit cards for a long time). M-PESA an increase in the number of internet users, and is now the leading brand in the payment space, improved brand equity among the youth segment. surpassing Visa and MasterCard. 10 for 10 internet bundle Currently, we have 1 000 000 customers using this The initial target was to reach 300 000 customers, The impact we have made includes creating service. which we have exceeded. employment opportunities for the youth — via Jisort na smartphone Currently, there are over 1.8 million smartphones on The target was to have 1 500 000 smartphone introducers who hire them to acquire merchants on (smartphone strategy) the Safaricom network. users on the Safaricom network. We have a commission basis, which has also opened a new exceeded the target by 300 000 smartphones. revenue channel for our dealers and agents. Guardian (Parental Control The impact of the Guardian application isn’t No targets set. We have also improved the general security of application) easily quantifiable as it is an optional functionality; Kenyans by reducing the need to carry cash. however, more parents feel safe letting their children access the internet knowing that they have control We provide opportunities for businesses to adopt over what their children can access. electronic payments and rely less on cash. The security and convenience of not handling cash is of MyTunes (Trial) The product has just been launched and we are still We have set a target of 100 000 downloads per great benefit to business people. The service has monitoring our performance. month by June 2014. enabled customers and merchants to make and Kilimo Salama We currently have 9 043 users who have redeemed We are targeting 200 000 small holder farmers for accept payments from as little as KSh 10. their cards. A total of 687 farmers were compensated seed guarantee. in the areas of Machakos, Embu, Migori, Meru, Lipa Kodi na M-PESA This is a rent payment solution on M-PESA Pay Bill We will be recruiting estate agents, diaspora-based aimed at addressing the rent collection needs of landlords, local authorities and private landlords in Kajiado and Muranga. We have helped famers housing agents, commercial real estate businesses, the next financial year. increase their resilience and their yields. diaspora-based and local landlords. We have 88 Shupavu A revision application for Upper We currently have 180 000 users. We are targeting 500 000 active users by the end major housing agents signed up to the service and Primary school children of June 2014. currently have over 70 000 customers paying their rent through Lipa Kodi. Linda Jamii A medical mico-insurance product We currently have 36 000 subscribers. Families We are targeting 200 000 subscribers by the end of in partnership with Britam and who could not afford to do so before can now March 2014. M-PESA retail distribution Currently, we have over 154 distributors using this We aim to grow the number of distributors using Changamka service and transacting over KSh 7 million each this service. access high quality healthcare. per month. We have over 80 000 M-PESA agents M-PEP An application that uses SMS We have 188 hospitals that have health care The Kenya National AIDS & STI Control Programme countrywide, hence retailers are able to convert technology to encourage health workers registered in M-PEP. We have 6 067 health (NASCOP) plans to sensitise and train staff at 129 care workers to use Post-Exposure cash to e-money from anywhere and use the same care workers registered. 191 injuries have been facilities on ‘sharps surveillance’. Prophylaxis (PEP) to pay for goods delivered. reported from M-PEP clients. 86 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 87 Customer Experience 100 We need to remain innovative to service a growing youth sector. We measure our youth equity statistics 75 on a monthly basis. The graph shows our youth equity over the reporting period. We have a blanket target of 85% youth equity, which we have achieved 50 this year. 25 0 Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Safaricom 13 13 13 13 13 13 14 14 14 Orange Safaricom 81% 81% 82% 83% 85% 86% 87% 85% 85% Airtel Orange 2% 6% 5% 4% 4% 2% 4% 4% 3% YU Airtel 15% 13% 12% 11% 9% 8% 8% 10% 11% YU 5% 2% 1% 2% 2% 4% 2% 1% 2% 60% We also measure our youth Net Promoter Score (NPS). The results over the reporting period are 50% shown. 40% 30% Customer experience 20% How we performed Monitoring and evaluating our performance An external party, SBO, measures customer experience for the whole of The Vodafone Group undertakes benchmarking of operators based 10% Safaricom on a monthly basis. The assessment reviews competitors, as on the NPS. Safaricom undertakes weekly measures at different touch well as Safaricom, and provides feedback on our customer experience points, referred to as internal monitoring (IM), to provide strategic 0 performance. In previous years, we reported our Customer Delight Index insights on customer experience. In particular, the NPS at specific touch Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Safaricom (CDI) and Enterprise Delight Index (EDI). We are moving away from these points is being assessed to determine touch-point specific customer 13 13 13 13 13 13 14 14 14 Orange metrics to measuring our NPS and Brand Equity performance. NPS experience. This is undertaken through questionnaires, via phone calls, Safaricom 47% 46% 44% 40% 36% 42% 42% 47% 45% Airtel assesses the likelihood that a customer would recommend Safaricom to market visits and face-to-face interactions. Market visits are scheduled Orange 30% 24% 24% 24% 26% 25% 26% 30% 39% YU other businesses or friends, based on their overall experience. throughout the year and customers are randomly selected. Insights from Airtel 48% 47% 42% 46% 44% 47% 44% 44% 39% IM are used to track experience performance, with the overall objective YU 47% 51% 56% 51% 55% 52% 53% 36% 39% of achieving the set NPS target. KPI Name FY14 Target Monitoring and evaluating our performance Looking forward Consumer NPS 46 Our overall NPS target is to We are able to evaluate our performance on developing innovative products and services by: be the number one Mobile In the future, Safaricom will continue moving from CDI and EDI, Service Provider by a margin which measure satisfaction, to NPS, which measures the likelihood • Assessing our competitors through market research and reports released by the regulator; of 5% or more. of customers to recommend our services. We are eager to take up • Obtaining feedback on our innovations from our customer facing teams; and the new challenge of creating advocates for Safaricom by creating an Enterprise NPS 88 The target for Enterprise • Reviewing our Customer Delight Indices and NPS performance. exceptional experience. We are also working on mapping an end-to-end NPS is to be the number one customer management experience framework and creating a Customer Mobile Service Provider by a For our social innovations, we also track the number of subscribers, active users and users who opt out. Service Charter. margin of 10% or more Brand Equity 85% 80% Looking forward We strive to continue innovating and providing products and services that deepen financial inclusion and transform lives in line with our strategy and customer needs. We also continue to focus on the youth segment and initiatives to further raise our youth equity. 88 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 89 Our employees Region Number of permanent staff at How we performed location of working Nairobi 3 625 We measure a number of employee statistics throughout the year, including: the number of permanent and contract staff by gender, region Western (Rift, Western and 200 and job grade; employee hire and turnover rates; training hours; and Nyanza) OSH statistics. The majority of our workforce consists of permanent Eastern (Eastern, Central 212 staff and we do not have any seasonal workers in our employment. and Coast) None of our staff are covered by collective bargaining agreements; however, we do have a Staff Council that meets on a quarterly basis to Total 4 037 address issues and concerns raised by employees. See the Stakeholder Engagement section on page 70 for a description of the Staff Council. Total New Hires 1 562 Employment Gender Number of contract type split employees Rate of employee new hire 38.7% Permanent staff Male 2 032 Male 40% Female 2 005 Female 60% Age bracket Total Total 4 037 • 18-24 70 Contract staff Male 21 (Fixed Term) • 25-29 751 Female 27 • 30-34 539 Total Total 48 • 35-40 171 • >45 31 Employment Number of Number of Number of Gender ratio type (job permanent women men of women to grade) staff men Total exits 229 Age bracket Number of SLT 12 4 8 1:2 employees Rate of employee turn over 5.7% Band E 45 19 26 1:1.36 60> 2 Male exits 134 Band F 162 50 112 1:2.24 Female exits 95 50-59 35 Band G 400 129 271 1:2.1 Age bracket 40-49 366 Band H 1 067 406 661 1:1.63 • 18-24 41 30-39 2 428 Band I 2 351 1 399 952 1:0.68 • 25-29 97 20-29 1 206 Total 4 037 2 007 2 030 1:1.01 • 30-34 78 Total 4 037 • >45 13 90 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 91 Role Total No. of No. of Total Average Total Total Average Average Total Cost of Average Training Training Training Training by Cost of Lost Time Injuries No. of Female Male Training Training Training Employees Employees Employees Hours by Hours by Hours: Hours: Hours: Hours: Grade (KSh) Training Trained Trained Trained Category Grade Females Males Females Males by Grade (KSh) 17% Senior 11 5 6 530 48.2 266 264 53.2 44.0 3 735 928 339 630 Scalds and burns Leadership Team Band E 46 19 27 1 546 33.6 401 1 145 21.1 42.4 7 299 158 158 677 Band F 180 52 128 6 658 37.0 2 272 4 386 43.7 34.3 15 965 605 88 698 17% 50% Wall Road Band G 282 76 206 11 062 39.2 2 108 8 954 27.7 43.5 28 175 349 99 913 demolition traffic Band H 2 246 964 1 282 43 821 19.5 8 999 34 822 9.3 27.2 118 473 400 52 749 (collapse) accidents injury Band I 2 408 1 369 1 039 35 760 14.9 21 136 14 624 15.4 14.1 22 752 238 9 449 It is mandatory for all Safaricom employees, irrespective of gender or employee category, to take part in the performance management process. 16% Slip and Fall Injuries We strive to improve our OSH performance continuously. Two hundred and eighty six employees are involved in the Safaricom Safety and Health Committee. The Committee represents 100% of Safaricom employees. Our OSH performance statistics are reflected in the table below. The majority of incidents that occurred during the reporting period were In addition to these mechanisms, Safaricom internal audit and external road traffic accidents, accounting for 80% of reports received within the assurance providers undertake ISO9001 audits on HR as a whole (which Incident Classification Employees Contractors Third Total Total business. Our LTIFR has improved from 0.11 last year to 0.05 during the includes training). The results of all of these assessments are used to Parties FY14 FY13 reporting period. ensure continuous improvement in our management of training. Fatalities 0 0 1 1 6 For our performance management process, we benchmark our Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) 2 4 0 6 6 Monitoring and evaluating our performance performance against other Vodafone operators. We also obtain feedback from our employees through our annual ‘People Survey’. Incidents 112 25 4 141 143 We monitor and evaluate the success of our employee training initiatives through: Safaricom undertakes an annual survey to evaluate performance on Medical Treatment Cases 23 9 16 48 37 managing occupational health and safety. The following scores were • Happy sheet evaluations, these are the responses received after Man-hours 8 656 000 7 255 200 attained against a targeted score of 60%: a training session on the quality of the training, the venues and • Workplace safety measures: 91% Fatal Injury Frequency Rate (FIFR) 0 0 facilitators; • Knowledge of Safaricom Absolute Rules: 88% Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 0.05 0.11 • Examinations/assessments after competency training sessions, which • Knowledge of OSH Risks: 85% (LTIFR) assess how successful the training was in transferring knowledge; • Effective Health and Safety Briefings: 85% • Impact on the workforce and business interviews, which are held • Right to stop unsafe work: 81% with management and a self-assessment is undertaken by training attendees on the success of the training; and • Personal Protective Equipment use: 77% We regret to disclose one third party fatality through a road traffic accident. The majority of LTIs reported were sustained in road traffic accidents. Others were • Adherence to the Absolute Rules: 64% • Return on Investment tracking, we track the actual return to the sustained in slip and fall incidents, a gas accident at one of the cafeterias, and during a wall demolition project where the beams of the wall under demolition business flowing from the training (e.g. if a sales course was • Perception of OSH at the workplace: 64% collapsed. undertaken, we assess sales before and after the training to • Ability to speak out against unsafe work: 64% determine what impact the training may have had). • Safety as a key priority: 64% • Leadership commitment to safety: 61% • Proper channels for directing OSH issues: 59% 92 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 93 An evaluation of our performance indicators shows that we have seen an improvement in the safety performance and culture at Safaricom: • Reduction in Fatalities from 6 to 1; • Decrease in severity and number of incidents and LTI frequency rates (from 0.11 to 0.05); and • Improved People Survey response rate of 93%, in comparison to 88% last year. Environmental performance Water FY14 m3 FY13 m3 FY12 m3 • The engagement index measures each employee’s pride, motivation, How we performed Source withdrawn withdrawn withdrawn overall workplace rating and intention to stay with Safaricom. During the year under review, we undertook 185 EIAs; 349 Nairobi 42 293 37 815 43 272 • The Manager index examines people management and the aspects Environmental Audits; and collected over 50 tonnes of E-waste. We Water of team climate that are within a manager’s control. also reached hundreds of Kenyans through our E-waste awareness Company • Employee Net Promoter Score measures the overall willingness of events, held in over 20 towns and residential estates. Water 917 11 148 14 148 employees to recommend Safaricom’s products and services to other We consume water from three main sources: the Nairobi Water Tankers people. Company, water tankers and boreholes. We are not able to quantify Water 24 We also established external assurance processes to evaluate the amount of water consumed from borehole sources. This year, Harvested conformance to legal and best practice requirements for the attainment we have also reported on the amount of rain water that has been of sustained improvements and world-class safety standards. As a harvested at the Nakuru Switch Room. Total 43 234 48 963 57 420 result, combined audits were undertaken at 63 company facilities. The scope of these audits covered: safety & health; fire safety; air quality analysis; noise survey; illumination survey; and an EMF survey. We also undertook a second year of audits on 294 Technology sites, in support of the attainment of the company strategy of Best Network in We have calculated our carbon footprint for the third year using the Kenya. In addition, we undertook 55 control audits and 239 initial audits Greenhouse Gas Protocol (a Corporate Accounting and Reporting during the reporting period. Standard (Revised edition)). Our consolidation approach for calculating our emissions is operational control. We used the tCO2e Emission We have also sought third party validation of the implementation Factors from the UK Governmental Departments for Environment, of the Safaricom OSH plan by the Vodafone Group HS&W team. Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) and Energy and Climate Change Commendations were made for supplier safety management progress, (DECC) 2013 GHG conversion factors for company reporting, which work at height and electrical work, development of framework include the gases CO2, N2O and CH4. The latest electricity emission documents and signoff, training of riggers, automated permit to work factor for Kenya published by the International Energy Agency (IEA) tool and Executive Committee senior management tours. has been used. The source for the Global Warming Potentials (GWPs) for the gases CO2, CH4, N20, as well as our refrigerant gases, R410a Looking forward and R407a, is the InterGovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Second Assessment Report over a 100 year period, while the GWP for Training plans are established per division within Safaricom. One of the refrigerant gas R22 is based on the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report the key targets of the training team is to identify gaps and recommend over a 100 year period. We have chosen the tCO2e (with radiative training to address these gaps. Gaps are identified through the forcing) factors for our air travel calculations. performance management process, our competency framework, and based on our business strategy and new technological advances. Our carbon footprint emissions are composed of ‘scope 1’ emissions, which include the diesel consumed in our generators, the fuel used We intend to commemorate the World Day for Safety and Health at in our fleet vehicles and the fugitive emissions associated with our Work on 28 April 2014 through a digital campaign dubbed “I Pledge”. air-conditioning systems, ‘scope 2’ emissions, which are the indirect The focus will be on the Safaricom Absolute Rules. We will involve emissions associated with our consumption of purchased electricity, members of the Executive Committee in the campaign through personal and ‘scope 3’ emissions, which include air travel and taxi hire. pledges on safety. We also intend to hold a roadshow to engage all This year, we included a full 12 months of air travel data, compared to of our staff to observe the Absolute Rules throughout the coming the 6 months used in the FY13 calculation and have used the emission financial year. factors with radiative forcing. We do not have any biogenic emission sources included in our carbon footprint. In the future, we will also be undertaking checks on the Technology team and any other employees who are exposed to EMF. We are still in the process of improving the calculation of our carbon emissions to determine an accurate baseline. 94 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 95 The FY14 total carbon footprint of 75 362 tCO e is described below. 2 Activity Emission Factor/ GHG Emissions GHG Emissions GHG Emissions Activity data GWP FY14 (tCO2e) FY13 (tCO2e) FY12 (tCO2e) Scope 1 Diesel consumed 6 833 590 litres 2.6705 kgCO2e/litre 18 249 15 387 19 014 in generators Fleet: Petrol 159 317 litres 2.3104 kgCO2e/litre 368 1 388 307 1% 4% AIR TRAVEL TAXI HIRE Fleet: Diesel 790 055 litres 2.6705 kgCO2e/litre 2 110 1 071 2 140 Fugitive Emissions 7 574 kg (total of all GWP based on different 13 614 11 076 4 002 24% gases) type of gas* DIESEL CONSUMED IN GENERATORS Total Scope 1 Emissions 34 341 28 922 25 462 Total carbon 50% footprint FY14 ELECTRICITY Scope 2 3% Electricity 113 800 082 KWh 0.3285 kgCO2e/KWh 37 387 31 655 44 795 FLEET consumption Total Scope 2 Emissions 18% 37 387 31 655 44 795 Scope 3 REFRIGERANT GASES/ FUGITIVE EMISSIONS Air Travel 10 889 347 kilometres Based on different class 3 277 360 and category** Taxi Hire 1 743 460 kilometres 0.2049 kgCO2e/km 357 405 (Assumed medium size Monitoring and evaluating our performance petrol car) Environmental parameters, such as noise at generators, EMF, air Total Scope 3 Emissions 3 634 765 quality, and liquid and solid waste management, are measured Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 Emissions 75 362 61 342 70 257 through our Environmental Audits. While we have not defined any of our own environmental targets, we compare certain environmental performance aspects with other operators in the Vodafone Group. * R22 GWP is 10 900; R404a GWP is 3260 and R410a GWP is 1725 Safaricom is the leader in E-waste performance within the Group. Information on EMF is also shared throughout the Vodafone Group through the Safaricom EMF toolkit. The different emission sources that contribute to our carbon footprint are shown above. Electricity remains our largest source of emissions, followed by diesel consumed in generators and refrigerant gases. Our carbon Looking forward footprint has increased by 23% compared to the prior year due to better data collection processes and our growing network. In the next financial year, the Isometrix management system will include the disclosure of sustainability data, focusing mainly on carbon and EMF measurements at audited sites. We will also revamp our Environmental Management System (EMS) processes ** Domestic (0-463 km) Average 0.3266kgCO2e/passenger km (with RF) and apply for IS0 14001 certification. Short-haul international (463 – 3600km) Economy Class 0.1834 kgCO2e/passenger km (with RF) We will continue to improve the accuracy of our carbon footprint Business Class 0.2751 kgCO2e/passenger km (with RF) data over the next year. We also endeavour to develop a water and Long-haul international (>3600km) Economy Class 0.1654 kgCO2e/passenger km (with RF) energy conservation strategy, and to undertake waste management initiatives and awareness sessions in the coming year. Business Class 0.4796 kgCO2e/passenger km (with RF) First Class 0.6615 kgCO2e/passenger km (with RF) 96 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 97 Our business partners Regulatory issues How we performed Monitoring and evaluating our performance How we performed A self-assessment questionnaire was sent to 244 of our largest suppliers At the Business Partners Forum held in February 2014, partners were We measure our performance based on public policy lobbying on and 174 responded, representing a 71% response rate. The results of asked to complete a survey on Safaricom. We received feedback from specific issues, the number of non-compliance fines we receive, and the the supplier self-assessment results are provided below: 86 of our partners. The objectives of the Safaricom Partners Evaluation number of legal actions lodged for anti-competitive behaviour. Survey were to: • Assess the level of awareness of Safaricom products among An action for anti-competitive behaviour was lodged before the Assessment Company Company partners; Competition Authority of Kenya of which Safaricom is a party. Category Score Score • Evaluate the perceptions of partners towards Safaricom; The issue has since been resolved and settled by the Competition FY14 FY13 Authority and Safaricom. • Assess confidence levels in Safaricom procurement processes Local Foreign Local Foreign We were fined KSh 500 000 for failure to meet QoS parameters among partners; and as set out by the CA. Please see the Network quality section on page Regulatory 98% 78% 84% 80% • Determine the drivers of partner satisfaction in the procurement 43 for further discussion of our network quality performance and our compliance process. initiatives as part of the BNK programme. Corporate and 57% 55% 62% 53% The results of the survey indicated that the levels of awareness of community Safaricom products among partners were low, except for data bundles giving Monitoring and evaluating our performance Since 2011, 17 staff and 16 third parties have been charged in and post pay voice. In terms of confidence in Safaricom procurement court, the cases are still onging. Environment 63% 73% 57% 64% process, the survey showed that, although there has been a significant We hold regular sessions with the Vodafone Group to discuss and share improvement in general knowledge and contract administration, there what we have learnt regarding upcoming regulatory and public policy The ethics awareness training statistics are as follows: Human resources 91% 95% 85% 83% is a need to work on communication and accessibility. The survey also • High Risk: 99% of staff trained, against a target of 100% issues that will have a significant impact on the telecommunications revealed that the drivers of supplier satisfaction in the procurement • Medium Risk: 81% of staff trained, against a target of 75% Fraud and ethics 87% 85% 79% 81% industry. process were: contract administration; general knowledge; a focus on • Overall: 94% of staff trained Health and safety 86% 89% 85% 84% quality; innovation; and continuous improvement. Lastly, the survey suggested that the priority areas for improvement are enhanced levels Looking forward We also achieved our target of obtaining 100% of the conflict of Child rights 83% 86% of communication, honoured payment schedules and better promoting interest declarations. Our key target is to ensure that the position of Safaricom is advanced of partnership. through regular engagements with Government on public policy issues. We do not yet require sustainability self-assessments from our dealers We will also endeavour to ensure compliance with the various laws, Monitoring and evaluating our performance or agents. We do, however, monitor the overall business performance Looking forward regulations and licence conditions proactively. The Ethics Perception Survey provides a means of evaluating of our dealers through sales targets for airtime (minimum target starts at 3 million KSh/month) and device targets (starting at 50 pieces the performance of Safaricom in terms of ethics and values. Our In the near future, Safaricom will be undertaking risk assessments on per month). The targets are based on consumer sales targets and last survey was undertaken in October 2012; however, we will be its suppliers to identify which types of suppliers are higher risk from dealer performance over the previous 6 months. Should a dealer not an environmental, human rights and labour perspective. We intend to Ethics and values undertaking another survey in the next reporting period. meet these targets, the area managers will engage with the dealer to differentiate our sustainability screening processes based on the varying We also undertake benchmarking exercises with other operators in understand why the targets are not being met, to adapt the targets and/ risk profiles of our suppliers. the Vodafone group on bribery-related policies and programmes. or to suggest ways in which performance can be improved. If there is How we performed significant non-performance, a dealer’s contract can be terminated. Safaricom assessed each of its 12 Divisions (100%) for risks related to Contracts with our dealers are renegotiated every two years. We also Looking forward corruption. Among the risks identified were procurement fraud risks, provide our agents with M-PESA revenue targets, based on their losses during data migration, unauthorised termination of international In the next reporting period, we will be undertaking another Ethics specific transaction values and volumes. traffic, under billed services and sabotage by third parties. Perception Survey. From the investigations undertaken, 16 employees were issued with warning letters, 56 employees were dismissed, and seven employees were reported to law enforcement agencies. 98 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 99 GRI content index 100 General Standard Disclosures 102 Specific Standard Disclosures 100 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 101 General Standard Disclosures The tables below index our response to the GRI G4 reporting guidelines, General Standard Section Name Page in accordance with the Core criteria for general standard disclosures and Disclosures specific standard disclosures. Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Our business – What we do 22 General Standard Section Name Page Disclosures G4-18 About this report Scope 6 G4-19 Our material matters 32 Strategy and Analysis G4-20 Our material matters 32 G4-1 Executive Summary – Message from our Chairman and Message from our CEO 16-19 Appendix A: Material matter boundaries 108 Organisational Profile G4-21 Our material matters 32 G4-3 About this report Scope 6 Appendix A: Material matter boundaries 108 G4-4 Our business – What we do 22 G4-22 Our performance 80 G4-5 Our business – What we do 22 G4-23 Our material matters 34 Our strategic response 42 G4-6 Our business – What we do 22 Stakeholder Engagement G4-7 Our business – What we do 22 G4-24 Stakeholder engagement 70 G4-8 Our business – What we do 22 G4-25 Stakeholder engagement 70 G4-9 Our business – What we do 22 G4-26 Stakeholder engagement 70 Our business – The value we’ve created 26 Our performance – Our employees 88 G4-27 Stakeholder engagement 70 G4-10* Our performance – Our employees 88 Report Profile G4-11 Our performance – Our employees 88 G4-28 About this report Scope 6 G4-12 Our strategic response – Promote sustainable practices within our business ecosystem 62 G4-29 About this report Scope 6 G4-13 About this report – Scope 6 G4-30 About this report Scope 6 Our strategic response – Promote sustainable practices within our business ecosystem 62 G4-31 About this report Scope 6 G4-14 Our strategic response 42 G4-32 About this report Scope 6 G4-15 About this report Scope 6 GRI Content Index 90 G4-16 Our Business – How we are managed 31 G4-33 About this report Scope 6 Message from our CEO 18 *External assurance provided over G4-10. Refer to Appendix B. Governance G4-34 Our Business – How we are managed 28 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Our Business – How we are managed 28 Our strategic response – Promote ethical and good corporate governance in our business 67 ecosystem 102 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 103 Specific Standard Disclosures Material Linked DMA and Indicators – Omissions External Material Linked DMA and Indicators – Omissions External Matters G4 Section and Page Assurance Matters G4 Section and Page Assurance Aspect Aspect Network Safaricom DMA: Our strategic response – Deliver the Our employees DMA: Our strategic response – Maintain a quality specific best network by maintaining and enhancing productive, supportive and safe working material matter network quality. Page 43. environment. Page 56. KPI: Our Performance – Network Quality – G4 KPI: Our Performance – Our Employees – Data is not broken Quality of Service. Page 80. Employment G4-LA1: Total number and rates of new down by region. Aspect employee hires and employee turnover by age The information is not Energy G4 Energy DMA: Our strategic response: Minimise group, gender and region – Page 89. currently available. security Aspect business disruptions by rolling out alternative G4 KPI: Our strategic response – Maintain a energy solutions and enhancing energy Employment productive, supportive and safe working security for future growth. Page 45. Aspect environment – G4-LA2: Benefits provided KPI: Our Performance – Energy Security G4to full-time employees that are not provided EN3: Direct Energy Consumption by Primary to temporary or part-time employees, by Energy Source. Page 82. significant locations of operation – Page 57. Innovation Safaricom DMA: Our strategic response – Develop G4 KPI: Our Performance – Our Employees – specific transformational products and services Occupational G4-LA5: Percentage of total workforce material matter relevant to different customer segments. Health and represented in formal joint managementPage 48. Safety Aspect worker health and safety committees that help DMA: Our strategic response – Remain monitor and advise on Occupational Health innovative to service a growing youth sector. and Safety Programmes – Page 90. Page 52. G4 KPI: Our Performance – Our Employees – Data on occupational Occupational G4-LA6: Types of injury and rates of injury, diseases and DMA: Our strategic response: Actively Health and occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism not participate in improving financial inclusion and Safety Aspect absenteeism and total number of work-related provided. Data not growing the wealth of Kenyan citizens. fatalities, by region and by gender – Page 90. reported per region Page 53. or gender. The KPI: Our performance – Innovation Innovation information is not impact and target number of users. Page 84. currently available. Customer G4 Product DMA: Our strategic response – Protect the G4 Training KPI: Our Performance – Our Employees – experience and Service privacy of our customers and promote a and Education G4-LA9: Average hours of training per year, Labelling positive customer experience at all touch Aspect per employee, by gender, and by employee Aspect points. Page 54. category – Page 90. KPI: Our performance – Customer experience G4 Training KPI: Our Performance – Our Employees – G4-PR5: Results of surveys measuring and Education G4-LA11: Percentage of employees receiving customer satisfaction. Page 87. Aspect regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category *Refer to Appendix B. – Page 90. G4 Equal KPI: Our Performance – Our Employees – Remuneration G4-LA13: Ratio of basic salary and for Men and remuneration of women to men by employee Women category and by significant locations of Aspect operations – Page 57. 104 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 105 Material Linked DMA and Indicators – Omissions External Material Linked DMA and Indicators – Omissions External Matters G4 Section and Page Assurance Matters G4 Section and Page Assurance Aspect Aspect Environmental DMA: Our strategic response Manage our Ethics and values DMA: Our strategic response — Promote performance environmental impact – Page 60. ethical and good corporate governance within our business ecosystem – Page 67. G4 Water KPI: Our Performance – Environmental Aspect Performance – G4-EN8: Total water withdrawal G4 AntiKPI: Our Performance – Ethics and Values by source — Page 93. corruption G4-SO3: Total number and percentage aspect of operations assessed for risks related to G4 Emissions KPI: Our Performance – Environmental corruption and the significant risks identified – Aspect Performance – G4-EN15: Direct GHG Page 97. Emissions (Scope 1) Page 94. G4 AntiKPI: Our Performance – Ethics and Values G4 Emissions KPI: Our Performance – Environmental corruption G4-SO5: Confirmed incidents of corruption Aspect Performance – G4-EN16: Indirect GHG aspect and actions taken – Page 97. Emissions (Scope 2) – Page 94. Additional to our G4 Economic KPI: Our Business – The value we create G4 Emissions KPI: Our Performance – Environmental Material Matters: Performance G4-EC1: Direct economic value generated and Aspect Performance – G4-EN 17: Other indirect GHG Value Creation Aspect distributed – Page 26. Emissions (Scope 3) – Page 94. KPI: Our Strategic Sustainability Objectives – Safaricom KPI: Our Performance – Environmental Initiatives to maintain a productive, supportive specific Performance – Number of EIAs and EAs – and safe working environment – G4-EC5: material matter Page 93. Ratios of Standard Entry Level Wage by gender compared to Local Minimum Wage Safaricom KPI: Our Performance – Environmental at significant locations of operation – Page 57. specific Performance – Tonnes of E-waste collected – material matter Page 93. Our business Safaricom DMA: Our strategic response — Promote partners specific sustainable practices within our business material matter ecosystem – Page 62. KPI: Supplier sustainability self-assessment results – Page 96. Regulatory issues DMA: Our strategic response — Ensure continued regulatory compliance and engage our regulators to ensure a fair business environment – Page 65. G4 AntiKPI: Our Performance – Regulatory Issues competitive – G4-SO7: Total number of legal actions for behaviour anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and aspect monopoly practices and the outcomes of these – Page 97. G4 KPI: Our Performance – Regulatory Issues – Compliance G4-SO8: Monetary value of significant fines Aspect and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations – Page 97. 106 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 107 Appendices 108 Appendix A: Material Matter Boundaries 109 Appendix B: External Assurance Statement 108 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 109 Appendix A: Material Appendix B: External Matter Boundaries Assurance Statement Limited Assurance Report Safaricom Material Material to Material to external entities Matter Safaricom Limited assurance report of the independent auditor, Deloitte & Touche Financial Information” (ISAE 3000). This standard requires us to comply with Limited Assurance Report to Safaricom Limited on their sustainability indicators as contained in the comply ethical with ethical requirements and torequirements plan and perform and ourtoassurance perform plan andengagement Suppliers/ Dealers Agents Regulators Sustainability Report for the year ended March 2014 (“the Report”) toour obtainassurance sufficient appropriate evidence on to engagement to base oursufficient whichobtain limited Limited assurance report of the independent appropriate assurance evidence conclusion. on which to base our limited Service auditor, assurance conclusion. Scope of ourDeloitte work & Touche to Safaricom Limited Providers on their sustainability indicators as contained The The evaluation evaluation criteria criteria used for ourused for our assurance the Safaricom are are assurance the definitions. in the Safaricom Sustainability Limited Report (Safaricom) engaged for the Deloitte year(Deloitte) & Touche ended Safaricom definitions. Network quality March to perform 2014 limited assurance Report”)for the year ended 31 (“the procedures Summary of work performed Summary of work performed Energy security March 2014 on selected sustainability performance indicators. These Scope of our work Considering the riskthe of material selected indicators are as follows: Considering risk error, of ourmaterial error, team multidisciplinary our ofmultiInnovation Safaricom Limited (Safaricom) engaged Deloitte & disciplinary sustainability team specialists of sustainability assurance planned and assurance performed our specialists work to • Carbon footprint Touche (Deloitte) to perform limited assurance planned obtain and performed all the information our work and explanations to obtain we considered all tothe necessary procedures for the year ended 31 March 2014 on information sufficient and explanations we work considered necessary Customer experience provide appropriate evidence. Our was planned to mirror selected Indirect greenhousesustainability gas emissions performance indicators. These by weight (tCO2e) to provide sufficient appropriate evidence. Our work was Safaricom’s own group level compilation processes. selected indicators are as follows: planned to mirror Safaricom’s own group level Our employees • Energy security compilation processes.  Carbon footprint Key procedures we conducted included: Environmental performance Indirect greenhouse Electricity consumption (MWh) gas emissions by weight (tCO2e) Key procedures we conducted included: • Gaining an understanding of Safaricom systems through • Customer experience Business partners (suppliers,  Energy security  interview Gaining an understanding with management of Safaricom responsible for reporting systems atsystems corporate dealers, agents) Electricity consumption (MWh) through interview with management responsible for head office and site level; and Net promoter score (absolute) reporting systems at corporate head office and site Regulatory issues • Customer Quality of serviceexperience level; and • Reviewing the systems and procedures to capture, collate, Net promoter score (absolute)  Reviewing the systems and procedures to capture, aggregate, validate and processvalidate collate, aggregate, source dataand the assured forprocess performance source data Ethics and values Verified  Best Quality Networkof service in Kenya performance (absolute) indicatorsforincluded the assured performance indicators included in in the Report. Verified Best Network in Kenya performance the Report. • Ethics and values (absolute) Our conclusion Notes: Matter is material to, and being managed by, the entity or Safaricom Our conclusion  Confirmed Ethics incidents and valuesand actions taken (absolute) of corruption Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Based Based on ouronexamination of the evidence of obtained, our examination the evidence nothing has come obtained, • Employee data (absolute) tonothing haswhich our attention come to our causes believe that which us to attention causes the selected us to sustainability believe that performance theareselected indicators sustainability not fairly presented. performance Total number Employee of employees databy employment type, contract, region and indicators are not fairly presented. Total number of employees by employment type, broken down by gender (absolute) contract, region and broken down by gender This Thisassurance assurance statement is made solely statement is madeto Safaricom solely to Safaricomwith in accordance in • Health (absolute) and safety accordance our engagement letter.with Ourourworkengagement letter. so has been undertaken Ourthatwork we mighthas been state undertaken to the company those so that we we matters might state totothe are required company state to them  Health and safety Percentage of the total workforce represented in formal health and those matters we are required to state to them in a Percentage of the total workforce represented in in a limited assurance report and for no other purpose. Thus, we do not safety committees limited assurance report and for no other purpose. Thus, formal (absolute) health and safety committees (absolute) accept or assume responsibility to anyone responsibility other than Safaricom for our we do not accept or assume to anyone Directors’ responsibility other work, for than Safaricom this report, or for thefor our work, conclusions for this we have report, or for formed. Directors’ responsibility the conclusions we have formed. Safaricom directorsdirectors Safaricom are responsible are responsible for the for the preparation preparation of the Sustainabilityof Report theforSustainability the year ended March Report the year forincluding 2014, theended March and 2014, implementation including the implementation and execution of systems to execution of systems to collect required sustainability data. collect required sustainability data. Deloitte & Touche Deloitte & Touche Auditors’ responsibility Registered Auditor Auditors’ responsibility Registered Auditor Per –Rose Mwaura Partner Our responsibility is to express Our responsibility tolimited isour assurance express our conclusion on limited assurance Per –Rose Mwaura selected sustainabilityon conclusion selected performance sustainability indicators for the year endedperformance 31 March August 2014 18Partner 2014.indicators We conducted forourthe year limited ended assurance 31 March engagement 2014. in accordance We conducted our limited assurance engagement in 18 August Deloitte Limited,2014 Deloitte Place, Waiyaki Way, Muthangari Drive. with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000, accordance with the International Standard on Assurance “Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Engagements 3000, “Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Deloitte Limited, Deloitte Place, Waiyaki Way, Muthangari Information” (ISAE 3000). This standard requires us to Drive. Partners: S.O.Onyango F.O.Aloo H.Gadhoke* N.R. Hira* B.W. Irungu J.M. Kiarie D.M. Mbogho A.N. Muraya J.Nyang’aya J.W.Wangai R.Mwaura *British Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited Partners: S.O.Onyango F.O.Aloo H.Gadhoke* N.R. Hira* B.W. Irungu J.M. Kiarie D.M. Mbogho A.N. Muraya J.Nyang’aya J.W.Wangai R.Mwaura 110 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 Safaricom Sustainability Report 2014 111 Notes
