Impact by Design 2014 Sus tainability Repor t Table of Contents Welcome 2 We Partner 39 Supply Chain 40 Message from Liam Casey 3 We Deliver 55 Founder & Chief Executive Officer Inventory Management 56 About PCH 5 We Listen 59 PCH in 2014 9 Our Workforce 60 PCH Sustainability 10 Looking Ahead 75 We Think 21 Highway1 22 About This Report 77 We Scale 25 Glossary 80 PCH Access 26 GRI Index 81 We Design 29 Product and Packaging Design 30 We Build 33 Responsible Manufacturing 34 PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 1 Welcome At PCH, we know that design makes the biggest impact on how products are made. Throughout our supply chain, we are improving our positive impact on people, communities and the environment, and it all starts with design. From changes in processes and systems, to integrating sustainability at the earliest stages of prototyping and product development, we strive to make an impact at every level of our business. In the following chapters, we explain how sustainability is integrated in everything we do. The content of this Report does not represent a finish line for sustainability at PCH, rather a snapshot in time of a long-term commitment to sustainability. By being transparent about how we operate, we will continue to design a more sustainable business in the future. PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 2 Message From Liam Casey Founder and Chief Executive Officer Our goal is to enable our clients to make the best products possible while balancing cost, quality and sustainability. It is not about saying no; it is about showing how. Since the inception of PCH in 1996 through today, we are deeply committed to sustainability – plain and simple, it’s better for business and is the right thing to do. In 2014, we expanded our sustainability efforts across the entire PCH business: We Think: At Highway1, our accelerator program for startups, we began to educate startups on sustainability choices at the earliest stages of the company life cycle. The earlier sustainable practices can be introduced and incorporated into a company’s ethos, the greater the potential impact. See page 21. We Scale: At PCH Access, we help our startup clients find the most suitable factories for their product, choose materials and optimize processes as they bring their ideas from prototype to production and distribution. In 2014, we engaged with our existing supply base through the lens of sustainability programs to ensure that we use the right factories for PCH Access clients. See page 25. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 3 We Design: It’s not always easy or possible, but at PCH Lime Lab we are We Deliver: We only want to make what people will actually buy. We committed to incorporating sustainability early into the product design continue to advocate live sell-through to ship on demand, replacing process. This past year, we helped our clients understand how sustainability inventory with data and reducing the waste of unwanted inventory. can be successfully integrated into product and packaging development. This has a positive impact on both cost and our environmental impact. See page 29. See page 55. We Build: In our manufacturing operations, we determined in 2014 that We Listen: The work we do to make a positive impact on our workforce the area in greatest need for improvement in our supply chain is related is one of the most important pillars of sustainability. Worker wellbeing is to chemical management. Over the past year, we have made inroads in not just better for our bottom line; I believe strongly it is the right thing to chemical mapping. As the factory landscape opens up, it is becoming easier do. Every employee is part of our company’s story. We continue to make to track every chemical, material and component that makes a product and significant investments in our workforce at both PCH-owned and supplier where each was produced. See page 33. factories, including opening three factory libraries and holding over 60 social activities. One area we must improve is employee retention, as We Partner: Last year we continued to extend our sustainability efforts turnover remains high in certain partner factories. Additionally, accurate beyond PCH-owned facilities to improve sustainability performance at production forecasting is crucial to avoid strains on our workforce. partner factories. Partnering with and influencing our suppliers is crucial to See page 59. developing a sustainable supply chain. Central to this effort is transparency. We realized last year that while many suppliers are eager to improve The reality is that many sustainability, workforce and supply chain transparency in their operations, they often lack the knowledge or resources challenges are not easy to fix. We admit that we don’t have all the to do so. It has become apparent that if we are serious about improving answers. We continue to work hard to operate with sustainability at the transparency in our supply chain, we must build and implement tools to forefront, and each year, we will find ways to better track and improve our help our partners improve their own operations. We must also work with positive impact. our clients to enhance the stability of relationships with our suppliers. Only through these long-term trusted partnerships can we encourage our suppliers to engage in our sustainability programs. See page 39. We are deeply committed to sustainability – plain and simple, it’s better for business and is the right thing to do. — Liam Casey, Founder and Chief Executive Officer, PCH CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 4 About PCH PCH is a privately held Irish company with global headquarters in Cork, Ireland, U.S. Innovation Hub in San Francisco and operational headquarters in Shenzhen, China. PCH works with both startups and Fortune 500 companies to design engineer, make and deliver consumer products internationally. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 5 Shawn Levin / Nick Cruz What We Do We Think We Scale At PCH, we make. We design custom product solutions for the Highway1 is a startup PCH Access provides an world’s best brands. From design engineering and development, accelerator that helps early integrated platform to move manufacturing, packaging and fulfilment, to distribution and retail, stage hardware companies late stage hardware startups PCH takes on the toughest challenges. develop products that deliver from advanced prototype real value to clients, are to mass manufacturing PCH clients span a wide range of sectors, including consumer delightful to use and can with an array of capabilities electronics, consumer medical devices, furniture, fashion, food be manufactured at scale. normally exclusive to Fortune and automotive. The majority of our business is conducted with Highway1 provides startups 500 companies. These span multinational clients, with the remainder dedicated to startups 24/7 access to a 1,000 square product design engineering, foot prototyping lab, dedicated development, manufacturing and non-profit organizations. staff to assist with engineering, and fulfilment. See page 25. business development and marketing, funding and a rich network of mentors. See page 21. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 6 We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver At PCH Lime Lab our passion At PCH, we design engineer, We partner with tried and We pride ourselves on our is making and our expertise is develop and manufacture trusted suppliers to design global reach—located just three engineering. We take on the most consumer products and the and manage agile, lean supply days away from 90 percent sophisticated design engineering packaging in which these chains for our clients. With of worldwide customers. This challenges – no detail is too products are delivered. In our more than 1,200 factories in our proximity allows us to manage small and each project is unique. partner supplier factories, we network, we match clients with all stages of the supply chain, PCH Lime Lab works with the manage the manufacturing of suppliers capable of meeting from storage and inventory world’s most innovative brands, electronics, hard goods and soft their unique needs, managing management to tracking, guiding product creation through goods. In PCH-owned factories, every step along the way of receiving and processing orders. all phases, from opportunity, we focus on product packaging, making a product. See page 39. See page 55. concept, design engineering kitting and fulfilment – the final and development, to packaging, phase of production before a manufacturing, and the customer product is shipped. See page 33. experience. See page 29. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 7 Where We Operate Office Location Operations HQ Cork, Ireland Global Headquarters Seoul, South Korea Office Toronto, Canada Office Shenzhen, China PCH Operational Headquarters: offices, product development lab and three factory facilities.** San Francisco, U.S. PCH Innovation Hub*: PCH U.S., Highway1, PCH Lime Lab, PCH Access Cape Town, South Africa Office Hong Kong, S.A.R. China Office Our Clients: 51% in the U.S. 25% in Europe 21% in Asia * PCH Innovation Hub opened in January 2014 with 30,000 square feet dedicated to the product journey from concept to consumer. 3% in rest of the world **PCH-owned factories consist of three separate factory facilities but one business. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 8 PCH in 2014 Components Handled Daily Factories Transacted with (China) Highway1 Companies 11.5M 229 35 Global Workforce Factories in Our Network Services and Products (Revenue) 2,648 1,200+ $1.1BN* Percentage of Workforce in China B2B Shipments per Year Total Number of Vendors Used Globally 94% 60M 333 Square Feet of Operations B2C Shipments per Year Average number of workers with access to worker feedback hotline ft2 885,000sqft 4M 6,000 * All monetary amounts expressed in this report are in United States Dollars. Where a currency conversion was calculated from Chinese RMB, a rate of 1RMB=$0.16 USD was applied (rate of 31 December 2014) CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 9 PCH Sustainability Celine Zhai We make sustainability our business. The positive economic, these assessments based on the products and processes they carry out, environmental and social impacts of our operations are key to driving which, if interrupted, would compromise supply of essential parts and long-term financial performance. Top-down and bottom-up, we believe components in our supply chain. this is the right way to do business. We are driven to do what is right to protect workers and improve Our focus is on action: finding projects that demonstrate sustainability efficiency in our supply chain. We aim to integrate our sustainability principles, piloting projects and building relationships across our approach with PCH clients and within our supplier management teams, supply base. particularly at the early design and material selection stage. The majority of our sustainability work focuses on PCH-owned and Each of our clients is unique, as are their sustainability values. While our supplier-owned factories in China. We select key product supply-chains; sustainability programs vary by client, we incorporate PCH sustainability analyze their sustainability performance (including labor, human values in everything we do. Some clients require that we implement rights, environmental factors, chemical use and waste), and identify their standards, while others expect us to put a system in place for areas for improvement. In 2014, we conducted over 33 sustainability them. We also conduct client packaging and product reviews for assessment and improvement programs going beyond our usual initial sustainability optimization. supplier qualification sustainability audits. Suppliers were chosen for CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 10 How Sustainability at PCH Works Starting our sustainability engagement with Highway1 clients is a step in the right direction to get product designers to think >> PCH is governed by a Board of Directors which delegates about, and act on, sustainability practices. Readying ourselves to governance and responsibility for Sustainability to the PCH develop many new products during 2014 highlighted some of the Senior Leadership team. biggest challenges we face the further upstream we go the more >> Specifically, our Chief Financial Officer (CFO) oversees challenges we see. We are getting better at identifying problems Sustainability initiatives at PCH. and finding effective resolutions. >> Each program is initiated within our China-based Sustainability — Alan Cuddihy, Head of Sustainability (See also page 53) Team, led by the Head of Sustainability. This is reported back to the CFO to ensure that there is a viable business case for each project. It is a core criterion that each project we choose adds value to our >> Programs focus on supply base development, Environment, business and our clients’ businesses, and that we actively measure the Health and Safety (EHS), worker engagement and social initiatives, as well as industry partnerships. social, environmental and financial return. >> Sustainability reviews are conducted on product and packaging During 2014, the Sustainability Team delivered on our plan to engage across PCH platforms in U.S. and China, including new companies at the design phase by working with Highway1 and PCH project proposals. Access companies in planning their products and manufacturing. >> The Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO), For more detail on our sustainability programs and governance at PCH, Chief Technology Officer (CTO), Chief Operating Officer (COO) see our website. and Senior Leadership Team review all programs. >> The PCH Compliance Team conducts all China-based supplier qualification audits for labor, environmental and chemical management practices. >> PCH-owned factories have a Sustainability Committee with We Commit Labor, Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) and Ethics subcommittees. We will continue to focus where improvement is needed the most: the >> Our suppliers are expected to adhere to our Supplier Code supply base. In 2015 we will drive ourselves to build products that are of Conduct. not only made right, but also impact the world in a positive way. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 11 2014 Sustainability Progress 2013 Sustainability Report Goals 2014 Progress Toward Goals General PCH Publish annual Sustainability Reports on the PCH global platform. Reporting on all PCH entities, excluding TNS Distribution in 2014. 2015 goal to report on the entire PCH group of companies. Implement an Employee Code of Conduct. A global Employee Code of Conduct will be implemented from Q4 2015. Increase industry collaboration in order to tackle supply chain issues in We worked with key suppliers to help them comply with client audits. partnership with industry colleagues. Rolled out programs across the supply chain including the Sustainable Trade Initiative (IDH) in partnership with clients. PCH joined the Clinton Global Initiative in 2014 and will finalize our Commitment to Action in 2015. Expand our sustainability initiatives and scale them throughout the 33 sustainability assessment and improvement programs conducted supply chain. at supplier facilities including chemical management and worker engagement programs. Begin to include sustainability impacts when assessing PCH overall Ongoing. business performance. We Think Integration of sustainable design practices across PCH, with emphasis 35 sustainability reviews and information sessions with Highway1 on Highway1 and PCH Access. companies. PCH Access factory assessment and improvement plans See Case study: Making the right factory choice, page 26. We Design Influence design and material selection phase of packaging and Ongoing product design and packaging reviews. products to reduce, prevent or eliminate risk. See Case study: Packaging overhaul for PCH Access client, page 31. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 12 2013 Sustainability Report Goals 2014 Progress Toward Goals We Build Assist our clients’ compliance with laws relating to conflict minerals, PCH has complied with all client data requests and will roll out our own while identifying our role in the supply chain in relation to these conflict minerals program in 2015/16. minerals. Automate certain factory work stations where the machine will provide Implemented automation projects in our own and supplier partner a return on investment, increase product quality and reduce safety risk. facilities. See Case study: Equipment upgrades/automation, page 38. Monitor real-time energy use in our own operations and in our supply Five pilot wireless sensor networks rolled out in factories during 2014. chain, as well as use of chemicals, compressed air, water, critical raw Supply chain mapping (to Tier 3) in 25 factories: 135+ materials, 165+ materials and other materials. processes, 40+ supplier questionnaires on factory processes. Eventually integrate this with our supplier qualification process. Create a controlled substances list that incorporates progressive health Provided training to PCH staff, suppliers and clients on chemical and safety standards; educate PCH teams to ensure harmful materials management. are eradicated in design and manufacturing. PCH chemical evaluation tool and restricted substance list are in development. See Case study: Helping suppliers improve health, safety and chemical management standards, page 44. Continue to maintain high standards of health and safety in our Environmental, health and safety management assistance provided to facilities while enabling our supplier partners to do the same. suppliers complying with client audits. Reduce packaging, hazardous materials and chemicals in products. Conducted packaging reviews and sourced material alternatives on a case-by-case basis. See Case study: Packaging overhaul for PCH Access client, page 31. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 13 2013 Sustainability Report Goals 2014 Progress Toward Goals We Partner Continue to develop a network of flexible, long-term, key supplier partners. Growth in total number of suppliers used (229) in 2014 resulted in an average length of supplier relationship of 1.1 years (4.4 years with key suppliers). Continue to maintain high standards of health and safety in our own Conducted health and safety assessments in supplier facilities and facilities while enabling our supplier partners to do the same. implemented improvement plans. Involve the Sustainability Team in the supplier selection and This commenced in 2014 with five PCH Access supplier assessments qualification process. and improvement plans. HR support to key supplier to plan and manage recruitment needs. PCH employees continued to base themselves in a supplier facility to assist them in meeting recruitment needs. Assess our relationship with dispatch companies to ensure commitment Annual audit completed on all dispatch agencies who supply labor for and adherence to fair practices in worker management. PCH-owned factories. Improve factory efficiencies to reduce labor shortages. Factory efficiencies continue to result in increase in unit per hour output per employee, and help diminish labor shortages. Showcase the value of long-term partnerships with suppliers as an Ongoing education on the benefits of long-term partnerships with opportunity for technological advancement at a manufacturing facility suppliers and clients. and how that, in turn, can lead to ongoing cost competitiveness. We Deliver Establish measurement structures to assess the company’s Transport and inventory management impact reduction projects greatest environmental impacts caused by transport and conducted on a case-by-case basis. inventory management CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 14 2013 Sustainability Report Goals 2014 Progress Toward Goals We Listen Launch smartphone application and a social media platform Employee educational smartphone application available to over 2,500 that delivers training, company news, employer polls, promotion supplier employees and over 1,500 PCH employees each month. opportunities and HR support in a supplier partner facility. Continued investment in social programs to reduce turnover in our Eighty-two courses now available on the MicroBenefits factory facilities and advance education and training programs smartphone application. available for our factory workforce. PCH education and training center for all PCH factory staff will open in 2015. Currently identifying relevant content providers for use on our MicroBenefits smartphone application and in our education center. Launch smartphone application and a social media platform Employee educational smartphone application available to over 2,500 that delivers training, company news, employer polls, promotion supplier employees and over 1,500 PCH employees each month. opportunities and HR support in a supplier partner facility. Open additional employee libraries in factory facilities in partnership We opened three Little Bird libraries, two within our facilities and one at a with non-governmental partner Little Bird. supplier facility. Conduct surveys and interviews to tailor social program content to Nineteen surveys conducted by Little Bird and MicroBenefits throughout meet operator needs. 2014, with over 1,000 respondents. Sustainability is part of the PCH value add. We believe we will have the greatest long-term financial, social and environmental reward by continuing to invest in doing the right thing. — Fiachra Kirwan, Chief Financial Officer, PCH CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 15 Stakeholder Engagement In 2014, we conducted a formal stakeholder review to reassess who our stakeholders are, and what impacts each group. Stakeholder Mode of Stakeholder Mode of Group Location Communication Group Location Communication PCH Factory Employees China MicroBenefits, Little Bird, Prospective Clients China Face-to-face, media, face-to-face, posters Sustainability Report PCH Corporate Employees Global Newsletter, face-to-face, surveys, Client Chosen Suppliers China Audit, face-to-face (global) town halls, posters, Local Communities China/U.S./Ireland Media Sustainability Report Media and Social Media Global Sustainability Report, PCH Office Employees China Newsletter, face-to-face, posters, face-to-face, events in Factory Sustainability Report Prospective Workforce Global Recruitment fairs, agencies, Large Clients Global Face-to-face, Sustainability Report word-of-mouth Medium Clients Global Face-to-face, Sustainability Report Factory Landlords China Face-to-face Small Clients (startups) Global Face-to-face, Sustainability Report Supplier Dispatch Workers China Little Bird Pro-social Entrepreneurs Global Face-to-face, Sustainability Report Dispatch Agencies China Audit PCH Chosen Suppliers China Audits, face-to-face Peer Companies Global Report, face-to-face, events Investors and Board Global Sustainability Report, Academia Global Sustainability Report of Directors face-to-face End of life Recycling Plants U.S./Europe/Asia Face-to-face Factory Owners China Audits, training, face-to-face Industrial Service Providers China Face-to-face Supplier Employees China MicroBenefits, Little Bird Direct Consumers U.S./Europe/Asia Sustainability Report, website, media PCH Dispatch Agency Hires China Little Bird, face-to-face Other Consumers U.S./Europe/Asia Sustainability Report, Social Enterprises China Face-to-face (End-product) through clients (MicroBenefits) Trade Unions China Face-to-face Non-governmental Global Conferences, face-to-face, Industry Associations Global Conferences, organizations Sustainability Report Sustainability Report CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 16 Client Engagement Client satisfaction and retention are important to us. Tailoring engagement to each client, Highway1 regularly surveys participants to gauge feedback on the program. For larger clients, we conduct business reviews monthly or quarterly, where together we align objectives and plan for continuous improvement and efficiency. PCH will commence a client feedback process in 2015 to gather feedback from all PCH Access program participants. This will then be extended to additional clients. We will report the results of these client >> A comprehensive review of sustainability topics relevant to our satisfaction measures in our 2015 Report. business sector, as well as those that were reported in the media and attracted public interest Materiality >> Reviews of our 2013 Sustainability Report by peer companies and media representatives Our material, social, environmental and economic issues are those >> Peer consultations with other companies operating in the same that are vital to our business goals, or are highly important to our region/industry people and partners. >> Face-to-face supplier meetings and more than 40 detailed questionnaires on materials/processes distributed in supplier factories Our business is diverse, and we are faced with a wide range of topics >> Energy assessments and advisory sessions with our key suppliers. on which we could report. Although many material impacts happen Through this process, we also elicited material topics for our Tier 1 and outside the boundary of our directly owned offices and factories, the 2 suppliers PCH approach is to focus on where action is needed most, regardless of whether they are directly owned by PCH. >> A materiality survey distributed to more than 15 identified stakeholder groups, completed by more than 200 stakeholders In compiling this Report, we carried out the following activities to >> Materiality survey distributed to PCH Board of Directors and PCH understand the current areas of priority across all divisions of PCH: Senior Management Team. All survey comments were relayed to the relevant department at PCH for follow up >> Employee workshops and interviews >> Conducted 69 supplier audits and 33 sustainability assessments and >> Workshops and consultation sessions with PCH Senior Leadership Team improvement programs in 2014 and Heads of Department, including HR, Compliance, Supply Base Management, Quality, Client, Sales and Engineering Teams The outcome of this engagement process enabled us to prioritize the >> Personal interviews with Sustainability experts from within and outside issues that are most important to our business and stakeholders (see the company matrix of material issues on the next page). CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 17 PCH 2014 Materiality Matrix Very High Human rights protection / 4.70 prevention of child labor Client privacy and intellectual property protection Compliance 4.60 Business integrity and ethics 4.50 Time, cost, price competitiveness Product Compliance Customer satisfaction External Stakeholders Non-discriminatory pay Transparency and accountability 4.40 Health & Safety for all PCH employees Product innovation to Safe manufacturing solve social/env problems Supplier audits/code of conduct compliance Anti-corruption Supply chain traceability 4.30 Economic impacts Risk and reputation management Responsible procurement practices Fair business practices Long-term supplier relationships Fair wages and working hours Accurate production planning 4.20 Training/Career Development opportunities Waste reduction through inventory management Diversity and equal opportunity 4.10 Alternative materials/chemicals Supplier environmental performance Accurate product and service labeling Internal communication Sustainable Packaging and knowledge transfer Recruitment and retention Grievance mechanisms Sustainable design Labor management relations 4.00 High 3.90 4.00 4.10 4.20 4.30 4.40 4.50 4.60 High Internal Stakeholders Very High CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 18 2014 Stakeholder Feedback Energy efficiency in the supply The product design phase has the chain is very important and biggest environmental impact. Having something that should be a materials and finishes library allows encouraged as it generates our clients to review and consider good financial returns and alternative options. improves the environment. – PCH Corporate Employee, North America – Social/Environmental Impact Company, Asia See Sustainable Product and Packaging Design, page 30. See Supply Chain Environmental Impacts, page 46. Anthony Mazzei / Kaitlin Pike Having access to a library advances my personal development. My goal is to eventually start my own business so I take English classes at the library and I also go there to look up information online. – Production Worker, PCH factory Shilan Liu See We Listen, page 59. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 19 The PCH Supply Chain To create each product, multiple factories are often required. In turn, these factories utilize other factories to produce their materials. The diagram below represents the complexity of the supply chain for each product, as well as the influences and controls that PCH has over each link in the chain. PCH Packaging PCH-owned Factories PCH Engineering Components Raw Materials PCH Clients PCH Supplier Network PCH Lime Lab Delivery Manufacturing Parts PCH Access PCH Fulfilment Highway1 PCH Controlled PCH Influenced CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 20 Jonathan Dever / Lauren Brookhart We Think PCH shapes the global hardware landscape through our accelerator, Highway1. We work with startups still forming their company, so we have the opportunity to educate them about sustainability in the early stages of design and development. In helping startups to build a company, we endeavor to influence designers to make the best decisions possible, and to engrain sustainability into their company culture from the beginning. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index We Report PCH 2014 Sustainability think 21 21 Thinking Sustainability at Highway1 Once in the Highway1 program, participants have access to the PCH Sustainability Team who encourage sustainable thinking from the getSustainably go. We hope that starting early will embed sustainable practices into the core values of each company. At Highway1, we find the process of working with startups refreshing, as many are open to change and suggestions on how to best make their products. However, it is difficult for us to quantify the impact of this work, as most startups do not yet have a final product. How the Sustainability Program at Highway1 Works Getting in to Highway1 1. Participants are surveyed to establish existing knowledge Highway1 accepts hardware startups with a strong team building and awareness of sustainability. innovative products across the Internet of Things (IoT) spectrum. We We found a great disparity between what startups think is in their look for startups with an existing proof of concept, a mature electronic product and what is actually in their product, as seen in the graph engineering architecture or approach, a commitment to design and a below. (24 clients surveyed, 92 percent response rate). In response, we long-term vision to build a company, not just a single product. have focused on educating startups on inks, paints and coatings and their impact. Participants’ Knowledge of Materials in Their Products What Highway1 teams said was What’s actually in the products in the products 20 Number of responses 15 10 5 0 Printed Soldering Cable/wire Processed Molded Display Gold/tin/ ReNonPaint/ Wood/ Energy Glass circuit metal plastic tantalum/ chargeable rechargeable coatings paper harvesting board enclosure/part tungsten battery battery Material/Process CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 22 2. PCH Sustainability Team reviews and scores product Highway1 2013-2014 sustainability performance. 3 35 80 8 classes from startups founders nationalities Products are rated on typical sustainability criteria such as material Fall 2013and energy use. But we also go beyond environmental impact and think December 2014 of the social, financial and economic impact of products. This review arms the Sustainability Team with the knowledge we need to advise companies on how to best design their products for sustainability. 3. Sustainability Team holds information session on the >$43M raised 10 number of months one participant company took to go from graduation to stores, shipping to 93 countries via PCH Fulfilment practical implementation of sustainability. What are teams asking about? Participants are provided with guidance on efficient design, processes, chemical use and material selection. In 2014, all 35 Highway1 U.S. vs. China Chinese Marketing Manufacturing Consumers companies engaged in the Highway1 sustainability program. We found teams to be very receptive to general information sessions where they learned about where their greatest design impact lies. Worker Health and Safety Material Startups in Highway1 are balancing technical risk, financial risk and Selection New Automation unknown market acceptance, while moving quickly through many Process Technologies product iterations. Adopting a new material or production process that Selection Factory User is more sustainable— lower pollution, safer for workers, etc. — can Factory Tour Potential Experience Selection Arrangement Markets Feedback add another level of risk. PCH gets those sustainable processes and materials in the minds of the teams from day one, so when the time is right they will be ready to adopt best practices. —Terry Foecke, Head of Supplier Development and Highway1 consultant, PCH CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 23 Brian Lee / Sergey Vinogradov 4. Individual consultations to identify risks that can be mitigated early in design. Of the 35 companies that participated in the Highway1 sustainability program between October 2013 and December 2014, 67 percent followed up and engaged with the Sustainability Team after their initial review and assessment. Some startups discontinued their participation at this point because they were too early in the product development process to truly benefit from this program. 5. Follow-up research by sustainability specialists. The Sustainability Team provides technical and cost information on alternative materials and manufacturing processes, if alternatives We Commit are readily available. This approach balances the risk of trying new ways of making products with a full assessment of environmental It is difficult to quantify improvements made as a result of our and social risks. work with Highway1 startups, and many struggled to implement our suggestions at such an early stage. While it is valuable 6. Continued evaluation and support. to influence clients at the earliest stage possible, it is also Among the wins, in 2014, startups subsequently investigated important to work with our more advanced startups who are alternative outside coatings for their product, began to think about beginning to manufacture products. energy efficiency, including battery life and circuit optimization, In 2015, we will continue to supportHighway1 companies. began to consider new materials related to eradicating We will also provide sustainability advice, manufacturing and electroplated plastic from design and began to avoid certain material analysis to our PCH Access clients who are preparing coated/painted products. for manufacturing. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 24 Dan Klempay We Scale PCH Access turns advanced prototypes or early products into consumer-ready mass-market products. We collaborate with innovative startups whose products can potentially change the world. Securing investment and getting to market is paramount in the minds of these startups, but it’s only the start of building a successful company. Success, they recognize, is about creating a long-lasting, sustainable business. To read more about how we help our medium and large clients scale, see ‘We Build’ and ‘We Partner’. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 25 PCH Access and Case study: Making the right factory choice In late 2014, the Sustainability Team visited five partner factories (already part of our existing supply base) with the goal of identifying Sustainability factories that are capable of and willing to work with PCH Access clients. Many manufacturers are eager to work on startup products. To meet our PCH Access client needs, factories must prove to be flexible enough to work on new products they have never made before, which require high mix, low volume and new processes. We leverage suppliers from our existing approved supplier pool to find These visits were not audits and this was made clear to the factories. suitable factories for our PCH Access clients. An approved suppliers is a Our aim was to gauge levels of readiness amongst our existing suppliers supplier admitted to our network having met our quality, sustainability for the new products and processes that would come with an influx and chemical management standards at audit (see also We Partner, of PCH Access clients, and provide supplier support beyond usual page 39). supplier engagement. Finding the right factories can be challenging for startups whose orders Suppliers were initially screened on basic competencies and ability to are magnitudes smaller than what factories receive from global brands. innovate. Once this was established, the Sustainability Team conducted Moreover, the design and features of PCH Access client products are on a detailed assessment and scored the factory on external relationships, the cutting edge of technology and many factories have never made social and environmental practices, HR, process management and such products. In essence, we are asking factories to switch from high quality factors. volume mass manufacturing to low volume, highly complex products. In addition, many startups are crowd funded or are still testing the market, so there is uncertainty in demand. PCH attempts to consolidate production in factories wherever possible to minimize the challenges and make working with our PCH Access clients more attractive for our suppliers. Twenty eight percent of factories used by PCH Access clients When the Sustainability Team visits PCH Access suppliers, they come received business from more than one PCH Access client during 2014. with a different perspective, this is valuable to us. — Roger Luo, PCH Access Supply Base Manager PCH’s Sustainability Team assists the PCH Access operations team in finding suitable factories within our existing supply base and provides training, chemical analysis, design and material support on individual projects. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 26 PCH Access in 2014 20 32 71 percent of Highway1 companies factories used percent of PCH Access clients are have been accepted into PCH Access manufacturing/shipping products Ryan Francis / Philipe Manoux / Celia Corrente / Alexandra Siano CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 27 The Sustainability Team suggested potential areas for improvement such as developing detailed process maps, developing new processes or converting from on-the-job training for workers to skills-based training and testing. It’s noteworthy that most improvements were determined to be achievable within six months (2 factories) to one year (3 factories). Following the visit, each supplier was provided with practical suggestions on health and safety, chemical management and energy efficiency. We found suppliers to be very receptive of our suggestions and four out of five continued to seek PCH advice following the visit. These factories worked with all PCH Access clients who had progressed to production during 2014. We Commit We will continue to work with individual PCH Access clients to ensure their products are manufactured sustainably. This will include chemical assessments, material analysis and supplier development projects. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 28 We Design We have more than 200 engineers globally whose experience and skill at every stage of prototyping, product testing, tooling and design for manufacture have helped us to build a client list that includes many of the world’s biggest and best brands. We collaborate closely with our partners on product design engineering features, function, product testing and design for mass production. From concept sketch to technical inspiration, from feasibility to optimal manufacturing, we are a catalyst for innovation in hardware. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 29 Sustainable Product and Packaging Design Incorporating sustainability at the early stages of design is a priority Our engineers help clients understand that sustainability can be for us. We want our clients to think about sustainability when successfully integrated early in the product development process. In designing a product – everything from materials, packaging and 2014 reviews were conducted on a case-by-case basis. To enhance manufacturing processes, to the person who makes the product as sustainability services and make it a standard part of our design process, well as the end user and the end of life process. PCH Lime Lab will begin to build a materials library in 2015. This will provide our engineers with practical samples and information on We have observed that sustainability is often perceived as expensive material availability. The library will eventually be integrated across both and difficult by some of our clients. It can appear time consuming, design and manufacturing and will include sustainability assessments costly and potentially lead to delays in product development. It is our and ratings. responsibility to change this perception. In addition, we see the need to offer full lifecycle analysis of a product at the design stage so that our clients can understand the potential footprint of their product and its packaging. This will commence in 2015. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 30 Materials in Packaging Unit Percentage change We consider time, quality, cost and sustainability when analyzing Weight Tons -13%* packaging for our clients. Whenever possible, we use materials that are Manufacturing and end of life Greenhouse gas -76% recyclable. We define an item as recyclable when it can pass through a disposal emissions tons of CO2 conventional, mixed-input recycling plant with a sorting floor and end up Ocean freight emissions Greenhouse gas -30% in a marketable bale designated for a new product. tons of CO2 We find that client values vary when it comes to ‘sustainability.’ In one Air freight emissions Greenhouse gas -13% example, every component of a client’s packaging was assessed for tons of CO2 human health impacts in line with the client’s brand values. We looked Manufacturing and ocean Greenhouse gas -68% at chemical use and risk of potential harm to worker health was greatly freight emissions tons of CO2 reduced in the manufacturing processes selected. The reality is that the packaging cost increased by 8 percent, however, a potential dangerous * Data calculated using NYK Group calculator for 10,000 units shipped from Hong Kong to process was removed from production, the packaging could be recycled Long Beach, California, U.S. and the client remained true to the values their customers expect. Case study: Packaging overhaul for PCH Access client We Commit When clients want to reduce cost, reevaluating packaging and shipping We will continue to educate our team members and clients on methods can often be fruitful. In the case of one of our startup clients, how sustainability can be implemented at the design phase to we looked not only at packaging materials, but also the shipping show the benefits of starting early in the process. method. To keep shipping cost low, packaging must meet very specific weight criteria. We designed lighter packaging and reduced shipping, PCH Lime Lab will begin to develop a materials library in 2015. material, and kitting costs as well as the environmental impact of Eventually, materials will be rated based on cost, performance and packaging and transport. sustainability impact. We will also begin to offer a full lifecycle assessment of products and packaging at the design stage. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 31 Our Environmental Impact PCH Facilities in China PCH greenhouse We perform product gas (GHG) development, manufacturing, Electricity is the emissions packaging, kitting and fulfilment in only significant (Scope 2) : our PCH-owned facilities in China form of energy 5,291 metric consumed in our tons of CO 2 factories These facilities have a low risk of occupational hazards and San Francisco environmental pollution Water use 3,321 tons We use it primarily in 2014: We operate three factory Our factory facilities do Shenzhen Office for air conditioning, lighting Total All materials and subsequent facilities, one product not utilize heat, fuel, 1,532 tons and operating machinery 50,697 tons production waste in PCH development lab and office steam or cooling associated with facilities are owned by clients space in Shenzhen, China processes PCH-owned factories packaging & fulfilment. and product development lab 45,843 tons Total electricity use across PCH in 2014: Total Waste Produced by the PCH Innovation Hub in 5,856,030kWh (2013:3,938,043kWh) San Francisco, in 2014: 32,728 lbs Our U.S. sites recycled 154 lbs of electronic waste during 2014. We did not dispose of any hazardous waste in the U.S. in 2014, but will create 370,548kWh 5,485,482kWh 15,080 lbs 5,782 lbs 11,866 lbs a hazardous waste removal process in 7,194 therms natual gas China (46%) (36%) (18%) 2015 for oily rags, aerosol paint cans U.S. and coolant. Landfill Recycling Compost LEED Certification Our increase in overall company Total hazardous waste produced by PCH-owned factories electricity use is the result of The PCH Innovation Hub at 135 inclusion of the energy use of our in 2014: 800 lbs Mississippi Street, San Francisco, 30,000 sqft. PCH Innovation Hub 364 lbs Waste water mixed 33 lbs Waste electronics facility is a LEED gold certified building in San Francisco as well as with lubricant oil (office and workshop). We considered additional facilities in China. 11 lbs Clean cloth mixed with 213 lbs Waste lubricant oil sustainability when selecting lubricant oil equipment for the lab. For example, 91 lbs Light tubes 6 lbs Oil pen / stamp we purchased machines that use 44 lbs Hazardous chemical water-based coolants. At this site, we 2 lbs Ribbons We leased 885,000 square feet of factory space in China container use natural gas for our heating system of which 500,000 square feet was used for manufacturing 1 lb Clean cloth mixed and hot water and electricity for all lines, storage and warehousing in 2014. 36 lbs Waste batteries with alcohol other power needs. All hazardous waste generated by our factory facilities is disposed of by a licensed operator in China. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 32 Zhongmei Li We Build How it’s made is just as important to us as what is made. We take a custom approach to each endeavor because there is no such thing as ‘one size fits all.’ We consider everything from material selection, manufacturing processes, packaging and transportation, to recycling and reuse, which helps us make the best choices to mitigate potential environmental impacts. We advocate process improvement in factories – be it automation, chemical management, health and safety management or people management resulting in reduced waste, increased efficiencies and safer, happier work environments. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 33 Making Safety External Audits of PCH We comply with our clients’ social and environmental responsibility standards where applicable. Typically, our larger clients have standards and Sustainability and Codes of Conduct to which we adhere while our startup clients do not yet have a formal structure in place. Clients audit certain PCH facilities and operations as part of their own supplier qualification and a Priority monitoring programs. In 2014, PCH factory facilities were audited four times by our clients for labor, environmental, health and safety practices. Results varied from a 100 percent compliant rating by one client to 16 findings that required corrective action by another. Examples of areas identified The majority of our making happens in our network of supplier factories for improvement included management of overtime, emergency exit (see also We Partner, page 39). We work with these factories to make signage and wastewater management. All items that required corrective the components that will eventually arrive at our PCH-owned facilities action were resolved within one month. for packaging, kitting, fulfilment and delivery to their final destination. The key difference is that we can control our own factories, but we can only influence our supplier partners. Health and Safety We take safety seriously, as accidents can happen in a manufacturing Risk Management environment. We believe dedicated safety training and procedures are the best way to prevent accidents from occurring and escalating. PCH PCH regularly reviews local legal requirements to determine what is did not experience any serious accidents in our own factories in 2014. applicable to our operations. Our Compliance and Internal Audit teams conduct environmental risk assessments PCH offices and our factory Our PCH-owned factories have a Social and Environmental Committee facilities in China for compliance with ISO 14001 standards. Through (200 people), which includes a Health and Safety sub-Committee this process, we have identified the areas of greatest environmental (16 people) comprised of management, production staff and engineers. risks in our PCH-owned factories as: disposal of hazardous waste, food One percent of the overall factory workforce participate in the committee. waste and machine hazardous waste. The greatest areas of risk in our overall PCH operations in China are: the supplier selection process, We conduct self-assessments at our factories to analyze potential material selection, energy and water use and waste and air emissions. safety hazards related to fire safety, chemical use, equipment safety Full certification details and all of our current company policies can be and occupational health. Within PCH-owned factories, only one station found on our website. is deemed hazardous by local authorities (a carton sealing station which is noisy). All 70 operators who work at that station undergo a CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 34 health assessment before being assigned and are provided training and room for improvement. PCH employees are frequently in factories and personal protective equipment (PPE). are unaware of the health and safety risks in particular facilities. In 2014, PCH recorded no injuries or illness amongst our corporate We learned that we need a formal structure for all employees to report employees globally who work in our own and our supplier facilities (i.e. possible work-related illness. The reporting process will be integrated to non-factory operator staff such as product design teams or engineers). our Employee Code of Conduct due for release in 2015. Our factories reported four injuries to three men and one woman, namely a fall, a vehicle accident on the way to work, a machine-related accident and an object falling on an employee’s foot in the cafeteria. All were Case study: Health and safety at design employees, and all subsequently returned to work. Injuries were reported In one case, a client asked us to use particular chemicals in our product to the local social security bureau. development lab, with specific levels of concentration and ventilation. PCH employees who were working with these chemicals began to feel Number of Incident rate PCH 2014* unwell and were encouraged by their managers to get medical checks. incidents (per 100 employees) Because this incident occurred in a product development lab, we switched Fatalities/ 0 0% from a solvent-based adhesive to a water-based adhesive very quickly. Occupational disease Injuries 4 incidents .14 (per 100 members of The lack of an effective reporting system makes it difficult to the workforce, per year) definitively say how many employees experienced illness that resulted Lost days 71.5 days 2.44 (per 100 members of directly from their work in the lab, so it’s essential that we develop more the workforce, per year) effective reporting. We cannot ask our suppliers to incorporate best * PCH follows the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health (OSHA) recordkeeping rules and practices in chemical management in their factories without us first formulas to record and measure injury and lost workday rates worldwide. setting the best example. The PCH Innovation Hub in San Francisco has a chemical management The Sustainability Team offered training on chemicals, health and safety system in place and provides training on workshop machine use. best practices during 2014 to PCH staff and suppliers. We will formalize our There have been no known incidents so far, but because there is some health and safety standards in our Employee Code of Conduct in 2015. potentially dangerous and heavy machinery in the lab (e.g. wood room) a safety plan will be implemented in 2015. For the wider PCH workforce, particularly those who spend their time in our supplier factories, we do not currently have a formal health and We Commit safety management structure in place. We realized in 2014 that there were gaps in our health and safety management procedures across the To implement health and safety management and injury or supplier factories we actively manage. While these factories have the incident reporting system companywide. minimum health and safety management processes in place, there is PCH Lime Lab will develop a machinery safety plan in 2015. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 35 Conflict Minerals Workplace Improvements The use of minerals in electronic products mined in conditions of A happy workforce is a productive workforce and we believe that armed conflict and human rights abuses is of great concern to us. by improving the factory work environment, we will make social We are committed to participating in industry initiatives to improve and financial gains measured in employee wellbeing and improved transparency of minerals in products and mitigate human rights abuses production output. in the supply chain. PCH is a privately held Irish company and is not under a legal obligation Case study: Factory upgrades, PCH workshop to disclose or trace the presence of conflict minerals in our supply chain, A PCH client that considers sustainability and safe and comfortable however, as an issue of paramount concern, we have created our own working conditions as a core brand value wanted to build a workshop policy. Many of our clients are required to release an annual report on where both product quality and worker comfort are equally prioritized. conflict minerals such as tungsten, tin, tantalum and gold commonly Their final product assembly was to be conducted in a PCH factory, found in electronics that have been mined from the Democratic where all workshops already meet minimum local regulatory Republic of Congo and neighboring countries. We assist our clients in requirements, but this client desired to go even further. fulfilling such reporting obligations. We will roll out our own conflict minerals program across our supply base in 2015-2016. The PCH Sustainability Team reviewed a 7,400 square feet workshop to be used by about 30 people. We installed a lighting system that To view our full policy and to learn more about our conflict minerals automatically adjusts light levels in response to motion and real time program, see our website. monitors for temperature, humidity and carbon dioxide (CO2). If CO2 is high, fans automatically run to circulate fresh air. We also retrofitted the air conditioning so the temperature settings can be changed in individual locations in the workshop. We Commit We will track the return on investment during 2015. The energy saving is not expected to be substantial on this project. However, we expect In 2015, we will develop a conflict minerals mapping and that this project will prove that comfortable and empowered workers identification program for relevant suppliers. are more productive workers. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 36 Fresh air circulation in factory workshops is important as lack of fresh air can a cause discomfort and headaches. That is why we invest in monitoring equipment and well-ventilated workshops. — Kitty Jiang, Sustainability Program Manager, PCH Shiwu Huang CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 37 Case study: Equipment upgrades/automation We spoke about factory equipment upgrades in supplier factories in our 2013 Report, and how a long-term partnership enables a factory to invest in equipment and see a return on investment. We endeavor to foster long-term partnerships with our suppliers. While no longterm contracts were awarded in 2014, we continue to work with our existing supply base year-on-year and carry out individual projects. For example, in March 2014, we installed four auto-cutting machines in a key supplier factory to increase efficiency and reduce potential worker harm. Benefits analysis of automation Change Daily labor cost reduction -79% Number of dangerous 2 positions eradicated Cycle time (seconds per piece) saved 9 seconds Quality Improved quality due to automation and reduction of human error Machine payback time 1.6 months CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 38 We Partner While we can have the greatest sustainability impact at the design phase, the majority of environmental and workforce impacts are experienced in the factory supply base in Southern China. If we want to make a real impact, we must look beyond our own operations to improve sustainability across our extended network of suppliers. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 39 Chunzhao Wang Sustainability Our Supplier Network in our Supply 229 56 number of suppliers percent of suppliers were transacted with in chosen by clients (44 percent 2014 were selected by PCH) $ Chain PCH 76 99 greatest number of percent of suppliers suppliers per client eligible for an audit Our suppliers vary in size, area of expertise and our level of engagement were audited with each one. So too does the level of control or influence we have over our suppliers. Many of our sustainability programs are with small to medium sized enterprises (SMEs), which make up a large portion of our overall supply base. PCH has a core group of key suppliers, smaller in number but usually larger in size, in which our operations team is involved in the day-to-day workings of the factory for large-scale PCH 4.4 projects. In the wider network of suppliers and sub-suppliers, we are average length of relationship (in years) with less involved in day-to-day factory operations. The following section our key suppliers outlines how we integrate sustainability into selecting and working with suppliers and how we influence them to adopt sustainable practices. How PCH interacts with suppliers: >> Annual audits 33 >> Monthly and quarterly business reviews with key suppliers number of suppliers engaged for sustainability assessments >> On-site presence in factories and improvement programs >> Going beyond audits: Specialized process improvement projects in supplier factories CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 40 PCH in China supplier spend 2014 85 percent of suppliers are located in China 98 percent of overall supplier spend was in China 47% Telecom accessories 20% Printing and packaging 15% Electrical engineering 12% Service items and consulting 6% Final assembly, test and pack/ mechanical engineering 64 percent of all PCH supplier spend was in Guangdong province and 23 percent was Jiangsu in Jiangsu PCH in China type of suppliers 2014 Guangdong 13% Telecom accessories 17% Printing and packaging 1.1 average length of relationship (in years) with all Chinese suppliers (as we on-boarded new 23% 1O% Electrical engineering Service items and consulting suppliers to meet the diverse product and material requirements of our PCH Access clients) 37% Final assembly, test and pack/ mechanical engineering CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 41 Supplier Qualification, Audits and Review >> 10 suppliers failed their audits in 2014 (3 existing, 7 potential new suppliers) »» 8 failed due to the results of their social and environmental performance Audits set a baseline, and during 2014, we continued to conduct »» 2 failed due to quality performance audits of existing and incoming suppliers to admit them to the PCH »» 2 committed to an improvement program and passed subsequent audits supplier network. This covers their quality, sustainability and chemical »» No suppliers failed due to child labor, forced labor or disciplinary practices management practices. We cannot audit every supplier as this would »» 6 candidate suppliers were not admitted to our approved vendor list require substantial resources. We follow industry best practice, and »» Business was terminated with 2 existing suppliers our compliance team conducts audits based on the projected value >> Factories that fail their audit are given up to 3 months to improve their of business with the supplier, level of risk and the type of service to be practices and undergo a re-audit received from the supplier. To read about our supplier qualification and audit procedures, see our website. >> Labor areas for improvement identified across audited suppliers: freedom of association, ethics and management systems and >> 257 suppliers were admitted to the PCH approved vendor list in 2014 working hours (44 percent selected by PCH, 56 percent nominated by clients) >> Environment, health and safety areas for improvement identified across >> A preferred supplier is more likely to receive business from PCH. audited suppliers: safety in high-risk zones within the factory, ergonomics This is determined during audit, and scores are weighted at 50 percent and general environment and health and safety management for quality, 35 percent for social and environmental practices and >> Facilities previously audited by PCH scored on average 6 percent higher 15 percent for chemical management for the labor portion of their audit and one percent higher for the >> We transacted with 229 suppliers in China in 2014 Environment, Health and Safety management portion of their audit, >> 27 percent of suppliers we transacted with were audited in 2014 than factories that underwent first-time audits >> 70 of 257 suppliers admitted to our approved vendor list (27 percent) >> 14 suppliers upgraded their preferred supplier status during 2014, and were eligible for an audit (34 new, 35 existing) in 2014 3 were downgraded (due to a combination of audit scores, failure to sign >> We audited 99 percent of suppliers eligible for an audit. The remaining our Code of Conduct) one percent is a supplier that we worked with closely to comply with >> 193 suppliers signed Our Supplier Code of Conduct our client’s audit. As the client’s audit requirements are similar to ours, (those who did not sign had similar agreements in place with the client) we focused on assisting the supplier to pass this audit To encourage an open flow of communication between our supplier >> 72 audits conducted (69 suppliers, 2 multiple audits) partners, PCH, and our clients, we conduct monthly and quarterly >> Audits conducted covered 40 percent of PCH spend in 2014 business reviews for certain projects. This gives all parties an opportunity to align objectives and provide project updates and suggestions for improvement. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 42 Child Labor We have a zero tolerance policy towards child labor in our own and supplier facilities. In 2014, we did not find any incidences of child labor in our own or our supplier facilities. We follow industry recommendations on selecting suppliers that are subject to audit, basing our selection on location, business activity and manufacturing risk assessments. We audited 69 suppliers last year (all audits include a check for child labor and prevention systems) and found no incidences of this practice. In addition, we had no young workers (16-18 year olds) or students (participants in internships arranged through an educational institution) working in PCH-owned facilities. Nineteen percent of our suppliers hire young workers and 1 percent hire student workers. To see our full policy please see our website. Sub-supplier Audits We ask that our suppliers mirror the supplier selection standards outlined in our Code of Conduct when choosing their suppliers. Our request is not unusual, however, our auditors tell us that very few electronic manufacturing services (EMS) providers implement supplier qualification audits on their sub-suppliers. Based on 2014 audit records, only two of our audited suppliers audit their suppliers. We do not dedicate PCH resources to auditing sub-suppliers, preferring to roll out factory improvement projects and supply chain mapping up to tier 3 sub suppliers (as discussed on the next page). Sunny Wu / Kevin Yang CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 43 We encourage and expect our network of suppliers to operate to the Case study: Helping suppliers improve health, safety and highest standards of social and environmental compliance. In reality, chemical management standards our supplier network, particularly our smaller suppliers, do not have the resources to implement social and environmental programs. For example, Each year, our supplier factories are audited by their own and our client a supplier will say that their employees are free to reject an offer of auditors. In 2014, one of our suppliers almost failed their annual client overtime or can join a worker’s organization at will, but in practice this is audit. Sustainability practices such as monitoring working hours and not always the case. lack of chemical handling procedures were the primary reason for the near failure. Supplier Improvements Due to a fixed deadline, the factory pushed to produce products in a shortened timeframe to meet demand. This compromised overtime Factories simply will not engage in sustainability programs unless they standards. Because we are working on new products and new materials have a strong relationship with PCH, a guarantee of business and our every year, the supplier was unaware of new client and industry support to implement these programs. The PCH Sustainability Team chemical management requirements, and there was no health and engaged with suppliers during 2014 to assess, understand and help safety management specialist knowledge in the supplier’s company. them implement improvement programs. Among the issues cited at audit, the client’s Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) for chemical management was incomplete or incorrect. PCH invested more than $500,000USD in supplier factory Our client wanted a detailed MSDS that incorporated their restricted improvements for the direct benefit of our clients. This included substance list. This is hard for the factory to implement as products energy-saving projects, employee engagement programs and health and processes are constantly evolving. The PCH team highlighted areas and safety upgrades. of concern, educated factory management on chemical terminology We also helped our major clients implement their own sustainability and helped the supplier perform corrective actions to improve their programs across their supply chains. One of our major value adds is our subsequent audit score. This included ventilation, cleaning stations, and ability to enhance our clients’ operational capabilities on the ground in chemical labeling and management. China. Some PCH team members spent up to 100 percent of their total If we are going to make any progress on making factories work time in 2014 at our supplier facilities. One team spent more than sustainable places, the client, PCH and factories must coordinate and 365,000 hours in one facility alone managing client operations. As such, communicate to consider and maintain sustainability standards we work with our clients to translate their codes of conduct and supplier during production ramps. audits to the factory floor. Doing so ensures the best quality, delivery and service. We will continue to work with this supplier to help them maintain appropriate standards in chemical management and will place Health and Safety management specialists in this factory as they build a robust system in 2015. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 44 Going Beyond Audits In the case of a quality issue, we would never ship a product. We always seek to improve manufacturing processes in our network We would extend the shipment date. We need to do the same of suppliers. Beyond audits, we observe where there is room for when sustainability issues emerge – if a safety or labor risk does improvement and we work with the supplier to influence them to make arise, our schedule needs to adapt accordingly, as failure to do the necessary changes. This drives continuous improvement. Below so creates a huge risk. are the key findings from specialized Sustainability Team factory — Ray Porter, Chief Operating Officer, PCH assessments of our suppliers: What We Saw in Supplier Facilities What We Did New processes (paint/ink mixing) exposed workers to potentially toxic Commenced design of a mixing room and work stations with improved ventilation solvent vapors. (2015 completion). Inadequate review of inks/paints/cleaners for safer alternatives at design. Reviewed inks/paints/cleaners for alternatives (ongoing). New process (acetone cleaning of laser-cut parts using ultrasonics) identified as Reviewed alternatives and implemented a simpler, safer cleaning process. unsafe during design review. Slow, inaccurate and wasteful cable-cutting/stripping process. Risk of worker Automated cable-cutting and stripping machine installed. injuries due to a manual cutting process. See Case study: Equipment upgrades/automation, page 38. New adhesive found to be too toxic and hazardous to use in existing workshop. Adhesive replaced, and other adhesives evaluated and replaced. Discovered that many personal protective masks available locally in China are Provided adequate masks and training in their use. Trained PCH Supply Base counterfeit/provide insufficient protection from chemical vapors. Management teams and educated supplier factories on the use of personal protective equipment. Workers were uncomfortable and tired because of high humidity in Created a factory workshop that included energy-efficient lighting and airfactory workshops. conditioning controls. See Case study: Factory upgrades, PCH workshop, page 36. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 45 Supply Chain Environmental Impacts Building a robust energy monitoring system in China is key to improving Energy consumption in our factories is minimal compared with a factory’s emissions footprint. We need to figure out where technology upstream supplier factories (see also Our Environmental Impact, needs to go, and get the cost of this down to create process and energy page 32). efficiencies. It is simply too expensive right now. Our clients tell us that their greatest challenge is making a substantial — Sanno Lee, Sustainability Program Manager, PCH improvement to the environmental impact of their supply chains. This is primarily because of an inability to access data in upstream tiers of their supply chain which often consists of smaller factories with less Case study: Remote energy monitoring expertise and fewer resources. We’ve established five full wireless sensor network pilot sites in one of In the past, we conducted energy assessments of our suppliers’ our own factories and four supplier sites. A sixth site will come on line factories and provided energy-saving suggestions, but factories in 2015. We will establish baseline data in 2015 when software and struggled to implement improvement projects. In our 2013 Report, we hardware mature. Our early findings suggest: highlighted that real time energy monitoring and management would >> Energy use across the five sites varies greatly. One supplier used at least be an area of focus in 2014. This real time data allows us to identify 4.8MM kWh of electricity between August and December 2014, while another where energy management improvement is needed most within a supplier used just 4 percent of that (190,000kWh) in the same period. factory. We recognize that the cost of installing energy management >> From August to December 2014, these five sites use the equivalent of hardware and software must be dramatically reduced and training must at least 470 U.S. homes’ energy use for one year (over 7.4MM kWh)1. be provided to encourage uptake of remote monitoring technology Through our analysis of real time energy use, we provide recommendations among suppliers. to the factory on best practices to reduce their consumption such as In 2015 and into 2016, we will continue to identify and install the turning off equipment at night or on weekends. In addition: correct energy meters and monitoring software. Following successful >> Light lamps replaced with LED in two workshops result in an estimated installation and collection of baseline data, we will implement specific energy reduction of 84,000kWh annually, for a saving of more than energy projects that will result in energy savings across our supply chain. $13,000USD2. >> Replacing 40watt (T8) lights with 28watt (T5) lights, reduced electrical consumption by up to 119,000kWh per year – a saving of approximately $3,000USD. We Commit 1. Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. We will continue to install energy monitoring systems in partner factories. 2. We calculate electricity cost based on the factory average cost of .16USD/kWh (average rate from PCH and our supplier electricity bills). CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 46 per month). Replacement hire rate was low (average 5 percent) and in the same factory, the average monthly length of service for short-term employees was 2.9 months, and for full-time employees, 9 months. On average, 28 percent of all leavers each month were employees, 72 percent of leavers were short-term workers in 2014. Switching from dispatch to short-term to meet peak production demand is better for the factory as it increases control and visibility into the Ada Yang / Wendy Zhao workforce. There is always a risk that dispatch agencies will not pay workers the full pay and benefits owed to them. Even as we move away Dispatch and Short-term Work from reliance on dispatch workers, other areas remain unstable, such as accurate labor demand forecasting. Labor supply in our own and our supplier factories continues to be a challenge. PCH Factory We Commit In PCH-owned factories, we have two types of workers: dispatch In March 2014, a new regulation governing the use of dispatch (agency) workers and full-time employees. Employees are hired directly operators came into effect in China. It requires that no more than by PCH, whereas a dispatch worker is employed by an agency (they are 10 percent of the factory population be dispatch workers by March paid directly by PCH, social insurance benefits are administered by the 2016. We will meet this standard by 2016. agency, and the dispatch company provides its own dormitories). We do not have any part-time employees or directly hired short-term fulltime contractors in PCH-owned factories. All workers receive the same compensation, employment terms and benefits. We have been working with our two dispatch agencies since 2009 and 2012 and audit them Dispatch/Short-term as % of factory workforce annually. In 2014, 12 dispatch workers converted to full-time employees Monthly Average in our factories. Supplier Factory PCH (dispatch only) 13% We also assist one key supplier in managing their labor needs. The factory reduced its reliance on dispatch workers in favor of short-term Key supplier facility 24% 3to 6-month workers hired and paid directly by the supplier factory (short-term) during 2014. Turnover remained high in this facility (average 28 percent CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 47 Production Ramp Monthly Units Produced, PCH-owned Factories 12M There is a direct correlation between labor turnover and production demand. Production ramp typically begins to climb after Chinese New Number of Units Produced 10M Year (February) and continues until December (pre-holidays). The busiest period is usually between June and September (graph at right). 8M Inaccurate forecasting is a huge challenge and when orders change last minute, suppliers, including PCH struggle to meet labor demand. We 6M hire for production plans and when production plans are altered at the last minute, it puts everyone under pressure. 4M PCH-owned Factories 2M JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC Production fluctuations have a significant impact on headcount 2014 requirements in our factories. In 2014, production output in our factories increased by 80 percent between February and March. In our factories, the Supplier Factories greatest headcount fluctuation occurred between January and February when the operator workforce grew by 22 percent to meet this demand. In one of our supplier partner facilities, production ramp began in July 2014 and ramped down by early November. The workforce increased by Production and Headcount Percentage Changes, PCH Factories 153 percent between June and July, and decreased by 23 percent between September and October. The percentage of short-term employees in that Production output Headcount facility peaked at 48 percent in August. In the same month, 97 percent of fluctuations % fluctuations % those who left were short-term employees. This is demonstrative of the 80% peaks and trough of production and their effect on labor management. 60% % Increase or decrease 40% 20% We Commit 0% -20% We will continue to work with tried and trusted suppliers and look for ways to accurately forecast production ramp in partnership with -40% our clients. -60% JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC 2014 CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 48 Qinglong Diao Our sustainability program is all about reducing waste. Waste can be something obvious like energy, water and materials. Wasted labor in the form of worker turnover or reduced productivity is also a costly form of waste. — John Garvey, Chief Technology Officer, PCH CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 49 Materials and Chemicals Mapping In 2014, we collected chemical MSDS from 25 high-risk factories in Chemicals used in factories were our biggest health and safety concern our supply base (including tier 1, 2 and 3 suppliers), then mapped in 2014. We spent considerable time and resources identifying and 187 materials and chemicals. Suppliers were chosen for these managing chemicals used in our own and our suppliers’ factories. assessments based on the products and processes they carry out, Hazardous chemicals are chemicals that are poisonous, corrosive, which, if interrupted, would compromise supply of essential parts and explosive or ignitable and which may cause hazards toward a person, components in our supply chain. equipment and the environment. More hazardous agents get into Observations in supplier factories included: the body by inhalation than by any other route. Therefore, chemical exposure on the factory line is a critical concern. >> Chemicals such as n-hexane, trichloroethylene, toluene, benzene and xylene are used in many upstream suppliers’ factories; these chemicals When we examine chemicals, we consider both sacrificial materials are used to make glues, thinners, cleaning agents, inks and paints that are used during the manufacturing process that do not form >> Poor ventilation part of the final product as well as those that are part of the final >> No or inappropriate personal protective equipment provided product. These chemicals are used in processes such as coating, gluing, lamination, cleaning, electroplating, printing, screen-printing and >> No labeling or mislabeling of containers painting. It’s important that all factories maintain a Material Safety >> No handling instructions (material safety data sheet) on site Data Sheet (MSDS) containing information such as a material’s chemical >> Chemical volatility due to open containers ingredients, physical characteristics, proper handling, fire safety and >> Unmarked plastic water bottles containing solvents emergency handling. >> Inadequate emergency procedures >> Inadequate chemical waste storage >> Chemicals banned in some client countries, but not in China We sought Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) data across the supply base in 2014 and faced huge challenges getting Our Sustainability Team conducted training sessions with PCH client teams and PCH Access teams to enhance their knowledge of chemicals this information – both because of confidentiality or because in their respective supply chains. Training and information sessions the factories don’t use it or don’t have the information. Some were also conducted directly with suppliers during assessment visits and containers are mislabeled or not labeled at all. This is a risk we are follow up support was provided to individual suppliers to improve their correcting in supplier factories. chemical management abilities. This reminds us that while audits set — Chris Yang, PCH Sustainability Analyst, PCH an important baseline, they do not provide full insight into the risks in a factory and how to best manage those risks. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 50 Steps for Chemical Management Reducing chemical exposure often requires switching to another material that is not compatible with equipment currently in use, might result in a greater number of rejects or might result in production downtime as the necessary adjustments are made and procedures are changed. Our priorities for chemical management are as follows: >> Elimination >> Substitution at design/planning >> Ventilation >> Establishing a safe distance between substance and worker >> Providing personal protective equipment Chemical Evaluation Tool During 2014, PCH began to develop a proprietary Chemical Evaluation Tool. The aim of this software is to take existing accepted chemical knowledge and make it easy for all PCH staff — designers, engineers, auditors, etc. — to identify the impacts of chemicals, both from a worker and end-user point of view. It will also instruct users on how to manage the chemicals safely, and where possible, offer less toxic alternatives, enabling us to make better decisions, quickly. Using the United Nations Globally Harmonized System (GHS)3 the tool considers substances that are known to cause serious health effects in humans, even in low concentrations. Other concerns, including health effects of single large exposures, skin and eye damage as well as flammability, ozone depletion and climate change are included in the rating system. Xiaolan Pan 3. United Nations Globally Harmonized System CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 51 We are also developing our own restricted substance list (RSL). The list will draw from best practices in our industry and in other sectors and Alternative chemicals are not straightforward to find. Cost, function, will include client requirements, alternatives, restricted processes, and cycle times and cosmetic effects are just a few of the factors that new and novel approaches on materials. must be taken into account. The greatest challenge in this task is to find alternative chemicals when — Alan Cuddihy, Head of Sustainability, PCH we determine that certain chemicals are unsafe for use. Challenges also lie in accessing and working with the upstream supply base to eradicate their hazardous chemicals. We Commit Monitor occupational hazards and conduct occupational health examinations for any position that may carry a risk of In 2015, we will make the following chemical management occupational disease improvements: Increase awareness of chemicals and EHS through internal and Create a designated Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) supplier training post to oversee health and safety management across the facilities we manage Find alternative chemical solutions and incorporate them in the Chemical Evaluation Tool Continue to map chemicals across the supply chain Set up a stakeholder review panel for our Chemical Evaluation Enhance supplier employees’ safety awareness, providing EHS Tool and Restricted Substance list training and increasing the training ratio (both PCH employees who work at supplier facilities, and supplier management teams) Begin to test the tool in PCH supplier facilities (by 2016, the tool will be ready for public comment). Find non-toxic or chemical alternatives that are not harmful and test their performance in our product development lab Report on our progress CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 52 The Challenge 1 What are the main issues that PCH faces regarding the use of chemicals? We make different products each year, meaning that our factories with Chemicals and our supplier factories work with different materials, processes and chemicals each year. Knowledge of chemical use in manufacturing is lacking, and implementing a health and safety management culture is challenging. Some of our clients are educating suppliers and help them apply best practices for chemical handling, but many clients Interview with Alan Cuddihy expect the factory to have existing systems in place. This is not Head of Sustainability always the case. In many factories, we see lack of understanding on the correct procedures in place for handling of chemicals. We have also become increasingly aware of the gap in control of sacrificial materials. These chemicals are not dangerous to the enduser, but they can be dangerous to the worker in the manufacturing facility where it is made. For example, a chemical used to wipe a product clean before it is packaged isn’t part of the final product and won’t impact the consumer, but the person who works at a cleaning work station on a factory line could be exposed to this chemical for up to 10 hours a day. Restricted materials lists exist, but they often apply to final goods that are sold on the other side of the world. These lists don’t necessarily reach the supply chain. 2 How does PCH address these issues? As we do not control many of these factories directly, we work to ensure management is fully informed about use of toxic chemicals and that training and attendance are carefully documented. It CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 53 is not always a question of compliance or whether a chemical is equipment (PPE) are in place. This, too, comes with difficulties. banned or not. While we have control in our own factories, we can only In 2014, we carried out chemical mapping across 25 supplier influence our suppliers. Ventilation upgrades in older factories factories. In some cases, chemicals banned in final products were are expensive and factories will not invest in such upgrades if used during manufacturing processes as cleaning agents there is no guarantee of continued business. In addition, ensuring or adhesives. that people consistently wear correct PPE is a challenge. We are providing training and education on the benefits of There are worker exposure limitations around chemicals, and this protection. certain chemicals can only be used in specific conditions. We realized that our suppliers didn’t always have correct processes 4 Looking forward, how does PCH aim to help solve these issues? in place to safely handle these chemicals. In 2014, we found short-term solutions such as swapping out chemicals for safer We realized that we needed to provide our PCH colleagues with alternatives, or improving ventilation, however, we have much a tool that would enable them to find out everything they need more to do. to know about chemical choices before they begin production. We did not have a way to evaluate and chose the best chemicals It is our responsibility to put systems in place to handle chemicals without slowing down the design and development process. properly in our operations. In addition, each factory is supposed to comply with local government regulations and client requirements Our Chemical Evaluation Tool will comprehensively evaluate on chemical use. Whether this is practical is unclear, especially manufacturing materials and processes and will incorporate our when a client chooses chemicals and no MSDS is supplied to the restricted substance list. Instead of looking retroactively at how factory. We are working with our suppliers to ensure they are people are affected by using a chemical, this tool takes existing equipped to handle chemicals properly. data and information and enables us to rate chemicals. Initially, we will use this tool at PCH. We will identify the most 3 What is the most challenging part of this? commonly used materials and conduct a quick factory diagnostic. Alternative chemicals are not always straightforward to find. Cost, The tool is almost ready for use, and in the six months we spent function, cycle times and cosmetic effects are just a few of the gathering chemical information across the supply chain, we factors that must be taken into account. noticed that MSDS are starting to clean up and contain more accurate information. While alternatives are the ultimate goal, our priority right now is to ensure appropriate ventilation and personal protective CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 54 We Deliver From inventory management to receiving and processing orders for the world’s biggest brands, it is our mission to ensure the right product is in the right place at the right time. We expertly aggregate consumer technology products and create marketing and channel strategies for both startups and established brands. Weilin Gong CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 55 Efficiently Inventory Management in 2014 11 Average number of days inventory stayed Meeting in warehouse Demand Saving time on inventory is crucial for our clients, as delays in product development and manufacturing hinders the ability to get products to market. We want to supplement and eventually replace forecasts with real data. We aim to meet real demand without the need for excess inventory by collecting factory-level data on materials, energy and labor. We are not in a position to report data on this aspect of our business for 2014 as each inventory or transport management project is conducted on a case-by-case basis. We will investigate how to measure and report on this in future. Inventory Management Transporting Products Inventory isn’t limited to finished products, it also refers to raw material How a product gets from our factory to the client and the end and the components that PCH manages on behalf of our clients. If consumer is a decision made by our clients and is not always within inventory remains in a warehouse or in transit for a prolonged period, the our sphere of influence. We are therefore not directly responsible for chance that it will lose its value and have to be disposed of increases. transportation emissions. To reduce waste and resulting landfill, we work with our clients to make In 2014 our use of courier delivery increased as a result of our only products for which there is demand. This type of just-in-time PCH Access client shipping requirements. Many of their orders are manufacturing makes supply chains leaner and cuts costs. small, so this is the most suitable means of transport. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 56 How Our Products are Delivered 2013 2014 80 60 40 20 0 Truck Ocean Air Airfreight can often lead to a significantly leaner supply chain, in that fewer products are produced, there is less stored inventory and we can send each product directly to where it needs to go. Generally, this means fewer products ultimately go to landfill. However, we acknowledge that ocean freight generates less emission than airfreight.4 We use the best shipping method for each individual project. This is a challenge for our clients who want to incorporate sustainability into their core values – airfreight beats ocean freight when it comes to getting a product to market. The key is to have accuracy in demand forecast, but this is difficult when a new product is being launched and there is no data on how it will perform. Wenjiang Wang 4. World Shipping CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 57 Ximing Zhang Transporting Employees We transport employees between global facilities, via planes, cars We Commit and buses—all of which use energy. Thus far, we have not tracked the emissions associated with employee transportation. We will always need to transport employees, but as we implement video We will continue to assess each inventory management and distribution conferencing across all global offices in 2015, we will track and assess project to ensure we offer a suitable solution for each individual product. the environmental impact of this solution. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 58 Denzie Batulan / Natalia Daniel / Eduardo Nauiack We Listen Looking after those who work for PCH both directly and indirectly is our greatest priority – our people are key to our success. People are not as readily measurable as environmental and economic impacts. Even though our efforts to enhance our workforce’s experience are not always quantifiable, they are incredibly important. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 59 About Our Workforce 2,648 21 97 30 percent of our factory percent of global workforce* nationalities workforce are migrants corporate staff represented globally who hail from outside in China are Shenzhen based in supplier factories 92 41 90 percent of our global workforce percent of our corporate percent of our factory workforce are are full-time employees staff are non-resident in covered by a collective bargaining and their country of work trade union agreement 61 18 percent of our global workforce percent of the PCH Senior are factory operators Leadership Team are female * Workforce includes both our employees and our supervised workforce (those workers hired through dispatch agencies or contractors/consultants, and occasional interns). We do not hire any interns in our factories. All interns are students in their home countries and have worked with our Finance, Sustainability, Operations, Design and HR Teams. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 60 Age Gender PCH-owned Factories 36% 64% 47% Under 30 PCH-owned Factories 53% Between 30-50 0% Over 50 Global Workforce 44% 56% 64% 36% PCH Corporate Global Workforce PCH Corporate 40% Under 30 21% Under 30 59% Between 30-50 1% Over 50 75% Between 30-50 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 4% Over 50 Diversity and respect are vital components of PCH’s culture. All factory employees receive at a minimum the local minimum wage as set by the Global Workforce Shenzhen government and are paid legally required overtime rates. This is supplemented by statutory social insurance payments and ancillary Country Employees Supervised Total % of total benefits. Base salary for corporate employees is determined based on 2014 workers* workforce** workforce market value for the role in a particular geography. Operators Office staff Canada 0 8 0 8 0.3% Diversity is important in the hardware and technology sectors, where creativity and out-of-the-box thinking are vital for success. Engineering China/ 1,509 768 209 2,486 93.9% is a male-dominated sector and the majority of people managers Hong Kong across our organization are male, whilst the majority of our factory staff Ireland 0 36 4 40 1.5% are female. South 0 7 0 7 0.3% Africa South 0 4 0 4 0.2% Korea U.S. 0 91 12 103 3.9% We Commit Total 1,509 914 225 2,648 We will continue to encourage diversity and equal opportunity across our organization. * Supervised worker refers to non-employees i.e. operators hired through a dispatch agency or contractors/consultants and occasional interns. ** TNS distribution is excluded from this Report. See also About this Report. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 61 Localized HR Practices Little Bird In the same way that we tailor our services to each client, we tailor our Since we began our partnership with NGO Little Bird in 2012, internal employee relations to each local market in which we operate. their services have evolved with our workforce. What began as an For example, in Shenzhen, we have a hotline for our factory operators, independent hotline is now an advisory, library and activity service whereas in our office locations we operate an open door policy. If available to more than 6,000 workers in our own, and our key supplier employees have any suggestions or concerns, they can go directly to facilities. To learn more about the Little Bird services see our website. their direct manager or Senior Leadership Team. >> Hotline available to more than 6,000 workers across 5 factories At PCH Lime Lab, a mentor program commenced in 2014 providing >> 2,966 calls received, 12,989 instant message correspondences since opportunities for ongoing learning, knowledge sharing and goal setting. August 2012 (when the hotline service commenced)5 Because of the growth rate in this location, there are many areas where >> 1,323 phone calls (2014) PCH is endeavoring to develop and implement people management >> 4,533 instant message interactions (2014) processes that enhance talent and job satisfaction. >> 1,500 workers on instant messaging group >> 55 percent of hotline calls came from suppliers’ workers, 43 percent Employee Engagement came from PCH workers and 2 percent came from ex-workers Not only do we want to integrate sustainability into the products >> 3 libraries at factory dormitories we make, we also want to make products that serve a social or >> 25,000+ library visits environmental improvement purpose. There is eagerness at PCH to work >> 4,000+ books borrowed with what we call ‘pro-social entrepreneurs’—those who have ideas >> 7 cultural integration training sessions for hardware that aim to solve social, community or environmental >> 60 social activities attended by more than 1,000 people problems or effect positive change in the world. Five percent of PCH >> 1,000+ surveys completed by workers covering ergonomic health, Lime Lab’s time in 2014 was spent tackling engineering problems for understanding of overtime rights, feedback on activities and training non-profit organizations. Our goal is to increase this in 2015 across the sessions, and questionnaires to gain a deeper understanding of what company. Working with pro-social entrepreneurs is key to integrating training and education workers are interested in sustainability into our core business model. It also increases employee satisfaction and keeps employees engaged. Increased hotline use tends to correlate with production ramp periods. 5. A correspondence is calculated as one call or one full engagement through instant messaging (number of correspondences back and forth are not counted, rather the entire engagement). CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 62 2014 Hotline Use Topics Raised via Little Bird Hotline 2013-2014* 2013 2014 PCH Suppliers 250 Welfare Job Transfer 200 Legal Work Environment 150 Number of Calls Management Dorms 100 Dispatch Work Food 50 Topics Social Insurance Finance 0 Overtime JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC Attendance System Health & Safety In our own factories, workers called the hotline about welfare, Social Activities management and social insurance and housing benefits. In our supplier Personnel factory, the majority of correspondences were queries regarding social Sanitary Management insurance entitlements and annual leave. Hotline staff report that the majority of calls to the hotline relate to clarification of entitlements and Contract Query advisory services rather than grievances. 0 10 20 30 40 50 Number * Analysis of 191 sample correspondences with the Little Bird hotline across seven facilities during 2013. 2014 analysis of 159 correspondences across five facilities. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 63 Little Bird Challenges Factory workers reported that they were concerned about how to effectively communicate with their children. Many workers come Little Bird hotline staff find that face-to-face interaction with the to Shenzhen leaving their children at home with extended families. workforce is most successful for building trust and persuading Seventy-nine percent of those surveyed said they speak to their children employees to attend events and activities. They actively promote their for one hour or less per day. Little Bird invited an expert to provide service offering by visiting workers’ dorms and libraries which serve as a training to these workers on enhancing parenting relationships. platform for the Little Bird team to reach workers directly. Little Bird Activities for Factory Staff* The hotline surveyed 212 people during 2014 and found that, among workers, the biggest obstacles to calling the hotline are the Concert ‘effectiveness of advice’ and lack of clarity around the independence of the service, as some believe the service is run by management. Little Dating Skills Bird will continue to provide clarity of their impartiality to workers and Badminton endeavor to address all issues raised in a timely manner. Ping-pong New Year’s Eve Party Case study: Little Bird activities and training Singing Little Bird staff began organizing regular social activities in late 2013, Exercises having learned through the hotline that our workforce was interested Dance in enhancing their life skills and broadening their social circle. In 2014, Movie Watching activities included biking, hiking, barbecues and birthday parties. Activities are often oversubscribed. Birthday Party Bike Ride PCH learned through surveys that our workers also desire short educational courses. The availability of relevant learning content Nature Walk is essential to maintain worker interest. Thus, Little Bird organized Walking Tour educational lectures on topics such as social insurance and housing Mountain Climb funds, parenthood and conflict management. Barbecue 0 30 60 90 120 150 180 Number of Participants *1,086 workers from both PCH and supplier factory attended activities throughout 2014. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 64 Educational Interests of Our Workforce Brands must get involved we cannot ignore the evasion of social Life Skills Philosopy responsibility and we must call on brands to take action to manage their workforce responsibly. — Wei Wei, Little Bird Founder History, Media Economics Education Levels Computers Languages PCH Corporate Employees Factory Employees Management Literature Law Medical & Health Education 1000 Psychology Society Commerce Engineering Politics Religion 800 Art, Graphics & Photography 600 MicroBenefits survey, PCH factory employees, November 2014, 87 participants. 400 200 We Commit 0 Below Middle High Secondary/ College Universtiy/ Middle School School technical Bachelor Little Bird will establish its services in our new Learning Lab facility School close to PCH-owned factories in 2015. This will provide online and face-to-face training and library and personal development services Majority of factory employees have attained middle school education to all PCH factory workers. (50 percent, 2013). Little Bird will also enhance personal development and life skills training and activities. Little Bird will establish a Mediation Committee in 2015. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 65 MicroBenefits MicroBenefits in 2014 MicroBenefits is a social enterprise committed to enhancing frontline >> Welcome pack and discount network card distributed to all new joiners workers’ livelihoods while enabling employers to generate cost savings. >> Since 2013, employees have saved $25,000 through MicroBenefits’ retail discount network Partnering since 2013, we offer worker engagement programs, using >> Education and training mobile phone application offers 80+ courses technology-related initiatives to increase employee satisfaction and to employees loyalty, reduce turnover rates and improve productivity. To learn more about our partnership with MicroBenefits, see our website. Employees receive a welcome pack that includes access to a retail 4,000 workers (supplier and PCHowned factories) had access 34,000+ discountuses (since card to MicroBenefits services June 2013, five discount network of over 30 local businesses, an education and each month (on average) facilities) training application for smartphones and an online newsfeed and communications platform. MicroBenefits is available to all employee operators (about 82 percent of the PCH total factory workforce) as an 110,000+ quizzes completed 1,500+ prizes distributed (PCH facilities, incentive to encourage long-term employee retention. July-Dec 2014) Getting the right content for the MicroBenefits smartphone application continues to be a challenge. Many widely available online courses are not offered in Chinese, require a long-term commitment from 15,000+ lessons completed (PCH facilities, July44,000+ logons to newsfeed the employee and are aimed at university level students, which is not Dec 2014) always suitable for our workforce. We are working with MicroBenefits and some clients to source suitable courses. We Commit In March 2015, a 3,900 square feet Learning Lab will open adjacent to two PCH-owned factories. It will feature 50 computers and tablets and library space for online and face-to-face training. All PCH operators can use the facility. In July 2015, we will open a similar facility (7,500 square feet) at a supplier factory. It will be accessible by all operators (up to 6,000 people) in the factory. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 66 Return on Investment 2014 Retention in Factories and Return >> The number of units produced by factory operators per hour has on Investment increased between 2012 and 2014, as has the factory efficiency rate. In 2012, on average we replaced 20 percent of our PCH factory »» 5 times greater peak production volume in peak 2014 month than peak workforce each month. In 2013, the rate was 9 percent. In 2014, it month in 2013 averaged 14 percent. While there was an increase, an overall rate »» Efficiency rate (target working hours/actual working hours) is up 8% less than 20 percent is positive. In one PCH facility (where our social 48 30 percent of PCH factory percent of PCH factory programs have operated since 2012), the average replacement hire rate operators have worked operators have worked was 9 percent in 2014. with PCH for less than in the factory for more one year than 2 years Changes were also implemented in our factories that resulted in increased efficiency and a decrease in peak monthly volume, reducing the need for operators. This must be factored in to the reduction in 52 1.4 percent of PCH factory average length of replacement hire rate. operators have worked service (in years) with PCH for more than across the PCH Replacement Hire Rate, PCH Factory 2012-2014* one year (up from 12% factory workforce in 2012)6 Replacement Hire Rate as % of Entire Workforce 60 Replacement hire rate (%) 50 Promotions in Factories 40 30 3 people promoted people promoted from from operator to line leader to supervisor 30 line leader (19 people in 2013) 20 12 1 10 people promoted person promoted from from operator to line supervisor/manager office staff to office staff in 2014 0 JAN JUL JAN JUL JAN JUL DEC 2012 2012 2013 2013 2014 2014 2014 * Replacement Hire (a worker hired to replace someone who has left) 2013-2014 at one PCH CTS facility. Replacement hire rate calculated as a % of the entire workforce. 6. 2012 data is for one facility only (the only facility which was open for a full year in 2012). That facility now has over 58% of operators for more than one year. 2014 data refers to two PCH factory facilities. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 67 Employment Conditions and Labor Turnover Employee Overtime in Factories In 2014, 14 PCH factory employees (production and office staff) A standard workweek in China is 40 hours per week with no more than marked 10 years of service. This was rewarded with bonuses and 36 overtime hours per month. Workers are entitled to at least one benefits. This incentive scheme will continue in 2015 when an additional day off per seven-day week, and all overtime is voluntary. Work weeks 24 employees will mark 10 years of service anniversaries. exceeding 60 hours are deemed excessive by industry associations and our Supplier Code of Conduct requires that no worker should work more Turnover remains high across our factory workforce. While we have than 60 hours per week, including overtime, except in emergency or made inroads in encouraging employee loyalty, the reality is that many unusual situations. factory workers come to our factories with the intention of staying for less than a year. In 2014, our global employee turnover averaged Overtime hours are a priority for our workforce and if that is not six percent each month. Amongst our corporate employees the average available, many will seek alternative employment. The average monthly turnover rate was one percent while the average monthly rate workweek for our PCH factory staff in 2014 was 51 hours, down from was eight percent amongst our factory employees.7 53 hours in 2013. PCH achieved 99 percent compliance with our Code of Conduct in our own factories in 2014 (maintaining our 2013 record). The 60-hour week was breached eight weeks out of 52 in 2014, in other Total employees at 1 January, 2014 2,299 words, one percent of workers breached the rule during 2014. Total joiners during 2014 1,909 During 2014, the policy of not working more than six consecutive days without a day of rest was breached six times (six weeks out of 52) or, on Total leavers during 2014 1,785 average, one percent of the total annual workforce breached this rule. There was one recorded incident of 36 workers exceeding more than Total headcount at 31 December, 2014 2,423 11 hours total work time in a day. Breaches are caused by condensed production schedules and shortage of labor. We continually monitor overtime and strive to have zero percent breach of our standard. 7. Calculated as the geometric monthly mean of all leaver employees/average number of employees in 2014. Overtime is something that our workers want and volunteer for. We have to balance this with rules meant to protect them from too much overtime. — Celine Zhai, Sustainability Program Manager, PCH CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 68 Case study: Understanding overtime Parental Leave During 2014, Little Bird conducted a survey of PCH factory operator We abide by all parental leave entitlements in accordance with local employees (25 participants) to gauge their understanding of overtime. laws. In 2014, 51 PCH employees in China took parental leave. We Among the results: estimate that no fewer than 64 employees were entitled to parental >> 68 percent fully understood their overtime payment entitlements leave, but some (approximately 13 female factory operators) did not use their leave entitlements and chose to leave work instead. >> 100 percent said they were paid their correct overtime entitlements >> 48 percent recalled the training they had received on overtime entitlements 2014 Total Female Male at orientation Employees entitled to 64 46 18 Little Bird regularly clarify pay and benefit entitlements via the hotline, parental leave and an employee handbook is available in print or via the MicroBenefits smartphone application. In addition, Little Bird hosted lectures on social Employees who took 51 33 18 welfare entitlements during 2014. parental leave Employees who returned to 48 30 18 work after parental leave Employees who returned 28 16 12 from parental leave at end We Commit of 2013 still employed at end of 2014 Continue to monitor overtime in our own and supplier factories and Return to work rate as a percentage of 94%* maintain systems designed to prevent breach of the 60-hour week rule. those who claimed parental leave During 2014, we also identified a need to offer hourly rates to certain Return to work rate as a percentage of 75%** salaried workers in our U.S. operations who work a lot of overtime. This those entitled to parental leave is fairer to these employees and will be implemented throughout 2015. * Calculated as those who returned from parental leave during 2014/those who took parental leave during 2014. ** Calculated as those who returned from parental leave during 2014/those who were entitled to take parental leave (both those who availed of the leave and those who ceased their employment). CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 69 Knowledge Sharing and Training As our company grows, we are increasingly aware of the importance of internal communication and knowledge sharing. We recognize that it is important that we put systems in place to ensure continuity of excellent service should someone leave. Training is an essential component of employee engagement, development and productivity at work. In 2014, PCH employees globally participated in more than 57,000 hours of training. In response to the results of our Great Place to Work® Survey conducted in 2013 among PCH corporate staff globally, we recognized the need to provide career development and internal knowledge sharing forums. In response, PCH’s HR division rolled out two programs – Connect and Xiaoyao Liu / Jingling Zhou Discover and Envision. Connect and Discover data analysis and coaching. English training and ‘Basics of Supply Chain Management’ were the most popular courses (272 and 170 attendees During these one hour information sessions, PCH teams in China respectively). Many courses were held at both office and factory sites. educate their colleagues on the role of their team. This is important for internal knowledge sharing, as certain corporate staff are based Sixty-three percent of PCH employees in China attended at least one at factory sites and may not be aware of the internal services that are training session. These training sessions were not rolled out in our available to them. This program began in late 2014, with 73 attendees other global locations during 2014. participating in the first session. More sessions are scheduled for 2015 and will be held in PCH office and factory sites in China. Factory Training All PCH factory staff receive on the job training to ready them for Envision their particular role. In addition, the factory offered additional Envision is a short training session on employee development, technical career enhancing training to both office and production staff. skills and management development. More than 350 PCH employees Ninety-six office staff participated in English language and ‘Train in China attended more than 8,000 hours of envision training in 2014. the Trainer’ courses in 2014, while forty operations staff took ‘Lean Topics included communication, negotiation, problem solving, finance, Manufacturing’ training. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 70 Grievances PCH Factory Labor Grievances 2014 We strive to protect and uphold labor and human rights best Improvements/suggestions practices across all our operations. Our hotline and employee grievance mechanisms apply to our factory workforce (61 percent Seeking Advice of PCH workforce). Disciplinary Practices PCH Corporate Salary Should any employee have concerns or grievances about our labor, Food human rights or environmental practices, they can approach their Work Environment direct manager, any member of management, a designated employeerelations manager or any member of HR to share their concerns. Holiday Requests We currently do not have any formal grievance mechanism for PCH Management Grievance Topic corporate staff. This will be added to our Employee Code of Conduct Living Conditions due for release in 2015. Legal Queries Factories Welfare In 2013, we reported an increase in employee grievances in our Job Transfer factories – 15 in 2012, 27 in 2013. In 2014, the number of grievances rose to 141. This is a good thing. We want our workforce to feel they Housing Accumulation Fund have a forum to express their concerns and we want them to trust that Social Security their concerns will be taken seriously and resolved in a fair manner. Much of the feedback received from the workforce was suggestions for Work Schedule improvement or seeking clarification of applicable rules and regulations. Overtime In the event of any change to our operations that would significantly affect Conflict With Co-workers our employees, up to three days’ notice is provided by the HR department. When any employee is no longer to be employed by our factories, they Work Uniform receive at least one-month notice from factory management. 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 Number CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 71 Mode of Communication Mode of Communicating Grievances HR or factory management can be reached via: 2014 2013 100 1. Suggestion box – Employees anonymously suggest improvements. Checked every week on Monday. A formal acknowledgment is sent 80 Number of Grievances to the person who submitted the query within 15 days (special 60 circumstances can extend this to two months) e.g. if further investigation is required. 40 2. Employee representative’s forum – Held once per quarter and attended by employee representatives (15 operators), the factory 20 General Manager, HR manager and internal audit team. Suggestions 0 and feedback are sent to relevant departments for action. Little Bird Suggestion Box Employee Forum MicroBenefits HR supervises the implementation of improvements. Responses to Mode of Communication all suggestions and feedback are posted on a notice board within three months. Workers are using forums such as MicroBenefits and increasingly 3. Little Bird – Little Bird sends suggestions to factory HR once a week, Little Bird to communicate with factory management. In 2014, which are then relayed to relevant departments. Responses are 63 percent of grievances were reported via Little Bird hotline and sent to Little Bird who liaise directly with the employee. Most issues 5 percent via MicroBenefits. PCH factory employees accounted for more are resolved within one month, and if an emergency arises, it is than 43 percent of calls to the Little Bird hotline during 2014. Little Bird addressed immediately. escalated 16 percent of all queries received to factory management 4. MicroBenefits – The employee smartphone application includes in 2014. Management endeavors to close all grievances within three a function that allows employees to contact HR directly with months, and address serious grievances immediately. However, suggestions, complaints and feedback. a percentage of grievances remain unresolved (over 20 percent of all grievances reported during 2014 are still open/reoccur). These remaining open items relate to factory management, welfare and social insurance. Little Bird provides an independent and anonymous platform for employees to speak their mind. Management also encourages Factory management and Little Bird concede that it is difficult to resolve employees to speak directly to any manager about problems they all complaints, as many are seasonal e.g. space in dorms, others take time to investigate during which time the factory worker might leave his/ may see. her employment. People also come to the hotline with personal non-work — Frank Wong, Factory General Manager, PCH related issues, which cannot necessarily be resolved by management. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 72 Zhang Xiao, Little Bird Compliance and Integrity Factories The privacy and security of our clients’ concepts, ideas and dreams PCH will always remain true to our values: passion, integrity and are important to us. Our clients own the intellectual property (IP) of teamwork, both internally and externally, and we have never been fined their products which we safeguard. We sign a mutual non-disclosure or had any incidents of non-compliance with regulations or laws in the agreement (NDA) with all clients and partners, and we have client jurisdictions in which we operate. IP security plans in place at all of our factories. We have never had a Clients and Products complaint, breach or loss of client data. We love to help startups disrupt. At the same time, each company we work All security personnel in our directly owned factories receive formal with has a responsibility to market and sell their products truthfully. When corporate social responsibility (CSR) training. In the facilities that it comes to seeking approvals such as food and drug administration (FDA) we manage for our suppliers, PCH is involved in setting operational or labeling approval for a particular market, our clients instruct us on their and security procedures to ensure compliance with human rights labeling requirements. requirements and social accountability international (SA8000) standards. Management of those facilities directly oversee the security staff at those locations. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 73 Employees All of our workforce receive a written contract and benefits in line with local regulations. Our factories conduct orientation training and provide all employees with an employee manual, which guides the factory workforce on their human rights and responsibilities, labor management procedures and safety procedures. The manual also outlines the factory labor, environmental, security and quality policies. We do not have any formal policies in place for our PCH corporate staff like we do in our factories, nor do we provide any formalized training regarding human rights, anti-corruption, anti-competitive behavior, insider trading, or conflict of interest. We expect the entire PCH workforce to comply with applicable laws and any violation will be fined or punished according to the relevant laws in each location. We recognize that we must formalize these expectations and will include them in our Code of Conduct to be rolled out in 2015. We Commit An Employee Code of Conduct is under development and is due for release in 2015. Once finalized, the guidelines will be communicated to all corporate employees in Chinese and English. Yufeng Duan / Yulian Chen CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 74 Yuting Zhang Looking Ahead In 2015, we will continue to commit ourselves to factory improvements, particularly chemical use and safe manufacturing. The importance of long-term, trusted relationships with our suppliers is essential to their participation in our sustainability programs. We are making progress with energy where cost benefits are readily measured. Material handling and process safety require more time and investment. We will also continue to build our capabilities on responsible product design and development. This expansion will continue to ensure we understand our entire company impact, a challenge we are ready to meet. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 75 The following section outlines the key efforts we commit to improve in 2015 and beyond. We Commit Responsible Division(s) We Think Continued sustainability support and learning sessions for Highway1 companies. PCH Sustainability Team, Highway1 We Scale Continued engagement with PCH Access clients and suppliers to ensure their products are made PCH Sustainability Team, PCH Access sustainably. This will include chemical assessments, material analysis and supplier development projects. We Design Continue to educate ourselves and our clients on sustainable design. PCH globally Develop a materials library. PCH Lime Lab Offer life cycle assessment of products and packaging at the design stage. PCH globally We Build Implement health and safety management, injury or incident reporting system companywide PCH HR, Legal and Sustainability Teams Implement a safety plan for equipment use at the PCH Innovation Hub in San Francisco PCH Lime Lab Map and identify conflict minerals in the PCH supply chain. PCH Sustainability Team and Supply Base Management Team We Partner Continue to develop and build energy monitoring systems and energy improvement plans across PCH Sustainability Team PCH-owned and supplier factories Continued compliance with applicable workforce management regulations. PCH HR and Operations Teams Engage with clients to manage production forecasts to prevent labor and safety violations. PCH Operations and Sustainability Teams Implement chemical management best practices and increase awareness and training across PCH PCH Operations and Sustainability Teams and supplier facilities. We Deliver Continue to assess each inventory management and distribution plan to ensure we offer a suitable PCH globally solution for each individual product. We Listen Continue to encourage diversity and equal opportunity across our organization. PCH HR Open a Learning Lab in PCH and supplier facilities for all factory employees’ use. PCH Sustainability Team, Little Bird NGO Continue to monitor overtime in our own and supplier factories. PCH HR Offer hourly rates to certain salaried workers in our U.S. operations who work a lot of overtime. PCH HR Implement employee guidelines and policies for PCH employees globally. PCH HR, Legal and Sustainability Teams PCH General Report on the entire PCH group of companies. PCH Sustainability Team, TNS Distribution Work with pro-social entrepreneurs – those with a hardware idea that aims to solve social and PCH Sustainability Team and all product environmental problems or affect positive change. divisions (Highway1, PCH Access, PCH Lime Lab) CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 76 About This Report PCH is a privately held Irish company, and we are not obliged to report on our social, environmental and economic impact, this is something we choose to do. This is PCH’s third annual Sustainability Report and covers the year 2014. Our 2012 and 2013 Reports can be accessed on our website. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 77 What This Report Covers The PCH Group acquired Shoplocket (Canada) and Conexus distribution (Australia) in 2014. Shoplocket is included in this Report (PCH office in ‘PCH’ (previously known as ‘PCH international’) refers to the PCH global Canada), but Conexus is not (part of TNS Distribution business). group of companies. While TNS Distributions is part of the PCH group, it TNS Distribution and any 2015 acquisitions are not covered in this is not included in this Report. Report. Our goal is to report on all PCH entities by 2015. In 2013, we reported on PCH operations in China (including: PCH This Report documents our sustainability performance – our social, Shenzhen (office), PCH Hong Kong (office), PCH packaging (two factory environmental and economic impact. This is not a Report on the facility buildings including packing, kitting, warehouse and office) financial condition of the organization. We do not disclose certain and PCHD Shenzhen (a factory with packing, kitting and warehousing financial information, capitalization structure of the organization operations). This region continues to be where we see the majority of or details of the share capital and executive board structure of the social, environmental and economic effects (see Materiality, page 17). organization in this Report or in any public forum. In this Report, we expanded our coverage to include all PCH corporate Mutual non-disclosure agreements prevent us from naming suppliers offices and PCH U.S. facilities (PCH Lime Lab, PCH Access and and clients, unless they name us. We respect this and are working with Highway1) as well as a new product development lab that opened in our partners toward a transparent future. Many suppliers and clients May 2014 in Shenzhen, China. We have a significant sustainability do not wish to be named to protect trade secrets and maintain impact in our PCH U.S. operations, particularly in San Francisco with our a competitive advantage. accelerator, engineering, prototyping and design facilities, which is why these entities are included in this year’s Report. Our Reporting Guidelines Key senior management are based in our Irish headquarters, and This Report was written in accordance with GRI G4 guidelines at the company’s strategy, finances and resources are managed there. the ‘Core’ level. This Report meets our Communication on Progress Other corporate offices (Canada, China, Hong Kong, Ireland, South commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. Africa, South Korea, and U.S.) are home to a variety of services such as sales, IT, marketing and operations. These offices have minimal In compiling this Report and conducting a formal materiality study, environmental impact other than office electricity use, waste and we have identified that our most material impacts happen outside domestic water use. This data is not included in this Report. Our the boundary of our directly owned offices and factory facilities corporate offices have a social impact, which is included in the We (see Materiality, page 17). Listen section of this Report (page 59). CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 78 We disclose our management approach (DMA) for each material aspect Disclosures identified, but we do not yet have data for certain GRI indicators. We believe our transparent reporting of our challenges and successes fulfills The information in this Report may contain forward-looking statements. the spirit of GRI. In some cases, we need to develop our own indicators Such statements reflect management’s current expectations. Although to measure our real impact. Where we are unable to make a full management believes such statements to be reasonable, no assurance disclosure of a GRI indicator, we aim to be transparent and state this can be given that such expectations will prove correct. Such statements fact, and we have indicated the reason in GRI Index (page 81). All of our are subject to risks and uncertainties, and such future events could Reports to date are available on our company website. differ materially from those set out in the forward-looking statements as a result of, among other factors, changes in economic, market or Our Sustainability Report is reviewed by the Head of Sustainability, competitive conditions, success of business and operating initiatives, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Head of Legal, changes in the regulatory environment and other governmental actions Chief Financial Officer and other members of the PCH Senior Leadership and business risk management. Any forward-looking statement made in Team. We have not sought independent assurance of this Report. this Report relates only to events as of the date on which the statement is made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect new information, except as required by law. Christian Schluender / Kurt Dammermann CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 79 Glossary of Terms Client: A customer of PCH, or of our suppliers. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE): Protective clothing, helmets, goggles, or other garments or equipment designed to protect the wearer’s Corporate Staff: All non-operator staff who work in PCH offices. body from injury or infection. Dispatch Worker: Factory operators who work in PCH facilities who are hired Production Ramp: The increase in factory production and labor required to and managed by a third party dispatch agency. meet manufacturing demand. Employee: Any person who has an employment contract with PCH, excluding Replacement Hire: A worker hired to replace someone who has left. supervised workforce. Senior Leadership Team: The team of PCH Senior Executives designated by Facility: A factory building. One factory business might have multiple facilities. the Board of Directors to manage PCH business, including, but not limited to Factory: A manufacturing, logistics, fulfilment or distribution business. Some the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer. factory businesses are a collection of facility buildings. The team is also designated with responsibility of sustainability leadership at PCH. Factory Office Staff: All non-operator staff who work in factory offices. Significant Location of Operations: Our significant operational Joiner: Workers hired to fulfill business needs as well as those hired to replace headquarters are in southern China, our significant engineering design a leaver. operations are in San Francisco, U.S., our corporate headquarters are in Cork, Ireland. Key Supplier: The PCH core group of suppliers, smaller in number but large in size, in which our operations team is involved in the day-to-day workings of the Supervised Worker: All non-employees; workers hired through dispatch factory for large-scale PCH projects. agencies or contractors, consultants and occasional interns. Leaver: Any worker who leaves their employment. Suppliers: A factory not owned by PCH that supplies products, goods or services to PCH and our clients. Local: Our definition of local refers to the relevant locality which is being discussed. Vendors: All PCH suppliers, including factories, sample part suppliers, office supplies, goods and services. Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS): A document that contains information on the potential hazards of (health, fire, reactivity and environmental) and Worker: An individual member of the workforce. how to work safely with a chemical product. Workforce: All those who work for PCH and includes both our employees and Operator: Factory production staff (line operators, warehouse and logistics our supervised workforce. staff) hired by PCH or our suppliers on a full-time or supervised basis. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 80 GRI Index PCH follows the GRI’s G4 guidelines, an internationallyrecognized standardized framework for disclosing economic, environmental and social performance. The 2014 report qualifies at the in accordance ‘Core’ level. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 81 General Standard Disclosures Indicator Description Location in Report/Detail/Omission Explanation Page Strategy and G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision maker in the Message From Liam Casey 3 Analysis organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy Organizational G4-3 Name of the Organization What This Report Covers 78 Profile G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services What We Do 6 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Where We Operate 8 G4-6 Countries of significant operations specifically relevant to Where We Operate 8 the sustainability topics covered in the Report Our Supplier Network 40 About Our Workforce 60 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form About This Report 77 G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors Where We Operate 8 served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) PCH in 2014 9 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization What We Do 6 PCH in 2014 9 G4-10 Workforce About Our Workforce 60 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective About Our Workforce 60 bargaining agreements All factory employees at two of our PCH-owned facilities, both office and operator staff. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain What We Do 6 PCH in 2014 9 We Partner 39 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding Where We Operate 8 size, structure, or ownership What This Report Covers 78 G4-14 How the precautionary approach or principle is addressed The precautionary approach has not been by the organization specifically addressed. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 82 Indicator Description Location in Report/Detail/Omission Explanation Page Organizational G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and Collaboration and Partnerships Profile social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the PCH is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry Collaboration and Partnerships associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization participates Identified G4-17 All entities included in the organization’s consolidated What This Report Covers 78 Material Aspects financial statements or equivalent documents and whether All PCH operations in China, U.S. and international corporate And Boundaries any of these entities are not covered in this Report offices are included in this Report. While TNS Distribution is part of the PCH group, it is not included in this Report. G4-18 Explain the process for defining the Report content and the Materiality 17 Aspect Boundaries and how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content G4-19 All the material Aspects identified in the process for defining Materiality 17 Report content All material aspects identified are in the materiality matrix. G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within Materiality 17 the organization, entities it is material to and any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary Materiality 17 outside the organization entities it is material to and any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous Reports, No material restatements and the reasons for such restatements G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the What This Report Covers 78 Scope and Aspect Boundaries Materiality 17 No significant changes have been made from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 83 Indicator Description Location in Report/Detail/Omission Explanation Page Stakeholder G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the Stakeholder Engagement 16 Engagement organization Materiality 17 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Stakeholder Engagement 16 whom to engage Materiality 17 G4-26 The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, Stakeholder Engagement 16 including frequency of engagement by type and by Materiality 17 stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the Report preparation process G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been Materiality 17 raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the Sample Stakeholder Feedback 19 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for Calendar year 2014 unless otherwise noted. information provided G4-29 Date of most recent previous Report (if any) November 2013 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) Annual G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report Alan Cuddihy, Head of Sustainability or its contents sustainability@pchintl.com G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has Core chosen Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Our Reporting Guidelines 78 assurance for the Report CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 84 Indicator Description Location in Report/Detail/Omission Explanation Page Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, How Sustainability at PCH Works 11 including committees of the highest governance body8 Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, How Sustainability at PCH Works 11 environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees G4-36 Report whether the organization has appointed an How Sustainability at PCH Works 11 executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing We do not have a formalized risk management procedure the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management across the PCH group. processes for economic, environmental and social topics G4-48 Report the highest committee or position that formally Our Reporting Guidelines 78 reviews and approves the organization’s Sustainability Report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered Ethics and G4-52 Report the process for determining remuneration and Diversity and Equal Opportunity 61 Integrity involvement of independent remuneration consultants G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards PCH Sustainability 10 and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes Compliance and Integrity 73 of ethics G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking Grievances 71 advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting Grievances 71 concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines 8. All GRI references to the ‘Highest Governance body’ are read as the Senior Leadership Team of PCH in this report. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 85 Specific Standard Disclosures Indicator Description Location in Report/Detail/Omission Explanation Page Category: Economic Material Aspect: G4-DMA We Partner 39 Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant Our Supplier Network 40 locations of operation Local is defined as Guangdong province, China for this indicator. Non GRI G4-DMA Our Supplier Network 40 Material Aspect: Procurement Practices PCH-1 Length of Supplier Relationships Our Supplier Network 40 Non GRI G4-DMA Dispatch and Short-term Work 47 Material Aspect: Production Ramp PCH-2 Dispatch workers as percentage of factory workforce Dispatch and Short-term Work 47 Category: Environmental Material Aspect: G4-DMA Materials and Chemicals 50 Materials and Chemicals PCH-3 Indicator to be developed. Material Aspect: G4-DMA Our Environmental Impact 32 Energy Supply Chain Environmental Impacts 46 G4-EN3 Energy Consumption Within The Organization Our Environmental Impact 32 Electricity use is for all 3 factory facilities, one product development lab (opened May 2014), Shenzhen operations office and San Francisco Innovation Hub (workshops and office). All other corporate offices are excluded. 2013 data refers to PCH Shenzhen office, and two factory facilities only. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 86 Indicator Description Location in Report/Detail/Omission Explanation Page Material Aspect: G4-DMA Our Environmental Impact 32 Water G4-EN8 Total Water Withdrawal By Source Our Environmental Impact 32 Water is used for domestic purposes only, is supplied by the local municipality in each jurisdiction and is not recycled by PCH after use. All data comes from bills and factory meters. Material Aspect: G4-DMA Our Environmental Impact 32 Emissions G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 2) Our Environmental Impact 32 All emissions are a conversion calculation of our electricity use (EN3). In 2013 we used the international Energy Association (IEA) conversion factor of 0.766k kgCO2/kWh. All calculations have been updated to reflect local conversion rates namely, China: 0.9223kg CO2/kWh (2013) and 0.918kg CO2/kWh (2014) (applicable to all facilities in Southern China) and U.S.: 0.69kg CO2/kWh (2014). G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 3) Our Environmental Impact 32 Material Aspect: G4-DMA Our Environmental Impact Effluents and Waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Our Environmental Impact 32 Partial disclosure. Waste data is available for our U.S. operations only. All waste generated in our Chinese operations is owned by our clients and complies with the waste disposal rules of the Free Trade Zone (A free trade zone is a Chinese government designated industrial zone endowed with special economic policies). All hazardous waste generated by our Chinese facilities is disposed of by a licensed operator in China. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 87 Indicator Description Location in Report/Detail/Omission Explanation Page Material Aspect: G4-DMA We Think 21 Products and Services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of Omitted. Quantitative information is currently unavailable products and services as environmental impact mitigation reviews are conducted on a case-by-case basis. We are working to developing a method for capturing the data and will disclose it in our next GRI Report. See also: Sustainability at Highway1 22 Case Study: Packaging overhaul for PCH Access client 31 Case Study: Equipment upgrades/automation 38 Material Aspect: G4-DMA Compliance and Integrity 73 Compliance (all compliance G4-EN29, Total number of (and value of) complaints, legal actions, Compliance and Integrity 73 related G4-SO7, significant fines, non-monetary sanctions for non0/$0 indicators have G4-SO8, compliance with environmental laws and regulations, antibeen combined) PR4, PR7, competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices or concerning the marketing, communication, advertising, PR8 promotion, sponsorship, data protection or provision or use G4-PR9 of products or services Material Aspect: G4-DMA We Deliver 55 Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products How our Products are Delivered 57 and other goods and materials for the organization’s This is estimate data only and excludes data of some of operations, and transporting members of the workforce our larger clients who consign all shipping methods. PCH-4 Indicator to be developed. Material Aspect: G4-DMA We Partner 39 Supplier Environmental, G4-EN32, Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Supplier Qualification, Audits and Review 42 Labor And G4-LA14, environmental, labor and human rights criteria Human Rights G4-HR10 Assessment G4-EN33, Significant actual and potential negative environmental, Supplier Qualification, Audits and Review 42 G4-LA15, labor and human rights impacts in the supply chain and We consider remarks of ‘zero tolerance’ and ‘immediate action’ G4-HR11 actions taken in our audits as well as an overall result of less than 60 to be ‘significant actual and potential negative impacts’ for purposes of GRI Reporting. These categories will result in a failed audit. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 88 Indicator Description Location in Report/Detail/Omission Explanation Page Material Aspect: G4-DMA No environmental grievance mechanism at PCH or Environmental in our factories Grievance Mechanisms G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental Omitted. The information is currently unavailable. impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through No formal environmental grievance mechanism at PCH or in formal grievance mechanisms our factories. Category: Social Sub-category: Labor Practices and decent work Material Aspect: G4-DMA We Listen 59 Employment Compliance and Integrity 73 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and Employment Conditions and Labor Turnover 68 employee turnover by age group, gender and region Partial disclosure. Material Aspect: G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are Dispatch and Short-term Work 47 Employment not provided to temporary or part-time employees, All employees are full-time. No part-time employees were by significant locations of operation employed by PCH in 2013. G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental Parental Leave 69 leave, by gender Material G4-DMA We Listen 59 Aspect: Labor/ Management G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational Grievances 71 Relations changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 89 Indicator Description Location in Report/Detail/Omission Explanation Page Material Aspect: G4-DMA Health and Safety 34 Occupational Health and G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Health and Safety 34 Safety management–worker health and safety committees that One percent of factory workforce which calculates as help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety one percent of total global workforce. Committee only applies programs to PCH-owned factories. G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Health and Safety 34 days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related Partial disclosure (we do not report absentee rate). fatalities, by region and by gender First aid injuries are not included. Based on 4 injuries for 5,840,000 hours of exposure, PCH would experience 0.136 recordable injuries by the time we reached 200,000 hours (per 100 employees). Based on 71.5 lost workdays for 5,840,000 hours of exposure, PCH would experience 2.45 days lost by the time we reached 200,000 hours (per 100 employees). G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related Health and Safety 34 to their occupation Material Aspect: G4-DMA Knowledge Sharing and Training 70 Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, Knowledge Sharing and Training 70 and by employee category Partial. Material Aspect: G4-DMA Diversity and Equal Opportunity 61 Diversity and Equal G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of About Our Workforce 60 Opportunity employees per employee category according to gender, age Partial. group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Material G4-DMA About Our Workforce 60 Aspect: Equal Diversity and Equal Opportunity 61 Remuneration for Women and G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by About Our Workforce 60 employee category, by significant locations of operation Omitted. The information is currently unavailable. We are Men working to developing a method for capturing the data and will disclose it in our next GRI Report. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 90 Indicator Description Location in Report/Detail/Omission Explanation Page Material G4-DMA Grievances 71 Aspect: Labor And Human G4-LA16, Number of grievances about labor and human rights Grievances 71 Rights Practices G4-HR12 practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Grievance grievance mechanisms (Human rights and labor grievances are combined) Sub-category: Human Rights Material Aspect: G4-DMA Grievances 71 Investment G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies Compliance and Integrity 73 or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that Omitted. The information is currently unavailable. are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Material Aspect: G4-DMA We Partner 39 Child, Forced Child Labor 43 or Compulsory labor (combined) G4-HR5, Operations and suppliers identified as having significant Child Labor 43 HR6 risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Material G4-DMA Compliance and Integrity 73 Aspect: Security Practices G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Compliance and Integrity 73 organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations Material Aspect: G4-DMA Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been We have not conducted a formal human rights review subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments or assessment on our supply chain, but we can generally comment that the greatest risk of human rights abuse lies in the supply base. CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 91 Indicator Description Location in Report/Detail/Omission Explanation Page Sub-category: Society Material Aspect: G4-DMA Compliance and Integrity 73 Anti-Corruption We have conducted preliminary risk assessments for corrupt practices and determined that the risk is low. G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for Omitted. The information is currently unavailable. We are risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified working to developing a method for capturing the data and will disclose it in our next GRI Report. Suppliers are not assessed for corruption as part of their audit. G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies Compliance and Integrity 73 and procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Compliance and Integrity 73 0 G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and PCH made no political contributions during 2014. recipient/beneficiary Material G4-DMA Aspect: Supplier G4-S09 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Compliance and Integrity 73 Assessment criteria for impacts on society Omitted. The information is currently unavailable. We are for Impacts on working to developing a method for capturing the data and Society will disclose it in our next GRI Report. Sub-category: Product Responsibility Material Aspect: G4-DMA Compliance and Integrity 73 Product and G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the Compliance and Integrity 73 Service Labeling organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Client Engagement 17 No formal client satisfaction survey conducted across PCH in 2014. Material Aspect: G4-DMA Compliance and Integrity 73 Marketing G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products We have never brought a product to market that is banned Communications in the market in which it is for sale. See also: The Challenge with Chemicals 53 CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 92 CEO Letter About PCH We Think We Scale We Design We Build We Partner We Deliver We Listen Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index PCH 2014 Sustainability Report 93 © co py right
